  Case Number:  22STCV39334    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
13, 2023                                        
 
CASE NAME:           Andrew Stafford, et al. v. Christine
Fadley
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV39334

 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Christine Fadley
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Andrew Stafford and
Alexa Greger
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the 5th, 8th, and 9th, causes of action.
2.      Motion
to Strike various portions of the FAC.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the FAC is OVERRULED in its entirety.
2.      Motion
to Strike is DENIED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On December 19, 2022, Plaintiffs Andrew Stafford and Alexa
Greger (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendant Christine Fadley
(Defendant) with nine causes of action for: (1) Private Nuisance, (2)
Intentional Influence to Vacate, (3) Termination of Estate, Civil Code § 789.3
(4) Business and Professions Code §§ 17200, (5) Slander/Defamation, (6) Breach
of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (7) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing, (8) Violation of California Civil Code § 1946.2, and (9) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress. Plaintiffs allege that they were tenants of
the Subject Property, which was owned and/or managed by Defendant. During
Plaintiffs time at the Subject Property, Defendant locked the gate to prevent
Plaintiffs from entering. Additionally, Defendant turned off electrical power
and glued the locks shut to further prevent Plaintiffs from entering the
Subject Property. Defendant also attempted to increase Plaintiffs’ rent by 37%,
increasing it from $2,700 to $2,700, or stating that Plaintiffs have to vacate.
 
On May 25, 2023, the court SUSTAINED Defendant’s Demurrer as
to the 5th Cause of Action, with leave to amend, and OVERRULED as to the
remaining causes of action. The court also DENIED Defendant’s Motion to Strike.
 
On June 12, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) with the same causes of action as the Complaint alleged in the caption,
however, the Eighth Cause of Action states it is for Conversion of Private
Property. 
 
On July 31, 2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer and
motion to strike. On September 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the
demurrer and motion to strike. On November 3, 2023, Defendant filed replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states
a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as
true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits
attached to the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).)
 
Motion to Strike 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
(CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) &
(3).¿The meet and confer requirement also applies to motions to strike. (CCP §
435.5.) 
Here, the Declaration of Doron F. Eghbali submitted with
the demurrer indicates that Defendant sent Plaintiffs counsel a meet and confer
letter on June 26, 2023. (Eghbali Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs counsel did not
respond. (Eghbali Decl. ¶ 11.) However, one letter does not evidence sufficient
meet and confer efforts. Still, failure to meet and confer is not a sufficient
ground to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Timeliness of FAC
 
Defendant contends that the court should strike Plaintiffs’
FAC because it was filed outside of the timeframe previously ordered by the
court. Plaintiffs argue that the court should not strike the FAC because it was
untimely due to counsel’s calendaring error and it was only filed eight days
late.
 
“The court may dismiss the complaint as to that defendant
when: . . . after a demurrer to the complaint is sustained with leave to amend,
the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time allowed by the court and either
party moves for dismissal.” (CCP § 581(f)(2).) 
 
Here, the court will not strike the FAC because, even though
it was filed after the deadline imposed by the court, the court “may” dismiss
rather than “must” dismiss, Defendant did not move to strike the FAC before it
was filed, Defendant extended their time to respond to the FAC via automatic
declaration, and Plaintiffs’ counsel admits to a calendaring error.[1]
(See, e.g., Brown v. Brown (1959) 169 Cal.App.2d 54; see also, Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1320(j) [providing for 10 days to answer or otherwise plead to
the complaint after a demurrer is overruled or sustained.])
 
Accordingly, the court proceeds on the merits.
 
Demurrer
 
Defendant demurrers to the fifth, eighth, and ninth causes
of action.[2]

 
1.      Fifth Cause of Action –
Slander/Defamation
 
Defendant contends that this cause of action fails because
the statements in question are opinions or expressions of personal belief rather
than verifiable facts, that the statements do not meet the requirements for
slander per se, and that the statements as alleged lack specificity. Plaintiff
argues that the FAC asserts slanderous allegations of criminal activity which
is also slanderous per se.
 
Slander is a false and unprivileged
publication, orally uttered, and also communications by radio or any mechanical
or other means which: 1. Charges any person with crime, or with having been
indicted, convicted, or punished for crime; 2. Imputes in him the present
existence of an infectious, contagious, or loathsome disease; 3. Tends directly
to injure him in respect to his office, profession, trade or business, either
by imputing to him general disqualification in those respects which the office
or other occupation peculiarly requires, or by imputing something with
reference to his office, profession, trade, or business that has a natural
tendency to lessen its consequence, causes action damage.
 
(Civ. Code § 46.)
 
“Publication means a communication to some third person who
understands the defamatory meaning of the statement and its application to the
person to whom reference is made. Publication need not be to the ‘public’ at
large; communication to a single individual is sufficient.” (Smith v. Maldonado (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th
637, 645.)
 
To constitute libel, a “ ‘statement must contain a provable
falsehood . . .’” and to this end, “ ‘courts distinguish between statements of
fact and statements of opinion for purposes of defamation liability.’” (Summit Bank v. Rogers (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 669, 695.) “’[A]n opinion based on implied, undisclosed facts is
actionable if the speaker has no factual basis for the opinion’ but ‘[a]n
opinion is not actionable if it discloses all the statements of fact on which
the opinion is based and those statements are true.’ . . . . To decide whether
a statement expresses or implies a provable false assertion of fact, courts use
a totality of the circumstances test. [citation.] ‘[A] court must put itself in
the place of an average reader and determine the natural and probably effect of
the statement . . . .’ [citation.] Thus, a court considers both the language of
the statement and the context in which it is made. [citation.] ‘The contextual
analysis requires that courts examine the nature and full content of the particular
communication, as well as the knowledge and understanding of the audience
targeting by the publication.’” (Bently
Rsr. LP v. Papaliolios (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 418, 427.)
 
Under the totality of the circumstances as alleged in the
FAC, the court disagrees with Defendant that the FAC fails to sufficiently
allege defamation. First, the FAC alleges that Defendant called Plaintiffs
“thieves” and “spread rumors to other neighbors about how ‘bad these tenants’
were and about how they ‘stole’ from the Defendant.”[3]
(FAC ¶ 78.) Unlike the opinion that Plaintiff Stafford is a “bad guy,” a
“deadbeat person,” and was not entitled to the property, claiming to neighbors
that Plaintiffs stole from her is not an opinion, but a provable fact – it
either did or did not happen. 
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to
the fifth cause of action.
 
2.      Eighth & Ninth Causes of Action 
 
Defendant demurrers to these causes
of action because they were improperly added and insufficiently pled. 
 
“A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after
a demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur
to any portion of the amended complaint . . . on grounds that could have been
raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the complaint . . . .” (CCP §
430.41(b).)
 
Upon review of the FAC, and comparing it to the original
Complaint, the court disagrees with Defendant. First, the Complaint also listed
Violation of California Civil Code § 1946.2 as the Eighth Cause of Action in
the caption and then stated “Conversion of Private Property” in the body (Compare
Compl. at p. 27 with FAC at p. 28.) The Complaint states the Ninth Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. (Compare Compl. at p.
29 with FAC at p. 30.) The court also notes that Defendant did not previously
demurrer to the Eighth or Ninth Causes of Action. Because Defendant could have
raised these grounds when they filed the earlier demurrer, they are barred from
doing so now. (CCP § 430.41(b).)
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to
the Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant moves to strike various portions of the FAC,
including:
1.      The
portion on pg. 22, lns. 5-25 of the FAC;
2.      The
portion on pg. 23, lns. 1-25 of the FAC;
3.      The
portion on pg. 24, lns. 1-22 of the FAC;
4.      The
portion on pg. 28, lns. 2-23 of the FAC;
5.      The
portion on pg. 29, lns. 1-25 of the FAC;
6.      The
portion on pg. 30, lns. 1-2 of the FAC;
7.      The
portion on pg. 30, lns. 3-25 of the FAC;
8.      The
portion on pg. 31, lns. 1-25 of the FAC;
9.      The
portion on pg. 32, lns. 7-25 of the FAC;
10.  The
portion on pg. 32, lns. 7-25 of the FAC;
11.  The
Complaint in its entirety as related to the fifth cause of action for
Slander/Defamation;
12.  The
Complaint in its entirety as related to the eighth cause of action of Breach of
Conversion of Private Property;
13.  The
Complaint in its entirety as related to the ninth cause of action for Breach of
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress;
14.  The
Complaint in its entirety as related to punitive damages; and
15.  The
Complaint in its entirety as related to attorney’s fees.
The court has already addressed Defendant’s two contentions
in the above demurrer: addition of the Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action and
untimeliness of the FAC. 
 
As to Punitive damages and attorney fees, the initial Motion
does not discuss the basis for the request. In any event, the Court previously
overruled the Motion to Strike as to these allegations in an Order entered on
May 25, 2023.[4]
 
As these are the only arguments Defendant puts forth, the
court DENIES Defendant’s motion to strike in its entirety.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the FAC is OVERRULED in its entirety.
2.      Motion
to Strike is DENIED.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             November
13, 2023                __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


