 Case Number:  24TRCV01108    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  008 Tentative Ruling¿
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 30, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV01108
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Rosario
Marcela Rivera Santos v. General Motors LLC, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff,
Rosario Marcela Rivera Santos 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
General Motors, LLC (No Opposition) 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 

¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for
Relief from Waiver of Objections and Privilege Claim concerning Responses to
Requests for Admission, Set One. 
 
Tentative Rulings:                   (1) GRANTED 
                                                
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff, Rosario Marcela Rivera
Santos (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant General Motors (“GM”)
and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; and
(3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2.
 
On August 5, 2024, GM
served Requests for Admission, Set One on Plaintiff.  Per the moving papers, on September 23, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel became aware that the calendaring department at the lawfirm
had inadvertently mis-calendared the deadlines for responding to Defendant’s
discovery request. Upon discovering that error, counsel promptly served the
appropriate responses to Defendant on the same day. The moving papers assert
that on September 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer
with Defendant’s counsel in order to preserve Plaintiff’s objections and claims
of privilege in the responses to the discovery requests, noting that the
code-compliant responses were served promptly upon the discovery of the
inadvertent mis-calendaring even though it was beyond the statutory period for
serving discovery responses. 
 
Plaintiff also asserts
that he requested Defendant to withdraw its then-pending motions to compel
initial responses as the motions assertedly became moot following Plaintiff’s
service of its belated responses. However, Plaintiff’s counsel contends that
Defendant’s counsel remained steadfast in his position, no doubt because of
perceived reciprocal discourtesy as to defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s
discovery requests that have been the subject of multiple motions before this
Court.  
 
Now, Plaintiff is seeking relief from the waiver of
objections occasioned by the failure to serve responses before the statutory
deadline had passed.  
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
            On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for
relief. To date, no opposition has been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard¿ 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §473(b), both
discretionary and mandatory relief is available to parties from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding.  Discretionary relief is available
under the statute as “the court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  (Code of Civ. Proc.
§¿473(b).)  Alternatively, mandatory relief is available when “accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.”  (Ibid.)  Under this statute, an application for
discretionary or mandatory relief must be made no more than six months after
entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief
is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) 
 
“‘[W]hen relief under section
473¿is¿available, there is a strong¿public¿policy¿in¿favor¿of granting relief
and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court…[Citation.]” (Rappleyea
v. Campbell¿(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 975, 981-82.) 
 
B.    
Discussion
 
In support of Plaintiff’s motion, Plaintiff filed
the declaration of Roy Enav, Esq (“Enav Decl.”) who attests to his inadvertence.
He notes that on September 23, 2024, he became aware that the calendaring
department had inadvertently mis-calendared the deadlines for responding to
Defendant’s discovery requests. (Enav Decl., ¶ 5.) Upon discovering this error,
Plaintiff’s counsel states that he promptly served the appropriate responses to
Defendant on the same day. (Enav Decl., ¶ 5.) This Court finds that Plaintiff’s
motion is in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b), and thus
GRANTS the motion. 
 
      The Court
is aware that similar motions for relief from waiver of the right to object to
other discovery served by GM are pending before this Court, and that GM has
motions to compel initial responses to that other discovery that are likely
mooted other than with respect to requests for monetary sanctions.  The Court will invite the parties to enter
into a stipulation to address those other motions that preserves GM’s right to
pursue monetary sanctions.  
 
III.
CONCLUSION 
 
            For the foregoing reasons, this Court
finds that Plaintiff’s motion for relief from waiver as to the RFAs is GRANTED.
 Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice. 
 
 
 