  Case Number:  24TRCV00246    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  008  
            Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 30, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00246
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Laderra Von Turner-Sweed v. Marjan Chegounchi, M.D., et
al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant,
Marjan Chegounchi, M.D.
                                                
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Laderra Von Turner-Sweed
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set.
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              Defendant,
Marjan Chegounchi, M.D.’s Demurrer 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend to be discussed at oral argument
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On January
24, 2024, Plaintiff, Laderra Von Turner-Sweed (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants, Marjan Chegounchi, M.D., and DOES 1 through 25. On July 31,
2024, this court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the original complaint with
twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
 
 On August 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Death
Sounding in Violation of Civil Code section 1573; and (2) Wrongful Death
Sounding in Violation of Civil Code section 1572. The FAC is based on
Plaintiff’s allegation that this case involves a wrongful death arising out of
a fraudulent scheme by hospitals and physicians to suppress information about
low risk and highly effective treatment, and instead push an ineffective and
high-risk COVID-19 treatment “protocol” because it provided them with financial
and legal incentives. (FAC, ¶ 32.) Plaintiff contends that Duane Sweed
(Plaintiff’s husband) was a healthy sixty-six old who faced a less than 0.5%
chance of dying from COVID-19. (FAC, ¶ 10.) 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that Duane presented himself to the hospital emergency department with
an easily treatable symptom of shortness of breath which he had developed
within that past week. (FAC, ¶ 28.) Plaintiff asserts that the symptoms were
consistent with a bacterial infection and sepsis, rather than an active
SARS-CoV-2 viral infection, commonly referred to as COVID-19. (FAC, ¶ 28.)
Plaintiff contends that Duane’s physicians concealed his alternative diagnosis
and low risk and highly effective treatment, and their plan to treat him for
COVID-19 with ineffective and high-risk drugs that provided benefits to the
people that were supposed to put Duane’s interest first. (FAC, ¶ 32.) Plaintiff
asserts that had the low risk and highly effective treatment options not been
concealed, Duane would have experienced a better outcome and not died on
January 25, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 36.)
 
B. Procedural¿¿  
 
            On September 24, 2024, Defendant
Marjan Chegounchi, M.D. filed a Demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC. On October 17,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On October 23, 2024, Defendant
Chegounchi filed a reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of
all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label
the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell
what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition
Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.)

 
B.     Discussion
 
Defendant
moves for demurrer on Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds that the first cause of
action for wrongful death sounding in constructive fraud and second cause of
action for wrongful death sounding in actual fraud fail to state facts
sufficient to maintain those causes of action, are nothing more than a
garden-variety medical malpractice case with more specific allegations as to
the defendants’’ claimed motives for misdiagnosis and mis-treatment, and are
barred by the Federal Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act (“PREP Act”)
 
i.                   
Meet and Confer
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a) states that, before filing a
demurrer, the moving party must engage in a specified meet and confer process
with the party who filed the pleading at issue for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached as to the filing of an amended pleading
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer/motion to
strike.  “[T]he demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  If an amended
complaint…is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again with the party
who filed the amended pleading before a demurrer to the amended pleading.”
(emphasis added.) (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).) A declaration setting forth
such meet and confer efforts must accompany the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41(a)(3).)   
 
Defendants
counsel, Gabriel M. Irwin filed a declaration (“Irwin Decl.”) stating that
prior to the service and filing of the demurrer, he met and conferred with
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the allegations which ultimately form the basis
of the FAC and Defendant’s perceived legal deficiencies with the same. (Irwin
Decl., ¶ 3.) Irwin contends that he and Plaintiff’s counsel discussed his
position that the allegations which form the basis of this action fail to
adequately state a cause of action for Constructive Fraud or Actual Fraud. (Irwin
Decl., ¶ 4.) Irwin further states that the parties’ counsels met and conferred
regarding Irwin’s position that the entirety of Plaintiff’s claims are barred
by the Federal Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act. (Irwin Decl., ¶
4.) 
 
Based on the
above, this Court finds that Defendant attempted to meet and confer in good
faith prior to the filing of this demurrer. 
 
ii.                 
Immunity under the PREP Act
 
Plaintiff maintains that the PREP Act does
not apply because the allegations in the FAC are pleaded in the context of
constructive fraud, not medical negligence. The PREP Act provides, in part as
follows: “a covered person shall be immune from suit and liability under
Federal and State law with respect to all claims for loss caused by, arising
out of, relating to, or resulting from the administration to or the use by an
individual of a covered countermeasure . . . .” 
(42 U.S.C.A. § 247d-6d.) 
Defendants argue in their original and this second demurrer that they
are covered persons and that the immunity under the federal statute applies
here because, as Defendants argue, this wrongful death lawsuit alleges that the
patient’s death resulted form the administration of a covered countermeasure,
i.e., Remdesivir.  As this Court
previously noted in it tentative ruling on the demurrer to the original
complaint, Plaintiff’s cited case of Eaton v. Big Blue Healthcare, Inc. (D.
Kansas 2020) 480 F.Supp.3d 1184 (“Eaton”) arose from considerably
distinguishable circumstances than those presented here.  This Court emphasized in it previous
tentative ruling that in Eaton, the assisted living facility failed to
follow the HHS protocols and infection control measures to prevent transmission
of COIVD, whereas here, the treatment of COVID-19 with the drug Remdesivir was
an identified covered countermeasure. This Court further observed before that
Plaintiff’s allegations here indicated that the immunity under the PREP add
applies, despite framing the complaint as an inaction of Defendant. 
 
While Plaintiff
has attempted to create more space between medical negligence and the
constructive fraud allegations in the FAC, that space is not wide enough to
overcome the demurrer to the FAC.   Plaintiff asserts that Defendant knew that an
early treatment option for patient Duane Sweed’s condition was indicated, but
chose not to disclose this important information because the treatment was not
offered at the hospital and Duane would leave to seek alternative treatment
elsewhere. However, the Court does not find that the inaction versus action
distinction from Plaintiff to be particularly persuasive when the treatment
provided by Defendant was an identified covered countermeasure. Certainly,
Plaintiff provides no allegation in the FAC that a different countermeasure or
treatment being available elsewhere creates a fiduciary-like duty to inform the
Decedent of all possible treatment plans when such a treatment is unavailable
at the Defendant facility, and that the alleged failure to make that disclosure
to the Decedent gives rise to a fraud cause of action as distinct from
malpractice. 
 
Moreover, the
Court notes that the willful misconduct exception did not apply to the original
complaint as it was pleaded, notwithstanding the allegations of a financial
incentive to prescribe a different medication than the one prescribed to the
Decedent. This allegation remains mentioned in the FAC.  “Constructive fraud” is
statutorily defined, in relevant part, as “any breach of duty which, without
an actually fraudulent intent, gains an advantage to the person in
fault . . . by misleading another to his prejudice.” (Civil Code § 1573(1).) In
other words, as with fraudulent concealment, constructive fraud
“requires a showing that the plaintiff was misled to his or her prejudice.” (Tyler
v. Children’s Home Society (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 511, 549.)   Plaintiff asserts Defendant intentionally failed to disclose
certain facts to Duane and intended to deceive Duane by concealing the facts.
(FAC, ¶¶ 54, 56.) 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s reliance on the Nelson case to be
misplaced.  In that unusual case where a
judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff and against the doctor
defendant, the   physician defendant
had been arrested and convicted for the criminal misdemeanor offense of using
silicone for a breast augmentation procedure without the mandatory permit or application.  (Nelson v. Gaunt (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d
623.)  The medical malpractice cause of
action in Nelson was dismissed by summary judgment, but the case went to
trial on the intentional torts of assault and battery and intentional misrepresentation,
not the claimed constructive fraud alleged in the FAC.  Nelson held that when “a physician
knowingly and intentionally represents that he can administer safely a
substance that, in fact, can be administered only under restrictions and
controls of state or federal authority, and he administers that substance
without the requisite permit and without informing the patient of the
restrictions and dangers, the patient can maintain an action for fraud as well
as malpractice.”  (Nelson, supra, 125
Cal.App.3d at p. 636.)  These
extraordinary facts are distinguishably distinct from those alleged here, where
the Defendants are not alleged to having used a restricted substance classified
as a drug, are not alleged (as opposed to counsel’s argument in the opposition
brief) from having committed a crime, are not alleged to having intentionally
misrepresented the procedure or drug to be employed, and where the Defendants
do not demur to the apparently viable malpractice cause of action.  Further, in this case, there is a defense
raised in now two demurrers that a federal statute bars the cause of action alleged
against a doctor who uses a specifically approved and authorized medication for
the treatment of a condition that Plaintiff alleges had been
mis-diagnosed.  
 
With respect to Plaintiff’s argument that the PREP Act defense does not
apply to alleged misconduct before the covered counter-measure was used for the
patient’s treatment, the FAC alleges that the patient’s death was caused by
Defendant’s use of Remdesivir rather than some other, unspecified alternative
treatment.  The assertion that the
constructive fraud occurred before the administration of the covered
countermeasure does not persuade the Court that the broad immunity of the PREP
Act should not apply to this wrongful death lawsuit.  Congress used very expansive language in the
immunity provision, i.e., “all claims for loss caused by, arising out of,
relating to, or resulting from the administration to or the use by an
individual of a covered countermeasure.” (42 U.S.C. § 247d-6d(a)(1).) PREP Act
immunity applies to any claim for a loss that has a causal relationship with
the administration or use of a covered countermeasure, including “a causal
relationship with the design, development, clinical testing or investigation,
manufacture, labeling, distribution, ... promotion, sale, purchase, donation,
dispensing, prescribing, administration, licensing, or use of such
countermeasure.” (42 U.S.C. 247d-6d(a)(2)(B).)
 
The sole
exception to the PREP Act’s immunity from suit arising from the use or
administration or a covered counter-measure is for “an exclusive Federal cause
of action against a covered person for death or serious physical injury
proximately caused by willful misconduct.” (42 U.S.C. § 247d-6d(d)(1).)   The Court does not find that
Plaintiff’s allegations have been amended in a way that would remove them from
falling under the PREP Act.  The U.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia has exclusive jurisdiction over claims
brought by a plaintiff who seeks to circumvent the immunity provided by the PREP
Act by asserting a willful misconduct claim. 
Plaintiff may present oral argument as to how she plans
to further amend the pleading in a way which would not fall under the PREP Act,
or if Plaintiff prefers to proceed under the statutory exception to bring the fraud
claim in Washington DC. However, if Plaintiff is unable to do so, this court’s
tentative ruling is to SUSTAIN the demurrer to the fraud cause of action without
leave to amend. 
 
III.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons,
Defendant Chegounchi’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED. Leave to amend will be based on
this Court’s analysis if changed by the oral arguments. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice. 
 
¿¿¿                