 Case Number:  24PSCV00990    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff City of Pomona’s Motion for Appointment of
Receiver
Respondent: Defendants Kanu
Patel, Hemlata Patel, and Pomona Lodge LLC
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff City of Pomona’s Motion for Appointment of
Receiver is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing set in
Department G (Pomona). The parties are also ordered to provide the below
requested materials pursuant to the briefing schedule to be set by the court at
the hearing on September 10, 2024.
BACKGROUND
This is a nuisance abatement action
involving the Passport Inn in Pomona. The Passport Inn is a motel that is
operated by Defendant HJ Hospitality, Inc. (HJ Hospitality) on property owned
by Defendant Pomona Lodge LLC (Pomona Lodge). Defendants Kanu Patel and Hemlata
Patel are managing members of Pomona Lodge while Defendant Hima N. Naik serves
as HJ Hospitality’s managing member. Since before 2020, the Passport Inn has allegedly
served as a place for illicit activity including prostitution, human trafficking,
and drug use. In August 2020, Pomona Lodge and the Los Angeles County District
Attorney’s Office (LA County DA) entered into a stipulated judgment that
enjoined Pomona Lodge from engaging in a public nuisance and required them to
take proactive steps that included installing security cameras, ending the
practice of hourly room rentals, and posting human trafficking awareness
notices. Subsequently, the LA County DA failed to enforce the judgment and Passport
Inn allegedly continues to be an ongoing public nuisance.
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff City
of Pomona (the City) filed a complaint on the behalf of the state against
Pomona Lodge, the Patels, HJ Hospitality, Naik, and Does 1-50, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) abatement pursuant to the Red Light Abatement
Act, (2) abatement pursuant to the Drug Abatement Act, and (3) public nuisance.
On May 22, 2024, the City
filed the present motion. On July 19, 2024, the court granted the City’s ex
parte application to advance the hearing date for the present motion. On July
29, 2024, the court granted the City’s motion in part as to its request for injunctive
relief and continued the hearing for further briefing on appointment of a
receiver.
A hearing on the present
motion is now set for September 10, 2024, along with a case management
conference.
ANALYSIS
The
City moves for the appointment of a receiver. For the following reasons, the court
CONTINUES
the City’s
motion.
At
a hearing on July 29, 2024, the court ordered the City to provide supplemental briefing
that included an updated number of calls for service that requested police
assistance at the Passport Inn from April 18, 2024, to the end of August 2024,
as well as a detailed log of why police showed up. (07/29/2024 Minute Order, p.
2.) In a supplemental declaration, Corporal Paul Lucifora of the Pomona Police
Department stated the Passport Inn has generated a total of eleven (11) calls
for service from April 18, 2024, to August 11, 2024. (Lucifora Suppl. Decl., ¶
5.) Of these eleven (11) calls for service, only two (2) calls related to
prostitution. (Lucifora Suppl. Decl., ¶ 5(h), (r).) With an average of one call
every ten days, the court notes this is a significant reduction from the previous
number of calls for service which occurred every two to three days. (See 07/29/2024
Ruling, p. 3.)
In
addition, the court finds this evidence alone is insufficient to justify the
appointment of receiver. To appoint a receiver pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(9), the court must find the appointment
is “necessary to preserve the property or rights of any party.” The court
cannot make such a finding here as the data is insufficient.
The
data provided by the City does not permit the court to determine whether
appointment of a receiver is appropriate because the court has no basis for
comparing the volume of calls for service at the Passport Inn against other
motels and/or businesses in the area.  It
is the court’s position that the appointment of a receive is an extreme remedy requiring
more information and data before the court may properly decide the issue.
Accordingly, the court requests the City provide the
number of calls for service, to include the reason for such call, to the Pomona
Police Department from 2020 to present for each motel/hotel along Holt Avenue
in the City of Pomona from State Route 71 to Indian Hill Boulevard.
Additionally,
the court notes the Patels’ supplemental opposition suggests there is a pending
agreement to sell the Passport Inn. The Patels, however, failed to support this
claim with any evidence in the form of declarations and/or exhibits, and the
court notes that arguments of counsel are not evidence. (People v. Breaux (1991)
1 Cal.4th 281, 313 [“It is axiomatic that argument is not evidence.”].) Counsel
for Defendants is admonished not to make unsupported or unsubstantiated assertions
or representations of fact in a pleading without the proper evidentiary
support.
Thus, to the extent the Patels argue the court should
deny the City’s request due to a pending offer to purchase or agreement to sell
the Passport Inn, the Patels are directed to file supplemental declarations and
evidence that supports such claims.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the court
CONTINUES the hearing on the City’s motion for appointment of receiver
to a date to be determined at the hearing set in Department G (Pomona).
The parties are also ordered
to provide the above requested materials pursuant to the briefing schedule to
be set by the court at the hearing on September 10, 2024.