 Case Number:  22STCV19523    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JOSE MORALES, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  JOSE NOYOLA, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV19523  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO DEEM ADMISSIONS ADMITTED   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 5, 2024  I. Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted Plaintiff Jose Morales (“Plaintiff”) propounded requests for admissions (“RFAs”), set one, on defendant Jose Noyola (“Defendant”) on August 16, 2023. Responses were due on or before September 16, 2023. However, Defendant has not served responses to date despite Plaintiff’s counsel’s numerous attempts to meet and confer. Plaintiff therefore seeks an order deeming the RFAs admitted against Plaintiff.  The motion was previously heard and denied on December 15, 2023 due to a service issue regarding Defendant’s attorney’s of record. Since then, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration clarifying that Lewis Brisbois is Defendant’s current and only counsel, and not Kennedy & Souza, APC. However, Defendant’s current counsel has failed to update the records to reflect this, and per the Court’s request, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed defense counsel regarding a notice of change of attorney. However, Plaintiff’s counsel provides that, to date, he has not received a response from defense counsel on this issue. Thus, based upon Plaintiff’s counsel’s representation and the evidence in support thereof, the Court will consider and rule upon the motion on its merits.  Any opposition was due on or before February 21, 2024; the motion is unopposed. Where there has been no timely response to a request for admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall” grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Here, Defendant has not filed any opposition to the motion, nor has Defendant otherwise demonstrated that responses to the RFAs were served in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220 prior to the hearing. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s RFAs, set one, is deemed admitted against Defendant. (CCP §2033.280(b).)     II. Sanctions Where a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $900 for the instant motion. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)  Plaintiff is awarded $400 total for the motion. Sanctions are imposed against Defendant and Defendant’s attorney Ariadne Giannis of Lewis Brisbois, jointly and severally.  Defendant and/or his counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $400, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 4th day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   