 Case Number:  22STCV08568    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  EDGAR ESTURBAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  IRLANDA SANCHEZ, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV08568  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO DEEM ADMISSIONS ADMITTED   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 5, 2024  Plaintiff Edgar Esturban (“Plaintiff”) propounded requests for admissions (“RFAs”), set one, on Defendant ZLS Trans Inc. (“ZLS”) on March 31, 2023. After providing ZLS with extensions up until July 31, 2023 to serve responses, ZLS did not served responses as of the filing of the motion. Plaintiff therefore seeks an order deeming its RFAs, set one, to be admitted against ZLS. ZLS opposes the motion. The parties agree that ZLS has served the outstanding RFAs prior to the hearing. Therefore, the Court finds the motion moot.  (Cal. Code Civ. Proc §2033.280(c); St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 776.)   The only remaining issue is sanctions. Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions be imposed because he was forced to file the motion before receiving the untimely response. Plaintiff seeks $560 for the motion, appearance, and filing fee.  Where a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  Sanctions are imposed against ZLS and ZLS’ counsel of record, jointly and severally. ZLS and/or its counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $560, within twenty (20) days.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 4th day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   