

 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 20,
2024, Plaintiff Vogue Condominiums
(“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint against Defendants Coro Community
Management and Consulting, Inc and Does 1 through 10 (collectively
“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges four causes of action for (1) breach of
written contract, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3) conversion, and (4) fraud.  
 
Plaintiff
alleges Defendant and plaintiff entered into a contract in August 2019 whereby
Defendant agreed to provide management services for plaintiff. Plaintiff
claimed the contract was attached as Exhibit A to the complaint. However, the
contract was not attached. Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached the contract
because Defendant failed to provide adequate management services. As a result,
plaintiff alleges it was not obligated to pay Defendant its monthly fee. 
 
On June 27, 2024, Defendant Coro
Community Management and Consulting Inc. filed the instant motion. On July 24,
2024, Plaintiff submitted its opposition. On July 26, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant Coro
Community Management and Consulting Inc. (“Coro”) argues that the Fourth Cause
of Action for Fraud fails to state facts sufficient to constitute the fourth
cause of action because Plaintiff failed to allege the names of the persons who
made the representation, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation,
and to whom they spoke. (Mot. at p. 5-6.)
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike seeks a ruling which would preclude any potential award of
punitive damages to Plaintiff. Defendant argues that (i) Plaintiff does not
allege conduct that is sufficiently reprehensible to merit being awarded
punitive damages and (ii) Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant’s conduct
was perpetrated with requisite intent. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiff claims a name is not required in this case on two grounds: (i) the
fraud in this case is not founded on an alleged fraudulent representation; and
(ii) the name is not within the Plaintiff’s knowledge but is within the
Defendant’s knowledge. (Opp. at p.2.) Moreover, Plaintiff requests leave to
amend if the demurrer is sustained. (Id. at p. 4.)
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that the Motion to Strike should be denied because Defendant
ignores other grounds that would permit an award of punitive damages. (Opp. at
p.2.)
 
REPLY
 
            In
reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s argument it does not need to plead
fraud with specificity because its fraud claim is not based upon a
misrepresentation is sorely misguided. Plaintiff alleges Defendant
misrepresented in a contract “that it would not make any payments from
Plaintiff’s funds except to the extent such payments were authorized, in
advance, by Plaintiff.” Thus, plaintiff’s fraud claim is based upon an alleged
misrepresentation and plaintiff must plead its fraud claim with specificity.
(Reply at p.1.) Defendant further reiterates its previous arguments about the
required specificity for a corporate defendant. 
 
            As to the
Motion to Strike, Defendant reiterates its previous arguments and states
Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient facts to state a claim for punitive
damages. (Reply at p.3.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Demurrer
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement 
Prior to filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (CCP §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) 
            Here,
on June 20, 2024, Defendant’s Counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s
Counsel by telephone but were unable to reach an agreement resolving the
matters. (Kerr Decl. ¶ 2.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement
was satisfied. 
B.        Legal Standard 
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747. When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994; Weil & Brown, Civ.
Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2011) ¶7:8. “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed
(430.30, 430.70). The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” Hahn 147 Cal.App.4th at 747. 
A complaint will be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts
sufficient to place the defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable
the defendant to prepare a defense.  Doe
v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50. The same standard
applies to demurrer made toward an answer. A demurrer to an answer may be taken
to the whole answer or to any one or more of the several defenses set up in the
answer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§430.50(b).) The demurrer to the answer may object to
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense or is uncertain. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§430.20.)
1.         Fraud  
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action for Fraud.
(Not. of Mot. at p. 3.) Plaintiff argues that the Complaint is sufficiently
pled as to the Fourth Cause of Action for Fraud because a name is not required
to meet the heightened specificity standard. (Opp. at p. 2.) 
 
            “The elements of fraud, which give
rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal. 4th 631, 638.) “[F]raud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice. . . .This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.
4th at 645 [internal quotation marks omitted].)


            The law
holds plaintiffs to a higher stand where there is a corporate defendant. In
that case plaintiff must “allege the names of the persons who made the
allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Id.
at p. 645; See also Wald v. TruSpeed Motorcars, LLC (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 378 [applying the heightened corporate pleading standing to an LLC].)
 
            The
Complaint alleges “[i]n the Agreement, Defendant represented that it would not
make any payments from Plaintiff's funds except to the extent such payments
were authorized, in advance, by Plaintiff.” (Complaint ¶ 33.) The Complaint
further alleges “Defendant’s representation was untrue as Defendant intended to
pay itself without, first, obtaining authorization from Plaintiff.” (Complaint
¶ 34.) Moreover, the Complaint alleges “Defendant was aware that its
representation was untrue as Defendant knew it could, and did, pay itself from
Plaintiff’s funds without authorization. (Complaint ¶ 35.) Defendant's
misrepresentation caused Plaintiff to reasonably rely on Defendant and to
entrust Defendant with access to its funds.” (Complaint ¶ 36.) The Court finds
the alleged facts are insufficient to state a cause of action for fraud because
they are conclusory and lack specificity. 
 

            Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the
demurrer with leave to amend for failure to state sufficient facts for a fraud
cause of action.   
 
II.        Motion to Strike
 
            Any party, within the
time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to strike
the whole or any part thereof – i.e., even single words or phrases. (Code. Civ.
Proc. § 435(b)(1)); Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. (1971)
19 Cal App.3d 24, 40. A motion to strike lies either: (1) to strike any
“irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading”; and/or (2) to
strike any pleading or part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 436); Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528; As with demurrers, the
grounds for a motion to strike must appear on the face of the pleading, or from
any matter which the court may judicially notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)
 
            Since the
demurrer was sustained with leave to amend, the Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer with
leave to amend. Plaintiff is ordered to file a First Amended Complaint within
20 days of this order. 
 
            Since the
demurrer was sustained with leave to amend, the Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.