

 
BACKGROUND
            
            On April
17, 2023, Plaintiff Glenn Gonzalez-Nunez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Lisa L. Barriere (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 20, inclusive,
asserting causes of action for (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2) general
negligence.
 
            The
Attachments to the Complaint allege the following. On November 10, 2021, at
approximately 4:20 p.m., at the intersection of Via Marina and Panay Way,
Marina Del Rey, California, Defendant failed to oncoming traffic while
attempting to make a left turn, causing a collision with Plaintiff, who was traveling
northbound on Via Marina. As a proximate result of Defendant’s negligence,
Plaintiff sustained damages. 
 
            On June 10,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Personal Service of the Summons and Complaint
on Defendant. 
 
            On July 8,
2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to quash. 
 
            On July 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition to the motion. 
 
            As of July
31, 2024, no reply had been filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
Plaintiff’s Proof of Service filed
on June 10, 2024, states that a process server named Charles Geurin (“Geurin”)
served Defendant with a copy of the Summons and Complaint by personal service
at her Residence, located at 13900 Pansy Way, Apt. SR302, Marina del Rey,
California 90292, on Tuesday, June 4, 2024 at 12:14 PM. 
 
To comply with the rules on
personal service, Geurin must have handed the documents to Defendant in person
at her residence for Defendant to be deemed “personally served.”
 
Here, Geurin
could not have personally served Defendant because Defendant was not physically
present in California on June 4, 2024, the purported date of personal service.
As stated in her declaration, Defendant was traveling on a work trip and physically present
in New York on June 4, 2024, leaving California on May 30, 2024, and not returning until
June 5, 2024,
after the purported date of personal service. A document showing the Defendant’s
flight confirmation is attached to the Defendant’s declaration. 
 
Therefore, the Court has not
acquired jurisdiction over Defendant due to Plaintiff’s failure to effectuate
proper service upon Defendant in compliance with the Code of Civil Procedure.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            The motion
to quash is untimely. Defendant’s response to the Complaint was initially due
by July 4, 2024 (i.e., due 30 days after service on June 4, 2024), but extended
to July 5, 2024, because of the July 4 holiday. Defendant filed the motion on
July 8, 2024, making it untimely. 
 
Further, Defendant
has not shown good cause for failing to comply with statutory response
deadlines. Indeed, her insurance representatives had actual knowledge of the
service because counsel’s paralegal emailed the representatives on June 10,
2024. 
 
            The
motion is also moot because Defendant was personally served with the Summons
and Complaint on June 4, 2024. The court is requested to take Judicial Notice of
the Proof of Personal Service filed with the Court pursuant to California
Evidence Code sections 452, subdivision (d)(1) and 453. Plaintiff has submitted
a declaration from the process server, Geurin, and a photo of the Defendant’s
apartment door. 
 
            For those
reasons, the motion should be denied. 
 
REPLY
 
            None.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
A.        Legal
Standard 
“A summons may be served by personal delivery of a copy of
the summons and of the complaint to the person to be served. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete at the time of such delivery. ¶ The date upon which
personal delivery is made shall be entered on or affixed to the face of the
copy of the summons at the time of its delivery. However, service of a summons
without such date shall be valid and effective.” Code Civ. Proc. § 415.10.
 
Service may also be effectuated on an
individual through substituted service. Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20, subd. (b) (“If
a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be
personally delivered to the person to be served, as specified in Section
416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of
the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode,
usual place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United States
Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a competent member of the
household or a person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of
business, or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service
post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the
contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the
complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at
the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing”). 
 
B.        Discussion 
 
A defendant has only 30 days or any further time that the court may for
good cause allow to file a motion to quash service of summons on the ground of
lack of jurisdiction. See Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1) (“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: ¶ To quash service
of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her”);
§ 412.20, subd. (a)(3) (stating that a defendant has 30 days to file a response
to a complaint). 
 
Therefore,
as Plaintiff argues, Defendant was required to file the motion by July 5, 2024,
since the alleged personal service took place on June 4, 2024. 
 
Defendant filed the motion on July 8, 2024, making it untimely.
Defendant has not explained in her moving papers (or filed a reply explaining) why
she filed the motion beyond the 30-day deadline. Contrary to Plaintiff’s
implied argument, service of process is not satisfied by actual knowledge of
the lawsuit. (Kappel v. Bartlett (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466; also see Taylor-Rush
v. Multitech Corp. (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 103, 111 (“The notice requirement
is not satisfied by actual knowledge of the action without service conforming
to the statutory requirements, which are to be strictly construed”). However,
given that Defendant has not disputed Plaintiff’s counsel’s testimony that on June 10,
2024, before the motion to quash deadline passed, Plaintiff’s counsel’s
paralegal emailed Defendant’s insurance representatives, supports Plaintiff’s
argument that Defendant did not have good cause to file a tardy motion to
quash. Accordingly, the Court finds Defendant has failed to show good cause for
filing the motion late. 
 
“Even when relief is not
available under a statute, the court retains inherent power to vacate void
orders.” Doe v. Regents of University of California (2022) 80
Cal.App.5th 282, 292; People v. Codinha (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 976 (“a
trial court has ‘inherent power’ to vacate a void judgment or order at any
time”); Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (d) (“The
court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct
clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the
judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to
the other party, set aside any void judgment or order”).
 
In
addition: “When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a
party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been
entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice
of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend
the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable
time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a
default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or
her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.”
Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a).
 
Here,
however, there has been no order or judgment (default or otherwise) entered
against the Defendant. Furthermore, since Defendant objects to the timeliness
of the subject Motion, the Court has not found any case law holding that the
Court can quash service under Section 418.10 if the motion is untimely without
a showing of good cause. 
 
            For those reasons, the motion is denied.
 
II.        CONCLUSION 
            
            Defendant Lisa L. Barriere’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice of ruling. 