  Case Number:  21STCV17649    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
FIRE
  GUARD CORPORATION,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
STANFORD
  AND 12th STREET, LP, et al.
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  21STCV17649
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  05/11/21
Trial
  Date:  10/10/24
 




and
  related cross-complaint
 
MAYER
  SEPARZADEH, et al.,
                              Plaintiffs
 
SHU CHIN KOU, et al;
 
                             Defendants.
 


 



 
Hearing Date:             September
19, 2024
Moving Party:             Cross
Complainants Shu c. Kou and Shan C. Kou
Responding Party:       Cross-Defendant
Mayer Separzadeh
 
Motion for Protective Order
 
The court has considered the moving, opposition, and
reply papers. 
The court GRANTS
Cross-Complainant’s motion for protective order.
            The court GRANTS Cross-Complainant’s request for monetary sanctions.
 
Background
On May 11, 2021, Plaintiff Fire Guard Corporation dba
Builtright Engineering and Construction (“Plaintiff”) filed a breach of
contract action against Defendants Stanford and 12th Street, LP; Shu
C. Kou (“Shu”); Shan C. Kou (“Shan”); and Does 1 through 100 for the following
five causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) open book account; (3)
account stated; (4) quantum meruit; and (5) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien. The
complaint alleges that Defendants Shu and Shan were the owners of certain real
properly situated at 901 East 12th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90021
which is the subject property of this suit. Plaintiff further alleges that
Defendants Shu and Shan (the owners of the Property) entered into an agreement
with Plaintiff whereby Plaintiff completed performance by providing
construction work, labor, rendering services, and the furnishing of certain
materials to the Kou Defendants. Plaintiff asserts the Kou Defendants
subsequently breached their agreement by failing to furnish the agreed upon
payment. Thus, Plaintiff has incurred damages of $269,190 plus interest. 
On July 7, 2021, the Kou Cross-Complainants filed a
Cross-Complaint, against Cross-Defendants Stanford and 12th Street,
LP; Stanford Mart, LP; Mayer Separzadeh; Shahin S. Zackary and Said Bral,
alleging the following five causes of action: (1) implied contractual
indemnity; (2) expressed contractual indemnity; (3) breach of lease; (4) breach
of guaranty; and (5) account stated. The Kous allege that pursuant to the Lease
agreement (“Lease”) entered into by the Kous, as owners, with Cross-Defendants,
as tenants—Stanford Mart was to pay rent to the Kous in a monthly sum in order
to maintain possession of the Property. The Kous further allege that Stanford
has not paid Plaintiff Fire Guard as agreed for the construction services and
labor provided. Critically, the Lease provides that Stanford shall hold the Kous
harmless for all claims, costs, and expenses, including attorneys’ fees.
Furthermore, Plaintiff Fire Guard has commenced an action against Stanford and
the Kous seeking money and foreclosure of a mechanic’s lien that Plaintiff Fire
Guard has recorded against the subject property. In sum, the Kous assert that
pursuant to the terms of the lease, the Kous are entitled to implied
indemnification from Stanford.
On July 5, 2023, Mayer Separzadeh[1]
and Stanford Mart, LP filed a complaint against the Kou Defendants, as well as
Ming Bin Kou, as Co-Trustee of the Kou Family Irrevocable Grantor Trust, for
six causes of action: (1) declaratory relief; (2) breach of written agreement;
(3) specific performance; (4) declaratory relief; (5) cancellation of
instruments guaranty; and (6) cancellation of instruments. As set forth in the
foregoing complaints, Stanford Mart reiterates its position as the tenant in
the ground Lease agreement entered into with the Kou Defendants (who are the
owners) whereby Stanford Mart built and paid for improvements on the land,
including building a mall on the land consisting of multiple units for retail
and wholesale vendors. Thus, Mayer and Stanford now allege that a dispute now
exists between the parties as to the compensation owed to the Kou Defendants
for use of the land, and ownership of the land, as well as the improvements.   
On May 31, 2024, the Kous filed the instant Motion for
Protective Order, requesting the Court grant them a protective order precluding
each of them from deposition, as to save both of them from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and expense. The Kous
also request sanctions and attached the Declaration of their counsel of record,
Miles L. Prince (“Prince Decl.”).  On
September 6, 2024, Cross-Defendant Mayer filed an Opposition, including a
request for sanctions. Mayer also concurrently filed the Declaration of his
attorney, Tom N. Tran (“Tran Decl.”), as well as Evidentiary Objections to the
Declaration of Miles L. Prince. On September 10, 2024, Cross-Defendant Stanford
and 12th Street LP and Shahin Zackary filed a Notice of Joinder to
Cross-Defendant Mayer’s Opposition to the instant motion. On September 12,
2024, the Kous filed their Reply.  
 
Legal Standard
            “Before, during, or after a
deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or
organization may promptly move for a protective order.” (CCP § 2025.420(a).) “The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (CCP § 2025.420(b).) This protective order may include, but is not
limited to, one or more of the following directions set forth in CCP §§
2025.420(b)(1)-(16). “Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision
(b), provides a nonexclusive list of permissible directions that may be
included in a protective order.” (Nativi
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 316.)
            “If the motion for a protective
order is denied in whole or in part, the court may order that the deponent
provide or permit the discovery against which protection was sought on those
terms and conditions that are just.” (CCP § 2025.420(g).) “ ‘[T]he issuance and
formulation of protective orders are to a large extent discretionary.
[Citation.]’ ” (Nativi, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 316.) 
            “The court shall impose a monetary
sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes
or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2025.420(h).)
 
Evidentiary
Matters
            Mayer sets forth three objections to
the Declaration of the Kou’s Counsel, Counsel Prince. Mayer objects on the
basis that Counsel lacks personal knowledge and foundation for his statements
and is consequently providing the Court with hearsay and improper lay opinions.
The Court rules as follows:
Sustained

·        
Nos.
2-3
Overruled
·        
No.
1
 
Discussion
                        Merits of the Motion—Moving Papers
            Cross-Complainants Shu and Shan Kou move for a
protective order pursuant to CCP §§ 2025.420 on the basis that the couple is
experiencing rapid and severe declines in physical health, such that taking
their depositions would put their health at further risk. (Mot., pg. 3.) The
motion further provides that Mr. Kou will turn 92 years old this year and Mrs.
Kou will turn 90 years old. (Id.) As a preliminary matter, the motion
argues that the Kous have had no meaningful involvement in the underlying
property or related transactions for the past multiple decades. (Id.)
Instead, Cross-Complainants’ son, Ming Shin Kou (“Ming”) has been acting as the
actual managing agent. Thus, subjecting Mr. and Mrs. Kou to such serious health
risk is not warranted or justified. (Id.)
Cross-Complainants assert firstly that (1) Mr. Kou
lacks sufficient cognitive function to be deposed, as evidenced by the
supporting letter from his treating physician (a Cedars-Sinai board certified
neurologist with added qualifications in clinical neurophysiology). The letter
provides that Mr. Kou “has profound cognitive impairment which precludes him
from providing meaningful or accurate responses.” (Prince Decl., ¶3.) Thus, such
profound cognitive impairment means that Mr. Kou cannot undergo a legal deposition.
(Id.) Second, (2) Mrs. Kou’s treating physician warns the court that “it
is my professional medical opinion that Mrs. Kou cannot participate in such an
activity. The stress could very likely exacerbate her condition, posing a
serious risk to her health and wellbeing.” (Prince Decl., ¶ 3.) Mrs. Kou
recently had a pacemaker installed and also suffers from a “severely low
resting heart rate, sodium levels, and hemoglobin.” (Id.) Thus, Mrs.
Kou’s treating physician further provides that these conditions, particularly
at the levels experienced by Mrs. Kou, can be potentially life-threatening.
Third (3), Cross-Complainants argue that not being able to depose Mr. and Mrs.
Kou will not subject the parties to substantial prejudice given Ming Shin Kou’s
availability for deposition. (Prince Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Finally, (4)
Cross-Complainants argue that they are entitled to sanctions because subsection
(h) of the Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) § 2025.420 states that “[t]he court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order . . .” (CCP § 2025.420(h); Mot., pg.
5.) Thus, the Kuos request monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,680 to
compensate for the costs of needing to bring the instant protective order.
(Prince Decl., ¶ 6.)
Opposition
            On Opposition, Mayer argues that the
Kous are deliberately stonewalling Mayer’s discovery efforts despite multiple
motions and Court orders. (Opp., pg.2.) Thus, Mayer contends that it is the
Kous strategy to go to trial quickly while stonewalling discovery. (Id.)

 
Abuse of Discovery
Mayer provides numerous examples of the Kous “disobedience
with the Court’s discovery orders” and references the ten (10) discovery
motions which the Kous have refused to submit or respond to. To demonstrate, the
discovery abuse has led to Mayer filing a motion for evidence, issue, and
terminating sanctions against the Kous. (Opp., pg. 6.) In addition, Mayer
emphasizes that the Kous have filed their Cross-Complaint, taking advantage of
the legal system, but are refusing to provide discovery. (Opp., pg.7.)  Thus, Mayer asserts he will be substantially
prejudiced if the Kous were to be precluded from deposition because it would
further limit his discovery, frustrating his ability to prepare for trial. 
Lack of Evidentiary Support Evidencing Good Cause 
In
addition, Mayer argues that Cross-Complainants do not establish good cause for
a protective order because they do not provide sufficient evidentiary support
for the motion. Further, Mayer provides that a declaration containing mere
conclusions is insufficient to establish “good cause” for a protective order
motion. (See People v. Sup. Ct. (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 276, 281–282.)  “Accordingly, it is not enough simply to
repeat the statutory grounds of “unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment or
oppression or undue burden and expense”. Additionally, to be admissible,
declarations for protective orders must be based on personal knowledge. (See,
Cal. Prac. Guide, Civ. Pro. Before Trial, Protective Orders, Ch. 8E-11 [8:675];
Evid. Code § 702; accord, Gilbert v. Sykes (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 13, 26;
Dwight R. v. Christy B. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 697, 714; CCP 437c(d)
(“Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations shall be made by a person
on personal knowledge, shall set forth admissible evidence, and shall show affirmatively
that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated in the
affidavits or declarations.”) 
Mayer
further provides:
“The
burden is on the party seeking the protective order to show “good cause” for
whatever protective order is sought. (See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct.
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) Evidence including declarations which contain mere
conclusions are insufficient to establish “good cause” for a protective order. (See
People v. Sup. Ct. (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 276, 281–282.) In the context
of discovery, “oppression” means the ultimate effect of the burden of
responding to the discovery is “incommensurate with the result sought.” (See West
Pico Furniture Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) Accordingly,
this requires a showing that the burdens involved in the deposition proceeding
clearly outweigh whatever benefits are sought to be obtained thereby. (CCP §
2017.020(a); accord, Emerson Elec. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 16 Cal.4th
1101, 1110.) And whether the discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, the
Court takes into account “the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and
the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.” (CCP § 2019.030(a)(2)
and (b).) (Opp., pg. 8.)
 
Mayer
asserts that neither of the Kuos’ treating physicians provided their own
declarations or affidavits, and that instead, the instant motion merely
provides repeated statutory language in a conclusory manner. 
Mental
and Physical Condition at Issue
Lastly, Mayer contends that the
Kuos have put their mental and physical condition at issue. “[A] party who
chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny
his mental state is in controversy.” (See Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833.) Where plaintiffs has placed her mental condition at issue,
defendant is entitled, under Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.010 et seq.,
to examine her mental condition. (See Shapira v. Sup. Ct. (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 1249, 1254.) Additionally, Mayer argues that if the Kous lack mental
capacity, then they need to file a petition to have a guardian ad litem
appointed. (Opp., pg. 13.)
Mayer
provides pursuant to CCP § 2032.020(a): 
Any party
may obtain discovery, subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5
(commencing with Section 2019.010), by means of a physical or mental
examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of any party, or (3)
a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of a party, in
any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the blood
group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the
action. (Emphasis added). (Opp., pg. 13.)
 
Thus, Mayer concludes that, a
physical and mental examination should have been warranted. (Opp., pgs. 13-14.)
Yet, Counsel Prince (the Kous’ Counsel) has refused to allow an Independent
Medical Examination (“IME”). In this case, Mayer concludes that if the Kous are
not well enough to sit through a deposition or provide written discovery
responses, they are not well enough to be suing Mayer in this very case. (Id.
at pg. 14.)
Reply
On Reply, the Kuos
represent that Mayer is the one who is trying to avoid trial given Mayer stands
to lose $41 million if evicted from the ground Lease with the Kuos. Moreover,
Mayer owes the Kuos over $22 million in unpaid rent. (Reply, pg. 2.) Mayer
continues to collect hundreds of thousands of dollars in rent every month from
his own subtenants while refusing to pay the Kuos rent in years. (Id.)
With respect to discovery, the Kuos assert they have served verified responses
and contend that Mayer is attempting to create a self-fulfilling prophecy by
overwhelming the court with discovery motions, including motions for issue and
terminating sanctions. The Kuos assert they have established good cause because
there is no dispute that (a) Mr. Kou is suffering from profound cognitive
impairment or that Mrs. Kou’s physician has provided she may not undergo a
legal deposition due to the risk is poses to her health; and (b) that the Kuos
know practically nothing about the subject property or the instant dispute. Similarly, it is undisputed that
Mr. and Mrs. Kou’s son, Ming Shin Kou, is the actual managing agent on behalf
of the trust. 
Lastly, Mayer is not
entitled to subject the Kuos to Independent Medical Examinations. (Reply, pg.
5.) The California Supreme
Court has been clear that such examinations are only permitted where the
“mental or physical condition” of the party is “directly relevant to [their]
claim and essential to a fair resolution of [their] suit.” (Vinson v. Superior Ct., 43 Cal. 3d 833, 842 (1987).)
The Reply contends that Mr. Kou’s mental condition is not at all relevant to
any of the claims or defenses in the case - and the Opposition fails to prove
otherwise. Being limited in his ability to participate in proceedings is not
the same as being a fact of controversy, which is the standard. In other words,
Mr. Kou’s mental condition and Mrs. Kou’s physical condition will not make any
fact any more or less likely in the resolution of the dispute. As a result, an
examination is not permitted under the law, and is only being sought as further
harassment of this ill 92-year old man. (Id.)
The Court firstly finds that the
instant motion for protective order does not hinge on the outcome of Mayer’s
other pending discovery motions. Each of those motions are to be dealt with
separately and according to their respective hearing dates. Thus, any
allegations regarding abuse of discovery for other discovery motions is not the
subject of the instant protective order.
Second, the Court finds the Kuos
have established there is good cause to issue a protective order, protecting
them from deposition given the letters provided from each of their treating
physicians. The letters sufficiently evidence the state of each of their
respective health conditions and are not merely conclusory. Moreover and
contrary to Mayer’s opposing arguments, the letters establish foundation for
such good cause. The letters provide sufficient evidentiary support and are not
hearsay because they are provided directly from the physicians. Mrs. Kuo’s
treating physician, Cory A. Waldman, M.D. provides:
Mrs. Kou has recently undergone an
extended in-patient hospitalization as a result of her condition. Due to the
severity of her health issues, I have advised that she abstain from any overly
stressful activities or situations. This recommendation will become even more
critical once the pacemaker device is installed. (Mot., Prince Decl., Ex. A.)
 
Mr. Kuo’s treating physician, Harm
CM Cohen, MD FRCPC provides:
This
patient cannot undergo a legal deposition as he had profound cognitive
impairment which precludes him from meaningful or accurate responses. (Mot.,
Prince Decl., Ex. A.)
 
Thus, good cause is established
and the Court finds that the Kou’s health and wellbeing prevails over any
alleged risk of prejudice to Cross-Defendant Mayer. Furthermore, the Court does
not find that Mayer has set forth sufficient facts or argument to establish such
substantial prejudice because Mayer does not contend why the Kuos’ son, Ming—who
has been managing the affairs of his parents and all the affairs connected to
this underlying matter—is not an acceptable alternative for purposes of
deposition. The Kuos have set forth that Ming is the actual managing agent who
continues to express his complete avail for deposition. (Mot., pg. 3.) On
Opposition, Mayer does not address Ming’s willingness to be deposed or set
forth any argument as to why the Kuos must be deposed against their treating
physician’s medical opinion for the purposes of this matter. In other words,
Mayer has not provided the Court with reason to depose the Kuos that evidences
a purpose other than to harass, annoy, or burden them. 
Finally, the Court finds that the
Kuos have not put their mental or physical condition at issue in the underlying
matter according to Vinson. The California Supreme Court in Vinson held
that such examinations are only possible when the mental or physical condition
of the party is directly relevant to the underlying claims, and thus, directly
relevant to a fair resolution of the suit. Here, Mayer has not established the
Kuos mental and physical condition is at issue in the underlying suit or in any
other form other than for the purposes of the instant motion for protective
order. Their physical and mental condition is not at issue in the underlying
action and is not the subject of any of the causes of action alleged or claims
or defenses, therein. Thus, Mayer has failed to establish he is somehow
entitled to impose an Independent Medical Examination on the Kuos. 
The court therefore GRANTS the instant Motion
for Protective Order filed by the Kuo Cross-Complainants and further instructs
Cross-Defendant Mayer to pursue discovery without delay, including taking the
deposition of Ming Shin Kuo, if he so wishes.  

Requests for
Monetary Sanctions
             Counsel Prince declares he has spent a total
of four (4) hours of billable time on the instant matter, including researching
and drafting the present motion; reviewing the opposition; and preparing for
the upcoming hearing. (Prince Decl., ¶6.) The Court finds the number of billed
hours is reasonable, as well as Counsel’s hourly rate of $405 per hour. (Id.)
Thus, the Court awards Cross-Complainants a total of $1,620 in sanctions, to be
paid by Cross-Defendant Mayer and his counsel, jointly and severally. 
It is so ordered.
Dated:
September 19, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANAJudge of the
Superior Court