 Case Number:  23SMCV01564    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Beverly Hills Tower LLC, et al.
v. The Little Door Corp., et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV01564


Complaint Filed:


4-11-23           




Hearing Date:


7-16-24 


Discovery C/O:


5-12-25




Calendar No.:


14


Discovery Motion C/O:


5-27-25




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


6-9-25



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER TO THE FIRST
AMENDENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Beverly
Hills Tower and Shawn Far
RESP.
PARTY:         Defendants/Cross-Complainants
The Little Door Corp. and BRH Investments Limited. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Cross-Defendants
Beverly Hills Tower and Shawn Far Demurrer to the 1st and 2nd
causes of action in Cross-Complainants The Little Door Corp. and BRH
Investments Limited’s Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED. Cross-Complainant alleges
all the necessary facts with the requisite specificity for the Fraud and
Negligent Misrepresentation causes of action within the FACC. 
  
            Cross-Defendants
Beverly Hills Tower and Shawn Far RJN is DENIED. (See Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 605 [“The hearing on
demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing through the
guise of having the court take judicial notice of affidavits, declarations,
depositions, and other such material which was filed on behalf of the adverse
party and which purports to contradict the allegations and contentions of the
plaintiff.”].)
 
 
REASONING
 
            As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)
 
            Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However,
“[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good
cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
 
            Plaintiff is only required to allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (See Committee on Children's
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212 [“the
complaint should set forth the ultimate facts constituting the cause of action,
not the evidence by which plaintiff proposes to prove those facts”); 1 Cal.
Affirmative Def. § 10:2 (2d ed.) [allegations of agency, course and scope of
employment, etc. qualify as ultimate facts].) Plaintiff’s allegations must be
accepted as true on demurrer. (See Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage Corp.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924 [“For purposes of reviewing a demurrer, we accept
the truth of material facts properly pleaded in the operative complaint”].)
 
I.               
Demurrer to the 1st cause of action
for Fraud and 2nd cause of action for Negligent  Misrepresentation —OVERRULED
 
            "A
complaint for fraud must allege the following elements: (1) a knowingly false
representation by the defendant; (2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance;
(3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages. Every
element must be specifically pleaded. [citations omitted]" (Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th
1807, 1816.)
 
            “The
elements of negligent misrepresentation are (1) the misrepresentation of a past
or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be
true, (3) with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented,
(4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.” (Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. v. FSI, Financial Solutions, Inc. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1559, 1573.)
 
“[T]he facts constituting the fraud
must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand
fully the nature of the charge made.” (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown
& Baerwitz (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) Fraud actions against
corporations require the plaintiff “to allege the names of the persons who made
the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) However,
the specificity requirement is “relaxed when the allegations indicate that the
defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy or when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”
(Ibid., citations omitted.)
 
Cross-Defendants Beverly Hills
Tower (“BH Tower”) and Shawn Far (“Far”) (collectively the “Cross-Defendants”)
argue that Cross-Claimants The Little Door Corp. and BRH Investments Limited.
(collectively the “Cross-Claimants”) did not plead enough facts to show
reasonable, or justifiable, reliance within both the Fraud and Negligent
Misrepresentation claims. (Demurrer, pp. 9–12.)  Cross-Defendants arguments regarding whether
the specific facts stated in the FACC can be seen as reasonable reliance
including whether a sophisticated businessman with relevant experience could
not have reasonably relied on the stated representation, and no reasonable
businessperson would have relied on the alleged representations, are both
misplaced, and not appropriate at the demurrer stage. (See E-Fab, Inc., supra,
153 Cal.App.4th at p. 1315 [“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or facts alleged.”].) 
 
Cross-Claimants successfully plead
reasonable reliance in the FACC by alleging the following:
 
1.    
“The 20 feet of additional usable outdoor space was
critical and a “but for” factor in Mr. Boumajdi’s decision to lease the ground
floor space for his proposed restaurant, which would require substantial
investment of time and money given it was not being used for a restaurant at
the time. Mr. Boumajdi and Mr. Far discussed that Mr. Boumajdi would need to
commit substantial time and financial resources to design, construct and build
out a restaurant in Mr. Far’s space.” (FACC, ¶ 14.)
2.    
“Mr. Boumajdi relied on Mr. Far’s representations about
the extent of the outdoor space available for use as a restaurant seating area
in agreeing to lease the ground floor and to invest time, money and energy to
finance and build the ground floor space for the restaurant. But for the
ability to use the outdoor space (Mr. Boumajdi’s plan and stated intention to
Mr. Far was to have the majority of the restaurant’s seating outdoors), Mr.
Boumajdi would not have agreed to lease this space, to work with Mr. Far on
other lease matters or to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on permitting,
renovations and improvements to Mr. Far’s building. Had Mr. Boumajdi known that
Mr. Far was aware that his representations to Mr. Boumajdi that the 20 foot
space outside the building was usable for Mr. Boumajdi’s planned restaurant was
not true, Mr. Boumajdi never would have agreed to lease the space.” (Id., ¶ 16.)
3.    
“What Mr. Far and his agent Mr. Perez did not disclose,
and the ground floor lease itself also did not disclose in writing (and indeed,
the lease terms stated to the contrary), is that the ground floor leased area
for the 499 N. Canon Drive property has two separate parcels. One parcel
covered the building, and the separate parcel covered the outdoor space, and
importantly here, the outdoor space could not be used as part of a restaurant
with the indoor space leased to Mr. Boumajdi’s company TLD unless the two
parcels were tied together. This revelation was a major defect in the benefit
of the bargain that Mr. Boumajdi intended and negotiated. TLD and BRH are
informed and believe that Mr. Far knew of this parcel issue before he leased
the space to Mr. Boumajdi’s restaurant company, that he mispresented the
ability to use the outdoor space as a restaurant along with the ground floor
lease’s indoor space while negotiating with Mr. Boumajdi, and that Mr. Far has
refused to tie the two parcels together. Mr. Far and his agent Mr. Perez knew
that Mr. Boumajdi desired to use the outdoor space that was in the second
parcel, and that such space was critical to Mr. Boumajdi’s decision to enter to
into the ground floor lease, but Mr. Far concealed his knowledge of this
material fact, which would not be known to Mr. Boumjadi and was information
within Mr. Far’s exclusive knowledge and control.” (Id., ¶ 19.)
4.    
“[I]in reliance on Mr. Far’s representations about the
ability to use the ground floor space for Mr. Boumajdi’s desired purpose, Mr.
Boumajdi dove head-first into this project, and expended substantial time,
money and effort to do so, with the end result that Mr. Boumajdi’s businesses
have paid Mr. Far approximately $1 million in rent, and expended hundreds of
thousands more on improvements, permitting and design/build services, with no
restaurant or profits to show for it.” (Id., ¶ 32.)
 
            Additionally,
Cross-Defendants argument that the fraud claim fails because the claim is based
on a prediction about future events is not persuasive. Cross-Defendants provide
no authority to support this argument other than the case, Neu-Visions
Sports, Inc. v. Soren/McAdam/Bartells (2000) 86 Cal.App.4th 303, which
deals with a motion for summary judgment decided after extensive discovery and
deposition, not the demurrer stage at issue here. Demurrers only deal with
whether the pleadED facts state a cause of action, not whether there is a
disputed issue of fact as in summary judgment motions. As stated above, the
Cross-Claimants have stated specific facts to allege a cause of action for
Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation. 
 
            Finally,
Cross-Defendants argument that the fraud claims fails because it based on the legal
opinion of a lay person. (See Harazim v. Lynam (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d
127, 131 [“The representations relied upon must ordinarily be affirmations of
fact (Civ.Code, s 1710); misrepresentations of law or legal opinions expressed
by laymen are insufficient.”].) This argument is also misplaced. The FACC
alleges the Cross-Defendants knew the properties contained a defect, and that
Cross-Defendants intentionally misrepresented, and hid, the known defect in
order to gain Cross-Complainants reliance. (See FACC, ¶¶ 19, 24–26.) The FACC
does not allege the existence of a lay person legal opinion to induced reliance,
but instead includes allegations of factual representations made in order to
induce Cross-Complainants into a lease. Thus, this argument is misplaced and inappropriate
at the demurrer stage. 
 
            Cross-Defendants
Demurrer to the 1st and 2nd causes of action in the FACC
is OVERRULED.