 Case Number:  23SMCV03981    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
California
Physicians Service v. Advance Orthopedic Center, Inc., Case No. 23SMCV03981
Hearing
date April 23, 2024
Defendant
Advanced Orthopedic Center, Inc.’s Motion for Stay of Proceedings and Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
Plaintiff
California Physicians Service dba Blue Shield of California (Blue Shield) sued defendant
Advanced Orthopedic Center, Inc. (AOC) for (1) declaratory relief re Department
of Managed Health Care claims and medical supplement claims; and (3) money had
and received. 
Blue Shield
paid AOC for emergency medical services provided to its plan members. The FAC
alleges AOC was paid reasonable market value and/or certain claims were
properly denied in whole or in part in accord with applicable law, relevant
plan terms and industry/regulatory standards. 
AOC moves
for an order staying this proceeding in light of the pendency of proceedings
filed with the federal Independent Dispute Resolution Process. Alternatively,
AOC demurs to the FAC
Evidentiary
Objections
Blue Shield’s objections are OVERRULED. 
Request
for Judicial Notice
AOC request
the court take judicial notice of (1) Plaintiff’s Claim and Order to Go to
Small Claims Court, Blue Shield’s Abandonment of Appeal, Notice of Settlement
of Entire Case (by Blue Shield) in LASC Case Nos. 22SMC00922 (filed with
regard to services rendered to patient C. L.); (2) Plaintiff’s Claim and Order
to Go to Small Claims Court in LASC Case No. 23SMSC007186 (with regard
to services rendered to patient I.D.), Minute Order dated June 20, 2023, Notice of Entry of
Judgment (in favor of AOC in the amount of $25,000), Minute Order dated
November 30, 2023; (3) Plaintiff’s Claim and Order to Go to Small Claims Court,
Abandonment of Appeal, Notice of Entry of Judgment (in favor of AOC in the
principal amount of $2,738.35, plus costs of $100) in LASC Case No. 23SMSC00720
(with regard to patient J.Ry.), Blue Shield’s Abandonment of Appeal; (4)
Plaintiff’s First Amended Claim and Order to Go to Small Claims Court, Blue
Shield’s Abandonment of Appeal, Blue Shield’s Notice of Settlement of Entire
Case in LASC Case No. 21SMSC02107 (with regard to patient M.Ki.); (5)
Plaintiff’s Claim and Order to Go to Small Claims Court and Blue Shield’s
Notice of Settlement of Case in LASC Case No. 22SMSC01732 (with regard
to patient B.S.); (6) Notice of IDR Initiation with regard to  Blue Shield insureds A.P., A.W., B.J., B.S.,
C.H., E.K., E.W., I.R., J.C., J.R.G., J.Sh, J.St., J.Y., K.Z.S., M.C., M.K.,
M.G., M.S.,  N.W., S.J., S.K., S.M.,
S.S., S.Y., V.L., and Z.P.
Blue Shield
requests the court take judicial notice of (1) Exhibit A to the Declaration of
John T. Fogarty: The March 21, 2022, Department of Managed Healthcare (“DMHC”)
Guidance Letter signed by DMHC’s Chief Counsel, Sarah Ream, concerning the No
Surprises Act (“NSA”) and the Independent Dispute Resolution (“IDR”) Process
within the NSA; (2) Exhibit B to the Declaration of John T. Fogarty: The April
6, 2022, Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) Frequently Asked
Questions for Providers About the No Surprises Act letter/document; (3) Exhibit
C to the Declaration of John T. Fogarty: The CMS’s Chart for Determining
Applicability for the Federal Independent Dispute Resolution Process; and (4) Exhibit
D to the Declaration of John T. Fogarty: The United States Department of Health
& Human Services’ (“HHS”) Federal Independent Dispute Resolution (IDR)
Process Guidance for Certified IDR Entities, issued by the CMS, published on
August 16, 2022.
The requests
for judicial notice are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code §§ 452(c), (d), (h),
and 453. 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.515(a) states: “Any party may file a motion for an order
under Code of Civil Procedure section 404.5 staying the proceedings in any
action being considered for, or affecting an action being considered for,
coordination, or the court may stay the proceedings on its own motion.” Cal.
Rules of Ct., rule 3.515(a). “[P]ending any determination of whether
coordination is appropriate, the judge making that determination may stay any
action being considered for, or affecting an action being considered for,
coordination.” Code Civ. Proc., § 404.5. “Trial courts generally have the
inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote
judicial efficiency.” Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.
AOC
initiated binding Federal Independent Dispute Resolution (“IDR”) Process
regarding its payment dispute with Blue Shield concerning medical services it
provided to 24 named Blue Shield insureds identified in the FAC. 
AOC argues
pursuant to 29 USC § 1185e (“Preventing Surprise Medical Bills Act” or “No
Surprise Act,” “NSA”), IDR is a binding arbitration in a tribunal established
to adjudicate payment disputes between out-of-network medical providers and
health care insurers. AOC argues there are limited grounds for court review
which must be conducted in a Federal District Court in the district in which
the award was made. As such, AOC contends this Court has no role to play with
regard to the IDR process for resolving the payment dispute between AOC and
Blue Shield. Finally, AOC contends 26 CFR 54.9816-8 provides additional
provisions regarding the IDR process.
Blue Shield
argues even if AOC improperly initiated duplicative IDR proceedings concerning
claims identified in the FAC pursuant to the No Surprise Act, the IDR entities
are mandated to reject those requests because the Department of Managed Health
Care (“DMHC”)’s specified state laws apply to the claims at issue in the first
cause of action and/or Medicare benefits claims are at issue in the second
cause of action. 
Specifically,
Blue Shield contends it is required by law to make prompt payments to
professional providers that do not have contracts with it, such as AOC, for
emergency services provided to Blue Shield’s members. Blue Shield argues medical
supplemental plans cannot directly cover services performed by physicians;
rather these plans aid Medicare members with cost-sharing obligations. Thus,
Blue Shield argues there is no reason to stay this proceeding.
In reply, AOC
argues the IDR process is applicable because California does not define a “method”
for determining disputes over quantifying reasonable value; rather, California
law only defines the factors to be considered. Furthermore, AOC contends the
DMHC All Plan Letter conflates California’s prohibition for balance billing of
emergency medical services with resolution of disputes between plans and
providers but no analysis of whether California law provides a method to
resolve those disputes. AOC also contends quantum meruit is not a “method,” but
a theory of recovery.
29 U.S.C. §
1185e(c)(5)(E)(i) states: “A determination of a certified IDR entity under
subparagraph (A)…(I) shall be binding upon the parties involved, in the absence
of a fraudulent claim or evidence of misrepresentation of facts presented to
the IDR entity involved regarding such claim; and (II) shall not be subject to
judicial review, except in a case described in any of paragraphs (1) through
(4) of section 10(a) of title 9.” 29 U.S.C. § 1185e (c)(5)(E)(i).
Knox-Keene defines “Reimbursement of a Claim”: “For
contracted providers without a written contract and non-contracted providers,
except those providing services described in paragraph (C) below: the payment
of the reasonable and customary value for the health care services rendered
based upon statistically credible information that is updated at least annually
and takes into consideration: (i) the provider's training, qualifications, and
length of time in practice; (ii) the nature of the services provided;(iii) the
fees usually charged by the provider; (iv) prevailing provider rates charged in
the general geographic area in which the services were rendered; (v) other
aspects of the economics of the medical provider's practice that are relevant;
and (vi) any unusual circumstances in the case.” 28 Cal. Code Regs. §
1300.71(a)(3)(B).
In County of Santa
Clara, the court held “the Knox-Keene Act's statutory and
regulatory scheme contemplates that private actions under a quantum meruit
theory may be used to recoup appropriate reimbursement for services rendered.” County
of Santa Clara v. Superior Court (2023) 14 Cal. 5th 1034, 1044.
Similarly, in Children’s Hospital Central Cal. v.
Blue Cross of Cal. (2014) 226 Cal. App. 4th 1260, the court held “the trial
court erred in ruling that section 1300.71(a)(3)(B) provided the exclusive
standard for determining the reasonable value of the poststabilization
services. The DMHC neither intended nor had the power to dictate payment rates
or change California law on quantum meruit. Rather, as the DMHC explained, in
adopting CCR, title 28, section 1300.71 it was setting the minimum claims
payment and dispute resolution standards to ensure compliance with the
Knox-Keene Act's time requirements for claims reimbursement.” Children’s,
supra, at 1276.
This is a
dispute over Blue Shield’s reimbursement amount, and AOC initiated IDR
proceedings. For Blue Shield’s claims to be ineligible for IDR, California must
have a “Specified State law” that provides a method for determining the total
amount payable under plans such as the one offered by Blue Shield. Both AOC and
Blue Shield cite to published and unpublished case law from other states and
various statutes.
Blue Shield
has not shown a “Specified State law” exists which provides for a method such
as the IDR process to determine reimbursement amounts. Likewise, there is no California
case law indicating a “Specified State law” exists or that defines “method.”
Moreover, California case law indicates DHMC’s regulations merely provide
factors to be considered in making a quantum meruit determination of reimbursement.
Last, AOC initiated IDR proceedings involving the same parties and same claims
at issue here. In the discretion of the court and in furtherance of judicial
economy, staying the proceedings pending adjudication of these claims in IDR is
warranted. GRANTED. 
Based on the
granting of the motion for stay, the demurrer is MOOT. 