 Case Number:  24STCV06764    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Hearing on Motion to Compel Arbitration and
Demurrer
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Tom of Finland Foundation, Inc., a
California public benefit corporation (“Tom”) and seven clothing wholesalers, WE
ARE SPASTOR, S.c.P., a Corporation based in Spain; LEISURE PROJECTS, a sole
proprietorship based in Thailand; TRASHY CLOTHING, a sole proprietorship based
in Jordan; HIRO CLARK, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company; SOFT SKIN
LATEX, a United Kingdom based clothing manufacturer; SIRAINER, SRL
SEMPLIFICATA, a Simplified Limited Liability Company based in Italy; and GOOD
CATCH!, INC., a Florida Corporation (collectively “Wholesalers”), brought this
action against Defendant cultureEDIT, LLC (“Defendant”) and doe defendants 1-60.
In Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) Tom alleges
claims against Defendant arising out of their licensing agreement for an online
store and Wholesalers allege claims based on Defendants’ failure to pay for
merchandise. 
Tom’s causes of action include breach of a License
Agreement and related tort claims:
(1) Breach of Contract
(2) Breach of Duty
of Loyalty
(6) Accounting 
Causes of action common to all Plaintiffs are:
(3) Violation of Unfair
Competition Law
(4) Conversion
(5) Fraud – Intentional
Misrepresentation
Tom and Defendant are currently involved in another
case concerning breach of a separate contract, the Representation Agreement.
That case is currently stayed pending the resolution of court ordered
arbitration pursuant to the arbitration clause in the Representation Agreement.

Defendant has filed a motion to compel. Plaintiffs oppose the motion. Defendant has also filed a demurrer to the FAC, which Plaintiffs also oppose. This tentative ruling addresses both motions. 
JUDICIAL NOTICE FOR MOTION TO COMPEL
The Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial
notice of five documents in the Tom of Finland Foundation, Inc. v.
Cultureedit LLC et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23STCV25666. 
The Court grants Tom’s request for judicial notice of
two documents in the same case. 
MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION 
Determination of Arbitrability 
Defendant seeks to compel arbitration on the limited
question of the arbitrability of Tom’s claims in this action under the License
Agreement, under the arbitration ordered in the separate case under the
Representation Agreement. Reply at p. 1:23-28. 
Defendant argues that the Representation Agreement
included a provision providing that any dispute would be settled in binding
arbitration under JAMS Streamlined Arbitration Rules, which provide that the
arbitrator has the authority to determine jurisdiction and arbitrability. Mot.
5:5-19. Defendant argues that the arbitrator should decide the threshold
questions, including whether the arbitration clause in the Representation
Agreement encompasses the claims in the present action concerning the License
Agreement. Mot. 5:5-19.
Tom argues that there is no contractual basis for
arbitration in this action because it concerns only the License Agreement,
which does not contain an arbitration clause. Opp. at p. 3.
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2 requires a
court to order arbitration of a controversy “[o]n petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
such controversy ... if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists.” Under the Federal Arbitration Act,[1] [w]hether there is a
written agreement to arbitrate “is a matter of contract, and courts must
enforce arbitration contracts according to their terms.” Banc of
California, National Association v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 357, 366 (Banc of California). 
The Supreme Court’s recent decision in Coinbase,
Inc. v. Suski (2024) ___U.S.___ [144 S.Ct. 1186, 1190-91] (Coinbase),
is highly relevant to the issue in this motion. There, the parties executed two
contracts. The first contained an arbitration provision with a delegation
clause requiring an arbitrator to decide all disputes under the contract,
including whether a given disagreement is arbitrable. The second contract
contained a forum selection clause, providing that all disputes related to that
contract must be decided in California courts. The parties disputed whether an
arbitrator or the court should decide the arbitrability of a contract-related
dispute between the parties.  
As the Court framed the issue, “In prior cases, we
have addressed three layers of arbitration disputes: (1) merits, (2)
arbitrability, and (3) who decides arbitrability. This case involves a fourth:
What happens if parties have multiple agreements that conflict as to the
third-order question of who decides arbitrability?” Id. at p. 1193.
“In cases where parties have agreed to only one
contract, and that contract contains an arbitration clause with a delegation
provision, then, absent a successful challenge to the delegation provision,
courts must send all arbitrability disputes to arbitration. But, where, as
here, parties have agreed to two contracts—one sending arbitrability disputes
to arbitration, and the other either explicitly or implicitly sending
arbitrability disputes to the courts—a court must decide which contract governs.” Coinbase,
supra , 144 S.Ct. at p. 1194
Likewise, in Banc of California, supra, 69
Cal.App.5th 357, the court held a trial court erred in compelling arbitration
of the threshold issue of arbitrability where the parties had multiple
contracts, and the causes of action related only to contracts without
arbitration provisions. Id. at 370. Under both federal and California
law, “where the party moving to compel arbitration asserts a different contract
with an arbitration provision shows the parties’ intent to arbitrate, the
question of the parties’ intent is for the court to resolve.” Id. at
369. 
Here, Defendant seeks to have the issue of
arbitrability of a multi-contract dispute decided by the arbitrator. Defendant
is not asking the court to rule that Tom’s claims in this case should be
subject to the JAMS arbitration, but instead seeks an order that the issue of
arbitrability be sent to the JAMS arbitration. Therefore, the Court does not
reach the issue of whether Tom’s claims in this case are arbitrable. 
On the narrow question of whether the JAMS arbitrator
should decide that broader arbitrability issue, the Court concludes it should
not. Applying Coinbase and Bank of California, whether the
Representation Agreement’s arbitration clause extends to the claims in this
case is a question for the Court to resolve. Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration is Denied. 
CONCLUSION
The Motion to Compel Arbitration filed by Defendant is
Denied.
JUDICIAL NOTICE FOR DEMURRER
Defendant’s request that the Court take judicial
notice of the information on the Judicial Branch of California website at https://selfhelp.courts.ca.gov/small-claims-california,
that small claims plaintiffs “typically have a court date (trial) in about 1-2
months” after filing their claim is granted. 

LEGAL STANDARD
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
allegations in a complaint.” Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.  A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. See
Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 9 (in ruling
on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).
For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are
assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of
conclusions of law. Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
967.
A. Misjoinder 
Defendant demurs to the FAC in its entirety under Code
Civ. Proc. Section 430.10, subdivision (d), arguing the that Plaintiffs are
improperly joined because Tom’s breach of contract allegation is totally
unrelated to Wholesalers’ allegations of missing payment and are therefore
improperly joined because they do not constitute the same transaction of
occurrence or series of transactions or occurrences and do not raise a common
question of law or fact. Motion at pp. 4-6. 
A demurrer for misjoinder will be overruled unless the
moving party shows it has been prejudiced by the misjoinder. While “the code
seems to authorize the sustaining of a demurrer solely [for misjoinder of
parties], the authorities indicate that the defendant is entitled to a
favorable ruling only when he can show some prejudice suffered or some
interests affected by the misjoinder. In practical effect this means that such
a demurrer can be successfully used only by the persons improperly joined. A
proper defendant is seldom injured by the joinder of unnecessary or improper
parties, plaintiff or defendant, and his demurrer ought to be overruled.” Anaya
v. Superior Court (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 228, 231, fn. 1 (citation omitted).

Defendant has not shown it has suffered any prejudice
from the joinder of Tom and the Wholesalers’ claims. That the aggregation of
Plaintiffs’ claims allowed them to file an unlimited civil action does not
constitute prejudice as that term is used in misjoinder cases because Defendant
is not the party improperly joined. See Anaya, supra, 160
Cal.App.3d at p. 231, fn. 1. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer for improper
joinder is overruled.  
B. Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation 
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action for
fraud, arguing that Plaintiffs fail to allege their fraud claim with sufficient
specificity. Motion at ¶. 9-10. 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or
knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr.
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294. The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645. To properly
allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the
persons allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak,
to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157. However, the specificity requirement is relaxed “when the allegations
indicate that ‘the defendant must necessarily possess full information
concerning the facts of the controversy.’’’ Id. at 157 (quoting Bradley
v. Hartford Acc. & Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825, disapproved
on another ground in Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212- 213).

Plaintiffs do not specifically plead the names of the
person making the false representation in the FAC but argue that they were not
required to do so because “Cultureedit is essentially a one-man operation –
wholly owned and operated by Joakim Andreasson.” Opposition at p. 10:5-6.
Plaintiffs argue as a one-man operation, Defendant must necessarily possess
full information concerning the facts of the alleged misrepresentations.
Opposition at p. 10:9-18.  
However, Plaintiffs do not allege that Defendant
operated exclusively through Andreasson in the FAC. The FAC identifies
Andreasson as the owner of Cultureedit but does not allege that Andreasson
personally conducted all transactions between Plaintiffs and Defendant. FAC at
p. 4 ¶ 10. Because the Court considers only the allegations in the FAC, it
lacks any basis to conclude the relaxed pleading standard for fraud applies. See
Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994. Accordingly, Defendant’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.

 
C. Violation of Unfair Competition Law 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of action, violation
of Unfair Competition Law, Business and Professions Code Section 17200 et seq.,
(the “UCL”), arguing Plaintiffs fail to allege sufficient facts to support the
cause of action.  
“California Business and Professions Code Sections
17000, et seq., and 17200, et seq., states [sic] that unfair competition shall
mean and include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices.” Khoury
v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 618-19. “By
proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business act or practice, the UCL ‘borrows’ rules
set out in other laws and makes violations of those rules independently
actionable. However, a practice may violate the UCL even if it is not
prohibited by another statute.” Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v.
Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 835 (citation omitted). “The unfair
competition law is independent of the Unfair Practices Act and other laws. Its
remedies are ‘cumulative . . . to the remedies or penalties available under all
other laws of this state’, but its sanctions are less severe than those of the
Unfair Practices Act. Prevailing plaintiffs are generally limited to injunctive
relief and restitution.” Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles
Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 179 (citations omitted).  
Plaintiffs argue that their allegations of fraud are
sufficient to support their UCL claim. Opposition at pp. 8-9. However, for the
reasons stated above, the Court finds Plaintiffs failed to properly allege
fraud. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer as to the third and fifth causes
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  


