 Case Number:  23STCV12209    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



LEON FAYNSOD, et al., 
 
                                 
  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV12209
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 2, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Defendants and cross-defendants Leo Pustilnikov and
Katherine Pustilnikov (the “Pustilnikovs”) move for an order compelling
non-party witness Rambod Hadidi to appear at his deposition before April 15,
2024. The Pustilnikovs move for an order to show cause re: contempt against
Hadidi for failure to appear at a deposition on February 5, 2024. The
Pustilnikovs also move for sanctions in the amount of $5,246.45 against
Defendant City of Los Angeles (the “City”) or against Hadidi.
 
            The
Court DENIES the Pustilnikovs’ motions.
 
Background
 
This case concerns a landslide that damaged the homes of a
number of homeowners. 
 
Plaintiffs Leon Faynsod and Diana Shian-Ling Wang Chao,
individually and as Trustee of the Diana Chao Living Trust (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) own homes that are adjacent to, and uphill from the Pustilnikovs’
home. Faynsod owns the property at 1101 Las Lomas Avenue, Pacific Palisades,
California (the “Faynsod Property”). Chao owns the property at 1105 Las Lomas
Avenue, Pacific Palisades, California (the “Chao Property”). The Pustilnikovs
own the property at 949 Las Lomas Avenue, Pacific Palisades, California (the
“Pustilnikov Property”). The Court refers to these parties collectively as the
“Homeowners.”
 
On March 26, 2023, a landslide following a rainstorm damaged
each of the three homes. 
 
The Faynsod Property and Pustilnikov Property have been
red-tagged by the City, indicating severe structural damage to the degree that
the structure is too dangerous to inhabit. Portions of the Chao Property are
yellow-tagged, indicating moderate damage to the degree that habitability is
limited.
 
Plaintiffs filed an action against the City and the
Pustilnikovs. The Pustilnikovs filed an action against Plaintiffs and the City.
Those actions have now been joined into the instant action by stipulation.
 
The Homeowners allege that subsurface water infiltrated from
a street maintained by the City because the street was severely cracked and
disjointed, allowing runoff coming down the public roads to pool. The
Homeowners allege that this water then migrated underneath the upslope
properties along the bedding planes, resulting in the landslide. The Homeowners
contend that the City is primarily responsible for the damage caused by the
landslide.
 
Plaintiffs allege that the Pustilnikovs were contributorily
negligent, asserting that a retaining wall on the Pustilnikov Property was
defective and that the home was constructed too close to the toe of the slope.
 
The Pustilnikovs allege that Plaintiffs’ properties changed
the natural surface water drainage and diverted water onto the slope,
contributing to its instability during the heavy rainstorm.
 
On February 22, 2024, the Court denied the Homeowners’
motion for determination of good faith settlement amongst themselves, relying
in significant part on the declaration of Hadidi, which indicated that the
Homeowners overestimated the portion of the property damage for which the City
was responsible.
 
The Pustilnikovs filed this motion on March 6, 2024. The
City filed an opposition and the Pustilnikovs filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery…by taking in California the
oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. The person
deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as a public or private
corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental agency.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) “Except as provided in subdivision (a) of Section
2025.280 the process by which a nonparty is required to provide discovery is a
deposition subpoena.” (Code Civ. Proc., §2020.010, subd. (b)). “A deposition
subpoena may command any of the following: …. (c)The attendance and the
testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things, under
Article 5 (commencing with Section 2020.510).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)
 
“On receipt of an expert witness list from a party, any other
party may take the deposition of any person on the list.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.010.)
 
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served
fails to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.440, subd. (b).) 
 
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)
This motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
 
Discussion
 
The Pustilnikovs served a notice of deposition of Hadidi on
January 22, 2024, for a deposition date of February 5, 2024. The city served
written objections asserting that the testimony of an expert cannot be taken
until experts are designated under Code of Civil Procedure, section 2034.010.
The City argues that Hadidi’s deposition is prevented by pre-expert-designation
work product privilege. The City did not propose alternate dates. The parties
met and conferred prior to the filing of this motion.
 
Work product privilege ceases to apply to an expert “the moment it
is determined to use him as a witness.” (Mize v. Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. (1975) 46 Cal.App.3d 436, 449.) “The attorney cannot reveal his
work product, allow a witness to testify therefrom and then claim work product
privilege to prevent the opposing party from viewing the document from which he
testified; such a use of the work produce rule would be unconscionable.” (Ibid.)
“[O]nce it appears reasonably certain that the consultant-expert “will *655
give his [or her] professional opinion as a witness on a material matter in
dispute,” the attorney's work product privilege terminates and the expert's
knowledge and opinions are subject to discovery and disclosure.” (County of
Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 647, 654–655.)
 
Courts have created an exception to the pre-disclosure bar on
expert depositions where (1) an expert has submitted a declaration in support
of a motion for summary judgment or an opposite the motion, and (2) the “objective
facts presented create a significant question regarding the validity of the affidavit
or declaration which, if successfully pursued, will impeach the foundational
basis to the affidavit of declaration in question.” (St. Mary Medical Center
v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1531, 1540-41).
 
The City argues that St. Mary is distinguishable because a
motion for determination of good faith settlement does not require the same
evidentiary exactitude as a motion for summary judgment. Further, St. Mary
involved significantly greater foundational issues than here, where the primary
foundational issue is that Hadidi has not yet conducted any destructive testing
or soil sampling on the site. Hadid provided some foundation based on his
analysis of soil data in the region and his expert knowledge of the subterranean
flow of water.
 
Shortly before the Court denied the Homeowner’s good faith
settlement application, the City requested that Hadidi be permitted to conduct
such sampling. The Pustilnikovs argue that they must be permitted to depose
Hadidi first, so that they can determine the basis for his opinion given in
support of the City’s opposition to the settlement motion. The City responds
that there is no need to depose Hadidi for that purpose because the Court has
already ruled on that motion. The City further argues that, while the
Homeowners may bring a motion for reconsideration, that motion must rely on new
facts not previously discovered.
 
The Pustilnikovs argue that Hadidi’s declaration in support of the
opposition to the settlement motion waives work product privilege because
declarations have the same effect as testimony. However, St. Mary makes
it clear that courts draw a more restrictive line when determining whether
expert declarations waive the work product privilege. It is not enough for the
declaration to be used in support of any motion, else the holding of St.
Mary would not be limited to summary judgments, nor to situations where there
are significant foundational issues.  
 
The Pustilnikovs have not cited any case that supports a broader
exception than that set forth in St. Mary for the right to a
pre-disclosure deposition of an expert. Nor have they cited a case where a
pre-disclosure deposition of an expert was allowed in some context analogous to
the one at issue here.
 
Moreover, the Pustilnikovs’ claim that they wish to take a
deposition of Hadidi so that they can discover new and different facts and then
use those facts to move for reconsideration is a circular argument.  There is nothing currently pending before the
Court and thus no current basis to permit a deposition.
 