  Case Number:  21STCV07961    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV07961




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Disqualify 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Lyft, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Alfredo Huerta-Mondragon 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 1, 2021, Plaintiff Alfredo Huerta-Mondragon (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Lyft, Inc., George Tharwt Shafik Mekhail,
Atia Nada, and Does 1 to 50 for damages resulting from a motor vehicle
accident. Plaintiff alleges that George Tharwt Shafik Mekhail was a driver
employed by Lyft, Inc. (Complaint ¶ 5.) 
 
Defendant Lyft, Inc. (“Defendant”) now moves to disqualify Quinn
Graham and the law firm of Rafii & Associates, P.C., the firm that
represents Plaintiff. Defendant argues that Quinn Graham previously represented
Defendant in automobile accidents like the instant case and has received
confidential information. Defendant argues that because Graham is disqualified,
the firm Rafii & Associates is vicariously disqualified. 
 
Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(5)
gives courts the power to order a lawyer's disqualification…[A] trial court's
decision concerning a disqualification motion will not be disturbed absent an
abuse of discretion…’” (See DCH Health Services Corp. v. Waite (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 829, 831-832.)¿¿ 
 
The duty of loyalty is at stake when an attorney’s
representation of one client is adverse to the interests of another current
client.¿(Flatt v. Superior Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275,
284.)¿“Disqualification in cases of successive representation is based on the
prohibition against ‘employment adverse to a [. . .] former client where, by
reason of the representation of the [. . .] former client, the [attorney] has
obtained confidential information material to the employment.’”¿(See H.F.
Ahmanson & Company v. Salomon Brothers, Inc. (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d
1445, 1451.)¿¿ 
 
A former client need not establish that the attorney
actually possesses confidential information to disqualify the former attorney.¿
(H.F. Ahmanson & Co., supra, 229 Cal.App.3d at 1452.)¿ “It is enough
to show a ‘substantial relationship’ between the former and current
representation.”¿ (Id.)¿ “It is the possibility of the breach of
confidence, not the fact of an actual breach that triggers disqualification.”¿
(In re Marriage of Zimmerman (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 556, 563; H.F.
Ahmanson & Co., supra, 229 Cal.App.3d at 1452.)¿¿¿ 
 
“[T]he attorney’s possession of confidential information
will be presumed only when ‘a substantial relationship has been shown to exist
between the former representation and the current representation, and when it
appears by virtue of the nature of the former representation or the
relationship of the attorney to his former client confidential information
material to the current dispute would normally have been imparted to the
attorney . . . .’”¿ (H.F. Ahmanson & Co., supra, 229 Cal.App.3d at
1454.)¿ Disqualification of the attorney from representing the second client is
mandatory where the substantial relationship test is met and access to
confidential information is presumed.¿ (Flatt v. Superior Court (1994) 9
Cal.4th 275, 283.)¿ 
 
“[A] ‘substantial relationship’ exists whenever the
‘subjects’ of the prior and the current representations are linked in some
rational manner.”¿ (Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 698, 711 (citing Flatt, supra, 9 Cal.4th at 283).)¿ The
“subject” of a representation includes “information material to the evaluation,
prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the litigation or transaction
given its specific legal and factual issues.”¿ (Id. at 712-13.)¿
“[S]uccessive representations will be ‘substantially related’ when the evidence
before the trial court supports a rational conclusion that information material
to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the former
representation given its factual and legal issues is also material to the
evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the current
representation given its factual and legal issues.”¿ (Id. at 713.)¿¿ 
 
“[W]hether
disqualification of the entire firm is automatic is an open question.”¿ (California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund v. Superior Court (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1065,
1077.)¿ As was noted by the Court of Appeal in Kirk v. First American Title
Ins. Co. (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 776 and discussed in California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, the case law regarding whether vicarious
disqualification is automatic and absolute is mixed.¿ (California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1075; Kirk,
supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 799.)¿ The Kirk Court summarized the history
of the law of vicarious disqualification and found that Flatt did not
create an absolute rule of vicarious disqualification and that “the state of
the law is as initially expressed by the appellate courts: (1) a case-by-case
analysis based on the circumstances present in, and the policy interests
implicated by, the case; (2) tempered by the Henriksen [v. Great
American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109] rule that vicarious
disqualification should be automatic in cases of a tainted attorney possessing
actual confidential information from a representation, who switches sides in
the same case.”¿ (Kirk, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 800; California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1076 (quoting Kirk).)¿
The Kirk Court further indicated that vicarious disqualification is the
general rule and that courts should presume knowledge is imputed to all members
of a tainted attorney’s law firm, but that, “in the proper circumstances, the
presumption is a rebuttable one, which can be refuted by evidence that ethical
screening will effectively prevent the sharing of confidences in a particular
case.’”¿ (Kirk, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 801; California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1076 (quoting Kirk).)¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that Quinn Graham (“Graham”) worked for Selman
Breitman, LLP from May 2021 to December 2022, and at Hawkins Parnell &
Young from January 2023 and August 2023. Defendant provides the declaration of
Jerry C. Popovich, a current partner at Hawkins, Parnell, & Young who
states that Graham worked on cases defending Defendant in automobile accidents.
(Popovich Decl. ¶ 3–4.) During his representation, Graham interfaced regularly
with Defendant’s in-house attorneys and employees, and obtained confidential
information about Defendant’s internal defense strategies, evaluation methods,
and processes in personal injury/automobile cases. (Id. ¶ 5.)
 
Graham started working for Rafii & Associates in September 2023.
Defendant asserts that Rafii & Associates did not advise Defendant of this
conflict and informed them in March 2024 that they would oppose a motion to
disqualify. Defendant argues that no ethical screening measures could protect
against sharing confidential information since Rafii & Associates consists
of one office and eighteen attorneys. Defendant contends that the close
proximity of the office and the fact that Graham was not immediately screened
from this matter upon joining the firm, demonstrate that the issue cannot be
mitigated. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute the majority of the facts
above but argues they do not establish a conflict. Plaintiff argues that
Defendant has not shown that a substantial relationship exists between this
matter and Graham’s previous cases. Plaintiff also contends that information
about Defendant’s general litigation strategies is not enough to disqualify
Graham. Even if a conflict exists with Graham, Defendant argues the firm should
not be vicariously disqualified because they timely screened him. (Opp., 10.) 
 
Plaintiff sets forth the declaration of Quinn D. Graham, who declares
under penalty of perjury that before joining Rafii and Associates, he was
advised that he would be screened from all cases involving Defendant and would
not be permitted to access case files or speak to any employees about such
cases. (Graham Decl. ¶ 8, 10.) He states that upon working, he was shown the
team that handles cases involving Defendant and was instructed not to discuss
such cases with them. (Id. ¶ 11–12.) Graham states he works remotely 90%
of the time, but when he is in the office, does not work in close proximity to
staff members working on Defendant’s cases. (Id. ¶ 13.) He also has not
had direct access or permission to access the electronic or physical case files
regarding Defendant and has not provided any material information to attorneys
or staff working on the instant matter. (Id. ¶ 17–21.) 
 
The declaration of Daniel Rafii, managing attorney at Rafii &
Associates, confirms the screening procedures described above for Graham and
notes his desk is located in a suite that is separate from the area where the
team handling Defendant’s cases is located. (Rafii Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
            Based on the evidence the Court
finds that a substantial relationship exists between this matter and Graham’s
prior cases representing Defendant. Graham previously represented Defendant in
automobile/ personal injury cases similar to this case, obtaining knowledge
about Lyft’s application. Additionally, Plaintiff does not dispute that Graham
had communications with Defendant’s in-house counsel regarding defense
strategies and information specific to car accident cases such as this one. The
Court concludes that Graham was involved with and exposed to earlier
representation of Defendant, such that confidential information material to
this lawsuit would normally have been imparted to him. Therefore, Defendant has
shown that Graham is disqualified from working on the instant case. However,
Graham is not representing Plaintiff on this case. Therefore, the remaining
issue is whether Graham’s knowledge is imputed to Rafii & Associates.
 
While Defendant correctly notes that under the California Rules of
Professional Conduct, rule 1.10(a)(2)(iii), written notice is required to
inform a former client of screening procedures, it does not cite to a case requiring
disqualification of the entire firm due to such a violation, where adequate
screening procedures have been shown. While a failure to adhere to the rules of
professional conduct is a serious consideration, the remedy requested for such
violation – disqualification of the entire firm – is significant. Here, the
Court finds that the declarations of Quinn D. Graham and Daniel Rafii have
rebutted the presumption that Graham’s knowledge has been imputed to the firm. The
declarations show that Graham has been screened from this matter and all
matters involving Defendant. Also, Graham is not alleged to possess any
material information about the instant case. The Court therefore finds the
procedures discussed in the Graham and Rafii declarations to be sufficient,
since it appears they were implemented when Graham joined the firm. 
 
Therefore, the motion to disqualify counsel is granted in part and
denied in part. While Quinn D. Graham is disqualified from representing
Plaintiff in this case, the screening procedures implemented do not support a
disqualification of Rafii & Associates, P.C. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion to disqualify is granted in part and denied in
part. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 