 Case Number:  21STCV41331    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV41331




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Jia P. Wang and Yueh-Chin Hsu
  Wang 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Defendants Jia P. Wang and Yueh-Chin Hsu Wang (“Defendants”)
now move to compel verified responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set Two, propounded on Plaintiff Jasmine Johnson
(“Plaintiff”). Defendants also seek monetary sanctions. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve
a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902,
905-906.)  
 
If a motion to
compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary sanction against
the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a). 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendants assert that they served Form
Interrogatories, Set Two on Plaintiff on October 6, 2023. (Melena Decl. ¶ 2,
Exh. A.) The responses were due on November 7, 2023. (Id. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff has
not responded and has not filed an opposition to this motion. Therefore, the
motion to compel is granted.   
 
Defendants
request $528 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff, representing an hourly
rate of $117 and the $60.00 filing fee. The Court finds sanctions are warranted
because Plaintiff has failed to respond. However, the amount requested is
excessive due to the type of motion at issue and the fact no opposition was
filed. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $235.50 (1.5
hours of attorney time to file and appear at the hearing, plus the $60 filing
fee). 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Compel Form
Interrogatories, Set Two is GRANTED. Plaintiff Jasmine Johnson shall serve verified responses without objections within 10
days. 
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendants’ request for monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $235.50. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to
counsel for Defendants within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
Defendants shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 