 Case Number:  23STCV16590    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV16590




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Responses to Request for Production, Set One
(2)
  Compel Responses to Request for Admissions, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Davidra Jewel Jackson




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Davidra Jewel Jackson (“Defendant”)
moves to compel Plaintiff Jose Lozano’s (“Plaintiff”) responses to Request for
Production, Set One and Request for Admissions, Set One. Defendant also seeks
monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Requests for Production 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
Requests for Admission 
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that on October 27, 2023, Defendant served Request
for Production, Set One and Request for Admissions, Set One on Plaintiff. (Kelly
Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Extensions to respond, without objections, were granted
until January 8, 2024. (Id. ¶ 5.) As of the date of filing this motion,
no verified responses have been served. (Id. ¶ 6.) Therefore,
because Plaintiff does not oppose and verified responses have not been served,
the motion to compel Request for Production, Set One is granted. 
 
            Defendant requests sanctions against
Plaintiff for $960.[1] This
amount appears to be based on an hourly rate of $200 and the $60 filing fee. Given
the type of motion at issue, the fact no opposition was filed, and counsel can
appear remotely at the hearing, the Court finds this amount is excessive and
reduces it to $360.00 (1.5 hours of attorney time, plus the $60 filing fee).
 
Defendant
also seeks to compel responses to Request for Admissions, Set
One. However, the Code of Civil Procedure does not provide for compelling
responses to Request for Admissions. Instead, Defendant may move to deem the
assertions in the Request for Admissions admitted. Defendant does not request
this in the notice of motion. Therefore, the motion to compel Request for
Admissions, Set One is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to compel responses to Request for
Admissions is DENIED.
 
Defendant’s Motion to compel responses to Request for Production, Set
One is GRANTED. Plaintiff Jose Lozano shall serve properly verified responses, without
objections, to Request for Production, Set One, within 10
days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $360.00. Said monetary sanctions are
to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 


