  Case Number:  21STCV13045    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel DepositionMoving Party: Defendant Elia B. Depalacios Responding Party: Plaintiff Diane Nina Rendon Tentative Ruling: GrantedBACKGROUNDThis matter arises out of a trip and fall incident that occurred on April 23, 2020, at or near Defendant’s Elia B. Depalacios (“Defendant”) property located at 3455 San Gabriel River Parkway, Baldwin Park, California. On April 26, 2021, Plaintiff Diane Nina Rendon (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint in Los Angeles County Superior Court, alleging negligence and premises liability against multiple defendants, including Defendant.On March 28, 2024, Defendant served her Notice of Taking of Deposition by Oral Examination of Plaintiff. Plaintiff objected on April 3, 2024, based upon the fact that Plaintiff had been deposed on June 23, 2023, and should not be deposed twice. However, Defendant had not yet appeared in the case on June 23, 2023.  It was not until over four months later, that Defendant made her first appearance in this action by way of her Answer to Defendant City of Baldwin Park’s Cross-Complaint on October 30, 2023. On April 10, 2024, after receiving Plaintiff’s objection to the deposition, counsel for Defendant emailed counsel for Plaintiff asking for availability to schedule a telephonic meet and confer to discuss the objections contained in Exhibit B, Plaintiff’s objections to Defendant’s Notice of Deposition. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel responded, in part: “The Plaintiff's position is that your clients do not get a second bite of the apple, for their failure to answer after being served. Had they answered timely, all parties would have been included at the deposition which has already been taken on June 23, 2023.”MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant argues she is entitled to depose Plaintiff and needs to take Plaintiff’s deposition to adequately prepare for trial. Defendant argues they met and conferred in good faith, but Plaintiff’s refusal to appear for a deposition forces them to file this motion. OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues that issue preclusion bars Defendant from claiming plaintiff has failed to appear for examination, because Plaintiff has already been deposed once. (Plaintiff’s opposition p. 3.) REPLYDefendant argues that they had not yet made an appearance in the case by the time Plaintiff was initially deposed, and that Defendant needs to depose Plaintiff in order to adequately prepare for trial. Defendant also argues Plaintiff’s objection to the deposition notice is inadequate and waived pursuant to Code Civ. Proc §2025.410, which provides, in pertinent part: “that the party served with the notice of a deposition waives any defect unless that party serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date the deposition is scheduled.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.410.)APPLICABLE LAW“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (a).)  The motion “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice” and it “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (b)(1) – (b)(2).)  Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.610(a) provides: “Once any party has taken the deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action, neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that deponent.” ANALYSISDefendant properly served Plaintiff a Notice of Deposition.  Defendant also had made sufficient efforts to meet and confer with Plaintiff, reaching out and attempting to schedule a call.  Defendant was not served with the notice of deposition.  As such, Defendant is not precluded from taking Plaintiff’s deposition under Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.610(a) and is entitled to depose Plaintiff.  Further, the Court agrees with Defendant’s position she would be prejudiced in her ability to prepare for trial without taking Plaintiff’s deposition.  Plaintiff’s issue preclusion and estoppel arguments are not applicable.  RULINGDefendant's Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff is GRANTED.