 Case Number:  21STCV20591    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary Judgement Moving Party: Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, A Public Entity; Kenny's Auto Service, a California Corporation (Defendants) Responding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: GrantBACKGROUNDThis is a personal injury action arising from a car accident on August 7, 2020. Plaintiff Margarita Beltran's (“Plaintiff”) asserted causes of action for Motor Vehicle Negligence and General Negligence against Defendants Kenny's Auto Service and Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“LAMTA”) (collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiff failed to respond to Defendant’s Requests for Admission (“RFAs”) and did not appear for her noticed deposition. On October 9, 2023, the Court granted Defendant's Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions Admitted.  Facts deemed admitted include, in part, that Defendants are not negligent, Plaintiff suffered no damages, and Defendants neither caused nor contributed to the plaintiff’s injuries. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICEJudicial notice may be taken of “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United States.” (Evid. Code § 452(d).) Here, Defendant requests that the Court take judicial notice of Defendant KAS’ Requests for Admission and the Court’s October 9, 2023 Order Granting Defendant’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted.  The request is granted in its entirety. MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendants argue that Plaintiff is not able to establish one or more elements of her causes of action and that no triable issue of material fact exists, thus entitling Defendants to judgment as a matter of law.  In particular, Defendants contend that the facts deemed admitted defeat central elements of the negligence cause of action, thus entitling Defendants to summary judgment.OPPOSITIONNo opposition was filed to this motion.APPLICABLE LAW Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter option, he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66.)Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)With respect to negligence a “plaintiff must show that defendants owed [him or] her a legal duty, that they breached the duty, and that the breach was a proximate or legal cause of [his or] her injuries.” (Ericson v. Fed. Express Corp. (2008) 162 Cal. App. 4th 1291, 1299–300.) ANALYSIS While Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is unopposed, they must still meet the initial burden of making a prima facie showing that there is no triable issue of material fact. In this case, Defendants meet this burden. Defendants make a prima facie showing that Plaintiff cannot meet essential elements of the negligence cause of action. Specifically, the facts in the RFAs deemed admitted establish that Defendants were not negligent, that they neither caused nor contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries, and that Plaintiff was not injured.  These facts meet Defendants’ burden in establishing no triable issue of fact  pertaining to breach, causation, and damages. As a result, Defendants make a prima facie showing that there is no triable issue of material fact. Defendants, having met their initial burden, thus shift responsibility to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  Plaintiff filed no opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary judgement, and thus failed to raise any triable issue of material fact with respect to her causes of action for negligence.  Defendants are therefore entitled to summary judgment.RULINGIn light of the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.