  Case Number:  23STUD01538    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  E 941 CATALINA, LLC
vs. MAURICIO FIGUEROA 23STUD01538
Motion of defendant Mauricio Figueroa for New Trial,
granted. CCP §657.
Defendant’s three motions in limine (“MIL”) sought to
exclude: 
MIL 1. Allegations not raised in the three-day notice, that
is, a) allegations of breach of contract or wrongdoing not alleged in the
complaint; b) allegations regarding unpaid rent before or after the time that
the time frame covered by the three-day notice (January, 2022 through December,
2022).
MIL 2. Statements that the defendant caused the delay in
bringing the matter to trial; 
MIL 3. Evidence not produced in discovery.
All three motions were denied.  MIL 1: allegations of contract or wrongdoing
are not required since an unlawful detainer action inherently involves a
contract breach or wrongdoing. Also, unpaid rent after the three-day notice is
called holdover “damages”. MIL 2: There was no evidence of defendant’s delay of
trial. MIL 3: Evidence not produced in discovery should have been the subject
of a motion to compel since plaintiff would have difficulty proving its case
without the requested documents. 
Thereafter, plaintiff moved to exclude defense exhibits 101
through 106, which was/were granted. Defendant contends these are photographs
of what it calls habitability issues existing during the subject three-day
notice period from January, 2022 through December, 2022, and also relevant to
holdover damages. Notwithstanding the court rulings, defendant was permitted to
testify that several of the (excluded) fotos portrayed conditions in 2022 and
since then. These exhibits were not admitted into evidence because during the
period covered by the notice to quit, defendant never complained, never raised
an issue of habitability and never reported the matter to either the
management, the owner or the City. Whether his testimony concerning
habitability as it relates to the rental value of the unit, this was a factual
issue for the jury.
In regard to credibility, defendant’s
testimony raised numerous self-credibility issues. Credibility
in this case was the central issue. Defendant gave testimony during trial
wherein he had trouble remembering “facts” to support any of his defenses. His
primary defense was Covid-19, when restaurants were shuttering and he was laid
off. He testified he applied for statutory rent relief but there was no proof
that he ever did so. He could not remember more than one or two fast food
restaurants that he applied for work in his neighborhood. His answers to cross
examination gave conflicting stories with numerous assertions that he can’t
remember or didn’t understand the question but when his own attorney asked him
questions, suddenly he had a good memory, although in conflict with his other
testimony. He said he worked as a farm hand milking cows in Santa Rosa on
weekends but even though he spent 18 years as a cook for a single restaurant,
he couldn’t find a job at any fast food or normal restaurant in Los Angeles or San
Diego. He never explained how he got up north and back on two- day weekends.
 
George Preciado testified that he
served a “notice of change of owner and/or property manager” dated July 29, 2021,
by posting and mailing. Defendant objected that this document was not produced
in discovery. 
The notice instructs the tenants
to make checks and money orders payable to 941 Catalina. Preciado also
testified that the notice of change of owner informed all tenants that he was
the agent for service of process for R&E Management, Inc. Plaintiff argued
that Civil Code §1962 does not require new notice when ownership changes
because it §1962 requires “and/or requirement: new management and/or new
ownership”. 
Plaintiff also argues that management
never changed. Defendant claims this was not produced in discovery but there is
no evidence that a specific request was ever made for documentation of the change
of ownership or management notwithstanding the defense contention that there
was no notice. Further, plaintiff’s property manager, George Preciado,
testified that he personally served the three-day notice. In this
regard, plaintiff argued that Ordinance 187736, repealed in January, 2023,
eliminated the requirement of serving a copy of the Tenant Protection Act,
§49.99.2(E), meaning that the notice of L.A. City Protections no longer applied
for the lack of a savings clause.
However, this raises the issue of
substantial compliance. Although plaintiff argues that the 2021 notice
substantially complies with Civil Code §1962, substantial compliance was deemed
insufficient compliance, Group XIII Properties LP v Stockman (2022) 85
Cal.App.5th Supp. 1. Defendant alleges that while it was undisputed
that Jason Katz and Tammy Katz owned the property in July 2021, that the July
21, 2021, notice of change of owner and/or property manager does not disclose
the names telephone numbers or addresses of Jason and Tammy Katz. The 2021 notice
only discloses the information for the management company, “R and E Management
Group Inc.” Although also referred to as “R&E Management, Inc.”, defendant
urges that this information is, inaccurate, confusing, incomplete and fails to
comply with §1962.
As for final jury instructions,
the court refused to review the late instructions proposed by the parties;
instead the court simply read the already approved jury instructions, including
defendant’s affirmative defenses based on L.A. City COVID-19 Tenant Protections
Notice and the Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance. The previously
approved instructions appropriately covered the issues raised by the evidence
and the parties only began discussing instructions on the first day of trial.
Several delays during trial were caused by the failure of the parties to
discuss final instructions.
Thereafter, the parties argued
over changes to the verdict form. The verdict form provided to the jury was
appropriate for the issues raised by the evidence.
After the verdict, defense counsel
served state records which revealed that Jason Katz was listed as the agent for
service of process for plaintiff 941 Catalina LLC since November 2021. Further
defense counsel searched for registration records of R&E Management Group
Inc. and could find no formal registration.  This is not “new” evidence but evidence that
should have been the subject of defendant’s own pretrial investigation, given
the issues raised by its defenses. To raise these issues post trial prevented
plaintiff from responding during trial.
Attorneys
Charlie Stein & Niv V. Davidovich
Davidovich
Stein Law Group LLP
6442
Coldwater Canyon Avenue, Suite 209
North
Hollywood, CA 91606
 
Attorneys
Vanessa Guzman & Alisa Randall
Public
Counsel
610
S. Ardmore Avenue
Los
Angeles, CA 90005
 
Ordinance 187736, repealed in
January, 2023, eliminated the requirement of serving a copy of the Tenant
Protection Act, §49.99.2(E), meaning that the notice of L.A. City Protections
no longer applied for the lack of a savings clause.
This court found that no jury could reasonably reject
plaintiff’s evidence that there was no substantive change in ownership or
property management, such that there was no need to comply with Civil Code
§1962. This was a factual issue and the jury’s verdict approved effective compliance
with Civil Code §1962. 
 
Defendant cites Group XIII Properties, LP v Stockman
(2022) 85 Cal.App.5th Supp 1 for the strict compliance requirement
of §1962. But in Stockman, there was no discernable connection between
the resident manager and the property management.  Stockman, page 13: “The
plain terms of section
1962, subdivisions (a)(1) and (c),
required that the December notice advising defendant of the change in
management from [*13]  IE
to Bridge disclose, in writing,6 “the name, telephone number, and usual street
address at which personal service may be effected” of each person authorized to
manage the premises and each person who is an owner and each person who is an
owner of the premises or authorized to act on that owner's behalf
for the purposes described; and (2) disclose the required information for each person thus identified.’ ‘Even
crediting Madrigal's testimony that she handwrote her name and telephone number
on the December notice prior to serving it, there is nothing on the notice that [***14]  explains
her connection to the property, e.g., someone authorized to manage the
premises, or a person authorized to act on the owner's behalf. Nor was there
any written link between Madrigal and the street address of the Bridge office
in Palmdale for the purpose of service of process (or of notices and demands)
on Madrigal and/or service of process on behalf of plaintiff. In fact, the
Palmdale address is preceded by the language “[y]ou can remit payment to”:
suggesting that the sole purpose of the address is limited to receiving rental
payments.”
 
Defendant does not dispute he was at all times relevant aware
that George Preciado represented the property management and was the person to
whom rent was to be paid.
 
Hobbs v City of Pacific Grove
(2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 311 (Sixth District)  “held: [1]-In a case in which plaintiffs alleged that
defendant city — by granting them one-year licenses to offer residential real
properties for short-term vacation rentals — conferred a property right in the
renewal of those licenses, the appellate court concluded that plaintiffs'
characterization of their interest as a vested right depended on a misreading of the city's short-term
rental regulatory scheme and a loose patchwork of mismatched authorities;
[2]-The zoning ordinance at issue left plaintiffs with several economically
viable uses of their property. Because the ordinance was rationally related to
the city's goal of enhancing and maintaining its residential character, it was
not so clearly arbitrary and unreasonable as to offend substantive due process.”
Hobbs
also found:
“HN1  Procedural Due Process, Scope of Protection
Under the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution, the
requirements of procedural due process apply to state action infringing liberty
and property interests. The range of interests protected by due process,
however, is not infinite. To have a property interest in a benefit, a person
clearly must have more than an abstract need or desire and more than a
unilateral expectation of it. The person must, instead, have a legitimate claim
of entitlement to it. Such entitlements are, of course, not created by the
Constitution. Rather, they are created and their dimensions are defined by
existing rules or understandings that stem from an independent source such as
state law.’ 

CA(1) (1) Constitutional Law § 107—Procedual Due
Process—Property Interest—Legitimate Claim of Entitlement.
Under U.S. Const., 14th Amend., the requirements of procedural due process apply to state action
infringing liberty and property interests. The range of interests protected by
due process, however, is not infinite. To have a property interest in a
benefit, a person clearly must have more than an abstract need or desire and
more than a unilateral expectation of it. The person must, instead, have a
legitimate claim of entitlement to it. Such entitlements are, of course, not
created by the Constitution. Rather, they are created and their dimensions are
defined by existing rules or understandings that stem from an independent
source such as state law.”
 Defendant cites Palmer v Stassinos (2005) 419
F.Supp.2d 1151, 1157 contending there is a difference between a cause of action
and an affirmative defense. At 1157, the court states “the distinction, of
course, makes sense; it is one thing to retroactively repeal the right to
recover money from someone, it is quite another to retroactively make conduct unlawful
that was lawful at the time it occurred.”-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -941 CATALINA, LLC vs. MAURICIO
FIGUEROA 23STUD01538
 Motion of defendant Mauricio
Figueroa for Judgment Notwithstanding The Verdict, granted. CCP §629.
 Defendant Marcelino Figueroa moves
the court for an order setting aside the judgment entered March 12, 2024, and
to enter judgment in defendants’ favor notwithstanding the verdict rendered by
the jury on March 12, 2024. [CCP §661 Defendant’s motion for new trial to be
heard concurrently with this motion for judgment NOV].
 
CCP §629 provides:
                “(a)
the court, before expiration of its power to rule on a motion for new trial,
either of its own motion, after 5 days’ notice, or on motion of the party
against whom a verdict has been rendered, shall render judgment in favor of the
aggrieved party notwithstanding the verdict whenever a motion for a directed
verdict for the aggrieved party should have been granted had a previous motion
been made.”
 
If there is conflicting evidence
or if reasonable inferences may be drawn, a motion for judgment notwithstanding
the verdict should be denied. Linear Technology Corp. v Tokyo Electronic Ltd
(2011) 200 Cal. App.4th 1527, 1532.
 
The
facts and allegations: this unlawful detainer complaint was filed 1.24.2023
based on a 1-year written lease, requiring $982/month payable on the first of
each month. Defendant was sued for nonpayment of rent for the period of January
1, 2022, to December 31, 2022. A three-day notice to pay or quit was personally
served on 12.16.2022 and thereafter expired. Rent sought by this action was $11,784.00
plus $32.73 per day from 1.01.2023 to date of judgment. Attorney fees are
authorized in the lease. Plaintiff’s property management company is and has
been at all relevant times R&E Management of which the front man was George
Preciado.
 
Defendant
contends that the July 29, 2021, notice of change of owner and/or property
manager served by Preciado fails to disclose that Jason and Tammy Katz are the
new owners of the property. The evidence established without contrary evidence
that Jason & Tammy Katz were at all times relevant herein, the owners of
the subject property. Plaintiff Exh. 10. Plaintiff established that the
quitclaim deed itself reflects that “the Grantor and Grantee are comprised of
the same parties”. 
 
At the
time of the service of the three-day notice to quit was served, City Of Los
Angeles Municipal Code required landlords to include notice of Covid-19 Protections.
On January 27, 2023, this requirement was repealed. Any ”cause of
action or remedy dependent on a statute falls within the repeal of the statute,
even after the action thereon is pending, in the absence of a saving clause in
the repealing statute.” See infra. Governing Board v Mann (1977) 18 Cal.3d.
819, 822 & 829. Plaintiff contends there is no savings clause in the repeal
authority.
 
Defendant argues that plaintiff
did not strictly comply with Civil Code §1962 obligations for failing to name
each and every owner person or those authorized to act for the owner under
California Civil Code §1962. On July 29, 2021, a notice of change of owner and/or
property manager (naming George Precidado) was issued to all tenants at the
subject property which included all of the information required under Civil
Code §1962. Plaintiff contends that this notice satisfied Civil Code §1962(a)(1)(B)
in providing the will name, telephone and address either an owner “or a person
authorized to act on behalf of the owner”. Defendant contends that the 2021
notice was inaccurate, incomplete and invalid.
 
Defendant contends that Jason and
Tammy Katz owned the property until March, 2022, and R&E Management managed
the units. In March, 2022, Jason and Tammy Katz quitclaimed the property to 941
Catalina LLC and filed the deed with Los Angeles County Recorder, indicating
the same proportional ownership, were a tenant to bother with County records.
This court ruled that there was no substantive change of ownership and the
property management did not change. Revenue & Taxation Code §11925.
Defendant argues that there was a change of ownership but plaintiff contends
none was required. Here, there was substantial evidence to support the verdict.
Defendant disputes the legality of the contention of the lack of a savings
clause.
 
Defendant contends that plaintiff
did not serve a copy of the Covid 19 Protection notice along with the three-day
notice to pay or quit. A ”cause of action or remedy dependent on a statute
falls within the repeal of the statute, even after the action there on is
pending, in the absence of a saving clause in the repealing statute.” Governing
Board v Mann (1977) 18 Cal.3d. 819, 822 & 829.  Plaintiff was not required to provide a Covid
19 Protections notice as there was no savings clause that the Ordinance should
be retroactively applied. Plaintiff
argues that Ordinance 187736, repealed in January, 2023, eliminated the
requirement of serving a copy of the Tenant Protection Act, §49.99.2(E),
meaning that the notice of L.A. City Protections no longer applied for the lack
of a savings clause.
 
However, this raises the issue of
substantial compliance. Although plaintiff argues that the 2021 notice
substantially complies with Civil Code §1962, substantial compliance was deemed
insufficient compliance. Group XIII Properties LP v Stockman (2022) 85
Cal.App.5th Supp. 1. Defendant alleges that while it was undisputed
that Jason Katz and Tammy Katz owned the property in July 2021, that the July
21, 2021, notice of change of owner and/or property manager does not disclose
the names telephone numbers or addresses of Jason and Tammy Katz. The 2021 notice
only discloses the information for the management company, “R and E Management
Group Inc.” Although also referred to as “R&E Management, Inc.”, defendant
urges that this information is, inaccurate, confusing, incomplete and fails to
comply with §1962.