 Case Number:  23STCV08596    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 9, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Martin Melendez-Murillo et al. v. AKG
Trading (USA), Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08596            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Martin Melendez-Murillo and Rufina Barajas
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Dal-Tile
Distribution, Inc.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/18/23: Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action alleging that Plaintiff Melendez-Murillo
developed silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in dust from
Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and polisher
of stone countertops.
 
Plaintiffs move for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint.  
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is GRANTED conditioned on the
revisions described herein. 
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to file and serve stand-alone copy of the proposed First Amended
Complaint containing the revisions identified in this ruling within 10 days of
this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiffs move for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint.  
 
//
Legal Standard
 
The Court may, “in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 473(a)(1); see also § 576.) A motion to amend a pleading before trial must
meet the following requirements:
 
(a)
Contents of motion
 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
(1)
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2)
State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and
 
(3)
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations
are located.
 
(b)
Supporting declaration
 
A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
(1)
The effect of the amendment;
 
(2)
Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
 
(3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court rule 3.1324.) This discretion should be
exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
 
Contents of Motion
 
            Plaintiffs
did not include a clean copy of the proposed amended pleading attached to the
motion, as required by the text of Rule 3.1324(a)(1). Instead, Plaintiffs
attached the proposed First Amended Complaint as Exhibit A of the supporting
Declaration of Daniel J. Morse. As the declaration and motion were served and
filed together, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have substantially complied
with Rule 3.1324(a)(1). Plaintiff’s motion does not identify the changes to the
pleadings by page, paragraph, and line number, as required by Rule 3.1324(a)(2)
and (a)(3). Plaintiffs state, however, that the First Amended Complaint is
proposed merely to add new defendants and correct the names of existing
defendants, and the names of the relevant parties are set forth in Exhibit B of
the Morse Declaration. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has
substantially complied with Rule 3.1324(a).
 
Supporting Declaration
 
            The
Declaration of Daniel Morse filed in support of the Motion states that the
effect of these amendments is to name 42 new Defendants against whom the same
claims are asserted and to correct the names of 15 Defendants in this action.
(Morse Decl. ¶ 4) This statement is facially compliant with Rule 3.1324(b)(1).
Further, the proposed amendments appear necessary and proper on their face and
therefore demonstrate compliance with Rule 3.1324(b)(2). The Morse Declaration
does not clearly state when these facts were discovered nor why the request was
not made earlier beyond a general statement that the deficiencies were
identified “during ongoing investigation and discovery.” (Morse Decl. ¶ 7.) However,
as judicial policy strongly encourages that the Court exercise its discretion
in favor of amendment, the Court finds this explanation demonstrates
substantial compliance with Rule 3.1324(b)(3) and (b)(4). 
 
Dal-Tile’s Opposition
 
            Defendant
Dal-Tile Distribution, LLC argues that leave to amend should not be granted because
the proposed First Amended Complaint names improper related entities and
contains irrelevant allegations in paragraphs 613 and 614 regarding improper
dumping of hazardous waste. As these arguments concerning the sufficiency of
the pleadings have not yet been litigated in this action, the Court declines to
address them at this juncture. If Defendant contends that there is a deficiency
in the First Amended Complaint, that argument is more appropriately brought in
a demurrer or motion to strike. 
 
            That said,
the Court observes that the proposed First Amended Complaint, in addition to
naming specific stone products which are allegedly hazardous, includes the
allegation as to each Defendant that the products include “other
silica-containing stone products to be identified during the course of
discovery.” (See, e.g., Morse Decl. Exh. A. ¶ 116 p. 37:6.) As the Court has
repeatedly stated, this allegation is improper. (See, e.g., February 5, 2024
Minute Order; February 26, 2024 Minute Order.) Plaintiffs must therefore excise
these allegations from the proposed First Amended Complaint before filing the
pleading as the operative complaint in this proceeding.  
 
//
 
 
Order Deeming Amended Complaint Served
 
            Plaintiffs
request that the Court deem the First Amended Complaint to be served on all
parties who have already made a general appearance in this action, in the
interest of efficiency and conservation of resources. However, as the Court has
ordered corrections to be made to the proposed pleading, this request is
inappropriate, as all parties must be given notice of the First Amended
Complaint as it will be entered. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is GRANTED
conditioned on the revisions described herein. 
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to file and serve stand-alone copy of the proposed First Amended
Complaint containing the revisions identified in this ruling within 10 days of
this order. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 9, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 