 Case Number:  BC616434    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 9, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         US Construction Law v. Jean Pierre
Christopher Murray, et al (lead case); Jean Pierre Chrisopher Murray, et al. v.
US Construction Law, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC616434 (lead case); BC594432            
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant US Construction Law and
Cross-Defendant Sean P. Reynolds. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Jean Pierre Christopher Murray
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
07/17/15: Complaint filed (lead case) in San
Diego
·        
09/11/15: Complaint filed (second case). 
·        
04/11/16: Lead case transferred to Los Angeles.
·        
06/13/16: Cross-Complaint filed in lead case.
·        
02/29/19: Cases ordered consolidated. BC616434
designated as lead case. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            These are cross-actions arising from a dispute regarding legal
representation. US Construction Law was retained to represent Jean Pierre
Christopher and Kathy Murray in two separate lawsuits regarding homes rented by
the Murrays in Beverly Hills. US Construction Law filed the lead case as an
action for fees owed. The Murrays filed their cross action for legal
malpractice in Los Angeles Superior Court. These cases were consolidated on
February 22, 2019, and the fee action was designated the lead case.
 
Cross-Defendants in the lead action
move to strike the cross-complaint filed in the fee action (BC616434) as
redundant as to the complaint in the legal malpractice action (BC594432). 
 
//
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to
Strike is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Cross-Defendants move to strike the
cross-complaint filed in the fee action (BC616434) as redundant as to the
complaint in the legal malpractice action (BC594432). 
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).) However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process
is not grounds to grant or deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5(a)(4).)
 
Cross-Defendants make no effort to
demonstrate compliance with their statutory meet-and-confer obligations.
Nevertheless, the Court will address the motion on its merits. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
and Cross-Complainants request that the Court take judicial notice of  (1) the Cross-Complaint in the lead case; (2)
the January 8, 2016 Minute Order in the lead case; (3) the Complaint in the
Legal Malpractice Action consolidated with this case; (4) the March 29, 2016
Minute Order in the Legal Malpractice Action; (5) the July 27, 2016 appellate
decision granting Defendants’ writ regarding their motion to stay; (6) the July
28, 2016 Minute Order in this action; (7) the February 22, 2019 Minute Order in
this action and (8) the May 24, 2019 Minute Order in this action. These requests
are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
            Defendants
also request that the Court take judicial notice of the August 10, 2020 minute
order in the action 632 N. Palm Drive, LLC v. Adan Pena, et al., LASC
Case No. 19SMCV00434. As this document is not relevant to the Court’s ruling,
Defendants’ request is DENIED. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Cross-Defendants
raise numerous objections to Cross-Complainants’ opposition and supporting
declaration. Cross-Defendants cite no authority entitling them to assert
evidentiary objections to Cross-Complainants’ arguments. This is
unsurprising, as arguments of counsel are not evidence. Cross-Defendants’
Objections Nos. 1-17 are OVERRULED. 
 
The remaining objections pertain to
the declaration of Cross-Complainants’ counsel, Justin Escano, in support of
the opposition to this motion. As the Court may not consider extrinsic evidence
in ruling on a motion to strike, the Escano declaration has no relevance to
this motion. The Court therefore declines to rule on the balance of
Cross-Defendants’ objections. 
 
Analysis
 
Cross-Defendants move to strike the
cross-complaint filed in the fee action (BC616434) as redundant as to the
complaint in the legal malpractice action (BC594432). 
 
Cross-Defendants argue that the
Cross-Complaint in the lead case is duplicative of the claims in the Murrays’ September
11, 2015 Complaint and constitutes inappropriate claim splitting. Cross-Defendants
claim that Cross-Complainants, by asserting the same causes of action, are
attempting to circumvent a March 29, 2016 ruling in the Legal Malpractice
action. That ruling sustained US Construction Law’s demurrer without leave to
amend as to the second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty on the
grounds that it was duplicative of the Murrays’ other claims. (March 29, 2016
Notice of Ruling on Demurrer to Complaint in Case No. BC594432.) 
 
This argument was previously raised
and litigated by Cross-Defendants in connection with the demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint and Motion for Sanctions filed on May 2, 2019 after these cases
were consolidated. The Court rejected this argument, overruling the demurrer in
its entirety and denying the motion for sanctions. (May 24, 2019 Minute Order.)
Cross-Defendants entirely failed to address this ruling in their moving papers,
despite seeking the same relief as in their previous motions. Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (e), any application for the same
relief or order is a motion for reconsideration or a renewed motion that is
governed by section 1008, and the Court has no authority to consider that
application except under that code provision. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(e).) Thus,
as Cross-Complainants argue in opposition, Cross-Defendants’ motion is either
an untimely motion for reconsideration under subdivision (a) or a renewed
motion under subdivision (b). Cross-Defendants assert that this motion does not
fall within section 1008 because the May 24, 2019 ruling did not expressly
contemplate the impact of the March 29, 2016 ruling on the demurrer to the
Murrays’ Complaint. The Court is not persuaded. These arguments were raised in Cross-Defendants’
previous motions and Cross-Defendants were denied the relief they sought—the dismissal
of the Cross-Complaint—in its entirety. Cross-Defendants now seek the same
relief, but fail to demonstrate what new or different facts, circumstances, or
law warrant a different ruling as required. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(b).) The
Court is therefore without authority to grant the relief sought at this
juncture.
 
Cross-Defendants argue that if the
Cross-Complaint persists, it threatens a multiplicity of pleadings or
inconsistent results at trial. While these may be reasonable concerns, the
Court cannot reverse a prior ruling without an adequate showing under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1008. If and when these matters approach trial by jury,
the Court will work with the parties to harmonize the issues and avoid
inconsistency or duplication in the results. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 9, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 