 Case Number:  20BBCV00479    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  A 
TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 12,
2023

MOTION
TO SUBSTITUTE PARTY PLAINTIFFLos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 20BBCV00479

 



MP:  


Matt Flynn, Bill Gomez,
  Jerry Paredes, John Grubaugh, and State Farm General Insurance Company
  (Defendants)




RP:  


Erma Miller (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE: 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS:  
Erma L.
Miller (“Miller”), TR a minor through her guardian ad litem L.B. Stites (“TR”),
and L.B. Stites (“Stites”) (“collectively “Plaintiffs”) bring this action
against Matt Flynn, Bill Gomez, Jerry Paredes, John Grubaugh, and State Farm
General Insurance Company (“State Farm”) (collectively “Defendants”).
Plaintiffs claim Defendants refused to issue assistance pursuant to an alleged
homeowners insurance policy issued by State Farm. 
On April
27, 2023, this Court granted Miller’s application for appointment of a guardian
ad litem. Miller’s counsel represented that Miller has been hospitalized for an
extended period of time and her mental faculties have deteriorated to where she
can no longer understand these proceedings. Miller’s daughter, Tina Lee (“Lee”)
now serves as her guardian ad litem. Glen Murphy, Esq. (“Murphy”) serves as
counsel for Miller and TR in this action. Stites is in pro per. 
Before
the court is a motion made by Miller to substitute herself for Stites in this
action, as Stites has unfortunately passed away. Miller states that she is the
sole successor in interest to Stites and has superior right to be substituted
in for his interest in this action. Defendants oppose the motion, arguing that
Miller and Stites were not married and thus Miller cannot substitute in for
Stites. 

JUDICIAL NOTICE: 
Defendants
requests judicial notice of the following: 
1.     Defendants’ Motion for an Order Establishing
Admissions filed on June 9, 2023. (RJN Exh. B.) 
 
2.     The Order on Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company’s Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted, entered on July 7, 2023. (RJN
Exh. A.) 
Defendants
request judicial notice of the above pursuant to Evidence Code § 452, which
permits the Court to take notice of its prior records. Miller does not oppose.
Defendants’ request is GRANTED. 
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD  
“A cause of action that survives the death of the person
entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor
in interest . . . and an action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal
representatives or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” (C.C.P. §
377.30.) After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a pending
action that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or successor-in-interest. (C.C.P. § 377.31.) The person who
seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s successor-in
interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration stating: (1) the
decedent’s name;(2) the date and place of decedent’s death;(3) “No proceeding
is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s estate;” (4)
a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of
action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s estate was
administered;(5) either the affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in
interest or the affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the
decedent’s successor in interest, with facts in support thereof;(6) “No other
person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding;” and (7) the
statements are true, under penalty of perjury. (C.C.P. § 377.32(a).) “A
certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the
affidavit or declaration.” (C.C.P. § 377.32(c).)
II.             
MERITS 
Miller Declaration 
Miller submits her own declaration
attesting that Stites passed away on November 29, 2023. (Miller Decl.
¶ 2.) Miller states that she and Stites were divorced in 1990 but
remarried in the early 2000’s. (Miller Decl. ¶ 3.) Miller states that she
is Stites’ successor in interest, there is no pending administration of Stites’
estates, and that no other person has superior right to be substituted into
this action. (Miller Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.) 
Miller’s moving papers
notably omitted the certificate of death for Stites that is required by C.C.P.
§ 377.32(c). However, Miller subsequently submitted the death certificate with her
reply papers. While new evidence is generally not acceptable when presented for
the first time upon reply, the Court finds denial of the motion on these
grounds would be without prejudice and would only serve to prolong a
determination on the merits. 
Analysis 
Defendants argue that
Miller is not the appropriate party to substitute for Stites. Defendants argue
that, as per an order of this Court on July 7, 2023, Stites was deemed to have
admitted various facts present in Defendants’ Request for Admissions (“RFA”)
pertaining to Stites marriage to Miller. Upon review, the Court’s Minute Order
dated July 7, 2023 granted Defendants’ motion to deem RFA matters admitted.
These admissions include an explicit admission by Stites that he and Miller
never remarried in the State of California after their divorce in 1990. (See
Defendants’ RFA No. 3.) These admissions also indicate that Stites was not
Miller’s common law spouse.  (See
Defendants’ RFA No. 9.) 
Miller argues the Court’s
July 7, 2023 order was modified on October 16, 2023 such that Stites was no
longer deemed to have admitted Defendants’ RFA matters. Plaintiffs brought an
ex parte application to continue trial on October 16, 2023, in which they
sought an extension of the trial date based on the continued medical
complications of both Stites and Miller. Miller argues the Court continued the
motion to have RFA matters deemed admitted as to Stites to January 25, 2024,
and directed the clerk to give notice. (Murphy Supp. Decl. ¶ 5.) 
A review of the minute
order shows the Court ordered a Trial Setting Conference re: Discovery
Compliance for January 25, 2024 and an OSC re: Sanctions for that same date.
The minute order does not reflect any vacatur of the July 7, 2023 ruling nor
does it state that any continuance was granted with respect to the discovery
motions. Nor does the Court have any recollection of vacating its July 7, 2023
ruling. In the Court’s recollection, the conference re: Discovery Compliance
was set to ensure Miller and Stites complied with their agreement to produce
documents and interrogatory responses. 
The record does not reflect
that the order of this court deeming the RFA matters admitted for Stites was
ever vacated. As such, it remains the case that Stites has admitted he and
Miller were not married at the time the damage occurred. Regardless, the Court
finds this argument does not speak to the standard of Miller’s motion. Stites’
admissions have no bearing on Miller’s declaration that she and Stites were
remarried and that she is Stites’ only successor. This motion is concerned with
Miller’s declaration and not any previous declarations of a now deceased
party.  Whether Stites has standing to
bring this matter based upon his admissions is matter for summary judgment. The
substitution of Miller to represent Stites’ interests does not preclude
Defendants from arguing that Stites lacks standing in future motions. 
C.C.P. § 377.30 sets
specific requirements with respect to substituting in a party. Here, Miller has
submitted a declaration which satisfies all of the statutory requirements.
Further, although the initial declaration did not attach the death certificate
for Stites, Miller remedied this omission in her reply papers. 
Accordingly, the motion to
substitute party plaintiff is GRANTED.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Erma Miller’s Motion to
Substitute Party Plaintiff came on regularly for
hearing on January 12, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO SUBSTITUTE PARTY PLAINTIFF IS
GRANTED. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: January
12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    Yolanda
Orozco, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 