 Case Number:  23BBCV01972    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  A 
TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 12,
2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES & DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTEDLos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01972
 



MP:  


KB Ventura Partners I, LLC
  (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 NOTICE: 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On August 25, 2023, KB Ventura Partners I, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
brought this action against 11262 Ventura, LLC Dba Stout Burger (“Stout”),
Charles Lew (“Lew”), and Alex Kagianaris (“Kagianaris”) (collectively
“Defendants”). This is a commercial unlawful detainer matter in which Plaintiff
seeks unpaid rent from Defendants in the amount of $156,538.88. On September
15, 2023, Defendants filed a collective Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
Before the Court are a total of 12 motions. Nine of these
motions seek to compel each Defendant to respond to written discovery including
Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for the Production
of Documents (“RFPD”). There are also three motions to deem Request for
Admissions (“RFA”) matters admitted as to each Defendant. 
Defendants have not opposed any of the 12 motions. 
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD  
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.)  
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).)  
II.             
MERITS 
Request to Compel Responses 
Plaintiff
states their interrogatories, RFPD, and RFA were propounded on Stout,
Kagianaris, and Lew via email upon counsel Isaiah Artest (“Artest”), on October
9, 2023. (Ames Decl. Exh. 1.) The Court notes that Artest serves as counsel for
all Defendants. From the Court’s review of the moving papers, the following
discovery timeline is identical for each discovery request and each Defendant: 
Discovery
responses were due October 16, 2023 but Plaintiff received no responses. (Ames
Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) On October 19, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel reached out to Artest
with respect to the delinquent discovery responses. (Ames Decl. ¶ 6.)
Artest replied that he would try to have responses by October 23, but was
unsure if that would be possible. (Ames Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. 3.) On October 27,
after counsel for the parties met regarding an arbitration clause issue,
Plaintiff’s counsel once again emailed to inquire about discovery. (Ames Decl.
¶¶ 8-10.) Plaintiff’s counsel states Artest never responsed to this email and
never rendered discovery responses. (Ames Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. 4.) Plaintiff
states that no discovery responses have been received as of the filing of this
motion. (Ames Decl. ¶ 11.) 
Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s unopposed motions to compel initial response
to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD as to Stout,
Kagianaris, and Lew are GRANTED. 
Plaintiff’s
unopposed motions to deem RFA matters admitted as to Stout, Kagianaris,
and Lew are also GRANTED. 
Sanctions 
The Court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) 
The Court shall
impose monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for
admission unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the
circumstances render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction
on the party or attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission
responses necessitated the motion. (Id.) 
Further,
it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel,
and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C., Rule 3.1348(a).)  
Here,
Plaintiff prepared and filed several motions to compel, while Defendants have
filed no opposition. Plaintiff requests sanctions of $960 be granted with
respect to each motion. Plaintiff’s counsel states their office has expended
one hour in preparing each motion at an hourly rate of $450. (Ames Decl. ¶¶
12-13.) Plaintiff’s counsel also factors an anticipated additional hour for
replying to any opposition and appearing at the hearing. (Ames Decl. ¶12.)
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions reflecting the $60 filing fee for each of the 12
motions. (Amed Decl. ¶ 12.) 
Given the
nearly identical nature and relative simplicity of these motions, the Court
finds Plaintiff’s request to be unreasonable. While sanctions are in order,
they should be granted in a lesser amount. The Court finds a base $900 assessed
for attorney labor in preparing the motions would be appropriate. The Court
also finds that the $60 filing fee for each of the 12 motions should be
accounted for. Accordingly, the Court grants sanctions against Defendants and
their counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of $1,620 (900) + (12 x 60)
= 1620).--- 
RULING: 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records.  
ORDER  
KB Ventura
Partners I, LLC’s Motions to Compel
Responses to Discovery and Deem Request for Admissions Matters Admitted came on regularly for hearing on January 12, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows:  
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE
GRANTED. 
THE MOTIONS TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED ARE
GRANTED. 
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,620.00.
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY AGAINST DEFENDANTS AND THEIR
COUNSEL. 
VERIFIED RESPONES ARE DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
January 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    Yolanda Orozco, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 