 Case Number:  23BBCV00741    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENTLos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00741
 



MP:  


American Express National Bank
  (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Aluyah Imoisili (Defendant) 




NOTICE: 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS:  
American Express
National Bank (“American Express”) brings this action against Aluyah Imoisili (“Defendant”).
American Express alleges Defendant maintained a credit card with them for a
number of years but stopped monthly required payments in 2022. American Express
seeks to recover the outstanding balance on the account, which is $73,934.56. 
American
Express now moves for summary judgment of its Complaint. Defendant, in pro per,
opposes the motion and American Express replies. 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS: 
Defendant’s
evidentiary objections to the declaration of Mehdi Touhidi are OVERRULED with
the exception of Objection No. 5. 
Touhidi states
that current court costs are $503 in this matter but provides no basis for this
conclusion. While Touhidi’s conclusion with respect to the outstanding balance
is based on the credit card statements submitted and Touhidi’s experience as
American Express’ custodian of records, his statement as to the court costs is
unsupported. Accordingly, Defendant’s objection No. 5 is SUSTAINED in part as
to the statement of court costs.  
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD  
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.) C.C.P.¿§ 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)¿ ¿ 
As to
each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense. (C.C.P.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ ¿ 
Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿  
II.             
MERITS 
The Court notes that
American Express’ motion improperly identifies the causes of action in their
Complaint. The notice of motion identifies causes of action for (1) Open Book
Account and (2) Account Stated. Upon review the Complaint in this matter
contains a single cause of action for Common Count. Accordingly, the Court will
consider the merits of American Express’ motion as they apply to a cause of
action for Common Count. 
The required elements of a Common
Count claim are “(1) the statement of indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the
consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3) nonpayment.” (Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Zerin
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460, [citation and quotation marks omitted].) Rather
than “a specific cause of action,” a common count “is a simplified form of
pleading normally used to aver the existence of various forms of monetary
indebtedness” often “used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery
demanded in a specific cause of action.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 379, 394.) 
American Express states
that on August 19, 2004, Defendant opened an American Express Platinum Card
with a current account number ending in 6001. (Touhidi Decl. Exh. B.) American
Express further states that this card was governed by the Cardmember Agreement,
which was presented to Defendant at the time he received the card. (Touhidi
Decl., Exh. A p. 3.) American Express states that Defendant accepted the terms
of the Cardmember Agreement by virtue of his keeping and using the card.
(Touhidi Decl. Exh. C.) American Express has presented evidence, through the
form of credit card statements, that Defendant failed to make the required
monthly payments on the account. (Touhidi Decl. Exh. C.) According to American
Express’ statements, Defendant’s last payment on the account occurred July 9,
2022. (Touhidi Decl. Exh. D.) American Express states that Defendant had a
60-day window in which to dispute any charges present in American Express’
accounting but did not do so. (Touhidi Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A p. 9.) American Express
indicates through these credit card statements that the current balance on the
account due and owing is $73,934.56. (Touhidi Decl. Exh. B.) 
Defendant opposes the
motion, arguing several disputed facts exist which preclude summary judgment.
Defendant argues that he did not open an American Express Platinum Card on
August 19, 2004. Defendant presents no evidence in support of this contention,
instead stating in his declaration that he opened an American Express card in
2002. (Imoisili Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant attaches as Exhibit A to his
declaration a photocopy of an American Express card bearing his name, an
account number ending in 4492, and a statement that Defendant has been a member
since 2002. (Imoisili Decl. Exh. A.) Defendant states that, according to the
best of his recollection, he was not issued a Platinum Card until 2012.
(Imoisili Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendant presents no documentary evidence
supporting his contention that he was issued a Platinum Card in 2012. Defendant
argues the time of issuance is material because it affects the terms and
conditions of his repayment and interest calculation. 
The Court finds Defendant
has not provided adequate evidence to meet his burden. Defendant offers no
evidence in contravention of that offered by American Express. Defendant’s
Exhibit A appears to be an entirely unrelated card that has no bearing on the
Platinum Card at issue in this case. Defendant presents no conflicting
Cardmember Agreement upon which different repayment or interest rates could be
calculated. Defendant’s declaration based upon his best recollection is insufficient
to rebut the credit card statements for multiple years presented by American
Express. 
Defendant’s remaining
argument in opposition is that he was never personally served with process in
this matter. The Court notes that Defendant filed his answer in this matter on
June 29, 2023. Defendant’s filing of an answer constitutes a general appearance
in the case. It has long been the rule in California that a party waives any
objection to a court’s exercise of personal jurisdiction when the party makes a
general appearance in the action. (Roy v. Superior Court (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 337, 341.) If Defendant wished to contest the Court’s jurisdiction
on the basis of never having been served with process, his remedy to do so was
the filing of a motion to quash service of process pursuant to C.C.P. § 418.10.
Defendant, having failed to move to quash the service of process and having
subsequently appeared in the action, cannot now raise an objection to
jurisdiction as a defense to this motion for summary judgment. Even if the
matter was properly considered on this motion, Defendant has attached no
evidence to rebut the proof of personal service filed with the Court on May 8,
2023. Defendant claims that he was in Texas at the time and could not have been
personally served in California, but he attaches no documentary evidence that
verifies this claim. 
III.           
CONCLUSION 
In short, American Express
has met its burden to show no triable issue of fact exists as to Defendant’s
indebtedness for consideration and his subsequent nonpayment. American Express
has produced years of credit card statements documenting the balance it claims
is owed. Defendant has produced no evidence which refutes these statements.
Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
Judgment is granted for
American Express against Defendant in the amount of $73,934.56. The Court
declines to incorporate American Express’ request that the judgment include
$1,003.00 in costs. The Cardmember Agreement contains an explicit provision
that Defendant agreed to pay all reasonable costs, including attorney’s fees,
incurred in collection efforts. (Touhidi Decl. Exh. A p. 7.) However, American
Express submits no declaration or documentary evidence which speaks to the
amount of costs incurred.  
--- 
 
RULING: 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the Court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the Court’s records.  
ORDER  
American Express
National Bank’s Motion for Summary Judgment came on
regularly for hearing on January 12, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED. 
 
JUDGMENT IS ENTERED IN THE AMOUNT OF $ 73,934.56.

 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, AMERICAN
EXPRESS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    YOLANDA
OROZCO, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 