 Case Number:  23BBCV00639    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  A DEMURRERLos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00639
 



MP:


People of the State of California (Defendant) 




RP:


Jean Aintablian (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE: 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received.”   
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS: 
Jean Aintablian (“Plaintiff”) brings this action,
individually and as successor in interest to Sera Aintablian (“Decedent”)
against the People of the State of California (“State”) in connection with a
motor vehicle accident that occurred March 24, 2022. Plaintiff alleges a
dangerous condition was present on the US-101 which created substantial risk of
injury. Plaintiff further alleges the State is liable for injuries to Decedent
pursuant to Government Code § 835. 
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) contains causes of action for
(1) Negligence (as against Does 1-50) and (2) Dangerous Condition of
Public Property (as against the State). 
The Court previously sustained
the State’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for dangerous
condition. On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed her FAC containing the same
causes of action. 
The State now demurs to Plaintiff’s
second cause of action on grounds that it is uncertain and fails to state
sufficient facts. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and the State responds. 
ANALYSIS: 
I.         
LEGAL STANDARD 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Ibid.) 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”)
§§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may
demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.) 
II.         
MEET AND CONFER 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Prieto Decl. ¶¶ 5-8.) 
III.         
MERITS 
The Court previously sustained the State’s
demurrer with respect to the second cause of action for failure to state facts
with sufficient particularity. Plaintiff’s Complaint contained only conclusory
allegations as to the existence of a defect in the road such that no cause of
action for dangerous condition was stated. Plaintiff subsequently filed her
First Amended Complaint which seeks to rectify the issues raised on demurrer.
Plaintiff’s additional facts speaking to the Dangerous Condition cause of action
are as follows: 
Among
other things, the roadway, including its curvature and lack of any warnings of
the recommended speed for the curve, caused and/or contributed to decedent
losing control of the Toyota Camry. Thereafter, decedent’s vehicle began to yaw
and impacted the non-collapsible metal beam guardrail which had been installed
to keep motorists from hitting the pole, but which Defendants…knew posed a
substantial risk of injury to occupants of vehicles traveling on the freeway
due to, among other reasons, prior incidents where vehicles had hit the
guardrail. Defendants … should have, among other things, fixed the curvature of
the roadway, provided the proper warnings about the curve, placed the pole for
the signage outside of the freeway, and/or protected the pole with a
collapsible guardrail with a different end treatment as Defendants … did after
the subject fatal crash. Additionally, there existed a concealed trap caused by
the curvature of the roadway and lack of warnings of the recommended speed for
the curve. 
(FAC ¶ 17.) 
The Court notes the State demurs on grounds
that the FAC is both uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute the Dangerous Condition cause of action. These are two separate
grounds for demurrer with separate legal standards. The Court will address each
in turn. 
Insufficient Facts 
“[T]o state a cause of action [for government
tort liability] every fact essential to the existence of statutory liability
must be pleaded with particularity, including the existence of a statutory
duty.” (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792,
802.) “The limited and statutory nature of governmental liability mandates that
claims against public entities be specifically pleaded. Accordingly, a claim
alleging a dangerous condition may not rely on generalized allegations but must
specify in what manner the condition constituted a dangerous condition.” (Goddard
supra, 243 Cal.App.4th at 363 [internal citation omitted].) 
The State concedes that Plaintiff’s additional
allegations regarding the curvature of the road and lack of warnings are
sufficiently detailed to allege a defect in the road. The State’s demurrer is
instead based on an apprehension that there are factual allegations which
Plaintiff intends to utilize later which are not stated in the FAC. The State
argues the employment of the phrase “among other things” in paragraph 17 indicates
that there are other allegations which are not stated with sufficient specificity
to give the State notice to defend against this claim. 
A demurrer is concerned with whether sufficient
facts are alleged which constitute the cause of action. The only issue involved
in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) Here, the State admits that certain facts
are pled with the requisite specificity required by statute. The State’s
argument is not that the FAC doesn’t state sufficient facts, it is that the FAC
indicates there may be additional facts which are omitted. The Court does not
find the State’s argument speaks to a demurrer for sufficiency. If the phrase
“among other things” were entirely deleted from the FAC, Plaintiff would still
have alleged sufficient facts to constitute her cause of action. 
To the extent that the State argues the phrase
“among other things” constitutes impermissible uncertainty, the Court will
address this argument in the next section. 
Uncertainty 
“A special demurrer for uncertainty is not
intended to reach the failure to incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading, but
is directed at the uncertainty existing in the allegations actually made.” (People
v. Lim (1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 883.) “Such a demurrer should not be sustained
where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the
defendant of the issues which he is to meet.” (Id.) 
“Demurrers for uncertainty under Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) are disfavored.” (Chen v.
Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.) “A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
The State argues that Plaintiff’s allegation
that Decedent was “traveling lawfully” is uncertain. (FAC ¶ 20.) The State
argues that it cannot ascertain what is meant by this phrasing. The Court finds
the phrasing, while peculiar, is easily interpreted as meaning Decedent was
traveling on the road and obeying the law while doing so. Presumably this
phrasing was used to preempt any sort of argument that Decedent was traveling
at excessive speed or in any other way flaunting the rules of the road. In
short, the employment of this turn of phrase does not constitute fatal
uncertainty. 
The State next argues that the FAC fails to
distinguish what is meant by the term “fatal collision”. (Fac ¶ 17.) The FAC
describes (1) a collision between Decedent and another vehicle and (2) a
collision between Decedent and the guardrail. (FAC ¶¶ 11 & 17.) The
State argues that it is impossible to parse which of these collisions the FAC
refers to as the “fatal collision”. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive.
Nowhere in the first cause of action describing the collision with the other
vehicle does Plaintiff employ the phrase “fatal collision”. This phrase only
appears in the second cause of action for Dangerous Condition. From the Court’s
reading of the FAC it is clear that Plaintiff alleges Decedent was impacted by
the other vehicle and then a dangerous condition of the road caused her to
fatally collide with the metal guardrail. Even if this reading were not so
clear, any ambiguities as to the order of events and when Decedent actually perished
could be resolved through discovery. 
Lastly, the State argues that the phrase “among
other things”, employed in describing the road’s defects, creates ambiguity in
the FAC. The Court finds this argument similarly unpersuasive. It does not
appear to the Court that “among other things” is indicative of anything other
than a turn of phrase. Even if “among other things” is representative of other
allegations of defect, it is clear that discovery could illuminate the parties
as to any uncertainty. 
Conclusion 
The Court finds Plaintiff has adequately
remedied the issues raised in the prior demurrer. The FAC contains facts which
are sufficiently particular under statute such that Plaintiff can sustain her
dangerous condition cause of action. Further, none of the pleadings in the FAC
are so ambiguous as to be fatally uncertain, as any ambiguity which does exist
could be resolved in discovery. Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause
of action is OVERRULED. Responsive pleadings shall be filed within 30 days. 
RULING: 
In the event the parties request a signed order or the
court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will
be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the
court’s records.  
ORDER 
The People
of State of California’s Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on January 12,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows:  
THE DEMURRER IS OVERRULED. 
RESPONSIVE PLEADINGS ARE DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS CONTINUED TO
FEBRUARY 28, 2024. ALL OTHER DATES TO REMAIN.   
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, THE STATE IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  January
12, 2024                               
_______________________________
                                                                   
     Yolanda Orozco, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles