  Case Number:  19STCV38886    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTLos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 19STCV38886
 



MP:  


Arcadia Unified School District
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Ze Yu Bei (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE: 
The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter. 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of
intent to appear is required.  Unless the
Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted
unless a “party notifies all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the
court day before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling
of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS:  
Ze Yu Bei aka Kevin Bei, a minor, through his
guardian ad litem, Tian Le Bei (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Arcadia Unified
School District (“AUSD”), City of Arcadia (“Arcadia”), and James O'Brien (“O'Brien”)
(collectively, “Defendants”), alleging that O'Brien harassed and assaulted
Plaintiff over the course of several weeks in 2019. Plaintiff’s Fourth Amended
Complaint (“4AC”) includes causes of action for (1) Negligence; (2) Battery
(against O'Brien only); (3) Assault (against O'Brien only); (4) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (5) Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress. 
AUSD now moves for summary judgment, arguing
that Plaintiff’s entire 4AC is barred by his failure to submit a timely
government tort claim. AUSD also moves for summary judgment on grounds that AUSD
is immune from common law tort liability by virtue of Government Code § 815.
Plaintiff opposes the motion and AUSD replies. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: 
AUSD’s evidentiary objections to the declaration
of Harrison Greenspan are OVERRULED for reasons that will be described in the
Court’s ruling. 
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD  
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) C.C.P.¿§ 437c(c) “requires the trial judge
to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to¿any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a
defense. (C.C.P.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ ¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿  
II.             
MERITS 
Government
Tort Claim 
AUSD
first argues that summary judgment as to the entire 4AC is appropriate because
no triable issue of fact exists as to whether Plaintiff submitted a timely
government tort claim to the appropriate government entity. AUSD submits the
declaration of Nancy Doumanian (“Doumanian”), counsel for AUSD in this case and
general counsel for AUSD. Doumanian states that she is familiar with government
tort claims submitted to AUSD and the process of responding to them. (Doumanian
Decl. ¶ 6.) Doumanian states that in her review of the school district’s
records, she cannot locate a government tort claim presented on behalf of
plaintiff at any time. (Doumanian Decl. ¶ 6.) AUSD argues the Doumanian
declaration serves as evidence that any claim against AUSD is barred as a
matter of law. The Court finds AUSD has satisfied its initial evidentiary
burden. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue of fact
exists as to whether he submitted a timely government tort claim. 
Plaintiff
submits the declaration of his counsel Harrison Greenspan (“Greenspan”).
Greenspan states that the government tort claim, attached to his declaration as
Exhibit B, was submitted to AUSD on April 8, 2019. (Greenspan Decl. ¶ 3.)
A review of the attached exhibit shows that it contains all of the information
required as provided by statute. (See Gov. Code § 905 [providing claims must
include: the names and addresses of the claimant and where notices are to be
sent, a statement of the date, place, and other circumstances of the occurrence
or transaction, a description of the indebtedness, obligation, injury, damage,
or loss incurred, as far as they are known when the claim is presented, the
name of the public employee who caused the injury, and the amount claimed if
under $10,000, and if over $10,000 whether it would be a limited civil case].)
The claim is signed by “Ashton Watkins” who identifies as the attorney for
claimant Z.Y. Bei. (Greenspan Decl. Exh. B.) 
Plaintiff
also submits, as Exhibit C to the Greenspan declaration, a purported response
to the government tort claims from Hazelrigg Claims Management Services
(“HCMS”). (Greenspan Decl. Exh. C.) The letter from HCMS is dated April 16,
2019 and states that HCMS is the third-party claims administrator of AUSD.
(Greenspan Decl. Exh. B.) The letter states that HCMS “…received notice of the
above references claim and are in the process of investigating this matter”.
(Greenspan Decl. Exh. B.) 
AUSD
objects to these exhibits on grounds that they are hearsay and cannot be
properly authenticated. AUSD argues that the claim letter has no address and
there is no response from the district to the claim. The Court disagrees. 
Exhibits
presented in support of and in opposition to a summary judgment motion must be
authenticated. While exhibits may be authenticated through attorney
declarations, the attorney so declaring must demonstrate personal knowledge of
how various documents were obtained, how they have been identified, and who had
identified them. (Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486,
523.) 
Here,
Greenspan has appropriately authenticated the government tort claim and the
letter received in response by virtue of his declaration sworn under penalty of
perjury. The purpose of summary judgment is not to weigh the credibility of the
evidence offered; it is only to determine whether the evidence offered creates
a triable issue of fact. The Court finds the exhibits proffered by Plaintiff
establish a triable issue of fact as to whether Plaintiff submitted a timely
government tort claim. AUSD’s arguments that their evidence, the declaration of
Doumanian, is superior to Plaintiff’s fail under the standard for summary
judgment. 
In short,
AUSD satisfied its initial burden to show that no triable issue of material
fact existed that Plaintiff did not submit a government tort claim. Plaintiff has
presented evidence that a government tort claim was in fact filed and a
response received thereto. As such a triable issue of material fact remains. 
Gov Code
815 
AUSD also
moves on grounds that no triable issue of fact exists as to any cause of action
stated against them. Plaintiff’s causes of action are his first cause of action
for Negligence, fourth cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, and fifth cause of action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress. AUSD’s arguments with respect to each of these causes of action are identical.
AUSD argues, as it has before, that these causes of action are barred as matter
of law because a Government Entity has no common law tort liability. The Court
notes that AUSD’s argument with regard to Government Code § 815 is the same argument
presented on demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint. AUSD offers no
new authority to augment its previous position, nor does it present any
authority which would differentiate its argument in the context of a motion for
summary judgment. 
The Court
maintains that AUSD has not shown that O’Brien’s actions fall within the scope
of Gov. Code § 815. AUSD presents no argument which addresses the Court’s
previous finding that Government Code § 815 is not applicable to Plaintiff’s
claims. For the sake of a clear record, the Court will state its reasoning again
here. 
AUSD
argues that they have no liability as a function of Government Code § 815,
which reads “Except as otherwise provided by statute: (a) A public entity is
not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission
of the public entity or a public employee or any other person.” AUSD argues
this section grants them immunity from claims arising from actions of their
employees unless those claims are based in statute. However, this code section
is not dispositive of all such actions against public entities. 
Government
Code § 815.2(a) provides that “A public entity is liable for injury proximately
caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the
scope of [the employee’s] employment if the act or omission would, apart from
this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his
personal representative” This code section allows claims of vicarious liability
to be brought against school districts which claim negligence of a school’s
employee and failure to protect. (See C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861.) Plaintiff’s claims in the first,
fourth, and fifth causes of action arise from the conduct of O’Brien, a
district employee, and seek to hold AUSD vicariously liable for injuries that
resulted from his actions. 
The Court
does not believe O’Brien alleged actions qualify as an act within his
discretion as provided by Gov. Code § 820.2. The primary case interpreting
whether an act of an employee is one within its discretion is Johnson v.
State (1968) 69 Cal.2d 782. The California Supreme Court held that the mere
existence of a discretionary choice in the act to be performed does not qualify
as an act under 820.2, as nearly every act by a public employee involves some
amount of discretion. (Id. at 788.) Instead, it was held that immunity
should only attach to those decisions which involve “basic policy” choice such
that they constitute an exercise of discretion by a coordinate branch of
government. (Id. at 793.) The Court finds that the alleged acts of harassing
Plaintiff and striking him on the head do not fall within the scope of basic
policy choices. 
The only
new authority offered by AUSD in its motion speaks not to the application of §
815, but to the requirement that statutory causes of action against government
entities be pleaded with specificity. This authority relates to the standards
in considering a demurrer and assumes the application of § 815 is proper. 
The
remainder of AUSD’s motion argues that no triable issue of fact exists because
Plaintiff has not stated a statute upon which his first, fourth, and fifth
causes of action may be predicated. This argument presumes the Court has found
the common law tort claims are barred by function of Government Code § 815,
which it has not. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion for summary judgment is DENIED. As AUSD states no separate grounds
for its motion for summary adjudication of the first, fourth, and fifth causes
of action, that motion is also DENIED. 
--- 
RULING: 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER  
 
Arcadia Unified
School District Motion for Summary Judgment came on
regularly for hearing on January 12, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
 
THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED. 
 
THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF THE
FIRST, FOURTH, AND FIFTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, AUSD TO PROVIDE
NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    Yolanda Orozco, Judge 
 Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 