 Case Number:  23BBCV01053    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  A DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKELos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01053
 
MP:    Avalon Bay Communities Inc. (Defendant)
RP:     Anthony
Lavigne (Plaintiff) 
NOTICE: 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received.”   
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS: 
Anthony Lavigne (“Plaintiff”) brings this action
against Avalon Bay Communities Inc. (“Defendant”) in relation to an apartment
Plaintiff rents from Defendant located at 10987 Bluffside Drive, Apartment 4116,
Studio City, California. 91604 (“Subject Property”). Plaintiff alleges a number
of issues with the Subject Property that render it uninhabitable. Plaintiff
further alleges that Defendant continues to collect rent for the Subject
Property while refusing to remediate issues of water intrusion, mold, and
insect infestation. 
Defendant now demurs to the following causes of
action on grounds they state insufficient facts: 
(4) Violation of Business and Professions Code §
17200
(7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress 
(9) Violation of the California Consumer
Remedies Act 
(10) Toxic Mold Environment Tort 
(12) Disgorgement of Fees Paid for Unlicensed
Contractor Services 
Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages, statutory damages, request for attorney’s fees,
request for prejudgment interest, and references to various code sections. 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and the motion
to strike and Defendant replies. 
ANALYSIS: 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARDS 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.) 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.) 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”)
§§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may
demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.) 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words,
phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper
procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike.
(C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435,
“[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion
to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include
immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not
pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).) 
To
succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages allegations, it must be said as
a matter of law that the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or
contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and despised by ordinary
decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 1217,
1228-1229.) 
II.             
MERITS 
Meet and Confer 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and
confer requirements were met. (Aslanyan Decl. ¶¶ 2-8.) 
Facts
Alleged 
Plaintiff
alleges he began to rent the Subject Property around June of 2021. (Compl. ¶¶
1, 62.) 
Plaintiff
alleges the Subject Property suffers from dysfunctional plumbing and that in
June of 2022 there was a major intrusion of sewage water into the apartment.
(Compl. ¶ 27, 63.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant hired unlicensed workers to
clean up the water, but the workers left the floor and carpeting wet. (Compl.
¶ 63.) Plaintiff alleges this inadequate remediation resulted in the
growth of mold in the carpeting and that subsequent carpet cleanings by
Defendant have not resolved the issue. (Compl. ¶ 63.) 
Plaintiff
further alleges that the Subject Property is not properly weatherproofed,
leading to the intrusion of water in large quantities and the growth of toxic
mold in the walls and carpeting. (Compl. ¶¶ 28-31.) Plaintiff alleges he
noticed rain pouring into his bedroom wall in January of 2023. (Compl.
¶ 70.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant hired unlicensed contractors to
demolish and reconstruct the leaking wall without covering any of Plaintiff’s
possessions. (Compl. ¶ 70.) Plaintiff alleges that the carpet in the room
with the leaking wall was never replaced. (Compl. ¶ 71.)  Plaintiff alleges that the City of Los
Angeles Housing Department Code Enforcement Division inspected the property on
March 10, 2023 and issued a citation for inadequate weatherproofing. (Compl.
¶ 75.) 
Plaintiff
also alleges there is a cockroach infestation which has been persistent for
several months but intensified in February of 2023. (Compl. ¶ 68.)
Plaintiff alleges there are cockroaches infesting his kitchen appliances.
(Compl. ¶ 32.) Plaintiff states it took weeks for Defendant to reply to his
request for pest control and that Plaintiff is still tasked with the removal of
dead cockroaches. (Compl. ¶ 68.) 
Plaintiff
alleges the property does not have adequate security and that trespassers are
routinely allowed to inhabit common areas of the building. (Compl. ¶ 35.)
Plaintiff alleges the failure to secure the building resulted in his car being
broken into while parked in the building’s covered lot. (Compl. ¶¶ 35,
81.) Plaintiff’s request that the security footage of the incident be preserved
was ignored by Defendant. (Compl. ¶ 81.) Plaintiff also alleges the
security guards hired by Defendant are ineffectual at securing the building.
(Compl. ¶ 81.) 
Plaintiff
alleges, upon information and belief, that Defendant has received multiple
government notices informing them of violations of health and safety codes.
(Compl. ¶ 36.) Plaintiff alleges that despite knowledge of these defects,
Defendant has routinely refused to take any action to remedy them. (Compl.
¶ 38.)  
Fourth
COA – Overruled 
To
set forth a claim for a violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200
(“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair
or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
17200.) A cause of action for unfair competition “is not an all-purpose
substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez
v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.) 
The Court first addresses
Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff impermissibly seeks damages in connection
with this cause of action. Despite the broad scope of the UCL, its remedies are
limited to equitable relief and damages are not recoverable. (Korea Supply
Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1144.) Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action seeks only “restitution” in connection with this cause
of action. Restitution in the context of the UCL refers “to the return of
property or funds in which the plaintiff has an ownership interest” and is not
synonymous with damages. (See Madrid v. Perot Systems Corp. (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 440, 455.) As Madrid makes clear, restitution is allowed
under a UCL claim where it seeks money obtained via fraud to be returned to a
party who had an ownership interest in that money. The prohibition of damages
in this the context of the UCL refers to the attempt to recover lost profits,
which is not at issue in this case. (See Id.) Here, Plaintiff seeks the
return of rent money paid to Defendant, which is allowable under the UCL. 
Defendant’s remaining argument is
that Plaintiff has not stated facts with sufficient particularity as required
for a statutory cause of action. “A plaintiff alleging unfair business
practices under these statutes must state with reasonable particularity the
facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly's
of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)  A demurrer is properly sustained where a
complaint identifies no particular section of the statutory scheme which was
violated and fails to describe with any reasonable particularity the facts
supporting a violation. (Id.) Defendant argues that the Complaint only
alleges its failure to abate known habitability violations without specifying
violation dates, reference numbers, or specific violations. The Court finds
this argument unpersuasive. 
Plaintiff has alleged specific
facts which constitute violations of Civil Code § 1941.1 and Health and Safety
Code § 17920.3. Plaintiff’s allegations concerning failure to waterproof the
Subject Property, failure to remediate mold growth, and failure to address the
cockroach infestation all speak to violations of the Health and Safety Code.
Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant continued to accept rent from
Plaintiff despite knowing that the Subject Property was untenable. (Compl.
¶ 40.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s refusal to remediate the
conditions was an intentional scheme to collect rent while offering substandard
living conditions in exchange. (Compl. ¶ 88.) Upon demurrer the Court must
accept these allegations as true. Plaintiff has therefore identified unlawful
behavior by Defendant as required to sustain an action under the UCL. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
Seventh COA - Overruled 
“The elements of a prima facie
case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, [citation and
ellipses omitted].) 
Defendant argues that the
allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint do not constitute the “extreme and
outrageous” conduct required to sustain this cause of action. Defendant argues
the allegations are indicative of simple negligence and do not rise to the heightened
standard. 
Courts have found that allegations of refusal to
remediate mold and other harmful building conditions can constitute extreme and
outrageous conduct. In Burnett v. Chimney Sweep, plaintiffs repeatedly
complained of a mold issue and defendant landlord refused to remediate. (Burnett
v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057.) The trial court granted
defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend. The
Court of Appeals reversed the judgment, holding that whether the landlord’s
refusal to rectify the mold issue was extreme and outrageous presented a
factual question for the jury. (Id. at 1069, citing Stoiber v.
Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903.) 
The Court finds Plaintiff has
adequately alleged Defendant’s conduct was extreme or outrageous. Plaintiff
alleges he complained repeatedly about the conditions of the Subject property
and Defendant has either refused to remediate or done so inadequately. (Compl.
¶ 52.) Plaintiff further alleges that County of Los Angeles inspected the
dwelling and issued a citation for failure to weatherproof, after which
Defendant has taken no corrective action. (Compl. ¶ 75.) In sum, Plaintiff
alleges the premises have been at times rendered uninhabitable. Whether
Defendant’s refusal to remediate the weatherproofing and mold issues was
extreme and outrageous is a question of fact inappropriate for determination on
demurrer. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the seventh cause of
action is OVERRULED. 
Ninth COA – Sustained with
Leave to Amend 
Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action
is for Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California Civil Code § 1750
et seq. 
Civil Code § 1782 requires the
consumer to provide a defendant with a written demand to correct, repair,
replace, or otherwise rectify the goods or services alleged to be in violation
of § 1770. (Civ. Code § 1728(a)(2).) Plaintiff’s Complaint makes no reference
to any such written notice. As such, the Complaint contains insufficient facts
to sustain this cause of action. 
Plaintiff argues in opposition
that Civil Code § 1782(d) does not require written notice where a cause of
action seeks only injunctive relief. The Court finds this argument inapplicable
to Plaintiff’s cause of action, which specifically requests damages at
paragraph 180. (Compl. ¶ 180.) 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. Leave to amend
is granted only in so far as it remains possible that Plaintiff could add
allegations of written notice. 
Tenth COA – Sustained without
Leave to Amend 
Defendant demurs to the tenth cause of action for Toxic Mold
Environment Tort on the grounds this cause of action is not a valid cause of
action. 
Plaintiff contends that to prove
a toxic environmental tort claim in California, the following elements must be
proved: “(1) That the Plaintiff was exposed to each of the toxic materials
claimed to have caused a specific illness; (2) the identity of the product that
allegedly caused the injury; (3) that as a result of the exposure, the toxins
entered his body; and, (4) that the Plaintiff suffers from a specific illness,
and that each toxin that entered his body was a substantial factor in bringing
about, prolonged, or aggravating that illness.” (See generally, Bockrath
v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal. 4th 71, 80; see also, Jones
v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 1187, 1194.) 
The cases relied upon by Plaintiff
are product liability cases, which have no application here. Plaintiff’s tenth
cause of action is duplicative of his causes of action for negligence, IIED,
and nuisance. If Plaintiff establishes that Defendant was negligent in the
maintenance of the Subject Property, including remediating toxic mold, Defendant
would be liable for damages caused by the presence of such mold. This cause of
action is superfluous. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
tenth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
Twelfth COA – Sustained with
Leave to Amend 
Plaintiff’s twelfth cause of
action is for “Disgorgement of Fees Paid for Unlicensed Contractor Services”.
Ostensibly, Plaintiff’s twelfth cause of action is to recover costs incurred
for having to pay contractors to effect repairs. Plaintiff does not allege that
he directly paid any of these contractors, rather he alleges Defendant hired
unlicensed contractors to make repairs in Plaintiff’s apartment. Plaintiff’s
Complaint states this cause of action is brought pursuant to multiple statutes.
The Court shall review each of them in turn. 
The first is C.C.P. § 1029.8(a),
which governs liability of an unlicensed contractor for damages caused by their
workmanship. This statute says nothing about the lability of a landlord or a
landlord’s obligation to repay a tenant for out-of-pocket repairs. Further,
C.C.P. § 1029.8(b) explicitly states that this code section does not create an
independent cause of action. 
Plaintiff next relies on Business
and Professions Code § 7028. This code section establishes that it is a
misdemeanor to engage in construction without a license and has no relevance to
Plaintiff’s cause of action for restitution. 
Lastly, Business and Professions
Code § 703(b) provides in relevant part “[A] person who utilizes the services
of an unlicensed contractor may bring an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction in this state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed
contractor for performance of any act or contract.” Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s Complaint contains no allegations that he utilized the services of
an unlicensed contractor. Plaintiff argues he did utilize these services
because he paid rent to Defendant and Defendant must have used that rent money
to hire unlicensed contractors. As unlikely as this allegation seems, the Court
is obliged to assume the truth of Plaintiff’s allegations on demurrer. However,
Plaintiff’s allegations to this effect are not present in the Complaint itself. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
twelfth cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Motion to Strike 
Punitive
Damages 
“In
order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set
forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code
section 3294.” (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) These statutory elements include allegations
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Id.) 
“When
there is no evidence the defendant intended to harm the plaintiff, there must
be evidence of conduct that is both willful and despicable.” (Johnson &
Johnson Talcum Powder Cases (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 292, 332.) Conscious
disregard for the safety of another may be found “where the defendant is aware
of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she
willfully fails to avoid such consequences.” (Id.) Despicable conduct is
conduct which is “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome
that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Id.
at 333.) Such conduct has been described as having the character of outrage
frequently associated with crime. (Id.) 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff has not alleged facts that Defendant’s behavior rises to the
level of oppression, fraud, or malice. Defendant further argues, even if
Plaintiff has shown malice, Plaintiff has not pled facts showing despicable
conduct. 
Plaintiff
argues Defendant’s willful failure to remediate constitutes conscious disregard
for safety which equates to malice. Plaintiff further argues Defendant’s
failure to remediate is despicable behavior evidenced by their continuing to
collect rent. 
The
Court finds Plaintiff has not pled facts that Defendant’s conduct was
despicable. Plaintiff makes many allegations speaking to the negligence and
disregard of Defendant, but none of the behavior appears to rise to the level
of outrage required to support punitive damages claim. Allegations of willful
failure to repair do not equate to allegations that a defendant acted with a
wrongful personal intent to injure or in reckless disregard of the rights of
other. (See McDonell v. American Trust Co. (1955) 130 Cal.App.2d 296,
300.) Plaintiff may be able to allege facts which would constitute despicable
behavior, but he has not done so here. 
As
such, the motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages is GRANTED
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Attorney’s
Fees 
Code of
Civil Procedure § 1021 provides “Except as attorney's fees are specifically
provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties;
but parties to actions or proceedings are entitled to their costs, as
hereinafter provided.” 
Here
Plaintiff’s only statutory basis for the recovery of attorneys’ fees derives
from C.C.P. § 1029.8 (twelfth cause of action) and Civil Code § 1780
(ninth cause of action). 
The demurrer to both relevant
causes of action having been sustained with leave to amend, the motion to
strike is MOOT with respect to the request for attorney’s fees.   
Statutory
Damages Pursuant to Civil Code § 1940.2 
Plaintiff
requests statutory damages in relation to his sixth cause of action for Breach
of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment. Defendant argues that the Complaint alleges
no facts as to Defendant engaging in behavior violative of Civil Code § 1940.2 
Civil
Code § 1940.2 provides that it is unlawful for a landlord to influence a tenant
to vacate the dwelling unit by doing any of the following: 
(1) Engage in conduct that
violates subdivision (a) of Section 484 of the Penal Code. 
(2) Engage in conduct that
violates Section 518 of the Penal Code. 
(3) Use, or threaten to use,
force, willful threats, or menacing conduct constituting a course of conduct
that interferes with the tenant’s quiet enjoyment of the premises in violation
of Section 1927 that would create an apprehension of harm in a reasonable
person… 
(4) Commit a significant and
intentional violation of Section 1954. 
(5) Threaten to disclose
information regarding or relating to the immigration or citizenship status of a
tenant, occupant, or other person known to the landlord to be associated with a
tenant or occupant… 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s refusal to remediate constitutes menacing conduct. Plaintiff
cites to no authority in support of this proposition and the Court finds the
argument unpersuasive. The Complaint is devoid of any allegations that
Defendant menaced Plaintiff or ever attempted to have him vacate the premises. Accordingly,
the motion to strike statutory damages is GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Damages
pursuant to Business and Professions Code § 17200 
Defendant’s
argument in moving to strike these damages is identical to its argument on
demurrer. As the Court has overruled the demurrer, the motion to strike these
damages is DENIED. 
Prejudgment
Interest 
Plaintiff’s
request for prejudgment interest should be stricken. Prejudgment interest is
only allowable where a party’s damages are certain. (See State of California
v. Continental Ins. Co. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1017, 1038.) Here,
Plaintiff is specifically requesting damages to be determined at trial.
Accordingly, the motion to strike the request for prejudgment interest is
GRANTED. The Court having sustained the demurrer to which these
violations speak, the motion to strike these references is MOOT. 
RULING: 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records.
 
ORDER 
Avalon Bay Communities Inc.’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike came on regularly
for hearing on January 12, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows:
  
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FOURTH AND SEVENTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS OVERRULED. 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE NINTH AND TWELFTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE TENTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES IS GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE REQUEST FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES IS MOOT. 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE STATUTORY DAMAGES IS GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE DAMAGES PURSUANT TO BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS CODE § 17200 IS
DENIED. 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE PREJUDGMENT INTEREST IS GRANTED. 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE REFERENCES TO VARIOUS CODE SECTIONS IS MOOT. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  January
12, 2024                               _______________________________
                                                                   
     Yolanda Orozco, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 