 Case Number:  22STCV16354    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant Smart &  Final Stores LLC.   Tentative The motion is granted. Background On May 17, 2022, Jacqueline Escobar (“Plaintiff”) filed a  complaint against Smart & Final LLC, Smart & Final Stores LLC  (“Defendant”), and Does 1 to 20, for general negligence and premises liability  causes of action arising out of slip and fall occurring on June 8, 2020.  Defendant filed its answer on May 8, 2023.   On February 8, 2024, Defendant filed  this motion to continue trial. No opposition has been filed.   Legal Standard Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the  court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make  them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance  should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,  Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide  latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of  continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)   Each request for a continuance must be  considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule  3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of  good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:   “(1) The unavailability of an essential lay  or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;   (2) The unavailability of a party because of  death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (3) The unavailability of trial counsel  because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (4) The substitution of trial counsel, but  only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in  the interests of justice;   (5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The  new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to  conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's  involvement in the case;   (6) A party's excused inability to obtain  essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent  efforts; or   (7) A significant, unanticipated change in  the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for  trial.”   (Cal. Rules of  Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)     California Rules  of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be  analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is  present. A court considers factors such as:    “(1) The proximity of the trial date;   (2) Whether there was any previous  continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;   (3) The length of the continuance  requested;   (4) The availability of alternative means to  address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a  continuance;   (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses  will suffer as a result of the continuance;  (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential  trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a  continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  (7) The court's calendar and the impact of  granting a continuance on other pending trials;  (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in  another trial;   (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a  continuance;   (10) Whether the interests of justice are  best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing  conditions on the continuance; and   (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant  to the fair determination of the motion or application.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).)  Discussion Defendant contends good cause exists to continue trial as Defendant  contends the current scheduled date of March 19, 2024 for an independent  medical examination is too close to trial. (Motion, 7:6-8.) Further, Defendant  has yet been able to depose Plaintiff. (Id., 7:9-14.)  Defendant has shown diligence in gathering discovery as they have noticed  Plaintiff’s deposition several times, but Plaintiff’s counsel has requested  continuances for the deposition four times. (Hubert Decl., ¶ 6.) Trial is scheduled for May14, 2024. No opposition has been filed.   Accordingly, it does not appear that the requested continuance would  cause any unfair or undue prejudice to Plaintiff. The Court finds Defendant has established good cause to continue trial. Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is GRANTED. Conclusion The Motion to  Continue Trial is GRANTED.  The Court  advances and continues the trial date to September 9, 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines  are reset based on the new trial date.Final Status Conference is continued to 08/26/2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 29 at Spring 
Street Courthouse. Non-Jury Trial is continued to 09/09/2024 at 08:30 AM in Department 29 at 
Spring Street Courthouse. Moving Party is  ORDERED to give notice.