 Case Number:  21STCV44219    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  29 City of Industry’s Motion for Various Relief Against Yesenia Hernandez
City of Industry’s Motion for Various Relief Against Angelique Cubias
Tentative
The Court will hear from counsel.
Background
These two consolidated cases arise out of an alleged vehicle
accident on January 25, 2021, near the intersection of Nelson Avenue and Orange
Avenue at or near
the border of the City of La Puente and the City of Industry.  The two cases were related on April 26, 2023,
and consolidated on November 13, 2023.
In the lead
case, Case No. 21STCV44219 (the “Zarazua Action”), on December 3, 2021,
Plaintiff Rodolfo Zarazua (“Zarazua”) filed a complaint against Defendant Yesenia
Hernandez (“Hernandez”) and Does 1 through 50, asserting a cause of action for
motor vehicle negligence.  Hernandez
filed her answer on February 16, 2023.
The second
case, Case No. 22STCV05262 (the “Hernandez Action”) has a far more complicated
procedural history.  On February 10, 2022, Plaintiffs Hernandez and Angelique Cubias (a
minor, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem Hernandez) (“Cubias”) filed the complaint asserting: (1) the first cause of action
for motor vehicle negligence against Defendant Zarazua and Does 1 through 25;
(2) the second cause of action for general negligence against the same
defendants; (3) the third cause of action for dangerous condition of public
property against Defendants the City of La Puente (La Puente”), the City of Industry (“Industry”), the County of Los Angeles (“County”), the California Department of
Transportation
(“DOT”), and Does 26
through 50.
On June 15,
2023, Defendants County and The People of the State of California erroneously
sued as DOT each filed answers to the
complaint.  On June 26, 2023, the Court,
at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed the claims against DOT without
prejudice.
On July 5,
2023, Zarazua filed an answer to the complaint.
On July 11,
2023, Zarazua filed a cross-complaint against Hernandez and Roes 1 through 50.  Hernandez answered the cross-complaint on
August 14, 2023.
On July 13,
2023, the Court sustained, with leave to amend, a demurrer filed by Defendant Industry. 
On August 11,
2023, Plaintiffs Hernandez and Cubias filed their First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”).  In the first and
second causes of action in the FAC, Plaintiffs again asserted motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence claims against Zarazua and Does 1 through 25.  In the third cause of action, Plaintiffs again
asserted a dangerous condition of public
property claim against Defendants the City of La Puente, the City of Industry,
the County of Los Angeles, DOT, and Does 26 through 50.  
On August 25
and September 8, County and Zarazua filed answers to the FAC.
On September
12, 2023, La Puente filed a cross-complaint against County, Hernandez, and Foes
1 through 10.
On December
4, 2023, the Court overruled demurrers to the FAC filed by Industry and La
Puente and granted in part, with leave to amend, a motion to strike filed by
Industry.
On December
8, La Puente filed an answer to the FAC. 

On December
12, County filed an answer to La Puente’s cross-complaint.
On December
12, 2023, Plaintiffs Hernandez and Cubias attempted to file a Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”), but it was not accepted for filing by the clerk’s office.  Nonetheless, on January 2, 2024, Industry
filed an answer to the SAC and also a cross-complaint against Hernandez,
Zarazua, and Zoes 1 through 25.  LA Puente
filed an answer to the SAC on January 12, 2024. 
Zarazua filed an answer to the SAC on January 26, 2024, and an answer to
Industry’s cross-complaint on February 1, 2024. 
County filed an answer to the SAC on February 23, 2024.
On March 5,
2024, La Puente filed an amended cross-complaint against County, Hernandez, and
Foes 1 through 10.
As it relates
to the matters currently before the Court and set for hearing on March 27,
2024, Industry served Hernandez and Cubias with discovery, including Form
Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for
Production (Set One) on October 30, 2023. 
(Cheng Decls., ¶ 6 & Exhs. 4-6.) 
Hernandez and Cubias did not serve timely responses.  (Id., ¶¶ 7-8.)  Hernandez and Cubias served other counsel, but
not lead counsel for Industry, with responses (not verified) on December 22.  (Id., ¶ 9 & Exhs. 7-8.)
After meet
and confer correspondence, Hernandez and Cubias served further responses on
January 26, but again failed to serve counsel for Industry.  (Id., ¶¶ 15, 17 & Exhs. 13-19.)  Further meet and confer efforts did not
resolve all of the parties’ disputes.
On January
30, 2024, Industry filed these two motions to compel.  Industry also seeks sanctions.  Hernandez and Cubias filed oppositions on February
14, and Industry filed replies on February 20.
Also on February
20, shortly before Industry filed its reply, Hernandez and Cubias served
supplemental discovery responses.  (Cheng
Reply Decls., ¶ 3 & Exhs. 18-19, 21-23.)
The hearing
on the two motions was initially scheduled for February 27.  On February 22, the Court conducted an
Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  The
disputes were not resolved.  The Court
ordered the parties to meet and confer within seven days and continued the
hearing to March 27.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
In its initial motions, Industry sought the following relief:
(a) an order compelling Hernandez to serve verifications of the responses to
form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for production; (b)
an order compelling Cubias to serve verifications of the responses to form
interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for production; (c) an
order compelling Hernandez to provide further responses to Special Interrogatories
Nos. 25, 27, and 31; (d) an order compelling Cubias to serve further responses
to Form Interrogatory No. 4.1 and Special Interrogatory No. 26; (e) an order
compelling Hernandez to comply with her agreement to produce documents
responsive to Requests for Production Nos. 1, 3-4, 9, 15, 21-24, and 33-36; and
(f) an order compelling Hernandez to comply with her agreement to produce
documents responsive to Requests for Production Nos. 1, 7, 9, 10, 13, 19-23,
and 29-30.
Industry also seeks monetary sanctions against both Hernandez
and Cubias.
In opposition, Hernandez and Cubias argue (among other things)
that the motions are premature (filed just days after they served amended
responses, although the service apparently did not include Industry’s counsel);
that Industry did not properly meet and confer (although a meet-and-confer is
not required for some of the relief that Industry seeks); and that the motion
will “soon” be moot as Hernandez and Cubias plan to provide supplemental
responses.
Shortly before the replies were filed, Hernandez and Cubias
did provide supplemental responses. 
These supplemental responses did not, according to Industry, resolve the
matters in dispute.
Without assigning blame to either side, the Court is concerned
that the issues in dispute have become a bit of moving target.  The Court will hear from counsel regarding
what specific discovery requests remain in dispute, where in the record the
Court can find the most recent discovery responses of Hernandez and Cubias, and
which specific requests made by Industry are still in dispute (and which, if
any, have been resolved). 
Conclusion
The Court will hear from counsel.