 Case Number:  24PSCV00393    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Melissa  Clark v. University of La Verne 1  – Defendant University of La Verne’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint of  Plaintiff Melissa Clark; and 2  – Defendant University of La Verne’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff  Melissa Clark’s First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court OVERRULES Defendant University of Laverne’s demurrer as  to all causes of action of the First Amended Complaint. The Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer as to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action with 20 days leave to  amend.  The Court GRANTS Defendant University of La Verne’s motion to  strike. The Court hereby strikes the following portions of the FAC, with 20  days’ leave to amend:  -           page 30, line 12 through page 31, line 11 of the FAC; and -           the words “exemplary damages” from the Prayer for Relief, located  at page 31, line 15, of the FAC.              Defendant University of La Verne is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.  BACKGROUND  This is an academic dispute. On February 7, 2024, plaintiff Melissa  Clark (Plaintiff) filed this action. On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed the  operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against defendants University of La  Verne, Devorah Lieberman, Karop Janoyan, Leo Berrera, Kathy Elderson, Maria  Garcia, Lily Damon, Kimberly A. White-Smith, Victoria Escoffery-Runnels, and  Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for breach of contract (two  counts), negligence (NIED), intentional infliction of emotional distress  (IIED), and exemplary damages.  On September 20, 2024, defendant University of La Verne  (University) demurred to and moved to strike portions of the FAC. On October  11, 2024, Plaintiff opposed both motions. On October 17, 2024, University  replied to both motions.  LEGAL  STANDARD  A  demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other  pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (Donabedian).) It  is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the  complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the  complaint are assumed to be true. (Id. at pp. 993-994.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits”].)  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire pleading, cause of action,  or affirmative defense. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (a); Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046-1047.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE –  Demurrer              The Court GRANTS  University’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) The Court takes judicial notice of the foregoing  documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records  and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth  of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez  v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUE – Demurrer              The  Court notes that opposition to the demurrer is over ten pages long, but  contains no table of contents or authorities as required under Rule 3.1113,  subdivision (f), of the California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1113, subd. (f).) The Court will still consider the opposition, but  nevertheless admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of the  California Rules of Court going forward.              The  Court further notes that Plaintiff’s opposition is not signed by her or her  counsel, which is required under Section 128.7, subdivision (a), of the Code of  Civil Procedure. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (a).) The Court will still  consider the opposition, but only on the condition that Plaintiff’s counsel  corrects this error by the time of the hearing on this demurrer and the motion  to strike; otherwise, the Court must strike the opposition. (Ibid.)  DISCUSSION – Demurrer  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),  University was required to meet and confer with Plaintiff in person,  telephonically, or by video conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds University’s efforts to meet  and confer sufficient. (Rosetti Decl., ¶ 4.)  All Causes of Action – Writ of Mandate  University demurs to all causes of action in the FAC on the  grounds that they fail to state a cause of action. Specifically, University  contends the FAC is procedurally improper because Plaintiff’s claims should have  been raised via petition for writ of mandate. In opposition, Plaintiff contends  the FAC is procedurally proper because she is not seeking an order for  University to give Plaintiff a fair hearing in this matter, but rather is  seeking monetary damages for the harms she allegedly suffered from University  improperly dismissing her.  The Court does not find Plaintiff’s claims need to  have been brought via petition for writ of mandate. In Banks v. Dominican Coll. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1545 (Banks),  the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s grant of summary judgment  against the former student’s complaint, which included claims for breach of  contract and intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress, among  others. (Id. at pp. 1553-1555.) The Court of Appeal held that the trial court  properly granted defendants' motion for summary judgment because the evidence  submitted demonstrated without any dispute of material fact that the student's  dismissal was unquestionably related to her unacceptable academic performance  in the clinical teaching program; the decision had a rational basis; and the  dismissal was not arbitrary and capricious, discriminatory, or otherwise  wrongful. Although this was decided on a motion for summary judgment, such  claims were adjudicated via a civil complaint and not via a petition for writ  of mandate.  Moreover, “[t]he basic legal relation between a  student and a private university or college is contractual in nature. The  catalogues, bulletins, circulars, and regulations of the institution made  available to the matriculant become a part of the contract. [Citations.]” (Zumbrun v. Univ. of S. California (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d  1, 10 (Zumbrun).) The FAC alleges University provided certain procedures  “for addressing issues that may arise during the course of a student’s  education.” (FAC, pp. 7-8.) The FAC alleges that University did not follow  those procedures before dismissing Plaintiff from the University’s counseling  program. (FAC, pp. 13-14.) The Court believes that Plaintiff’s claims can be  adjudicated “without second-guessing the professional judgment of the  University faculty on academic matters.” (Ross v. Creighton University (7th  Cir. 1992) 957 F.2d 410, 417 (Ross).)  Furthermore, in 300 DeHaro St. Invs. v. Dep't  of Hous. & Cmty. Dev. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1240,  the Court of Appeal held that mandamus is generally not an appropriate remedy  for a breach of contract claim against a public entity. (Id. at p.  1254.) If mandamus is generally not appropriate for a contract claim involving  a public entity, then it only stands to reason that Plaintiff’s claim against  University, a private entity with whom Plaintiff’s relation was contractual in  nature, would also not be subject to mandamus. (See ibid.; Zumbrun, supra, 25  Cal.App.3d at p. 10.)  Finally, as Plaintiff argues in her opposition, the  FAC does not seek relief by way of setting aside Plaintiff’s dismissal from  University’s counseling program. (FAC, p. 31.) The Court would not be reviewing  the underlying basis of University’s decision, but rather whether University  followed its policies and procedures. (Ross, supra, 957 F.2d at p. 417.)  All Causes of Action –  Judicial Nonintervention  “It has been said that courts do not interfere with  the management of a school's internal affairs unless 'there has been a manifest  abuse of discretion or where [the school officials'] action has been arbitrary  or unlawful,' [citation], or unless the school authorities have acted  'arbitrarily or capriciously', [citation], or unless they have abused their  discretion, [citations], or acted in 'bad faith', [citations].” (Wong v. Regents of Univ. of California (1971) 15  Cal.App.3d 823, 830.) “Mandamus lies to set aside the dismissal of a  [university] student if such dismissal was arbitrary, capricious or in bad  faith. [Citation.]” (Valvo v. Univ. of S. California (1977) 67  Cal.App.3d 887, 896.)  University contends that all causes of action in the  FAC are also subject to demurrer because Plaintiff’s claims would violate the  rule of judicial nonintervention in the decision making process of educational  institutions. University contends the FAC alleges Plaintiff was dismissed from  the counseling program because Plaintiff failed to recognize and report the  needs of a depressed elementary school student who allegedly attempted suicide  and that Plaintiff was training to work with children. University contends  courts generally defer to educational institutions in areas of specialized  knowledge because courts are not expected to be experts on such matters. University  contends Plaintiff’s alleged failure to help the aforementioned elementary  school student is not an arbitrary or capricious reason for dismissal.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends her claims are not  barred by the rule of judicial nonintervention. Plaintiff contends the FAC  shows University’s conduct in dismissing Plaintiff in this matter was  arbitrary, capricious, or in bad faith.  The Court finds the FAC alleges sufficient facts  demonstrating that Plaintiff’s causes of action fall within the arbitrary and  capricious exception of the judicial nonintervention rule. The issue here is  not necessarily the mistake Plaintiff purportedly made in connection with the  elementary school student who attempted to commit suicide; rather, the issue is  University’s alleged failure to follow its own procedures in handling  Plaintiff’s purported mistake when it dismissed her from the counseling program.  The FAC alleges that University’s procedure for matters like this entails an  opportunity to review information that will be used in determining whether a  student violated a policy warranting dismissal, among other things. (FAC, pp.  7-8.) The FAC alleges that University did not provide Plaintiff with the  evidence, details, or even a report upon which University relied when it  decided to dismiss Plaintiff from the counseling program. (FAC, pp. 13-14.) Since  the allegations are assumed to be true on a demurrer, the Court finds these  allegations sufficient to demonstrate that University’s conduct fell within the  arbitrary and capricious exception to the judicial nonintervention rule. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318; Valvo v. Univ. of S. California, supra, 67 Cal.App.3d at  p. 896.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the  demurrer with respect to all causes of action.  Third Cause of Action – Negligent Infliction of  Emotional Distress  To state a cause of action for negligent infliction  of emotional distress, the plaintiff must allege facts that would support a  claim for negligence, namely duty, breach, causation, and damages. (Eriksson v. Nunnink (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 708, 729.)  University demurs to the Third Cause of Action for  negligent infliction of emotional distress on the grounds that it essentially  restates Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim, as it arises out of University’s  policies and procedures related to its students, and thus fails to establish a  duty beyond the contractual obligations.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends the FAC states  sufficient facts to support a claim for negligent infliction of emotional  distress. Plaintiff cites the allegations of the FAC indicating that University  is an institution of higher education and therefore assumes a duty of care,  especially in this case which involved a department of other psychologists and  Plaintiff’s known mental health issues. Plaintiff contends University owed her  a duty of care through University’s handbooks, advertisements, and marketing  materials.  The Court finds the FAC fails to allege sufficient  facts to state a cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional  distress. University correctly argues that Plaintiff’s claim of duty is based  on the same policies and procedures that support Plaintiff’s breach of contract  claims and therefore arises out of contractual obligations, not duties of care  imposed by operation of law. (FAC, p. 22.) “A person may not ordinarily recover  in tort for the breach of duties that merely restate contractual obligations.”  (Stop Loss Ins. Brokers, Inc. v. Brown & Toland Med. Grp.  (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1041, internal quotation marks omitted.) Moreover,  to the extent this cause of action is duplicative of Plaintiff’s breach of  contract claim, that is also a basis for sustaining a demurrer. (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth  (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the Third Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Fourth Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress[1] To state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional  distress, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) defendant engaged  in extreme and outrageous conduct (conduct so extreme as to exceed all bounds  of decency in a civilized community) with the intent to cause, or with reckless  disregard to the probability of causing, emotional distress; and (2) as a  result, plaintiff suffered extreme or severe emotional distress.” (Berry v.  Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273 (Berry).) “Whether a  defendant's conduct can reasonably be found to be outrageous is a question of  law that must initially be determined by the court; if reasonable persons may  differ, it is for the jury to determine whether the conduct was, in fact,  outrageous. [Citation.]” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,  534; but see Berry, supra, 90 Cal.App.5th at p. 1273 [“’[W]hether  conduct is ‘outrageous’ is usually a question of fact.’ [Citation]”.) University demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action for  intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds that it fails to  state a cause of action. University contends the FAC does not allege facts  demonstrating extreme and outrageous conduct, but at worst shows University  sought to ensure that the individuals who work with vulnerable children are  responsible, ethical people who would never fail to report suicidal ideations  in a young child.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends the facts upon  which Plaintiff’s dismissal was based are still unknown. Plaintiff contends the  FAC alleges University had direct knowledge of Plaintiff’s dedication to pursue  her chosen career, knew how closely Plaintiff identified as a future child  counselor, and knew of Plaintiff’s disability that made it probable she would  suffer serious emotional harm if summarily dismissed in a callous manner  without explanation or factual evidence to support the dismissal. Plaintiff  contends University’s position of power over her makes its actions extreme and  outrageous here.  The Court finds the FAC fails to allege facts  sufficient to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional  distress (IIED). “A defendant's conduct is outrageous when it is so extreme as  to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051,  internal citation and quotation marks omitted.) “Liability for intentional  infliction of emotional distress does not extend to mere… indignities…” (Ibid.,  internal citation and quotation marks omitted.) Distressing conduct in and of  itself is not actionable. (Okorie v. Los Angeles Unified  Sch. Dist. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 574, 597, disapproved on other  grounds by Bonni v. St. Joseph Health Sys.  (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995.) Dismissal from a university program, while unfortunate  and understandably distressing, is a common occurrence, and does not as a matter  of law rise to the level of extreme and outrageous conduct.  Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Fourth Cause of Action with leave to amend.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), University was required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds University’s efforts to meet and confer  sufficient. (Rosetti Decl., ¶ 4.)  Exemplary Damages A claim for exemplary  damages (or punitive damages) is subject to a motion to strike when the  allegations fail to rise to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud necessary  under Civil Code section 3294. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central  California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  University moves to strike the portions of the FAC seeking exemplary  damages on the grounds that it fails to allege sufficient facts to support a  request for exemplary damages. University contends the FAC at most alleges a  dismissal from the counseling program that was unwarranted or hastily made. University  contends the FAC does not allege any facts evidencing malicious or willfully  harmful conduct directed towards Plaintiff, intent to harm Plaintiff, or  criminal indifference to Plaintiff’s rights. University contends the FAC  demonstrates University was concerned about protecting innocent children.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends that she has presented  sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff cites  various allegations in the FAC to support this contention, and contends that  University abused its position of power over Plaintiff, who had a known mental  health problem. Plaintiff contends the FAC alleges University callously  dismissed her from University’s counseling program without the necessary  evidence to support that dismissal, which effectively ended her career path  towards becoming a mental health professional.  Given the Court sustained the demurrer to the Third and Fourth  Causes of Action for negligent and intentional infliction of emotional distress,  the only remaining causes of action are for breach of contract, which do not  support claims for punitive damages. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a), italics  added [“In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from  contract…”].) Accordingly, there is no basis for Plaintiff’s punitive  damages claim.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant University of  La Verne’s motion to strike. The Court hereby strikes the following portions of  the FAC, with 20 days’ leave to amend:  -           page 30, line 12 through page 31, line 11 of the FAC; and -           the words “exemplary damages” from the Prayer for Relief, located  at page 31, line 15, of the FAC.  CONCLUSION  The Court OVERRULES Defendant University of Laverne’s demurrer as  to all causes of action of the First Amended Complaint. The Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer as to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action with 20 days leave to  amend.  The Court GRANTS Defendant University of La Verne’s motion to  strike. The Court hereby strikes the following portions of the FAC, with 20  days’ leave to amend:  -           page 30, line 12 through page 31, line 11 of the FAC; and -           the words “exemplary damages” from the Prayer for Relief, located  at page 31, line 15, of the FAC.              Defendant University of La Verne is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.     