 Case Number:  23STCV30852    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer
 
Moving Party: Defendants
Onni Management California, Inc. and Onni Real Estate IX, L.L.C.
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Marquis Crosby, Daniel Boghossian,
Saleema Naitaqi, Carlos Machado, Pearl Hernandez, Martha Hernandez, Chibugo
Udechukwu, Jiahao Lu, Wenhao Shou, Min Kim, Sung Kim, Brianna Barnes, Abai
Dunbar, Paris Dunbar, Caplon Mu, Youssef Atlam, Jesse Reyes, Natalia Morales,
Axel Gonzalez, Robert Yang, Joshua Oler, Mable Oler, Elysha Puga, Allen Felahy,
Khalida Bradford, Omar Aniff, Tamara Hall, Emerson Striveson, Priyank Ahir,
Zeyel Nash, Monet Smith, Morris Smith, Jesus Luevanos, Kervin Voyard, Alanna
Morris, Junwoo Lee, Tri-Neli Houston, Jessica Heins, Erik Heins, Jonathan
Campillo, and Xuanshan Cai
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Strike
 
Moving Party: Defendants
Onni Management California, Inc. and Onni Real Estate IX, L.L.C.
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Marquis Crosby, Daniel Boghossian,
Saleema Naitaqi, Carlos Machado, Pearl Hernandez, Martha Hernandez, Chibugo
Udechukwu, Jiahao Lu, Wenhao Shou, Min Kim, Sung Kim, Brianna Barnes, Abai
Dunbar, Paris Dunbar, Caplon Mu, Youssef Atlam, Jesse Reyes, Natalia Morales,
Axel Gonzalez, Robert Yang, Joshua Oler, Mable Oler, Elysha Puga, Allen Felahy,
Khalida Bradford, Omar Aniff, Tamara Hall, Emerson Striveson, Priyank Ahir,
Zeyel Nash, Monet Smith, Morris Smith, Jesus Luevanos, Kervin Voyard, Alanna
Morris, Junwoo Lee, Tri-Neli Houston, Jessica Heins, Erik Heins, Jonathan
Campillo, and Xuanshan Cai
 
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
        
On December 18, 2023, Plaintiffs Marquis Crosby, Daniel Boghossian,
Saleema Naitaqi, Carlos Machado, Pearl Hernandez, Martha Hernandez, Chibugo
Udechukwu, Jiahao Lu, Wenhao Shou, Min Kim, Sung Kim, Brianna Barnes, Abai
Dunbar, Paris Dunbar, Caplon Mu, Youssef Atlam, Jesse Reyes, Natalia Morales,
Axel Gonzalez, Robert Yang, Joshua Oler, Mable Oler, Elysha Puga, Allen Felahy,
Khalida Bradford, Omar Aniff, Tamara Hall, Emerson Striveson, Priyank Ahir,
Zeyel Nash, Monet Smith, Morris Smith, Jesus Luevanos, Kervin Voyard, Alanna
Morris, Junwoo Lee, Tri-Neli Houston, Jessica Heins, Erik Heins, Jonathan Campillo,
and Xuanshan Cai filed their Complaint against Defendants Onni Management
California, Inc. and Onni Real Estate IX, LLC. The Complaint pleads causes of
action for violations of the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act,
invasion of privacy, and declaratory relief. 
 
On January 19, 2024, Defendants filed: (1) Demurrer; and (2) Motion to
Strike. With each of these filings, Defendants concurrently filed: (1)
Declaration of Ava Claypool; and (2) Proposed Order. 
 
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Oppositions to the Demurrer
and the Motion to Strike. 
 
On February 16, 2024, Defendants filed their Replies in support of the
Demurrer and the Motion to Strike. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Demurrer
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
“The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
“When any ground for
objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).)
 
“A demurrer to a
complaint or cross-complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or
cross-complaint or to any of the causes of action stated therein.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).)
 
“In reviewing the sufficiency
of a complaint against a general demurrer, we are guided by long-settled rules.
We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed. Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation,
reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318, citations and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendants demur to the second and third causes of action in the
Complaint. 
 
1.      Second Cause of Action — Invasion of Privacy
 
a.  
    Legal Standard
 
“All people are
by nature free and independent and have inalienable rights. Among these are
enjoying and defending life and liberty, acquiring, possessing, and protecting
property, and pursuing and obtaining safety, happiness, and privacy.” (Cal.
Const., art. I, § 1.)
 
“In Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1 [26 Cal. Rptr. 2d 834, 865 P.2d 633] (Hill), this court
established a framework for analyzing constitutional invasion of privacy
claims. An actionable claim requires three essential elements: (1) the claimant
must possess a legally protected privacy interest (id. at p. 35); (2)
the claimant's expectation of privacy must be objectively reasonable (id.
at pp. 36–37); and (3) the invasion of privacy complained of must be serious in
both its nature and scope (id. at p. 37). If the claimant establishes
all three required elements, the strength of that privacy interest is balanced
against countervailing interests. (Id. at pp. 37–38.) In general, the
court should not proceed to balancing unless a satisfactory threshold showing
is made. A defendant is entitled to prevail if it negates any of the three
required elements. (Id. at p. 40; see Pioneer Electronics, supra,
40 Cal.4th at p. 373.) A defendant can also prevail at the balancing stage. An
otherwise actionable invasion of privacy may be legally justified if it
substantively furthers one or more legitimate competing interests. (Hill,
at p. 40.) Conversely, the invasion may be
unjustified if the claimant can point to ‘feasible and effective alternatives’
with ‘a lesser impact on privacy interests.’ (Ibid.)” (Cnty. of Los Angeles v. Los
Angeles Cnty. Emp. Rel. Comm. (2013) 56 Cal.4th 905, 926.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendants demur to the second cause of action for invasion of privacy,
arguing: (1) that Plaintiffs cannot state a claim because they admit they
consented to the release of their information and thus cannot allege they had a
reasonable expectation of privacy; and (2) Plaintiffs do not allege a serious
invasion of privacy. (Demurrer, pp. 6:6–11, 7:4–9.)
 
The Court disagrees with these arguments. 
 
Here, Plaintiffs have not alleged that they consented to the investigative
consumer reports. Rather, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants “required
Plaintiffs to complete an ‘Application’ and to consent to a release of
information” but that Defendants did not have Plaintiffs fill out a “consent
form” or provide Plaintiffs with any means “by which Plaintiffs could indicate
that he or she wished to receive a copy of any report prepared in connection
with the application.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 56, 62.) Whether the “consent” given here
was applicable to the investigative consumer reports, sufficient to waive an
invasion of privacy cause of action, or knowingly given all involve questions
of fact. Thus, this issue is not suitable for resolution on demurrer. 
 
As to the seriousness of the invasion, a trier of fact could reasonably
determine that obtaining an investigative consumer report on a prospective
tenant is a serious violation of the prospective tenants’ privacy rights.
Indeed, the Legislature recognized as much in its findings when it created the
Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act. (Civ. Code, § 1786.) It is also
notable that the Legislature explicitly wrote that “[n]othing in [the
Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act] shall in any way affect the
right of any consumer to maintain an action against an investigative consumer
reporting agency, a user of an investigative consumer report, or an informant for
invasion of privacy or defamation. (Civ. Code, § 1786.52, emphasis added.)
 
The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the second cause of action for
invasion of privacy. 
 
2.      Third Cause of Action — Declaratory Relief
 
a.  
    Legal Standard
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party
would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a
proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley
v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks
and brackets omitted.)
 
A cause of action for declaratory relief
should not be used as a second cause of action for the determination of
identical issues raised in another cause of action. (Gen. of Am. Ins. Co. v.
Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.) “The availability of another form of
relief that is adequate will usually justify refusal to grant declaratory
relief” (Cal. Ins. Guar. Ass’n v. Super. Ct. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617,
1624), and a duplicative cause of action is subject to demurrer (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Ass’n, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
268, 290). 
 
Further, “there is no basis for declaratory relief
where only past wrongs are involved.” (Osseous Tech. of Am., Inc. v.
DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation
marks omitted.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendants demur to the third cause of action for declaratory relief,
arguing that there is no actual, present controversy. (Demurrer, p. 8:1–4.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
Among other things, Plaintiffs allege that a judicial declaration of
their rights is important to (a) stop Defendants from violating the law regarding
ongoing applications to live in the apartments at issue and (b) stop Defendants
from violating the law regarding these Plaintiffs’ lease renewals and
recertifications. (Complaint, ¶¶ 87–90.)
 
If Defendants actually do obtain and/or use investigative consumer
reports, whether for new tenant applications or upon renewal and/or
recertification of existing tenants’ leases, then this is an ongoing
controversy upon which declaratory relief would be appropriate. For the
purposes of a demurrer, the Court must assume the truth of the allegations
made. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
third cause of action for declaratory relief. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
II.      
Motion to Strike
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall
not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: 
 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)
 
“The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
“A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must
quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to
strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications
in a notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322(a).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendants move the Court to strike sections of the Complaint that
request (1) injunctive relief under the first cause of action, (2) declaratory
and injunctive relief with their third cause of action, and (3) punitive
damages.  Defendants argue that each of
these requests for relief is improper and must be stricken. (Motion to Strike,
pp. 2:13–14, 2:21–22, 4:6.)
 
The Court disagrees with these arguments. 
 
These requests for relief are not irrelevant, false, or improper.
Plaintiffs are entitled to plead these requests for relief. It will ultimately
be Plaintiffs’ burden to provide that they are entitled to the relief they
seek. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 