 Case Number:  22STCV10347    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Strike Portions of Corrected Third Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Moving Party: Living
The Dream and Shalom Shay Gozlan 
Resp. Party:    Gloria Shulman Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr.
 
 
The Motion to Strike is GRANTED in part. 
 
Paragraph 168 and prayer 4 of the tenth cause of action for
unfair business practices are STRICKEN from the pleading. 
 
As to all other issues, the Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
        
On March 24, 2022, Living The Dream filed its Complaint against Gloria
Shulman Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr. on causes of action of declaratory
relief and breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
On June 13, 2022, Living The Dream filed its First Amended Complaint,
which added allegations and causes of action. 
 
On September 21, 2022, Gloria Shulman Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr.
filed: (1) Answer to the First Amended Complaint; and (2) Cross-Complaint
against Living The Dream and California Numbered Company 4009746. 
 
On October 10, 2022, Gloria Shulman Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr.
filed their First Amended Cross-Complaint.
 
On March 16, 2023, Gloria Shulman Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr. filed
their Second Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
On December 8, 2023, Gloria Shulman Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr.
filed their Third Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
On December 14, 2023, Gloria Shulman Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr.
filed their Corrected Third Amended Cross-Complaint.
 
On January 19, 2024, Living The Dream and Shalom Shay Gozlan (“Moving
Parties”) filed their Motion to Strike Portions of Corrected Third Amended
Cross-Complaint (“Motion to Strike”). In support of their Motion to Strike,
Moving Parties concurrently filed: (1) Memorandum of Points and Authorities;
(2) Declaration of Adam J. Yarbrough; and (3) Proof of Service. 
 
On February 2, 2024, Gloria Shulman Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr.
(“Opposing Parties”) filed their Opposition to the Motion to Strike. 
 
On February 8, 2024, Moving Parties filed their Reply in support of
their Motion to Strike. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall
not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: 
 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)
 
“The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
“A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must
quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to
strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications
in a notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322(a).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Moving Parties move the Court to strike
various allegations and prayers for relief from the Corrected Third Amended
Cross-Complaint. (Motion to Strike, pp. 2:10–3:11.)
 
Moving Parties argue: (1) that the
request for attorneys’ fees pursuant to the Elder Abuse Action should be
stricken; (2) that the request for attorneys’ fees pursuant to the “tort of
another doctrine” should be stricken; (3) that the request for damages under
Business and Professions Code section 17082 should be stricken; (4) that the
request for restitution and disgorgement in connection with the unfair
competition law claim should be stricken; and (5) that Opposing Parties do not
have standing to assert claims on behalf of subtenants, so those allegations
should be stricken. (Memorandum, pp. 2:23–25, 3:23–24, 4:20–21, 6:3–5,
6:14–15.)
 
Opposing Parties disagree, arguing: (1)
that the allegations of the pleading must be accepted as true; (2) that if
Opposing Parties prove conversion or fraud, they will be entitled to attorney’s
fees under Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657.5; (3) that requests for
attorney’s fees under “tort of another doctrine” is a viable theory; (4) that
attorney’s fees may be available under Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5;
(5) that Opposing Parties have a right to restitution for money paid or
withheld arising from Moving Parties’ allegedly wrongful acts; and (6) that the
pleading alleges that the mistreatment of subtenants adversely impacted
homeowners like Opposing Parties. (Opposition, pp. 2:1, 2:8–9, 3:21–22, 4:8,
6:12–13, 7:8–9.)
 
Moving Parties reiterate their arguments
in their Reply. 
 
B.      Attorney’s
Fees for Elder Financial Abuse 
 
1.      Legal
Standard
 
“‘Abuse of an elder or a dependent adult’
means any of the following: . . . (3) Financial abuse, as defined in Section
15610.30.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a)(3).)
 
“‘Financial abuse’ of an elder or
dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any of the following:
 
“(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or
retains real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful
use or with intent to defraud, or both.
 
“(2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating,
obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent
adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
 
“(3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or
retains, or assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or
retaining, real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue
influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.”
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30,
subd. (a).)
 
“A person or
entity shall be deemed to have taken, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or
retained property for a wrongful use if, among other things, the person or
entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains the property and the
person or entity knew or should have known that this conduct is likely to be
harmful to the elder or dependent adult.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30,
subd. (b).)
 
“Where it is
proven by a preponderance of the evidence that a defendant is liable for
financial abuse, as defined in Section 15610.30, in addition to compensatory
damages and all other remedies otherwise provided by law, the court shall award
to the plaintiff reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. . . .” (Welf. &
Inst. Code, § 15657.5, subd. (a).)
 
2.      Discussion
 
Among other things, Opposing Parties
allege: (1) that Opposing Parties are elders; (2) that Moving Parties
“appropriated, obtained, retained, and secreted” Opposing Parties’ real and
personal property; (3) that Moving Parties did so “for a wrongful use and with
the intent to defraud, or assisted in such conduct”; and (4) that Moving
Parties “fraudulently induced [Opposing Parties] to enter into the Lease as
alleged herein based upon misrepresentations of fact.” (Corrected Third Amended
Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 93–95.)
 
If these allegations are proven, a trier
of fact could find that these allegations constitute elder abuse. Furthermore,
attorney’s fees and costs are available here on such allegations. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.5, subd. (a).)
 
        Thus, it is not improper for Opposing
Parties to have included this prayer for relief in their pleading. 
 
C.      Attorney’s
Fees for “Tort of Another” Doctrine
 
1.      Legal
Standard
 
The following is the “tort of another”
doctrine:
 
“General rule: In the absence of some special agreement,
statutory provision, or exceptional circumstances, attorney's fees are to be
paid by the party employing the attorney.
 
“Exception: A person who through the tort of another has
been required to act in the protection of his interests by bringing or
defending an action against a third person is entitled to recover compensation
for the reasonably necessary loss of time, attorney's fees, and other
expenditures thereby suffered or incurred.”
 
(Prentice
v. N. Am. Tit. Guar. Corp. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 618, 620, [citations omitted].)
 
“It is settled that a person who is required through the tort of
another to act in protection of his interest by bringing or defending an action
against a third person is entitled to recover compensation for the reasonably
necessary attorney’s fees incurred.” (Moe v. Transamerica Tit. Ins. Co. (1971)
21 Cal.App.3d 289, 303; see also Saunders v. Cariss (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 905, 910, allowing a plaintiff to seek attorney’s fees incurred as
mitigation of damages caused by a defendant’s alleged malpractice).
 
2.      Discussion
 
Among other things, Opposing Parties
allege: (1) that Moving Parties had a duty to act reasonably and refrain from
actions that would foreseeably harm Opposing Parties, as well as a special relationship
through Moving Parties’ acceptance of the responsibility to account for,
preserve, and store Opposing Parties’ personal property; (2) that Moving
Parties breached their duty of care to Opposing Parties; (3) that Moving
Parties also engaged in misrepresentations; (4) that Moving Parties “hired
third parties, to maintain, repair or modify the Property, that [Moving
Parties] knew or should have known lacked the qualifications, skills and
experience, and negligently and carelessly supervised these third parties”; and
(5) that Opposing Parties pray for recovery of attorneys’ fees under the “tort
of another” doctrine. (Corrected Third Amended Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 114–123,
141–146.)
 
It is not clear to the Court whether these
allegations are sufficient for attorney’s fees through the “tort of another”
doctrine. However, a court should not to strike a prayer for
relief for attorney's fees until the plaintiff “has had a full opportunity to
determine, through discovery, whether a basis for recovery exists.” (Camenisch
v. Superior Court (Burns) (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1689, 1699.)
 
The Court DENIES the Motion to Strike references
to attorney’s fees via the “tort of another” doctrine from the pleading. 
 
D.      Business
and Professions Code section 17082
 
1.      Legal
Standard
 
“In any action under this chapter, it is
not necessary to allege or prove actual damages or the threat thereof, or
actual injury or the threat thereof, to the plaintiff. But, in addition to
injunctive relief, any plaintiff in any such action shall be entitled to
recover three times the amount of the actual damages, if any, sustained by the
plaintiff, as well as three times the actual damages, if any, sustained by any
person who has assigned to the plaintiff his claim for damages resulting from a
violation of this chapter. In any action under this chapter in which judgment
is entered against the defendant the plaintiff shall be awarded a reasonable
attorney’s fee together with the costs of suit. . . .” (Bus. & Prof. Code,
§ 17082, paragraph break omitted.)
 
2.      Discussion
 
Opposing Parties concede that Business
and Professions Code section 17082 is the wrong authority, arguing instead that
attorneys’ fees may be available under Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5.
(Opposition, p. 4:8–15.)
 
        Whether Code of Civil Procedure section
1021.5 is applicable to the allegations in the pleading is irrelevant to the
Motion to Strike. Opposing Parties concede that Business and Professions Code
section 17082 is inapplicable here; therefore, it (and its prayer for actual
and treble damages, as well as attorney’s fees) should be excised from the
pleading. 
 
        The Court STRIKES paragraph 168 and
prayer 4 of the tenth cause of action for unfair business practices from the
pleading. 
 
E.         Restitution
and Disgorgement for Unfair Business Practices
 
Moving Parties argue that “restitution and disgorgement” remedies are
not supported because Opposing Parties “do not allege that they ever in fact
paid any funds to [Moving Parties] to be restored.” (Demurrer, p. 6:4–13.)
 
However, as Opposing Parties note, paragraph 81 of the pleading alleges
that Moving Parties have inflated bills and deducted costs for “repairs” from
rent owed to Opposing Parties. Paragraph 82 of the pleading further notes that
these “repairs” are unfair as the property is not actually repaired but instead
left in poor condition. Opposing Parties allege that they have been harmed by
these practices. 
 
If these allegations are proven true, then restitution and disgorgement
remedies might be appropriate. 
 
F.     Standing for Subtenants
 
Moving Parties argue that the allegations related to subtenants are
improper because Opposing Parties lack standing to assert claims on behalf of
them. (Demurrer, p. 6.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. Upon review of the allegations,
it does not appear that Opposing Parties are seeking damages on behalf of the
subtenants. Rather, the allegations are used to demonstrate the allegedly
fraudulent and unfair practices that Opposing Parties claim Moving Parties
engaged in, which in turn harmed Opposing Parties. Thus, these allegations are
not improper. 
 
III.    
Conclusion

 
The Motion to Strike is GRANTED in part. 
 
Paragraph 168 and prayer 4 of the tenth cause of action for
unfair business practices are STRICKEN from the pleading. 
 
In all else, the Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 