 Case Number:  BC419058    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



EASTLAND CORPORATION, A California Corporation dba C&H Meat
  Co.;
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
LA GALBI, INC., a California corporation, dba Galbi Korean BBQ;
  and TAE HWA JOO, an individual; and MOON KWON JOO, an individual; and MOON
  & FLOWER, INC., a California corporation, dba Nogoya Sushi; and YOUNG JIN
  CORPORATION, a California corporation; and WON CHANG, an individual; and JI YOUNG
  JOO, an individual, aka Young Joo Lee; and MADANGSAE, INC., a California
  corporation, dba Madangsae BBQ Restaurant, dba Ma Dang Soi; and HO BOK INC.,
  a California corporation, dba HO BOK BBQ; and IN HO LEE, an individual; and
  BOK KIM TAE, an individual, aka TAE BOK KIM; and 153 OK, INC., a California corporation;
  and IN GAP CHUN, an individual, and DOES 1 to 10, inclusive;
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          BC419058
 Hearing Date:   9/20/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Ji Young
  Joo’s Claim of Exemption.



 
 
Background
Plaintiff Eastland Corporation sued
a number of Defendants—including Defendant Ji Young Joo—pursuant to a July 31,
2009 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Open Book
Account, (3) Account Stated, (4) Goods Sold and Delivered, and (5) Statutory
Damages on Dishonored Checks.
The claims arose from allegations
that Plaintiff and Defendants entered an agreement for the purchase of
goods—specifically fresh and frozen meat products, with Plaintiff as the seller
and Defendants as the purchasers—and that Plaintiff delivered goods to
Defendants only for Defendants to either fail to pay their debt or to provide
checks that bounced for insufficient funds, thus damaging Plaintiff in the
amount of $55,702.51.
On November 13, 2009, Plaintiff
secured an entry of default against all Defendants except for Tae Hwan Joo and
Moon Kwon Joo, i.e., against Defendants La Galbi, Inc., Moon & Flower,
Inc., Young Jin Corporation, Won Chang, Ji Young Joo, Madangsae, Inc., Ho Bok,
Inc., In Ho Lee, Bok Kim Tae, 153 OK, Inc., and In Gap Chun (the Defaulted
Defendants).
On January 28, 2010, Plaintiff
filed a complete default judgment packet against the Defaulted Defendants.
Pursuant to Plaintiff’s request,
the Court entered judgment against the Defaulted Defendants.
On January 21, 2020, Plaintiff
applied for a renewal of judgment.
That same day, a notice of renewal
of judgment was issued by the Clerk.
On June 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
memorandum of costs after judgment.
That same day, Plaintiff applied for,
and the Clerk issued a writ of execution for a money judgment.
On July 21, 2023, Defendant Ji
Young Yoo (Yoo) received notice that approximately $53,779.91 had collectively
been taken out of seven bank accounts held by Yoo at Bank of America.
On July 31, 2023, Defendant Yoo
made an ex parte application to recall and quash the June 15, 2023 writ of
execution. The ex parte application also informed the Court that Defendant Yoo
had set a formal motion to set aside default judgment in this matter for
hearing on October 23, 2023.
On August 1, 2023, Plaintiff
opposed the ex parte application.
On August 2, 2023, the Court denied
the ex parte application but calendared a hearing on the same relief for
October 23, 2023, to be heard concurrently with the motion to set aside default
judgment.
On August 16, 2023, Collect Access
LLC filed and served a notice of hearing on a claim of exemption made by
Defendant Yoo. Service was made on the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Office and
Defendant Yoo’s counsel—Equitable Law Group.
That same day, Collect Access LLC
filed a notice of opposition to claim of exemption.
The record does not yet reflect that
a motion to set aside default judgment has been filed.
Defendant Yoo’s claim of exemption
is now before the Court.
 
Claim of Exemption
Legal
Standard
Except
as otherwise provided by law, all property of the judgment debtor is subject to
enforcement of a money judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 695.010, subd. (a).) After
entry of a money judgment other than those arising from the Family Code
(subject to additional requirements), and upon application of the judgment
creditor, the clerk of the court shall issue a writ of execution, which must be
directed to the levying officer in the county where the levy is to be made and
to any registered process server. (Code Civ. Proc., § 699.510.)
Property
that has been levied upon may be claimed to be exempt as provided in Code of
Civil Procedure sections 703.510 to 703.610 unless otherwise provided by
statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.510, subd. (a); see Code Civ. Proc., §§
703.510-703.610 [Enforcement of Money Judgments, Exemptions, Procedure for
Claiming Exemptions After Levy].)
The
debtor must make the claim within 15 days of the date the notice of levy on the
property was served (20 days if the notice of levy was served by mail). (Code
Civ. Proc., § 703.520, subd. (a).)
The
claim must be executed under oath and include the name and mailing address of
the claimant, a description of the property claimed to be exempt, a financial
statement as required by section 703.530, a citation of the statute on which
the claim is based, and a statement of facts necessary to support the claim.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 703.520, subd. (b).) A financial statement is required
where property is claimed as exempt pursuant to a provision exempting property
to the extent necessary for the support of the judgment debtor and the spouse
and dependents of the judgment debtor. (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.530, subd. (a).)
The financial statement must be executed under oath by the judgment debtor and
the debtor’s spouse unless the same are living separate and apart, and must
include:
(1)
The name of the spouse of the judgment debtor;
(2)
The name, age, and relationship of all persons dependent upon the judgment
debtor or the spouse of the judgment debtor for support;
(3)
All sources and the amounts of earnings and other income of the judgment debtor
and the spouse and dependents of the judgment debtor;
(4)
A list of the assets of the judgment debtor and the spouse and dependents of
the judgment debtor and the value of such assets; and
(5)
All outstanding obligations of the judgment debtor and the spouse and
dependents of the judgment debtor. 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 703.530, subds. (b)(1)-(5), (c).)
 The hearing on the motion shall be held not
later than 30 days from the date the notice of motion was filed with the court
unless continued by the court for good cause. (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.570,
subd. (a).)
The
claim of exemption is deemed controverted by the notice of opposition to the
claim of exemption and both shall be received in evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., §
703.580, subd. (c).) If no other evidence is offered, the court, if satisfied
that sufficient facts are shown by the claim of exemption (including the
financial statement if one is required) and the notice of opposition, may make
its determination thereon. (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.580, subd. (c).) If not
satisfied, the court shall order the hearing continued for the production of
other evidence, oral or documentary. (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.580, subd. (c).)
At
the hearing on the claim of exception, the claimant has the burden of proof.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 703.580, subd. (b).)
Order
Granting Claim of Exemption: CONTINUED.
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on the claim of exemption to 8:30 on October 23,
2023.
A
concurrent hearing for the motion to set aside default judgment, motion to recall
and quash writ of execution (briefed as an ex parte application), and the claim
of exemption is the best use of judicial resources. For example, if the motion
to set aside is filed by Defendant Yoo and granted by the Court, then there are
grounds to recall and quash the writ of execution and grant the claim of
exemption.
The
Court briefly notes that the notice of opposition to claim of exemption does
not attach any documents showing the financial statement with which Plaintiff
takes issue nor any other documents that will assist the Court to make a proper
determination as to the claim. (See 8/16/23 Notice of Opp’n, items 5-6.) 

Conclusion
Defendant Ji Young Joo’s Claim of
Exemption is CONTINUED to 8:30 AM on October 23, 2023 to be heard concurrently
with Defendant Yoo’s motion to set aside default judgment and motion to recall
and quash writ of execution.
To the extent that the parties need
to supplement filings in support of or opposition to the claim of exemption,
the Court advises the parties to do so before the next hearing.