  Case Number:  23STCV01256    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ALEX AMAYA, individually and on behalf of all other Aggrieved
  Employees,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
SWINERTON INCORPORATED, a California Corporation; M D BUILDERS
  INC., a California Corporation; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV01256
 Hearing Date:   9/20/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants M D
  Builders Inc., Swinerton Builders, Swinerton Builders HC, and Swinerton
  Incorporated’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings.



 
Background
Plaintiff Alex Amaya, individually
and on behalf of all other Aggrieved Employees, sues Defendants Swinerton Incorporated, M D Builders Inc.,
Doe 1 Swinerton Builders HC, Doe 2 Swinerton Builders, and Does 3 through 50
pursuant to a January 19, 2023 Complaint alleging a single claim of Violation
of California Labor Code § 2698, et seq. (California Labor Code Private
Attorneys General Act (PAGA) of 2004).
The claim arises from allegations that Defendants engaged in various
Labor Code violations affecting Plaintiff Amaya and other aggrieved employees
of Defendants, including (1) failure to provide employment records, (2) failure
to provide overtime/double time, (3) failure to provide meal and rest periods,
(4) failure to pay minimum wages, (5) failure to keep accurate and provide
itemized wage statements, (6) failure to pay reporting time, (7) failure to
“split shift” premiums, (8) failure to timely pay wages during employment, (9)
failure to timely pay wages upon termination, (10) failure to reimburse
necessary business-related expenses and costs, and (11) failure to provide
notice of paid sick time and accrual.
On May 15, 2023, Defendants
Swinerton Incorporated, M D
Builders Inc., Doe 1 Swinerton Builders HC, and Doe 2 Swinerton Builders
(Defendants) moved for an order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s Labor
Code claims and a stay of the remaining PAGA claims affecting other aggrieved
employees. The motion was set for hearing on June 28, 2023.
On June 1, 2023, the parties filed a joint stipulation and proposed order
to continue the hearing date on Defendants’ motion to September 20, 2023. 
On June 6, 2023, the Court signed the stipulation’s proposed order.
On August 21, 2023, Defendants filed a notice of related case involving
two different actions, one filed with the Superior Court of Orange County, and
another filed with the Superior Court of San Bernardino.
On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff Amaya opposed Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration and stay proceedings.
On September 13, 2023, Defendants replied to Plaintiff Amaya’s
opposition.
Defendants’ motion is now before the Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
The Court declines to take judicial
notice of the exhibits advanced for notice by Defendants because they are not
dispositive in the Court’s determination for this motion. (Evid. Code, §§ 452,
453; see Mot., RJN, Exs. 1-3.)
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings

Legal Standard 
The Federal Arbitration Act
(“FAA”), while a federal statute, applies in California courts and requires
state courts to enforce arbitration agreements as required by the federal
common law developed under the FAA. (See Southland Corp. v. Keating
(1984) 465 U.S. 1, 15-16; Broughton v. Cigna Healthplans (1999) 21
Cal.4th 1066, 1074-78, superseded by statute on another ground as stated in Ferguson
v. Corinthian Colleges, Inc. (9th Cir. 2013) 733 F.3d 928, 937.).) The FAA
preempts and invalidates state law and state judicial decisions that disfavor
arbitration or require arbitration provisions to pass higher scrutiny. (Southland
Corp. v. Keating, supra, at p. 12; Perry v. Thomas (1987) 482
U.S. 483, 490.) If the parties designate the FAA applies, then California
arbitration law is preempted. (See, e.g., Rodriguez v. American Techs., Inc.
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1121-1122.) However, courts have found that
where the FAA is found not to apply, the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1280 et seq.) applies. (See Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 153, 178.)
 A court’s inquiry is limited
to a determination of (1) whether a valid arbitration agreement exists and (2)
whether the arbitration agreement covers the dispute. (9 U.S.C. § 4; Chiron
Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostics Systems, Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126,
1130; Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 84; see Simula,
Inc. v. Autoliv, Inc. (9th Cir. 1999) 175 F.3d 716, 720 [if the finding is
affirmative on both counts the FAA requires the Court to enforce the
arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms].) “An order to arbitrate
the particular grievance should not be denied unless it may be said with
positive assurance that the arbitration clause is not susceptible of an
interpretation that covers the asserted dispute.” (United Steelworkers of
America v. Warrior & Gulf Navigation Co. (1960) 363 U.S. 574,
582-583.) 
 Moreover, the general rule is
that the FAA governs all agreements to arbitrate in contracts “involving
interstate commerce.” (Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
1238, 1247.) The term “involving” commerce “is broad and is indeed the
functional equivalent of “affecting’ commerce.” (Allied-Bruce Terminix
Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 273-274.) The U.S. Supreme
Court has held that this broad interpretation includes employment contracts.
(See Circuit City Stores v. Adams (2001) 532 U.S. 105, 106.) The
defendant bears the burden of proving applicability of the FAA by showing that
its activities constitute interstate commerce. (Hoover v. Am. Income Life
Ins. Co. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1207.) Failure to demonstrate that
the employment agreement affects interstate commerce renders the FAA
inapplicable. (See Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 676, 687-688; Woolls v. Superior Court (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 197, 212.)
Even where the FAA governs the
interpretation of arbitration clauses, California law governs whether an
arbitration agreement has been formed in the first instance. (Baker v.
Osborne Development Corp. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 884, 893.) 
 The party seeking arbitration
has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) “Once that burden is satisfied, the party
opposing arbitration must prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense
to the petition.” (Lacayo v. Cataline Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 244, 257.) “The trial court sits as the trier of fact, weighing all
the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral
testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra, at
p. 842.) 
On a petition to compel
arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds (1) no written
agreement to arbitrate exists, (2) the right to compel arbitration has been
waived, (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or (4) litigation is
pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting
rulings on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.)
In determining the enforceability
of an arbitration agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of
arbitrability: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the
parties, and (2) whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.” (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) If these issues are
satisfied in favor of the movant, (3) the party opposing arbitration must prove
by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the petition. (Lacayo v.
Cataline Restaurant Group Inc., supra, 38 Cal.App.5th at p. 257.)
Order Compelling Arbitration and
Staying Proceedings: GRANTED.
I.
Whether Arbitration Agreement
Exists
“Parties are not required to
arbitrate their disagreements unless they have agreed to do so. [Citation.] A
contract to arbitrate will not be inferred absent a ‘clear agreement.’
[Citation.] When determining whether a valid contract to arbitrate exists, we
apply ordinary state law principles that govern contract formation. [Citation]
In California, a ‘clear agreement’ to arbitrate may be either express or
implied in fact. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Nordstrom, Inc. (9th Cir. 2014)
755 F.3d 1089, 1092-93 [applying California law].) The court is only required
to make a finding of the agreement’s existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., supra,
88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.)
Defendants argue that an
arbitration agreement exists between Defendants and Plaintiffs because, on May
18, 2022, as part of his onboarding process, Plaintiff Amaya electronically
signed an arbitration agreement that covers all the parties to this action.
(Mot., pp. 7-8; see Mot., Kochis Decl., Exs. A [arbitration agreement], B
[electronic confirmation of signature by Plaintiff Amaya].)
Plaintiff Amaya does not dispute
his execution of the arbitration agreement in his opposition.
The Court finds that an agreement
to arbitrate exists between the parties.
California case law has held that
an electronic signature was properly authenticated when a declarant “detailed
[the company’s] security precautions regarding transmission and use of an
applicant’s unique username and password, as well as the steps an applicant
would have to take to place his or her name on the signature line of the
employment agreement …,” such that, “[b]ased on this procedure, [the declarant]
concluded that the ‘name [of the employee] could have only been placed on the
signature pages of the employment agreement … by someone using [the employee’s]
unique user name and password,’” and that “ [g]iven this process for signing
documents and protecting the privacy of the information with unique and private
user names and passwords, the electronic signature was made by [the employee]
on the employment agreement … at the date, time, and IP address listed on the
documents.” (Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1062 (Espejo).)
Here, Defendants have attached a
copy of the relevant arbitration agreement, as well as electronic confirmation
that the agreement was signed by Plaintiff. (Mot., Kochis Decl., Exs. A-B.)
Defendants also provide the
declaration of Michael Kochis, Manager of Business Solutions for Human
Resources and Payroll for Swinerton Incorporated, which provides sufficient
details establishing that the electronic signature advanced by Defendants
belongs to Plaintiff Amaya. (Mot., Kochis Decl., ¶¶ 18; see also Drummond
Decl., ¶¶ 1-3; Johnson Decl., ¶¶ 1-8.) This declaration satisfies the standard
set out in Espejo.
The Court also notes that while the
arbitration agreement facially only involves Plaintiff Amaya, Swinerton
Incorporated, and Swinerton Builders, among others, the agreement is also
applicable to Defendants M D Builders
Inc. and Swinerton Builders HC. The arbitration agreement expressly provides
that the arbitration agreement applies to specific types of claims made against
“Swinerton Incorporated, Swinerton Builders, SOLV, Inc., Lindgren Development,
SAK Builders, and TimberLab or one of its/their affiliates, subsidiaries or
parent companies.” (Mot., Kochis Decl., Ex. A, § 1.) The declaration of Brenda
Reimche establishes that “MD Builders, Inc., Swinerton Builders, Inc., and
Swinerton Builders, HC are separate corporate subsidiaries of Swinerton, though
Swinerton Builders, HC no longer operates and has no employees,” that “MD
Builders was at all times Amaya’s sole employer,” and that “MD Builders is a
general contractor based in Northern California that provides general
contracting and trade subcontracting services on Swinerton’s projects.” (Mot.,
Reimche Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) As such, Defendants M D Builders Inc. and Swinerton Builders HC are affiliates of Swinerton
Incorporated and Swinerton Builders. (See Mot., p. 7, fn. 1 [“For purposes of
this motion only, Defendants MD Builders, Swinerton, Swinerton Builders, and
Swinerton Builders, HC are referred collectively as ‘Defendants.’ MD Builders
and each of the other named defendants are separate and distinct corporate
subsidiaries of Swinerton, and MD Builders was at all times Amaya’s sole
employer. Declaration of Brenda Reimche (‘Reimche Decl.’) ¶ 2.”].)
Accordingly, an arbitration
agreement exists between the parties.
II.
Scope of, and Defenses to, the
Arbitration Agreement
“‘[P]arties may agree to have an
arbitrator decide not only the merits of a particular dispute but also
‘“‘gateway’ questions of ‘arbitrability,’ such as whether the parties have
agreed to arbitrate or whether their agreement covers a particular controversy.”’
[Citation.] But ‘[c]ourts should not assume that the parties agreed to
arbitrate arbitrability unless there is “clea[r] and unmistakabl[e]” evidence
that they did so.’ [Citation.] This is a ‘heightened standard,’ and it
‘pertains to the parties’ manifestation of intent, not the agreement’s
validity.’ [Citation.]” (Najarro v. Superior Court (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th
871, 879-880 (Najarro).) 
However, “[c]ourts have held that
‘there is no clear and unmistakable delegation to the arbitrator’ to decide
arbitrability where the contract ‘includes a severability clause stating a
court of competent jurisdiction may excise an unconscionable provision.’” (Id.
at p. 880.) “In other words, pursuant to an exception …, if a severability
clause states that a court may excise unconscionable provisions, the
delegation clause does not meet the heightened standard necessary for
enforcement, because it is no longer clear that only the arbitrator may decide
issues such as unconscionability.” (Ibid. [emphasis in original].) 
Defendants argue that “with the
exception of the requirement for individual arbitration in section 5, the
Parties agreed to delegate ‘exclusive authority’ to the arbitration ‘to resolve
any dispute relating to the validity, applicability, enforceability,
unconscionability, or waiver of th[e] Agreement.’” (Mot., pp. 17-18, citing to
Mot., Kochis Decl., ¶ 18, Ex. A, §§ 1, 5.)
Plaintiff Amaya’s opposition fails
to address delegation.
However, the Court finds that it
has the authority to address the scope of the arbitration agreement and
defenses to its enforcement.
The parties’ arbitration agreement
explicitly provides that “[t]he Class Action Waiver [and Collective Action
Waiver in the arbitration agreement] shall be severable from th[e]Agreement if
there is a final judicial determination that the Class Action Waiver [or
Collective Action Waiver] is invalid, unenforceable, unconscionable, void or
voidable” and that “[i]n such instances, the class [or collective] action must
be litigated in a civil court of competent jurisdiction—not in arbitration.” (Mot.,
Kochis Decl., Ex. A, §§ 5(a), 5(b).)
The Court in Najarro held
that a similar provision in an arbitration agreement resulted in the conclusion
that the “delegation clause fail[ed] to meet the heightened standard [for
delegation of arbitrability questions] because … the severability clause” in that
arbitration agreement showed “that there [was] no clear and unmistakable
delegation to the arbitrator to decide enforceability.” (Najarro, supra,
70 Cal.App.5th at p. 880.) The Najarro severability clause reads: “‘Except
as expressly provided above in relation to class, group, or representative
actions, if the arbitrator or any judge of competent jurisdiction determines
that any provision of the JAMS Rules or this [a]greement is illegal, invalid,
or unenforceable, such provisions shall be severed or modified so that the
remainder of the [a]greement shall apply to the fullest extent permitted by
law.’” (Ibid.) The Court finds that this language is sufficiently
similar to the class and collective action severability clause in the
arbitration agreement between the parties here, compelling a conclusion that
this Court has the authority to determine the scope and defenses to enforcement
of the arbitration agreement because the arbitration agreement at issue fails
to show a “clear and unmistakable delegation to the arbitrator to decide
enforceability.” (Ibid.)
Accordingly, the delegation clause
in the arbitration agreement does not divest this Court’s power to make a determination
of arbitrability relating to this motion.
III.
Scope of the Arbitration
Agreement
“[T]he decision as to whether a
contractual arbitration clause covers a particular dispute rests substantially
on whether the clause in question is ‘broad’ or ‘narrow.’” (Bono v. David
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1067.) “‘A “broad” clause includes those using
language such as “any claim arising from or related to this agreement”‘
[Citation] or ‘arising in connection with the [a]greement’ [Citation.]” (Rice
v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 186 [italics omitted].) “But clauses
requiring arbitration of a claim, dispute, or controversy ‘arising from’ or
‘arising out of’ an agreement, i.e., excluding language such as ‘relating to
this agreement’ or ‘in connection with this agreement,’ are ‘generally
considered to be more limited in scope than would be, for example, a clause
agreeing to arbitrate “‘any controversy … arising out of or relating to this
agreement[.]’” [Citations.]” (Id. at p. 186-87 [italics omitted].)
“Several Ninth Circuit cases have held that agreements requiring arbitration of
‘any dispute,’ ‘controversy,’ or ‘claim’ ‘arising under’ or ‘arising out of’
the agreement are intended to encompass only disputes relating to the
interpretation and performance of the agreement.” (Id. at p. 187.)
Defendants argue that the
arbitration agreement covers the individual PAGA claims related to Plaintiff
Amaya because the agreement provides that “‘[a]ll disputes covered by th[e]
Agreement will be decided by a single arbitrator through final and binding
arbitration and not by way of court or jury trial,’” where the disputes covered
by the arbitration agreement involve “‘disputes arising out of or relating to …
compensation, … minimum wage, expense reimbursement, overtime, breaks and rest
periods,’” and “‘all other federal or state claims … arising out of or relating
to [Plaintiff Amaya’s] … employment.’” (Mot., pp. 8-9, quoting Mot., Kochis
Decl., Ex. A, § 1.) Defendants also clarify that the arbitration agreement “emphasizes
that its broad scope includes only individual claims, providing that the
parties will ‘bring any claim on an individual basis ….’” (Mot., p. 9, quoting
Mot., Kochis Decl., Ex. A, § 5 [italics and bold lettering omitted].)
In opposition, Plaintiff Amaya argues
that the arbitration agreement expressly sets out limitations on the agreement
and that those limitations exclude “‘representative actions for civil penalties
filed under the California Private Attorney General Act.’” (Opp’n, pp. 3-4,
quoting Mot., Kochis Decl., Ex. A, § 2; see Opp’n, pp. 3-9.) Plaintiff Amaya
also argues that the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Viking River Cruises,
Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S. Ct. 1906 (Viking River) does not
affect this analysis because it is limited to abrogating Iskanian v. CLS
Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348 (Iskanian) insofar
as Iskanian “precluded parties from structuring arbitration agreements
to split individual and non-individual PAGA claims and allowing for the
arbitration of the individual PAGA claims.” (Opp’n, pp. 4-5; see Viking
River, supra, at p. 1124 [“We hold that the FAA preempts the rule of
Iskanian insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions into
individual and non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate. This
holding compels reversal in this case.”].) Plaintiff elaborates by arguing that
“Viking River simply has no[] application to the agreement at issue in
this case because the agreement does not contain an unenforceable waiver of the
right to arbitrate representative claims under PAGA that is outside of the
paragraph that requires arbitration be on an individual basis.” (Opp’n, p. 5.)
In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff
ignores that fact that Viking River held that “individual PAGA claims
are, in fact, divisible from the claims arising from other alleged aggrieved
employes and are arbitrable.” (Mot., p. 6.)
Defendants also argue that the
arbitration agreement’s limitation on PAGA claims applies only to “representative”
PAGA actions, not all PAGA claims, such as individual PAGA claims like
Plaintiff Amaya’s. (Mot., pp. 7-8, citing Piplack v. In-N-Out Burgers
(2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1281, 1288-1289 (Piplack).) Otherwise stated,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s PAGA claims against Defendants constitute ‘an
individual action for civil penalties filed under the California Private
Attorney General Act,” which lies outside of the arbitration agreement’s
limitation on “representative actions for civil penalties filed under the
California Private Attorney General Act.” (Mot., Kochis Decl., Ex. A, § 2.)
The Court finds in favor of
Defendants on this point.
The Court relies on Piplack
for its determination. In Piplack, the arbitration agreement contained
similar language waiving the right to bring a “private attorney general
action,” providing that if the waiver was unenforceable “any private attorney general
claim must be litigated” in court. (Piplack, supra, 88
Cal.App.5th at pp. 1288-1289.) Because the trial court found the waiver
unenforceable, the plaintiff argued that his “private attorney general action”
had to be litigated. The Court of Appeal disagreed, noting the dispute turned
on the meaning of “private attorney general action.” (Ibid.) The Piplack
court stated that following Viking River v. Moriana, a PAGA claim could
be divided into individual and representative components. (Id. at p.
1287, citing Viking River, supra, 142 S. Ct. at p. 1925.) Thus,
the Piplack Court severed the waiver and found the individual component
arbitrable. (Id. at pg. 1289.)
Here, the Court does not need to
reach the issue of whether the PAGA waiver in the arbitration agreement is an unenforceable
wholesale waiver where an alternative, lawful interpretation of the waiver is
possible. (See 14A Cal.Jur.3d Contracts § 216; Civ. Code, § 1643; Koenig
v. Warner Unified School District (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 43, 55; Pappas
v. Chang (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 975, 990.) The Court interprets the language
of the waiver in line with Piplack and Viking River, which refers
to Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim as an aggrieved employee, and the
representative claims he brings on behalf of aggrieved employees. Therefore,
the representative action waiver is not grounds to deny Defendant’s motion
because Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims lie outside of the Limitations
section of the arbitration agreement, and Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims
are arbitrable if they otherwise lie within the scope of the arbitration
agreement, which the Court finds that they do.
If Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claims are not encompassed by the Limitations section of the arbitration
agreement, then they lie within the scope of the arbitration agreement. The
arbitration agreement encompasses, as argued by Defendants, “‘disputes arising
out of or relating to … compensation, … minimum wage, expense reimbursement,
overtime, breaks and rest periods,’” and “‘all other federal or state claims … arising
out of or relating to [Plaintiff Amaya’s] … employment.’” (Mot., pp. 8-9,
quoting Mot., Kochis Decl., Ex. A, § 1.) Such a scope is broad and encompasses
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims to the extent that they are premised on Defendants’
alleged Labor Code violations involving (1)
failure to provide employment records, (2) failure to provide overtime/double
time, (3) failure to provide meal and rest periods, (4) failure to pay minimum
wages, (5) failure to keep accurate and provide itemized wage statements, (6)
failure to pay reporting time, (7) failure to “split shift” premiums, (8)
failure to timely pay wages during employment, (9) failure to timely pay wages
upon termination, (10) failure to reimburse necessary business-related expenses
and costs, and (11) failure to provide notice of paid sick time and accrual. (See
Complaint, ¶¶ 19-55, 59-73.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s claims are
found to arise or relate to disputes that are encompassed within the
arbitration agreement’s scope.
IV.
Interstate Commerce
A motion to compel arbitration
based on the FAA must show not only that that the employer engaged in
interstate commerce but also that “the employment relationship involved
interstate commerce.” (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC, supra,
224 Cal.App.4th at pp. 687-688.) Courts have found that where the FAA is found
not to apply, the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ. Proc. § 1280 et seq.)
applies. (See Valencia v. Smyth, supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at p.
178.)
Defendants argue that the FAA
applies to this agreement because “Swinerton and Swinerton Builders are
national commercial construction companies that provide construction services
all over the United States, including in California[] [Citation[]],” “[a]ll
Defendants purchase supplies from out-of-state for the construction projects on
which laborers like Amaya work[] [Citation[]],” “Swinerton and MD Builders …
maintain websites, and Swinerton advertises on national platforms,” which “activities
constitute ‘interstate commerce’ under the FAA[] [Citation[]].” (Mot., p. 11,
citing to Mot., Reimche Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)
Plaintiff Amaya’s opposition fails
to address interstate commerce.
The Court finds that Defendants’
business activities and Plaintiff Amaya’s employment involves interstate
commerce.
V.
Defenses to the Arbitration
Agreement
A “party opposing arbitration must
prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the petition” to compel
arbitration in the matter. (Lacayo v. Cataline Restaurant Group Inc., supra,
38 Cal.App.5th at p. 257.)
Here, Plaintiff Amaya’s opposition fails
to raise any other defenses to the enforcement of the arbitration agreement
outside of the argument that his individual PAGA claims are representative
claims that are within the Limitations provision of the arbitration agreement
and are not affected by the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Viking River.
(See Opp’n, pp. 3-9.)
To the extent that Plaintiff Amaya
argues that he did not consent to arbitrating his individual PAGA claims, the
Court is not persuaded. That argument is premised on Plaintiff’s reading of the
definition of a “representative” PAGA action, which does not consider the
reasoning of the holding in Piplack. The Court adopts its discussions in
Sections I and III above to find that by entering the arbitration agreement,
Plaintiff agreed to the terms of the parties’ arbitration agreement, which, as
discussed above, encompasses his individual PAGA claims because those claims
lie outside the “representative” PAGA action term in the arbitration agreement’s
Limitations section. 
Accordingly, the Court determines
that Plaintiff has failed to raise any valid defense against enforcement of the
arbitration agreement as to his individual PAGA claims.
VI.
Arbitration Conclusion
Defendants have carried their
burden of showing that an arbitration agreement between the parties encompasses
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims, and Plaintiff Amaya has failed to carry his
burden to show valid defenses to enforcement of the arbitration agreement.
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion is
GRANTED.
VII.
Dismissal or Stay of Action
“If a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.4.)
“Defendants request that the Court
stay the representative claims pending individual arbitration and the
California Supreme Court’s ruling in Adolph” v. Uber Technologies,
Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104 (Adolph). (Mot., p. 18.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Amaya
notes that even if his individual PAGA claims are compelled into arbitration,
he maintains standing as to the representative PAGA claims pursuant to Adolph.
(Opp’n, p. 9.)
The Court agrees that, now that
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims have been compelled into arbitration, a stay
is proper as to the action’s representative PAGA claims. (Adolph, supra,
14 Cal.5th at p. 1121 [“Standing under PAGA is not affected by enforcement of
an agreement to adjudicate a plaintiff's individual claim in another forum”].)
Accordingly, the Court STAYS this
action as to the representative PAGA claims until arbitration is had in
accordance with this order to arbitrate or further order of the Court. 
Conclusion
Defendants M D Builders Inc.,
Swinerton Builders, Swinerton Builders HC, and Swinerton Incorporated’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Alex Amaya’s individual
PAGA claims are COMPELLED into arbitration.
The Court STAYS this action as to
the representative PAGA claims until arbitration is had in accordance with this
order to arbitrate or further order of the Court.