 Case Number:  21STCV43201    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  61 Cross-Defendants
Aaron Serruya and Yogen Fruz USA, Inc.’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions
of Cross-Complainant David Bogner’s Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend as to the third cause of action for wrongful lockout, and GRANTED with
leave to amend as to the prayer for punitive damages. The demurrer and motion
to strike are otherwise OVERRULED and DENIED.
 
Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Jill Greenberg as Trustee of Jill Greenberg 2019 Trust’s
Demurrer to David Bogner’s Cross-Complaint and Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings are SUSTAINED as to the fifth cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress, with leave to amend, and otherwise OVERRULED
and DENIED.
 
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) A court should
sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege facts that are legally
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See id. § 430.10,
subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) Cal.3d 311: “We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. . . . Further, we give the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Id. at p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747 (“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”)) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A
demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint,
liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there
is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1081.) The demurrer also
may be sustained without leave to amend where the nature of the defects and
previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it probable plaintiff cannot
state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957,
967.)
 
Plaintiff
Jill Greenberg (Plaintiff) seeks judgment in favor of her own Complaint on the
grounds that Default Judgment has been entered in her favor as to co-defendant
Ernest Financial, LLC, and the same issues found against Ernest warrant
judgment against Defendant Bogner, and militate against entertaining his
cross-claims. (Plaintiff Motion at pp. 5–6.) Plaintiff also demurrers to each
cause of action in Bogner’s cross-complaint on the grounds that the operative
lease was with the now-suspended Ernest Financial, and Bogner lacks standing to
assert his claims. (Demurrer at pp. 6–12.) 
 
Much of Plaintiff’s motion and
demurrer consist of mere denials of the allegations contained in Bogner’s
pleadings, and as such furnish little basis to either grant judgment in
Plaintiff’s favor or sustain her demurrer. Plaintiff argues that Bogner abandoned
the premises at issue, a fact neither contained in the Cross-Complaint nor
subject to judicial notice. (Demurrer at p. 6.) It is alleged that the property
subject to conversion belonged to Ernest, not to Bogner, when the contrary is
alleged in the Cross-Complaint. (Demurrer at p. 8.) Plaintiff contends that its
lease was with Ernest and not with Bogner; yet the lease expressly stated that
“[t]he Premises are for the sole use as a personal residence by the following
named person(s) only: David Bogner.” (XC ¶ 3 [incorporating lease attached as
Exh. 1 to Plaintiff’s Complaint.].) Bogner has alleged sufficient facts to
state his possession or control over the relevant property for the purposes of
his trespass and nuisance claims. (See Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262
[trespass elements]; Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176 [nuisance
elements].)
Plaintiff argues that Bogner’s possession and
control ended once Plaintiff terminated the operative lease. (Demurrer at p.
4.) There are no allegations or judicially noticeable matters to support this
fact. Plaintiff argues that the lease, executed with Defendant Ernest, became
voidable when Ernest was suspended by the Franchise Tax Board on October 1,
2021. (Demurrer at p. 7; RJN Exh. A.) But while it is true that a contract with
a suspended corporation is voidable at the option of the other party, a party “may exercise that right only in a lawsuit
brought by either party with respect to the contract in a court of competent
jurisdiction.” (Rev. & Tax Code § 23304.5.) Although Plaintiff contends
that its lease with Bogner was ended on September 1, 2021, and that Bogner’s
sublease with Cross-Defendants was terminated later, Plaintiff does not claim
that either contract was voided under the above statute, and locates no
allegation in the Cross-Complaint or judicially noticeable matters to support
these arguments. (Demurrer at p. 5.) 
 
The sole cause of
action to which the demurrer advances a persuasive argument is the fifth cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. The elements
of an IIED claim are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by defendant; (2) made
with intent to cause, or with reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (3) severe emotional suffering; and (4) actual and
proximate causation. (Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon
Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1259; Bogard v.
Employers Casualty Company (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 602, 616.) The level of
distress required to state a claim for IIED is distress of “such substantial
quality or enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in civilized society
should be expected to endure it.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1051.) “Whether a defendant’s conduct
can reasonably be found to be outrageous
is a question of law that must initially be determined by the court; if reasonable
persons may differ, it is for the jury to determine whether the conduct was, in fact, outrageous.” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534.)
 
Plaintiff does not allege facts amounting to outrageous
conduct. Although the lease at issue provided for Plaintiff’s residential use
of the property, Plaintiff at no point alleges that it served as his residence.
The wrongful conduct alleged consists of making Plaintiff’s subtenants in
possession of the property  —
Cross-Defendants Serruya and Yogen Fruz USA, Inc. — into tenants in possession
of the property. Plaintiff’s alleged deprivation is that of a “reversionary”
interest, maintained pursuant to a voidable lease with a suspended corporation.
(XC ¶ 19.) These allegations do not amount to outrageous conduct. 
 
Plaintiff’s demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED with leave to
amend as to the fifth cause of action for intentional infliction from emotional
distress, and is otherwise OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiff’s motion for judgment on the pleadings — offered
in support of her own complaint, rather than against the Cross-Complaint — is
without merit. Its argument is simply that, with a default judgment entered
against Ernest Financial, LLC on December 6, 2021, Defendant Bogner cannot deny
crucial elements of Plaintiff’s claims. (Motion at pp. 5–6.) Plaintiff does not
define which claims these are, or what elements have heretofore been satisfied.
More importantly, Plaintiff is mistaken as to the entry of a default judgment;
only a default was entered on December 6, 2021, and Plaintiff’s request for
default judgment was expressly denied on August 30, 2022, on the grounds that
Defendant Bogner had filed an answer contesting Plaintiff’s claims. Plaintiff’s
motion is DENIED.
 
This leaves Cross-Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike.
Cross-Defendants begin by arguing that the Cross-Complaint’s first cause of
action for conversion fails because Cross-Defendants did not know the offending
property belonged to Defendant, because Defendant did not initiate a wrongful
retainer action, and because Defendant failed to return Cross-Defendants’
security deposit. (Demurrer at pp. 6–8.)
 
Each argument fails.
Cross-Defendants’ argument from intent is contradicted both by the
Cross-Complaint — which alleges that Plaintiff demanded the return of his
property (XC ¶ 16) — and applicable authority, which states that “questions of the defendant's
good faith, lack of knowledge, and motive are ordinarily immaterial” to the
tort of conversion. (Regent Alliance Ltd. v. Rabizadeh (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181.) 
Cross-Defendants’ reliance on Civil Code § 789.3 is also misplaced,
as this statute merely prohibits a landlord from “willfully” removing items
from the premises “with intent to terminate the occupancy” without either the tenant’s
consent or proper statutory procedures. (Civ. Code § 789.3, subd. (b)(3).) The
Cross-Complaint here alleges that Cross-Defendants refused to turn over
Bogner’s property after the ouster of his tenancy, i.e. that Cross-Defendants’
consent was unreasonably withheld, and that resort to ordinary statutory
procedures for landlord entry would not have been effectual. Finally,
Cross-Defendants’ arguments with respect to the security deposit or beyond the
bounds of the pleading. (Demurrer at pp. 7–8.)
Cross-Defendants’ arguments as
to the trespass and nuisance claims are likewise unpersuasive. They claim, like
Plaintiff, that Bogner’s lease had expired when Cross-Defendants formed their
own lease with Plaintiff. (Demurrer at pp. 9, 13.) As with Plaintiff’s
demurrer, however, this argument rests upon facts not subject to judicial
notice regarding the termination of Defendant’s lease and the abandonment of
the property. Cross-Defendants also argue that the Cross-Complaint does not
allege their “intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property,” or
their lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission.”
(Demurrer at p. 9; Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory
Consultants, Inc.
(2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.) Yet Cross-Defendants’ arguments that they
“reasonabl[y]” exercised possession over the premises, and that they possessed
an equivalent right to possession, are once again contradicted by allegations
in the Cross-Complaint that Cross-Defendants engaged in “mutual self-help” to
exclude Bogner from the property, as well as Bogner’s allegation that
Cross-Defendants’ right to the premises ended with the termination of their
sublease. (XC ¶¶ 4, 20.) Cross-Defendants’ identical arguments with respect to
the nuisance claim are equally unpersuasive. (Demurrer at pp. 12–13.)
Cross-Defendants argue that
Bogner’s sole remedy for nuisance or trespass would have been an unlawful
detainer action. (Demurrer at pp. 10–11, 13–14.) But Cross-Defendants’ argument
is unsupported by authority, save one case stating that unlawful detainer
procedures “are given in lieu of his common law rights and remedies which
included the right to enter and expel the tenant by force.” (Childs v.
Eltinge (1973) 29 Cal.App.3d 843, 853.) This authority stands for the
proposition that unlawful detainer procedures replace prior common law means of
restoring possession of real property to the owner, which is the primary remedy
afforded by an unlawful detainer claim. (See Drybread v. Chipain
Chiropractic Corp. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1063, 1072 [“The remedy of
unlawful detainer is designed to provide means by the timely possession of
premises which are wrongfully withheld may be secured to the person entitled
thereto.”].) It does not mean that unlawful detainer claims displace civil
actions for damages. (See Hudec v. Robertson (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1156,
1164 [landlord could bring “independent civil action” after unsuccessful
unlawful detainer action])
 
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer is
persuasive, however, with respect to the third cause of action for wrongful
lockout. This is because Civil Code § 789.3 subd. (b), prohibits a “landlord”
specifically from interfering with tenant access to the leased premises, while
Cross-Defendants are not alleged to have been Cross-Complainant’s landlord at
any point. (Demurrer at pp. 11–13.)
 
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer is
therefore SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the third cause of action, and
otherwise OVERRULED.
 
II.               
MOTION TO
STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437(a)). The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
Cross-Defendants moves to
strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. (Motion at pp. 8–11.) 
Punitive damages are allowed in non-contract cases when a
defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (a).) The terms are defined as:
“Malice”
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
“Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.
“Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c).) 
Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Proof of
negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages. (Dawes v.
Sup.Ct. (Mardian) (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88–89.) Punitive damages may be
recovered in an action for negligence or other nonintentional torts if the
plaintiff pleads and proves that the defendant acted with the state of mind
described as “conscious disregard” of the potential dangers to others. (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) When malice is based on a defendant’s conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and
willful. (College Hospital v. Superior
Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 794, 713 (“College
Hospital”).)
Bogner does not allege facts sufficient to state
a claim for punitive damage, because the facts alleged do not constitute
malice, oppression, or fraud. Plaintiff alleges that he was prevented from
exercising a reversionary right to possess the property at issue when his
former subtenant collaborated his landlord to supplant him as tenant. Plaintiff
does not allege facts to show that this conduct was despicable or malicious.
Cross-Defendants also move to strike the
prayer for attorney fees, on the grounds that fees are sought pursuant to a
lease between Ernest and Plaintiff, to which Cross-Defendants are not a party.
(Motion at pp. 11–12.) Defendant argues that the sublease with Cross-Defendants
contains an attorney fees provision, a fact which Cross-Defendants concede.
(Motion at p. 12, fn. 2.) The motion is therefore DENIED as to the prayer for
attorney fees.
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED with
leave to amend as to the prayer for punitive damages, and DENIED as to the
prayer for attorney fees. 