 Case Number:  23STCV24702    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:               Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents and Request
for Sanctions
 
Moving Party:         Plaintiff
Joshua Shy
Resp. Party:           Defendant Bernice Chavis
 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is denied as MOOT. 
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the amount of $1,375.00
against Defendant and defense counsel, jointly and severally.
 
BACKGROUND:

 
        This is an action for breach
of lease. On October 10, 2023, plaintiffs Joshua Shy, T’Naiya Armstrongm T’Leah
Shy, Uriah Shy and Uzziah Shy filed the operative complaint against Bernice
Chavis, as an individual and as trustee of the Chavis Family Trust, and Does
1-15 alleging seven causes of action for 1) Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability; 2) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Use & Enjoyment; 3)
Negligence; 4) Premises Liability; 5) Violation of California Civil Code
§1942.4; 6) Nuisance, and 7) Tenant Harassment (LAMC § 45.33 et seq.). Plaintiffs
allege that defendant landlords failed to maintain the property that defendants
leased to plaintiffs in a habitable condition. 
 
        On April 11, 2024, plaintiff
Joshua Shy (“Plaintiff”) filed motions to compel Bernice Chavis (“Defendant”)
to produce documents in compliance with Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Defendant filed oppositions on
April 29. Plaintiff replied on May 1, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS:
 
A. 
Legal
Standard
 
Before bringing a motion to compel further responses
to any discovery request, the moving party is required to make efforts to meet
and confer in good faith and must submit a declaration attesting to those
efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).) “A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.) However, a discovery
motion need not be denied automatically based upon the reason that the moving
parties failed to meet and confer in good faith. (See Obregon v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 434.) 
 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery
request or the responses to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate
statement providing all information necessary to understand each discovery
request and all the responses at issue. (California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345(a), (c).) “Failure to include the separate statement required by CRC
3.1345 is ground for denial of [the] motion.” (Edmon & Karnow, Civ. Proc.
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2017) 8:1151.1.) 
 
A motion to compel further responses to
requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b)(1).)¿“To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on the moving party
to show both: [¶] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g., how the
information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue in the
case); and [¶] Specific facts justifying discovery (e.g., why
such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at
trial.) [Citations.] [¶] The fact that there is no alternative source
for the information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’
for inspection.¿But it is not essential in every case.” (Edmon &
Karnow, California Practice Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter
Group 2017) ¶ 8:1495.6.)¿“For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it
‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial,
or facilitating settlement.’ [Citation]¿Admissibility is not the test and
information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to
admissible evidence. [Citation]¿These rules are applied liberally in favor of
discovery.” (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.) 
 
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving party,
the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections made to
document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions).” (Edmon & Karnow, supra,
at ¶ 8:1496.)¿  
 
B. 
Discussion
 
As a preliminary matter, the
Court notes that Plaintiff filed two nearly identical motions to compel further
responses, one addressing Defendant Bernice Chavis individually, the other
addressing her in her capacity as trustee. This Court treats a party sued individually
and as trustee as the same person. 
 
1.  Meet and Confer
Plaintiff sent a meet and confer email on
April 4, 2024, one minute after Defendant’s email restating her initial
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production, Set One. Plaintiff’s meet and
confer email points out defects in Defendant’s responses (including that
defense counsel mischaracterized his client as the plaintiff in this case,
rather than the defendant) and requests updated responses. (Motion, Naudi
Decl., ¶ 7, Exhibit E; Opposition, Monadjemi Decl., ¶ 4, Exhibit B.) The Court
finds that the meet and confer requirement is met. 
 
 
2.  Separate Statement
 
Plaintiff failed to provide a separate
statement to his motions, as required by California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345. 
 
 
3.  Merits
Plaintiff admits that Defendant
served supplemental responses on April 12, 2024, one day after this motion was
filed, rendering the motion MOOT. (Reply, 2:2-4; Naudi Decl., ¶2.)
 
 
4.  Sanctions 
Plaintiff contends that
sanctions are warranted. Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s supplemental
responses contradict her initial responses. Whereas Defendant initially
responded that she will “comply with the request” and “produce all responsive
documents” within her “possession, custody, or control” to all 47 of
Plaintiff’s requests (Motion, Naudi Decl., ¶ 4; Exhibit C), Defendant’s
supplemental responses to 43 of the 47 requests were changed to “responding
party is unable to comply with this demand, since after a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry such demanded documents have never been in the possession,
custody or control of this responding party.” (Reply, 2:14-16.) Plaintiff
contends Defendant did this to avoid having to produce documents that she
verified that she would. 
 
Plaintiff also contends that
this motion was necessary because Defendant finally produced color photographs
of the property in question after this motion was filed. (Reply, Naudi Decl., ¶
2, Exhibit A.)
 
Lastly, Plaintiff contends
that Defendant refused to compromise. After Defendant provided supplemental
responses but before Defendant filed her opposition, Plaintiff offered to
accept one-half of the sanctions requested in exchange for taking this motion
off calendar. Defendant rejected this offer. (Reply, Naudi Decl., Exhibit C.)
 
Other than citing the Code of
Civil Procedure, Defendant’s opposition does not address the issue of
sanctions.  (See Opposition, p. 9:21 – p.
10:15.)  In particular, Defendant’s oppositions
do not address the amount of sanctions that are reasonable.
 
The Court finds that
sanctions are appropriate in this case.  Plaintiff
requests sanctions of $1,650.00 for three hours of work at a rate of $550.00/hour
against Defendant and defense counsel, jointly and severally. This includes one
hour for attending the hearing on this motion. 
(Naudi Declaration, ¶ 10.) Since Plaintiff’s counsel can attend the
hearing remotely via L.A. Court Connect, the Court will award sanctions in the
amount of $1,375.00  (2½ hours of work at
$550.00/hour.)
 
Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is GRANTED in part.
 