On April 24, 2023, Plaintiff Bruce D. Wasserman filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Steven Cary Teitelbaum, Cherie Wendy Teitelbaum, Caitlin Teitelbaum, Michael Teitelbaum, and Jo-Ann Perault for (1)-(3) voidable transaction, (4) elder abuse, (5) undue influence, (6) intentional misrepresentation; concealment, (7) negligent misrepresentation and omission, (8) fraudulent inducement, (9) negligent representation/inducement, (10) promissory fraud, (11) unjust enrichment, (12) conversion, (13) conspiracy, and (14) breach of fiduciary duty.  The allegations of the Complaint are as follows.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Steven Teitelbaum sold him rare coins, the value of which he misrepresented, as well as palladium.  Steven also told Plaintiff that he would purchase other rare coins and accepted money for the same; however, Steven never did so.  Steven told Plaintiff that he would hold these assets as a retirement fund for Plaintiff.  When Plaintiff wanted to sell the assets at retirement, it became apparent that all of the assets had been sold, misappropriated, and transferred among the other Defendants.  All Defendants now demur to the entirety of the Complaint for uncertainty and failure to state sufficient facts.  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Defendants first argue that “Plaintiff alleges that defendant is liable for violation of the Uniform Voidable Transfers Act (Cal. Civ. Code §3439 et eq.) on the basis of some type of transaction that took place in April 2006 involving the care and storage of rare coins. (Complaint ¶21) At some point Plaintiff alleges a request for valuation via text message that goes unanswered in 2022. (Complaint ¶37). From these few instances plaintiff speculates that Defendant has transferred these assets and in turn spread the proceeds to the other named defendants. Plaintiff however offers no allegation of any specific transaction to base such a conclusion.”This lacks merit as the ultimate facts have been adequately pleaded.Defendants next argue that the statute of limitations for the voidable transaction and conversion claims is four and three years, respectively, and that given that the subject transaction took place in April 2006, these claims are barred.April 2006 is merely when the first set of rare coins was purchased.  Additionally, the Complaint pleads delayed discovery to the extent that Plaintiff never knew of the conversion until he retired and a text went unanswered in October 2022 as to the whereabouts and valuation of the assets.  Based on Defendants’ silence, Plaintiff thereafter allegedly conducted an investigation revealing the misappropriation.  Defendants further argue that “The allegations in the complaint exclusively describe, in arguendo, activity or transactions that involve one Steven Teitelbaum. None of the allegations inculcate any of the other named defendants.”  This is false.  The other Defendants are alleged to have received the profits from the subject assets.  Defendants next argue it cannot be determined if the subject contract is written or oral.  This lacks merit because no claim for breach of contract is pleaded.Defendants also argue that the Complaint is uncertain, but any perceived ambiguities can be addressed via the discovery process.  (Khoury v. Maly's of California Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Finally, Defendants contend this action should be barred by the doctrine of laches.“Laches is an equitable time limitation on a party's right to bring suit, resting on the maxim that ‘equity aids the vigilant, not those who sleep on their rights’ . . . A defendant must demonstrate three elements to successfully assert a laches defense: (1) delay in asserting a right or a claim; (2) the delay was not reasonable or excusable; and (3) prejudice to the party against whom laches is asserted. (Miller v. Glenn Miller Productions, Inc. (9th Cir.2006) 454 F.3d 975, 997; Jarrow Formulas, supra, 304 F.3d at pp. 835, 838; Kason Industries, Inc. v. Component Hardware Group, Inc., supra, 120 F.3d at p. 1203.)”  (Magic Kitchen LLC v. Good Things Internat., Ltd. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1156–57.)It is not apparent why laches should bar this action when discovery of the wrongful conduct allegedly took place in fall of 2022.  In sum, the Demurrer is overruled.  An Answer is to be filed within twenty days.  Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 