 Case Number:  24SMCP00063    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 14, 2014




CASE NUMBER


24SMCP00063




MOTION


Petition for Confirmation of Arbitration Award




MOVING PARTY


Petitioner Gursey Schneider LLP




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
BACKGROUND
 
            On or about May 1, 2023, Sara Adler
of the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) issued an award in favor of
Petitioner Gursey Schneider LLP (“Petitioner”) and against Respondent James
Jeffrey Caldwell (“Respondent”) in the amount of $39,402.50 plus interest accruing
pursuant to the parties’ agreement.  (See
Ex. B to Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award (“Petition”).)  The agreement provides for interest at the
rate of 10% on any account balance not paid in full within 60 days of
completion of the assignment.  (Ex. A to
Petition at p. 2.)  
 
On January 30, 2024, Petitioner filed the instant Petition.  On February 5, 2024, a hearing on the
Petition was noticed for March 14, 2024. 
To date, no response to the Petition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            “Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may
petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award.  The petition
shall name as respondent all parties to the arbitration and may name as
respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration award.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.)
 
            “A petition under this chapter
shall: (a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement
to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement;
(b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators; and (c) Set forth or have attached
a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)  
 
            “If a petition or response under
this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as
made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance
with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates
the award or dismisses the proceeding.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1286.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Service of the Petition and Notice of Hearing
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.4 requires the Petition
and Notice of Hearing to be served on Respondent “in the manner provided in the
arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and notice” or “[i]f the
arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such service shall
be made . . . [s]ervice within this State shall be made in the manner provided
by law for the service of summons in an action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4,
subds. (a), (b).)  
 
            Attached as Exhibit A to the
Petition is the signed Litigation Consulting Services Engagement Agreement
containing the arbitration provision. 
The Agreement provides, “We agree that any petition to confirm an
arbitration award may be served by mail at the last known address and that no
personal service will be required.” 
 
            The proofs of service for the
Petition, Notice of Hearing, and Declaration of Andrew Wright indicate the documents
were mailed to Respondent.
 
            Therefore, Petitioner has adequately
served the Petition and Notice of Hearing on Respondent.
 
            Substance of Petition
 
            Attached to the Petition as Exhibit
A is a copy of the arbitration agreement. 
Attached as Exhibit B to the Petition is a copy of the arbitrator’s
final award, signed by Sara Adler.
 
            Therefore, the Court finds
Petitioner has satisfied the procedural and substantive requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure sections 1285, 1285.4 and 1290.4.
 
            Attorneys’ Fees and Costs
 
Petitioner
also seeks $3,160 in attorneys’ fees and $435 in costs, representing the filing
fee for the Petition.
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5, which outlines recoverable costs to a prevailing party under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, permits the recovery of attorneys’ fees
when authorized by contract, statute, or law. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 1021 provides
“[e]xcept as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by statute, the
measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to
the agreement, express or implied, of the parties [….]”  Similarly, Civil Code section 1717 provides
“[i]n any action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that
attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be
awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party
who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she
is the party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees in addition to other costs.” 
(Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
The Code of Civil Procedure defines the “prevailing party” as follows:

 
[T]he party with a net monetary recovery, a
defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither
plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those
plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant. If any party
recovers other than monetary relief and in situations other than as specified,
the “prevailing party” shall be as determined by the court, and under those
circumstances, the court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if
allowed, may apportion costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides
pursuant to rules adopted under Section 1034.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).)
 
            Page 4 of the arbitration agreement,
attached as Exhibit A to the Petition indicates, “In the event civil
proceedings to confirm the arbitration award as judgment are required, the
prevailing party may be entitled to receive all reasonable attorneys’ fees and
costs related to the confirmation and enforcement of the judgment.”  Therefore, Petitioner has demonstrated
entitlement to the requested attorneys’ fees.
 
            Petitioner’s request for costs is
also granted as the “prevailing party” in the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
The Court grants the unopposed
Petition and confirms the arbitrator’s award that Petitioner Gursey Schneider,
LLP shall recover from Respondent James Jeffrey Caldwell the sum of $39,402.50, plus 10% interest.  The Court also grants Petitioner’s unopposed
request for $435 in costs and $3,160 in attorneys’ fees.
 
Petitioner shall provide
notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of the same.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:  March 14, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 