 Case Number:  22STCV40550    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



COLEEN L.
  JOHNSON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SHELDON PARK CONDOMINIUM OWNERS
  ASSOCIATION, et al.
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV40550
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
Date: October 2, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
SHELDON PARK CONDOMINIUM OWNERS ASSOCIATION (the “Association”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition has been
filed.  Any opposition was required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
            This case involves alleged damage to
a condominium unit (“Unit 202”) owned by Plaintiff Coleen L. Johnson (“Johnson”)
due to a burst pipe in a connected condominium unit (“Unit 302”) directly above
Unit 202, which is owned by Defendant Maria B. Rivera Henriquez (“Henriquez”).  On December 28, 2022, Johnson filed the
operative Complaint against the Association and Henriquez alleging causes of
action for: (1) breach of covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs);
(2) negligence; and (3) nuisance.
 
            On September 28, 2023, the
Association filed a Motion for Preliminary Injunction seeking an order for
access to Unit 302 in order to effect necessary repairs in it by the
Association’s contractor, which this Court granted in its Minute Order dated October
23, 2023.  
 
            On August 30, 2024, the Association
filed the instant Motion for Preliminary Injunction (the “Motion”), renewing its
request for an order for exclusive
access to Unit 302 for a period of up to 15 business days in order for the
Association’s contractor to make necessary repairs in Unit 302.  No opposition to the Motion has been filed.  
 
DISCUSSION
             “In deciding whether to issue a preliminary
injunction, a court must weigh two ‘interrelated’ factors: (1) the likelihood
that the moving party will ultimately prevail on the merits and (2) the relative
interim harm to the parties from issuance or nonissuance of the injunction. . .
. The trial court's determination must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the
potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff’s showing
on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.”  (Butt v. State of California (1992) 4
Cal.4th 668, 677-78 (citations omitted); Ryland Mews Homeowners Assn. v.
Munoz (2015) 234 Cal. App. 4th 705.)
 
Generally,
“restrictive covenants are construed strictly against the person seeking to
enforce them, and any doubt will be resolved in favor of the free use of land.  But it is also true that the ‘intent of the
parties and the object of the deed or restriction should govern, giving the
instrument a just
and fair interpretation’.”  (Chee v.
Amanda Goldt Property Management (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th
1360, 1377.)
 
Under
the CC&Rs, Sections 3 and 4 of Article 6, the owner of one condominium unit
must make repairs to their unit when the lack of repairs is causing damage to
other units, and further provides that the Association has the authority to
obtain access to the unit and make repairs at the unit owner’s expense.  (Complaint, Exh. A.)
 
In
its Motion, the Association states that it made multiple efforts to carry out
the necessary repairs per the Court's Order dated October 23, 2023, but without
success.  The Association cites the
following reasons in support of its Motion, along with references to its
supporting evidence (Table of Evidence and Supporting Declarations [“TOE”]):
 
1.             
Unit
302 owner (who appears to have significant mental health challenges) has allowed
access into the Unit to have pictures taken but has refused to allow any
repairs to occur (claiming repairs were not necessary) and has been verbally
threatening [TOE, Exhs. 6, 15, 18, 19, 22-25];
2.             
The
(licensed) contractor hired by the SHELDON PARK CONDOMINIUM OWNERS ASSOCIATION
(“ASSOCIATION”) has determined it will need up to 15 business days to complete
repairs due to the dire conditions of the bathroom shower stall at the Unit
[TOE, Exh. 25];
3.             
The
contractor hired by the ASSOCIATION is highly concerned about the safety of its
workers and is not willing to make the repairs unless the Unit owner and her
adult son vacate for the 15 business day period of time to allow repairs to
occur [TOE, Exh. 25]; 
4.             
The
ASSOCIATION has offered compensation to the Unit owner to vacate the Unit for
the 15 business day time period so that the Unit owner and her son will have a
place to stay while repairs occur; but the Unit owner has so far refused [TOE,
Exh. 24];
5.             
The
only practicable solution at this point is for the Court to Order that
exclusive access be granted to the ASSOCIATION's contractor to effect the long
needed repairs (with reasonable compensation for alternative living expenses).
[TOE, Exhs. 24-26].
 
(Motion, p. 1.)
 
In
an analogous case of Ryland Mews Homeowners Assn. v. Munoz, the Court of
Appeal held that the trial court acted within its discretion in weighing the
interim harm to homeowner and homeowners’ association (HOA) and the trial court’s
implied determination that HOA would ultimately prevail on the merits, in
issuing preliminary injunction pending litigation, requiring homeowner to put
throw rugs on the floor of his unit and to submit a proposal to bring the unit’s
floor covering into compliance with the guidelines established by the HOA,
where the downstairs neighbors complained of noise from the hardwood floors.  (Ryland Mews Homeowners Assn. v. Munoz
(2015) 234 Cal. App. 4th 705.)
 
            Here, there is a restrictive
covenant that permits the Association to have access to Henriquez’s unit (Unit
302) if it has caused damage to other units and Henriquez does not resolve the
issue.  The restrictive covenant is
recorded, which indicates that both parties intended
to be bound by the
terms of the CC&Rs.  There is,
therefore, a high probability that Johnson will prevail against Henriquez, who,
as the evidence demonstrates is subject to the CC&Rs, failed to have
repairs done on her own, owns the unit that has caused damage to another unit,
and refuses to grant the Association access to conduct the necessary repairs.  Furthermore, it appears that from the
declarations and exhibits provided, if the injunction is not issued, Johnson
will continue to suffer damage to her own unit.  Johnson has submitted a declaration in support
of this Motion.  Additionally, Henriquez
has not filed an opposition to rebut the arguments advanced by the Association.
RULING
Therefore,
the Court GRANTS the Motion and issues a Mandatory Preliminary Injunction as requested
in the Motion.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 2nd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 