 Case Number:  24STCV09244    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AMERICAN TEXTILE
  COMPANY, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
DOWNTOWN NATURAL CAREGIVERS, INC., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendant.                            


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV09244
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED
  COMPLAINT
 
Date: October 2, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
             On April 12, 2024, Plaintiff American Textile
Company (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint for unlawful detainer against Defendant
Downtown Natural Caregivers, Inc. based on alleged failure to pay rent.  On August 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint for breach of contract.
 
            On August 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint (the “Motion”).  The Motion is unopposed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            CCP §473(a)(1) states: “The court
may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a
party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of
any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in
any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
 
Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and,
therefore, the courts have held that “there is a strong policy in favor of
liberal allowance of amendments.”  (Mesler
v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also, Ventura
v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are
bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the
adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].)
 
Pursuant
to CRC 3.1324(a), a motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment
or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered; and (2) state what allegations
are proposed to be deleted from or added to the previous pleading and where, by
page, paragraph, and line number, such allegations are located.  CRC 3.1324(b) requires a separate declaration
that accompanies the motion, stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
 
Here,
in support of the Motion, Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a declaration stating
that: “When the First Amended Complaint was prepared, through mistake and
inadvertence, [he] neglected to name the guarantors to the lease in addition to
the sublessee.  There are viable
guarantors to the lease agreement who should properly be named.”  (Declaration of Fred M. Szkolnik, ¶ 3.)  The declaration identified and stated the
proposed changes as between the First Amended Complaint and the Second Amended
Complaint.  (Id.)  The Motion also includes a copy of the
proposed amended pleading.  Thus, the Court
finds Plaintiff has complied with CRC 3.1324. 

 
RULING
            Accordingly, the Motion is GRANTED. 
The Second Amended Complaint is to be filed and served within 15 days
from the date of this Order. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 2nd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



