 Case Number:  22STCV28228    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SALVADOR LOYA,
  an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BAKEMARK USA LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company; DANIEL BARRIOS, an
individual; and DOES 1 through 50,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV28228
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date: October 2, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
DANIEL BARRIOS (“Barrios”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
SALVADOR LOYA (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This case arises from an employer-employee
relationship.  Plaintiff alleges that he
was hired by Defendant BAKEMARK USA LLC (“Bakemark”) in July 2019 as a worker
in its Dry Manufacturing Department. 
(Complaint, ¶ 12.)  Plaintiff claims
that throughout his employment with Bakemark, he was subjected to severe and
pervasive harassment and discrimination from Barrios, his Foreman and
Supervisor.  (Id., ¶¶ 13-16.)  Plaintiff further alleges that after
reporting and complaining about the discrimination and harassment he faced,
Barrios, in retaliation, fabricated reasons to complain about Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶¶ 17-19.)  Plaintiff’s employment was terminated in
August 2021.  (Id., ¶ 21.)  Based on these allegations, Plaintiff filed a
complaint (“Complaint”) on August 30, 2022, asserting the following causes of
action: (1) National Origin Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940 et
seq.; (2) Age Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940 et seq.;
(3) Retaliation in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(h); (4) Harassment in
Violation of Gov. Code § 129400); (5) Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment
in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(k); (6) Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code § 1102. 5; (7) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (8)
Unfair Competition in Violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200 et
seq.; and (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  Only the fourth and ninth causes of action
are asserted against Barrios.
 
            On May 7, 2024, Barrios filed the
instant Motion for Summary Adjudication (the “Motion”) on Plaintiff’s fourth
and ninth causes of action for harassment and intentional infliction of
emotional distress.  Barrios filed an
opposition on September 18, 2024.
 
DISCUSSION
            The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
 
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately
pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) 
 
Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Id.; Sangster v. Paetkau (1998)
68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Fourth Cause of
Action: Harassment
The
Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”) prohibits harassment, stating in
relevant part: “It is an unlawful employment practice. . . .[f]or an employer, …
or any other person, because of race, religious creed, color, national origin,
ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic
information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
age, sexual orientation, or military veteran status, to harass an employee ...”
 (Govt. Code, § 12940(j)(1).)  To state a claim of harassment under FEHA,
Plaintiff must show “(1) [he] is a member of a protected class; (2) [he] was
subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the harassment was based on [his]
protected status; (4) the harassment unreasonably interfered with [his] work
performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work
environment; and (5) defendants are liable for the harassment.” (Galvan v.
Dameron Hosp. Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 549, 563.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleged in the Complaint that he was repeatedly harassed at work by
Barrios on the basis of his Mexican national origin and age.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 13, 15-16.)  In his Motion, Barrios contends that the
evidence against Barrios amounts only to: (1) Barrios requiring Plaintiff to
use a formula for running a mix, which Plaintiff refused and disagreed with,
causing Plaintiff to get a written warning from his supervisors (Defendant’s
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts [“DUMF”] Nos. 17-21.); and (2)
Barrios occasionally using rough language with Plaintiff and other co-workers
(DUMF Nos. 6-11.)  More specifically, Barrios
contends that he “was gruff with everyone – co-workers and supervisors alike.”  (DUMF No. 6.) Indeed, Barrios acknowledges
that he called Plaintiff an “old man” (DUMF No. 9), and made fun of Plaintiff’s
Mexican descent (DUMF No. 10).  Barrios contends,
however, that Barrios’ conduct of which Plaintiff complains consists entirely
of personnel management actions for which Barrios cannot be held personally
liable.  Barrios further argues that Plaintiff’s
allegations are insufficient to establish a severe and pervasive hostile work
environment as to rise to the level of actionable harassment.
 
 In his opposition, Plaintiff contends that his
firing was pretextual and that his refusal to start the mix without the full
formula was justified and in accordance with Bakemark’s policy.  (Opposition, p. 4); Plaintiff’s Statement of
Disputed Material Facts [“PDMF”] No. 20.) 
Regarding his allegations of harassment against Barrios, Plaintiff presents
his testimony during deposition that Barrios told Plaintiff to “Go back to
Mexico, I don’t want you here, you old man.” 
(Plaintiff’s Additional Material Facts [“PAMF”] Nos. 5- 6.)  Barrios told Plaintiff that he did not want
Mexicans near him.  (PAMF No. 5).  Barrios frequently told Plaintiff “You stupid
Mexican. Go back to your country. You’re no good here. You’re too old.” (Id.).
 In addition to repeatedly making such
offensive comments about Plaintiff, Barrios cursed and yelled at Plaintiff due
to his national origin and age.  (PAMF
No. 7). Barrios harassed Plaintiff on a daily basis, calling him a ‘stupid
imbecile’ and ‘motherfucker.’ (Id.).  Plaintiff contends that Barrios’s repeated
conduct of derogatory remarks about Plaintiff’s age and Mexican origin are not
personnel management decisions, and that Barrios is individually liable for his
actions.
 
Indeed,
FEHA provides that individual employees may be liable for their own acts of
harassment.  (Govt. Code, § 12940(j)(3) [“An
employee of an entity subject to this subdivision is personally liable for any
harassment prohibited by this section that is perpetrated by the employee,
regardless of whether the employer or covered entity knows or should have known
of the conduct and fails to take immediate and appropriate corrective action.”].)  The Janken case relied upon by Barrios
held that “FEHA does not impose personal liability on individual supervisory
employees for age discrimination in making personnel management decisions that
are necessary to job performance. Supervisory employees are, however, subject
to individual liability for harassment.”  (Janken v. GM Hughes Elecs. (1996) 46
Cal. App. 4th 55; See also, Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th
1318, 1331 [“harassing supervisor is personally liable for money damages and
the employer is vicariously and strictly liable for the harassment”]; Page
v. Superior Ct. (1995) 31 Cal. App. 4th 1206, 1213 [“the policy of deterring
and eliminating harassment and retaliation in employment is served by holding a
supervisor liable for his own acts which are violative of FEHA in accordance”].)  There is thus no merit to Barrios’ contention
that he cannot be held personally liable for harassment.
 
On
the issue of whether Barrios’ conduct was so severe as to create a hostile work
environment, the Court of Appeal, in the case of Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel
Licensing, Inc., pointed out the clarification that ““[a] single incident
of harassing conduct is sufficient to create a triable issue regarding the
existence of a hostile work environment if the harassing conduct ... created an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment,” and the instruction that
“[h]arassment cases are rarely appropriate for disposition on summary
judgment.”  (Beltran v. Hard Rock
Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2024) 97 Cal. App. 5th 865, 880).   The Court of Appeal went on to explain that
older cases requiring “a concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine
or a generalized nature” are no longer good law when it comes to determining
what conduct creates a hostile work environment in the context of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication.”  (Id.,
citing Govt. Code § 12923 and CACI No. 2524.)
 
Thus,
the Court concludes that Barrios failed to meet his burden to demonstrate that
no actionable harassment occurred.  As
noted above, there is ample evidence of Barrios’ conduct involving offensive
statements pertaining to Plaintiff’s age and national origin, which Barrios
does not deny and instead attempts to characterize as his typical “gruff” behavior
to everyone – co-workers and supervisors alike.  The evidence is more than sufficient to raise
a triable issue of fact as to whether “a reasonable person who was subjected to
the harassing conduct would find that the conduct so altered working conditions
as to make it more difficult to do the job.”  (CACI No. 2524.)  
 
Accordingly,
summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for harassment
is DENIED.
 
Ninth Cause of
Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
To
state a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff
must allege “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and
(3) the defendant’s extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate
cause of the severe emotional distress.”  (Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of
Santa Ana, Inc., (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 994, 1007).  
 
Conduct
is outrageous if it is of “such substantial quantity or enduring quality” that
an individual in civilized society should not be expected to endure it.  (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227; Cochran v. Cochran (1998) 65 Cal App.4th 488,
494 [stating that the conduct must be “so outrageous in character, and so
extreme in degree, as to go beyond all bounds of decency, and to be regarded as
atrocious. . .”].)  The pleading must
include “specific facts that establish severe emotional distress resulting from
[a] defendant’s conduct.”¿ (Michaelian v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (1996)
50 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1114; see, e.g., Hailey v. California Physicians’
Service (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 452, 474-77 [finding facts supporting IIED
claim where plaintiff plead resulting “depression, anxiety, and physical
illness,” which manifested as “vomiting, stomach cramps, and diarrhea”]; see
also Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 498 [finding
supervisor’s shouting of racial epithets combined with termination without
cause or motivation gave rise to IIED claim].
 
Barrios
contends that the conduct complained of was not so egregiously outside the
realm of civilized conduct as to give rise to actionable intentional infliction
of emotional distress (“IIED”).  Instead,
Barrios argues that these are annoyances and trivialities common to the
workplace and therefore do not give rise to a viable claim for IIED.  Plaintiff, on the other hand, alleged and testified
that Barrios’ behavior prevented him from sleeping at night, that he would cry,
and that Barrios’ harassment was humiliating, stressful and caused him to feel
destroyed.  (PAMF No. 13).
 
Though
reasonable people may differ, it is for the jury, subject to the control of the
court, to determine whether, in a particular case, a defendant’s conduct has
been sufficiently extreme and outrageous to result in liability to plaintiff
for the intentional infliction of emotional distress.  (Alcorn, supra, at 495.)  Similarly here, reasonable persons may
differ, and as such, it should be for the trier of fact to determine whether
Barrios’ conduct has been sufficiently extreme and outrageous.  
 
Accordingly,
summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action for IIED is
DENIED.
RULING
            Based on all the foregoing, the
MOTION is DENIED.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 2nd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



