 Case Number:  21STCV29817    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  30, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV29817




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File First Amended Answer




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Western Freight Carrier, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Henry Leslie and Tamarra Williams



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 12, 2021, Plaintiffs Henry Leslie and Tamarra Williams filed
a complaint against Gerardo Rendon Venegas, Western Freight Carrier, Inc., and
Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a motor vehicle accident. On October
25, 2021, Western Freight Carrier, Inc. (Defendant) filed an answer.
 
On November 1, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion for leave to
file an amended answer to assert a twelfth and thirteenth affirmative defense
of settlement and promissory estoppel. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendant replies.
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Amendment
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for
the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
“The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the
action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).)  Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)  However, if the party seeking the amendment
has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge
has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations
omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial.
“If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other
side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the
time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) 
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial,
along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased
burden of discovery, etc.  . . .  But the fact that the amendment involves a
change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
“Even if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the
amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on
such terms as may be proper.’”  (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.)  For example, the court may cause the party
seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for
trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel,
42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).) 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
 
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
 
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and
 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant seeks to amend its answer to include two affirmative
defenses surrounding a settlement agreement that Defendant purports occurred in
May 2023. The purported settlement agreement was the subject of a motion to
enforce settlement under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6 that the Court
denied. (See Min. Order, 9/18/23.) 
 
Defendant has satisfied the procedural requirements for making this
motion by including a declaration and copy of the proposed answer. 
 
Defendant argues the request is timely because after its motion to
enforce settlement was denied on September 18, 2023, it reserved the subject
hearing date. (Motion, 7.) On October 30, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel informed
Defendant they would not stipulate to amend the pleadings. On November 1, 2023,
Defendant filed the instant motion. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant knew they
contested the settlement agreement on June 2, 2023, and therefore should have
acted sooner. (Opp., 4.) They also argue Defendant should have sought leave to
amend its answer first because it should have known it had no basis for filing
the motion to enforce settlement. (Opp., 4.) In reply, Defendant asserts it
served deposition subpoenas to Plaintiffs’ former counsel seeking unprivileged
information pertaining to his authority to enter into settlement agreements.
The delay appears to primarily be the result of the Court’s impacted motion
calendar, as Defendant asserts that a hearing date on the instant motion was
reserved on September 19, 2023. There appears to have been a short delay of
just over two months.
 
Plaintiffs argue they will be prejudiced by an amendment because it
will cause further discovery and delay trial. However, trial in this matter is
currently not set until March 11, 2024. Moreover, as to Plaintiff’s argument
that Defendant has not alleged any new facts or legal argument, the Court notes
that the Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement involved a summary proceeding
under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. Finally, as to Plaintiff’s
argument regarding privileged communications, these issues are more
appropriately addressed at trial.[1]
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for leave to amend its answer is granted.
Defendant shall file and serve the amended answer within 10 days.
 
Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 


