 Case Number:  21STCV33548    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  30, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV33548




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Discovery




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Super Garden Centers, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
   



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On September 10, 2021, Plaintiff
Kym Whitley (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Super Garden
Centers, Inc. and Does 1 to 50 for premises liability related to a trip and
fall.
 
            Defendant
Super Garden Centers, Inc. (Defendant) moves for orders compelling a physical
inspection of Plaintiff’s shoes, responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One,
Supplemental Interrogatories, Set One, Requests for Production Set One and Two,
and Supplemental Request for Production, Set One. No opposition has been filed.
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has subsequently
served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure
to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1), (a)(2).) The statute
contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been
served and no meet and confer is required when a party does not respond to
discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set
of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to
respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.070 provides:
 
“(b) A party may propound a supplemental interrogatory twice before
the initial setting of a trial date, and, subject to the time limits on
discovery proceedings and motions provided in Chapter 8 (commencing with
Section 2024.010), once after the initial setting of a trial date.
(c) Notwithstanding subdivisions (a) and (b), on motion, for good
cause shown, the court may grant leave to a party to propound an additional
number of supplemental interrogatories.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.070(b), (c).) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) Under Code of Civil Procedure Section
2031.010(c), any tangible thing may be inspected.
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290(c); Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(c).) Further, “[t]he court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that on May 8, 2023, Defendant served a request for
physical inspection of Plaintiff’s shoes. (Inouye Dec. ¶ 4.) On June 2, 2022,
Defendant served Plaintiff with Form Interrogatories, Set One and Requests for
Production, Set One. (Id. ¶ 5.) On January 24, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff
with Supplemental Interrogatories, Set One and Supplemental Requests for
Production, Set One. (Id. ¶ 6.) On January 31, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff
with Request for Production, Set Two. (Id. ¶ 7.) Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff has provided unverified responses to all discovery requests.
Defendant has not provided any of the responses for the Court’s review;
however, Plaintiff has also failed to file any opposition. Accordingly, the
Court grants the motions to compel.
 
Defendant seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel
in the amount of $1,620 (8 hours of attorney time plus the $60 filing fee). As
an initial matter, the Court notes that each motion to compel is a separate
motion, for which a separate filing fee is required. Counsel is admonished to
comply with the court rules in the future. Moreover, the amount requested is
excessive in light of the type of motion and the lack of an opposition.
Accordingly, the Court awards monetary sanctions in the amount of $255 (1 hour
of attorney time plus the filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant Super
Garden Centers, Inc.’s motions for orders compelling a physical inspection of
Plaintiff’s shoes, responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Supplemental
Interrogatories, Set One, Requests for Production Set One and Two, and
Supplemental Request for Production, Set One, are GRANTED. Plaintiff shall
serve verified responses and produce the shoes for inspection within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff and her counsel, jointly and severally, shall pay $255 in
monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendant within 30 days.
 
Defendant shall provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 