 Case Number:  24PSCV01689    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT GALLOP
TRUCKING, INC.’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with leave to amend, namely as Plaintiff has
not addressed the Bryant and Dyer cases.
 
Background
 
This case arises from a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiff
Rodolfo Evaro alleges the following against Defendants Victor Vidal (“Driver”)
and Gallop Trucking Inc. (“Defendant” or the “Towing Company”): On 2/16/23,
Plaintiff, a heavy-duty tow operator, was called by Defendant to tow one of
their trailer trucks that had broken down on the freeway; the trailer was
parked on the gore point of the highway. While Plaintiff was securing
Defendant’s trailer to his towing truck, the Driver suddenly headed towards Plaintiff
and struck Plaintiff from behind, causing Plaintiff serious and permanent
injuries, including amputation above the knee. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
breached a duty of care by (i) not stopping/parking the trailer in a safe spot
on the highway; (ii) failing to maintain their trailer (i.e., preventative
maintenance); and (iii) failing to start off a roadside flare to alert and
prompt any nearby emergency responders for assistance, including CHP. (See
generally First Amended Complaint (FAC).)[1]
 
On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed suit. 
 
On July 24, 2024, the Driver filed his answer and that same
day filed a cross-complaint against Defendant asserting the following causes of
action (COAs): 1.    
Indemnification 2.    
Apportionment of Fault and 3.    
Declaratory Relief
 
On September 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a FAC asserting the
following COAs:  
 
1.    
Motor Vehicle and
2.    
General Negligence 
 
On October 4, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer.
 
On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition.
 
On November 6, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
Discussion[2]
 
Defendant demurs to both COAs on the grounds that the COAs
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a COA and the COAs are uncertain.
(Demurrer p. 2, citing Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e), (f).) More specifically,
Defendant argues that under Bryant v. Glastetter (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
770 (Bryant) and Dyer v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 61 (Dyer)
stranded motorists do not owe a duty of care to tow truck
operators who are injured performing their job duties. The court turns to Bryant
as it is an instructive case.
 
In Bryant, the decedent was a tow truck driver who
was struck and killed by a third party as he attempted to remove the
defendant’s car from the side of the freeway after he was arrested for driving
under the influence. (Bryant, supra, 32 Cal.App.4th at p. 774.) The
complaint alleged that the defendant had a duty to avoid driving under the
influence of alcohol because she knew or should have known that doing so could
lead to impoundment of her vehicle, “thereby affecting the safety of others including decedent at the scene
of the traffic stop; and that the failure of Glastetter to avoid driving under
the influence of alcohol was a proximate cause of the fatal injuries to
decedent and the consequent harm to plaintiffs.” (Id. at p. 775.) On
appeal, the court confronted the issue of duty. (Id. at p. 777.) In
determining that there was no duty, the appellate court analyzed the factors
set forth in Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108. (Id. at
p. 778.) One of the factors examined was the ‘foreseeability of harm.’ (Id. at
p. 778.) “In order to limit the otherwise potentially infinite liability which
would follow every negligent act, the law of torts holds defendant amenable
only for injuries to others which to defendant at the time were reasonably
foreseeable.” (Ibid.) In determining that the harm suffered by decedent
in the present case was not a “harm of a kind normally to be expected” as a
consequence of negligent driving, the court provided the following reasoning: 
 
Even without being intoxicated, however, Glastetter might well have
ended up by the side of the road and in need of a tow truck for any number
of reasons which might have involved varying degrees of negligence.
Other than making it more probable that decedent would be in the place in which
the accident happened, Glastetter's consumption of alcohol did not make more
probable the accident that occurred, which was the result of independent
negligence by a third party. (Id. at pp. 779-780, emphasis added.) 
 
Related to the question of foreseeability is the question of
“the closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury
suffered.” (Id. at p. 781.) As to this factor, the court determined that
the “there is no logical cause and effect relationship between
[driving under the influence of alcohol] and the harm suffered by decedent except
for the fact that it placed decedent in a position to be acted upon by the
negligent third party.” (Id. at p. 782.)
 
In Dyer,[3] the
court relied upon Bryant in holding that a motorist did not owe duty of care to tow truck
driver to keep car in good mechanical order so that motorist would not need
towing assistance on freeway, facts which are nearly identical to this
case. “ As in Bryant, Hasou's injuries were not a
foreseeable result of Dyer's negligence (if any) in maintaining his car because
this negligence only brought Hasou to the freeway shoulder, but did not make it
more probable that a negligent third party would harm him at that location.” (Dyer,
supra, 56 Cal.App.4th at p. 72.)
 
Here, however, the opposition does not address any of the
foregoing cases, and/or, in the alternative, provide an analysis of the Rowland
factors. To the extent that Plaintiff cites authority, some cases do not
have a proper citation for the court to review (see e.g., Opp. p. 10, citing
Esparza v. Win Distrib., 2021 Cal. App. Unpub; see also Opp. p. 10 citing
Malyszek v. Martinez-Vieyra 2022 Cal. Super.), some cases reference non-binding
nor persuasive authority (Opp. p. 11 citing Silvia v. Pennock (1962) 253 Iowa
779 [ 113 N.W.2d 749), and some do not involve motor vehicle accidents (see
e.g., Hass v. Rhodyco Prods. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 11, 236 [cardiac arrest
after marathon].) 
 
The court is not bound to develop a party’s argument for
them, arguments which are to be supported by authority. (Cahill v. San Diego
Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 956. Therefore, as
Plaintiff has not squarely addressed Defendant’s arguments and authority, the
court SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is sustained. 


