 Case Number:  22STCV34394    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  T   22STCV34394 JUAN DE LOS  SANTOS VILLABA vs T&R PAINTING & DRYWALL  [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant T&R Painting & Drywall’s  Demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.  Defendant is to answer within 20 days. Introduction  Defendant T&R Painting and  Drywall (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Juan De Los Santos Villaba’s  (Plaintiff) Third Amended Complaint (TAC). The demurrer placed into issue the  single cause of action (COA) for “violations of Labor Code sections and other  provisions of the California Labor Code”. Discussion  Defendant argues that the TAC  failed to allege supportive facts to support the alleged violations of the  Labor Code and California Code of Regulations. It asserts that there are no  factual allegations actually pled and only legal conclusions.  Plaintiff states he added  sufficient facts in Paragraphs 22, 30, 34, 36, 40, 42, and 46 of the TAC. These  include non-compliance with pay practices, overtime compensation violations,  untimely wage payments, faulty pay policies, reimbursement failures, inaccurate  wage statements, and record-keeping violations. Plaintiff alleges that  Defendants failed to conform their pay practices to legal requirements by not  compensating Aggrieved Employees for all hours worked, including those under  their control or permitted to work. (Compl. ¶ 22.) They did not fully  compensate Aggrieved Employees for overtime, despite these employees working  hours that entitled them to such compensation. (Compl. ¶ 30.), Defendants  failed to timely pay Aggrieved Employees within seven days after the close of  the payroll, violating Labor Code section 204. (Compl. ¶ 34.) They did not  compensate former employees for all hours worked at the correct rate and failed  to pay due sums within seventy-two hours of termination, as required. (Compl. ¶  36.) Defendants did not fully reimburse Aggrieved Employees for necessary  job-related expenses, including personal cell phone costs and mileage,  violating Labor Code section 2802. (Compl. ¶ 40.) Due to improper payments, the  wage statements issued by Defendants did not reflect the correct gross wages,  total hours worked, net wages earned, or applicable hourly rates, violating  Labor Code section 226. (Compl. ¶ 42.) Defendants failed to provide accurate  itemized wage statements and did not keep accurate records of the total hours  worked by employees, leading to penalties under Labor Code section 226.3.  (Compl. ¶ 46.)  The Court finds these to be sufficient  factual allegations to support Plaintiff’s PAGA claim.  The demurrer to the TAC is OVERRULED,  WITH 20 DAYS TO ANSWER. IT IS SO ORDERED, Clerk TO GIVE NOTICE.