  Case Number:  21STCV32904    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  T 21STCV32904 HELGAGER V
DOHENY
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Inner Power Yoga Studio, Inc.’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
Defendant Inner Power Yoga
Studio, Inc.’s Alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED as it is procedurally
improper.
Introduction 
Defendant Inner Power Yoga, Inc.
(Defendant) moved for summary judgment (MSJ) and alternatively for summary
adjudication (MSA) as to Plaintiff Susan Helgager’s (Plaintiff) causes of
action for negligence and premises liability set forth in Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint (FAC).   Only the first
and second causes of action in the FAC—which are for premises liability and
negligence, respectively—are asserted against moving Defendant. 
Procedure 
The Court notes that Defendant
moves for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication. The notice
of motion, however, is deficient as it concerns Defendant’s request for summary
adjudication. “If summary adjudication is sought, whether separately or as an
alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the specific cause of action,
affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be specifically
stated in the notice of motion and repeated, verbatim, in the separate
statement of undisputed material facts.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350(b).)

The caption of Defendant’s notice
of motion indicates that the motion is one for summary judgment or,
alternatively, summary adjudication; however, the body of the notice of motion
only references summary judgment and states that Defendant “bring[s] a motion
for summary judgment . . . to resolve the causes of action for negligence and
premises liability . . . .” (Not. of Mot. at p. 1:26-28.)  Thus, the notice of motion is procedurally
deficient.  Although Defendant did make a
cursory reference to summary adjudication in its memorandum of points and
authorities (Mem. of Ps and As at p. 2:26-28), such request should have been
made in the notice of motion. 
Defendant’s request for summary adjudication is not in compliance with
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350 and is therefore procedurally improper and is
denied on that ground.
Discussion  
The Court reviewed the FAC filed
on October 24, 2022.
Defendant contends that summary
judgment should be granted as to the first and second causes of action because
Plaintiff admitted at her deposition that Defendant did not breach any duty of
care and did not cause the explosion. (Mem. of Ps and As at p. 5:9-15.) Causes
of action for negligence and premises liability require a showing that a
defendant was negligent, plaintiff was harmed, and such negligence was a
substantial factor in causing such harm. 
(CACI 400 and 1000.) 
Plaintiff objected to the
evidence set forth in support of such contention, and such objection was
sustained by the Court. (See 07/01/24 Order on Plaintiff’s Objections to
Evidence.) Thus, Defendant presents no admissible evidence to support its
contention that Plaintiff cannot establish that Defendant was negligent, and
that Defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s
harm. Defendant has not met its burden in showing that there is no triable
issue of fact on the issues of breach of duty and causation.
Irrespective of such fact,
Plaintiff has presented evidence that shows a triable issue of fact on the
issue of negligence and on the issue of causation.  (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed
Facts (PSSF) at 23-33.)  Plaintiff
presents evidence that one of Defendant’s owners knew about the first toilet
exploding prior to the second toilet exploding, and the explosion of the second
toilet injured Plaintiff.  (PSSF
31.)  Plaintiff also presents evidence
that Defendant had no sense of urgency concerning the toilet in the first
restroom breaking when it flushed, and Defendant had no understanding why the
toilet in the first restroom exploded. 
(PSSF 32, 33.) 
Next, Defendant argues that an
enforceable liability waiver bars Plaintiff’s claims for ordinary negligence
and premises liability and, since such waiver prohibits Plaintiff from bringing
claims for ordinary negligence, Plaintiff must show gross negligence and
Plaintiff cannot show any facts to support a finding of gross negligence.  The elements of contractual assumption of the
risk are: (1) plaintiff agreed before the incident to not hold defendant
responsible for any damages; (2) the agreement applies to plaintiff’s claims;
and (3) there is neither gross negligence nor an intentional act.  (CACI 451.) 
Defendant presents the “Inner
Power Yoga Liability Waiver” form that Plaintiff does not dispute that she
signed. (Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts (DSSF) 1.) The waiver form
provides that “[i]n consideration of participating in yoga classes therein
referred to as the ‘Activity’, [Plaintiff] agree[s] and acknowledge[s] that
[she] [is] fully aware that participation in the Activity involves risk,
and [she] accept[s] all the risks of participating, even if the risks are
created by the carelessness, negligence or gross negligence” of Defendant.  (Suffin Decl., Ex. B at para. 1.)  The waiver form defines “Claims” as any
action for damages, personal injury, or death in connection with participation
in the Activity.  (Suffin Decl., Ex.
B at para. 2.) (Emphasis added.)
Defendant has not established, as
a matter of law, that plaintiff was injured in participation of the activity
(yoga) when she was injured using the toilet.
Plaintiff agreed to fully release
any and all rights or Claims she currently had or has in the future against
Defendant for participation in the activity even if such Claims were
based on carelessness, negligence, gross negligence, or the recklessness of
Defendant.  (Suffin Decl., Ex. B at para.
5.) Plaintiff agreed to not sue Defendant for Claims even if such Claims arose
from the carelessness, negligence, or gross negligence of Defendant or anyone
else.  (Suffin Decl., Ex. B. at para. 6.)
The waiver form contains a severability clause and provides that the waiver
“act[s] as the broadest and most inclusive assumption of risk, waiver, release
of liability, agreement not to sue and indemnity.”  (Suffin Decl., Ex. B at paras. 9, 10.) 
A contract “only extends to those
things concerning which it appears that the parties intended to contract.”  (Civ. Code § 1648.)  Here, Plaintiff used the toilet in a restroom
and the toilet bowl burst and struck Plaintiff in her lower leg, for which she
brings suit.  (DSSF 10.)  Here, based on the evidence presented by
Defendant, Plaintiff was not engaged in the practice of yoga when she sustained
her injuries. Rather, Plaintiff was using the restroom when she was
injured.  On its face, the waiver form does
not insulate Defendant from liability for injuries that occur when a patron
uses its restroom facilities.  The
purpose of the waiver form is to shield Defendant from liability from
participation in yoga. The explosion of a toilet is not an act of negligence
that is “reasonably related to the object or purpose for which the release
[was] given.”  (Sweat v. Big Time Auto
Racing, Inc. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1305.)  The waiver is not clear, unambiguous, and
explicit in insulating Defendant from liability from an event occurring apart
from the participation in yoga. 
(Ibid.)  The waiver form here does
not “indicate that it covers any and all injuries arising out of or connected
with the use of [defendant’s] facilities.” 
(Cohen v. Five Brooks Stable (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1476, 1489.) 
Accordingly, there is a triable
issue of fact as to whether the waiver form applies to Plaintiff’s ordinary
negligence and premises liability claims. Additionally, claims for gross
negligence cannot be released through a waiver of liability.  (City of Santa Barbara (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747,
763.)  Summary judgment is therefore
inappropriate as to the first and second causes of action.
As a tertiary matter, the Court
finds that there is a triable issue of fact as to whether Defendant was grossly
negligent.  Defendant presents evidence
that it took measures after the first toilet exploded in the first restroom and
took remedial measures after the explosion of the toilet that injured
Plaintiff.  (DSSF 11-19.) Plaintiff,
however, has presented evidence that Defendant lacked urgency as to the cause
of the toilet in the first restroom breaking and did not understand the cause
of the explosion of the first toilet. 
(PSSF 31-32.)  Whether a defendant
is grossly negligent is usually a triable issue of fact.  (Decker v. City of Imperial Beach (1989) 209
Cal.App.3d 349, 358.)  
As such, Defendant’s MSJ and MSA are
DENIED.    
_____________________________________
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Sloan Valve Company’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED.
Defendant Sloan Valve Company’s
Alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED as to Issues 1 and 2. 
Defendant Sloan Valve Company’s
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
Ruling on Objections by defendant
to Agle Declaration, Nos. 1-10: Overruled
Introduction 
Defendant Sloan Valve Company
(Defendant) moved for summary judgment (MSJ) and alternatively for summary
adjudication (MSA) against Plaintiff Susan Helgager’s (Plaintiff) First Amended
Complaint (FAC).   Only the third and
fourth causes of action in the FAC—which are for strict product liability and
negligent product liability, respectively—are asserted against Defendant.
Defendant’s MSA asserted two issues to be adjudicated.  The MSA issues are:  
Issue 1 – fourth COA for
negligent product liability; and  
Issue 2 – third COA for strict
product liability
Procedure 
The Court notes that in response
to Defendant’s UMF no. 11, which provides that there is no evidence that the
toilet was negligently designed, Plaintiff indicated that such fact was
disputed but did not cite to any evidence in support of such disputed fact. 
The Court reviewed the FAC filed
on October 24, 2022.  
Discussion 
Fourth Cause of Action for
Negligent Product Liability
As to the fourth COA for
negligent product liability and MSA Issue 1, Defendant asserted that there is
no triable issue of fact as there is no evidence of negligence given that there
is no negligent design and no negligent failure to warn or instruct.  
A manufacturer is negligent if it
“fails to use the amount of care in” designing or manufacturing “the product
that a reasonably careful . . . designer/manufacturer . . . would use in
similar circumstances to avoid exposing others to a foreseeable risk of
harm.”  (CACI 1221.) In assessing whether
a manufacturer used reasonable care, a court balances what the defendant “knew
or should have known about the likelihood and severity of potential harm for
the product against the burden of taking safety measures to reduce or avoid the
harm.”  (CACI 1221.) 
To state a cause of action for
negligence based on the failure to warn, a plaintiff must prove the following
elements: (1) that defendant manufactured, distributed, or sold the product;
(2) that defendant knew or reasonably should have known that the product was
dangerous or was likely to be dangerous when used or misused in a reasonably
foreseeable manner; (3) that defendant knew or reasonably should have known
that users would not realize the danger; (4) that defendant failed to
adequately warn of the danger or instruct on the safe use of the product; (5)
that a reasonable manufacturer, distributor, or seller under the same or
similar circumstances would have warned of the danger or instructed on the safe
use of the product; (6) plaintiff was harmed; and (7) defendant’s failure to
warn or instruct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 1222.) 
Defendant presented the following
undisputed material facts: Plaintiff alleges that she was injured on October 8,
2020, while using a toilet in a restroom at Inner Power Yoga Studio.
(Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts (DSSF) 1.)  Plaintiff contends that she was injured when
a portion of the porcelain toilet bowl from the toilet she was using blew out
and struck her when she flushed, and she contends that the toilet was
manufactured by Defendant.  (DSSF 3.) On
October 9, 2020, the water pressure in the restroom where Plaintiff was
allegedly injured was measured at 130 psi. 
(DSSF 4.) Once the building’s water pressure regulator was repaired, the
water pressure at Inner Power Yoga was reduced to about 65 psi.  (DSSF 6.) No one retained the toilet bowl, or
any component parts of the toilet used by Plaintiff when she was allegedly
injured.  (DSSF 7.)  There is no evidence that the toilet
Plaintiff used lacked sufficient warnings as a result of Defendant not being
reasonably careful, or that a reasonable manufacturer under the same or similar
circumstances would have provided a similar warning of this risk.  (DSSF 10.) 
Defendant also presents evidence
that since at least 2009, all Sloan Valve Company toilet bowls that are
distributed in the United States are designed and manufactured to perform with
a maximum static water pressure of 80 psi, which is the industry standard.  (DSSF 5.) 

Given that Plaintiff does not
dispute the fact that there is no evidence the toilet lacked sufficient
warnings or that a reasonable manufacturer under the same or similar
circumstances would have provided a warning of the risk, the Court finds that
the failure to warn or instruct theory of liability fails. 
However, the fourth COA is also
based on negligent design. Plaintiff has presented evidence that the general
expectation is that a properly designed ceramic toilet would never fail even if
the incoming water pressure was high which is why no test is required.  (Agle Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff presents
evidence that the 80 psi test is a functional test only and such specification
relies on the manufacturer to make a proper design and understand what
pressures the toilet may see in use. 
(Agle Decl., ¶ 5.)  Two of
Defendant’s toilets were reported to have fractured on the same day, and there
is no evidence of any other toilets in the building having issues except the
two Sloan toilets, such failure being consistent with a manufacturing or design
defect.  (Agle Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff
presents evidence that Defendant is aware that water pressure in different
plumbing systems can vary; Defendant received complaints about the same type of
toilet as the subject toilet breaking apart after flushing; and Defendant did
not test its toilet products to determine the maximum water pressure they can
withstand before failing.  (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Disputed Facts (PSSF) 62, 63, 64.) Plaintiff presents
evidence that Defendant should have known that their toilets would be used in
plumbing systems where the water pressure could reach levels of 180 PSI.  (PSSF 43.) 
Accordingly, there are triable
issues of fact as to Plaintiff’s fourth COA for negligent product liability.
Triable issues of fact exist as to whether Defendant was negligent in its
design and testing of the subject toilet and the issue of whether Defendant
caused Plaintiff’s injuries. 
The MSJ and MSA Issue 1 is
DENIED. 
Third Cause of Action for Strict
Product Liability
As to MSA Issue 2, Defendant
contends that there is no evidence of a design defect and there is no evidence
of a failure to warn defect. As alleged in the FAC, the subject toilet “was
defective and unsafe in manufacture and design and lacked proper warnings.”  (FAC at para. 31.) 
To state a cause of action for
strict product liability based on a design defect, under the consumer
expectations test, a plaintiff must prove the following: (1) defendant
manufactured, distributed, or sold the product; (2) the product did not perform
as safely as an ordinary consumer would have expected it to perform when used
or misused in an intended or reasonably foreseeable way; (3) plaintiff was
harmed; and (4) the product’s failure to perform safely was a substantial
factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. 
(CACI 1203.) 
To state a cause of action for
strict product liability based on the risk-benefit test, a plaintiff must prove
the following: (1) defendant manufactured, distributed, or sold the product;
(2) plaintiff was harmed; and (3) the product’s design was a substantial factor
in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI
1204.) Once a plaintiff proves the aforementioned elements, unless a defendant
proves that the benefits of the product’s design outweigh the risk of design,
the court must find for the plaintiff. (CACI 1204.) 
As to the third cause of action,
Plaintiff does not dispute that there is no evidence that Defendant failed to
adequately warn.  (PSSF 16.)  Accordingly, the failure to warn theory for
Plaintiff’s third cause of action fails. 
(CACI 1205.) 
However, based on the Court’s
recitation of the parties’ evidence above pursuant to the fourth COA, the Court
finds that there exist triable issues of material fact as to whether the
subject toilet had a design defect. Plaintiff presented evidence to create a
triable issue concerning whether the subject toilet had a design defect under
both the consumer expectations test and the risk-benefit test.  (PSSF 11-15, 18.) Despite Defendant’s
contention to the contrary, Plaintiff has presented evidence that the toilet
did not perform as safely as an ordinary consumer would have expected, that the
toilet’s failure to perform safely was a substantial factor in her harm, and
that the design of the toilet was a substantial factor in her harm.  (PSSF 50-59, 63; Agle Decl., ¶¶ 5-8.)  
As such, Defendant’s MSA Issue 2
is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.