 Case Number:  23STCV29404    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  39 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV29404




MOTIONS


Motion for Interpleader




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant Minh
  Thuy Co Hoang




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants and Cross-Complainants Trong B. Nguyen, M.D.,
  Inc., and Rejuvenate Surgical Center, LLC



 MOTION
Defendant Minh
Thuy Co Hoang (“Defendant”) moves for an order under Code of Civil Procedure
section 386, subdivision (f) to enjoin the cross-complaint of Defendants and
Cross-Complainants Trong B. Nguyen, M.D., Inc., and Rejuvenate Surgical Center,
LLC (“Cross-Complainants”). 
Cross-Complainants oppose the
motion.
ANALYSIS
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 386, subdivision (b),[1] “Any
person, firm, corporation, association or other entity against whom double or
multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two or more persons which are such
that they may give rise to double or multiple liability, may bring an action
against the claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate their several
claims.”  
Plaintiff Law
Office of London & Le (“Plaintiff”) filed this interpleader action, naming Defendant
and Cross-Complainants as claimants to certain settlement funds obtained from a
third-party tortfeasor.  Plaintiff
alleges Plaintiff and Defendant entered into medical lien contracts with Cross-Complainants
for medical services Cross-Complainants provided to Defendant (First Amended
Complaint, ¶¶ 8,9), and Defendant and Cross-Complainants are, therefore,
claimants to such funds (id., ¶¶ 15, 16).  
Cross-Complaints
have individually filed cross-complaints against Plaintiff and Defendant,
alleging in form complaints claims for breach of contract and common
counts.  Section 386, subdivision (f)
provides “[a]fter any such complaint or cross-complaint in interpleader has
been filed, the court in which it is filed may enter its order restraining all
parties to the action from instituting or further prosecuting any other
proceeding in any court in this state affecting the rights and obligations a
between the parties to the interpleader until further order of the court.”  Therefore, this Court has the authority to
restrain other proceedings that would impact the interpleader action.  (See § 386, subd. (f) .) 
Section 386,
subdivisions (a) and (b) permit a defendant in an interpleader action to “file
a verified cross-complaint in interpleader.” 
However, nowhere in the interpleader statute are Cross-Complainants authorized
to file a cross-complaint that is separate and apart from the interpleader
action itself.  Although Plaintiff raises
the specter in this interpleader action of Cross-Complainants seeking to
recover more than that to which they are entitled, and Cross-Complainants
perhaps felt compelled to file a cross-action to justify their claim to the
funds by way of a breach of contract and common counts action, the Court is
moved by the fact restraints must be set in the underlying interpleader
action.  
In this regard, courts
have held defendants in an interpleader action “cannot, by cross-complaint, change
the character of the action by setting up a new and distinct claim against the
plaintiff.  That claim must be asserted
in a separate action.”  (6 Witkin, Cal.
Procedure (6th ed. 2021) Pleadings , § 246, pp. 314-315.)  In addition, Cross-Complainants have not only
brought the breach of contract and common counts against Defendant; they have
named Plaintiff in the cross-action as well. 
“As against the stakeholder, claimants may raise only matters which go
to whether the suit is properly one for interpleader, i.e., whether the
elements of an interpleader action are present.”  (State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v.
Pietak (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600 (State Farm) [in the context of considering
whether the defendant was required to assert claims in an interpleader action by
way of a cross-complaint, the Court of Appeal held it was reasonable for the
defendant’s counsel to conclude section 386 did not require counsel to do so].)
As this Court will
determine the disposition of the interpleaded settlement funds pursuant to Plaintiff’s
complaint; the cross-complaints are somewhat duplicative of the interpleader
action; and, in any event, Plaintiff, as the stakeholder, objects to an independent
claim being raised by way of a cross-complaint (State Farm, supra,
90 Cal.App.4th at p. 614), the Court grants Defendant’s motion to restrain and
stay the cross-complaint pending determination of Plaintiff’s interpleader
complaint.
Defendant is ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 


