Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22SMCV01585
Plaintiff's Name: Francisco Barron
Defendant's Name: 4711 Berryman LLC
People-Names: Francisco Rodriguez, Noah Green
Company-Names: FR Construction, Icon Remodeling, State Compensation Insurance Fund
Places: Culver City, California
Dates: September 15, 2022, May 6, 2024, June 25, 2024, September 11, 2024
Events: Motion for Summary Judgment, Motion for Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Berryman seeks to amend its cross-complaint to add new causes of action based on a third-party beneficiary theory of liability
Facts: Berryman discovered a new insurance agreement between SCIF and Icon on or about March 28, 2024, which may support a third-party beneficiary theory of liability
Disputes: SCIF opposes the motion for leave to amend, arguing that it is untimely and will be prejudiced by the increased litigation costs
Acts: Berryman filed its original cross-complaint on July 24, 2023, SCIF demurred to the original cross-complaint on March 25, 2024, Berryman filed its first amended cross-complaint on May 6, 2024
Agreements: SCIF-Icon insurance agreement
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court
Case Citations: None mentioned
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: Judge Michael E. Whitaker
Significant Statements:
* The Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend pleadings "in furtherance of justice" and "on any terms as may be proper."
* Leave to amend is liberally granted, and denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing party.
* The proposed amendments do not constitute a covert request for reconsideration of the Court's ruling on the prior demurrer, but rather constitute a request to allege a new legal theory based on newly discovered facts.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on Berryman's motion for leave to amend its cross-complaint to add new causes of action based on a third-party beneficiary theory of liability. Berryman discovered a new insurance agreement between SCIF and Icon on or about March 28, 2024, which may support this theory. SCIF opposes the motion, arguing that it is untimely and will be prejudiced by the increased litigation costs.

The judge notes that Berryman has a right to amend its pleadings "in furtherance of justice" and "on any terms as may be proper." The proposed amendments do not constitute a covert request for reconsideration of the Court's ruling on the prior demurrer, but rather constitute a request to allege a new legal theory based on newly discovered facts.

The judge is likely to grant Berryman's motion for leave to amend, as the proposed amendments are timely and will not prejudice SCIF. However, the final ruling is subject to change based on any arguments or evidence presented at the hearing.