  Case Number:  22SMCV01585    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE  RULING - NO. 1      DEPARTMENT   207     HEARING DATE   September    11, 2024     CASE NUMBER   22SMCV01585     MOTION   Motion    for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication     MOVING PARTY   Defendant 4711 Berryman, LLC     OPPOSING PARTY   none      MOVING PAPERS:    Notice       of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication; Memorandum       of Points and Authorities Declaration       of Ofir Chanael Notice       of Lodgment Separate       Statement of Undisputed Material Facts     BACKGROUND   On September 15, 2022, Plaintiff Francisco Barron (“Plaintiff”) brought  suit against Defendants FR Construction, Inc; Francisco Rodriguez; and 4711  Berryman LLC, alleging ten causes of action for (1) failure to carry workers  compensation insurance; (2) negligent hiring; (3) negligent entrustment &  supervision; (4) failure to pay all regular wages earned; (5) failure to pay  all overtime wages earned; (6) failure to provide meal breaks; (7) failure to  provide rest periods; (8) failure to furnish accurate wage statements; (9)  unlawful business practices; and (10) failure to pay all wages upon discharge.   Defendant 4711 Berryman LLC (“Berryman”) now moves for summary  judgment, or in the alternative adjudication, as to the following issues:   1. Issue No. 1: Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action  for Failure to Carry Workers Compensation Insurance (Cal Labor Code 3706)  cannot be established.    2. Issue No. 2: Plaintiff’s Second Cause of  Action for Negligent Hiring cannot be established.    3. Issue No. 3: Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action  for Negligent Entrustment & Supervision cannot be established.    4. Issue No. 4: Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of  Action for Failure to Pay All Regular Wages Earned (Cal Lab Code 204, 218.5,  218.6 & 510) cannot be established.    5. Issue No. 5: Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action  for Failure to Pay All Overtime Wages Earned (Cal Labor Code 510, 1194 &  1194.2) cannot be established.    6. Issue No. 6: Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action  for Failure to Provide Meal Breaks (Cal Labor Code 226.7 & 512 cannot be  established.    7. Issue No. 7: Plaintiff’s Seventh Cause of  Action for Failure to Provide Rest Periods (Cal Labor Code 2267.7 & 512)  cannot be established. 8. Issue No.    8: Plaintiff’s Eighth Cause of Action for Failure  to Furnish Accurate Wage Statements (Cal Labor Code 226) cannot be established.     9. Issue No. 9: Plaintiff’s Ninth Cause of Action  for Unlawful Business Practices (Cal B&P Code 17200) cannot be established.     10. Issue No. 10: Plaintiff’s Tenth Cause of  Action for Failure to Pay All Wages Upon Discharge (Labor Code Sec. 201, 202,  203) cannot be established.   Berryman’s motion is unopposed.   LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY  JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION   “[T]he party moving for  summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue  of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]  There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would  allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the  party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  ¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850  (hereafter Aguilar).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an  initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence  of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,  he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of  production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a  triable issue of material fact.” ¿(Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank,  N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar  apply to summary adjudication motions].)     Further, “the trial court  may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose  version is more likely true.  Nor may the  trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th. at p. 840  [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation  (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or  summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the  light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences  in favor of that party”].)     A party may move for  summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,  claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no  merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party  contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be  granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative  defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or  more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if  that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an  affirmative defense to that cause of action.   (See Code Civ. Proc., §  437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior  Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.)   Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the  burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact  exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p.  583.)  Additionally, in line with Aguilar,  “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to  exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged  causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of  fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp.  v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)    DISCUSSION    1.     ISSUE 1: FAILURE TO CARRY WORKER’S  COMPENSATION INSURANCE (Labor Code, § 3706)   Labor Code section 3706  provides, “If any employer fails to secure the payment of compensation, any  injured employee or his dependents may bring an action at law against such  employer for damages, as if this division did not apply.”   An unlicensed subcontractor is  not an independent contractor, but rather is considered an employee of the  general contractor.  (Lab. Code, § 2750.5;  State Compensation Insurance Fund v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (1985)  40 Cal.3d 5, 15.)     Plaintiff seeks to hold  Berryman, as the owner of the subject property, liable as his “ultimate  hirer.”  But where a general contractor  hires an unlicensed subcontractor, the employees of that unlicensed  subcontractor are also employees of the general contractor for purposes of worker’s  compensation.  (See Blew v. Horner (1986)  187 Cal.App.3d 1380, 1389.)   Here, Undisputed Material Fact  (“UMF”) number 6 indicates Plaintiff was employed by FR Construction, Inc.  (Compl. ¶ 3); the owner of FR Construction, Inc., Francisco Rodriguez (Compl. ¶  4; Plaintiff’s Deposition at pp. 8:25-9:10), and/or Icon Remodeling, Inc., as  the general contractor that hired FR Construction (Ex. 6 [check from Berryman  to Icon Remodeling] Ex. 5 [subcontractor agreement between Icon Remodeling and  Triangle Construction, Inc.])  Plaintiff  has further alleged that FR Construction/Rodriguez do not maintain valid  contractors licenses.  (Compl. ¶ 5.)   In other words, Berryman, as  the owner, hired Icon as general contractor, who in turn hired the unlicensed  subcontractor FR Construction/Francisco Rodriguez, for whom Plaintiff was an  employee.  During the time of the  incident, Icon held a Class B General Building license number 1046770 and had a  worker’s compensation policy through the State Compensation Insurance  Fund.  (UMF No. 7.)   Thus, under the “ultimate  hirer” theory, at best both FR Construction/Rodriguez and Icon could  potentially be deemed Plaintiff’s employers, but not Berryman, who hired a  licensed contractor to perform the construction work at the subject property.   As such, the Court grants  summary adjudication as to Issue 1.   2.     ISSUE 2: NEGLIGENT HIRING   “The elements of a cause of  action for negligence are (1) a legal duty to use reasonable care, (2) breach  of that duty, and (3) proximate [or legal] cause between the breach and (4) the  plaintiff's injury.”  (Phillips v. TLC  Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.)  “An employer may be liable to a third person  for the employer's negligence in hiring or retaining an employee who is  incompetent or unfit.”  (Ibid.)  “Liability for negligent hiring is based upon  the reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics  which might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the enterprise  should bear the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit  employees.”  (Ibid.)  “Negligence liability will be imposed on an  employer if it “knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a  particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.”  (Ibid.)  The two elements necessary to establish a  duty in negligent hiring and retention cases are (1) an employment  relationship; and (2) foreseeability of injury.   (Id. at p. 1142.)   As discussed above, because  there is no employment relationship between Berryman and Plaintiff, Plaintiff  cannot establish Berryman owed Plaintiff any duty.   Therefore, the Court grants  summary adjudication as to Issue 2.   3.     ISSUE 3: NEGLIGENT ENTRUSTMENT   “Negligent entrustment is a  common law liability doctrine, which arises in numerous factual contexts.”  (McKenna v. Beesley (2021) 67  Cal.App.5th 552, 565.)  Most commonly,  negligent entrustment arises where a defendant negligently entrusts a motor  vehicle to another, and is thereby liable to third parties for the harm  caused.  For example, the elements for  negligent entrustment of a motor vehicle are (1) driver was negligent in  operating the vehicle; (2) defendant owned the vehicle the driver operated with  owner’s permission; (3) defendant knew or should have known that the driver was  incompetent or unfit to drive the vehicle; (4) defendant permitted driver to  drive the vehicle; and (5) driver’s incompetence or unfitness to drive was a  substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.   (Id. at p. 566; CACI No. 724.)   Similarly, an employer who  negligently entrusts a motor vehicle to its employee can be liable for  negligent entrustment.  (See Diaz v.  Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148.)  Here,  Plaintiff alleges:   15. Employers in California have a duty to make  sure the workplace is safe for their employees. It is not enough for the  employer to indifferently provide a workplace. Rather the employer has an  affirmative duty supervise and avoid dangerous and unsafe acts or conditions.    16. Similarly, property owners have a duty to  make their property safe for those who enter onto their property.   17. Defendant 4711 Berryman whether as an  employer or a property owner had a duty to Mr. Barron to make certain the  property was safe. They had a duty to make certain the people doing work on  their property were properly licensed, insured and bonded under the law.  Defendant 4711 Berryman had a duty to make sure the people working on their  property had adequate skill, experience and knowledge to safely carry out the  requisite work. Rodriguez had none of the required qualifications and by  allowing him to carry out work on the property 4711 Berryman was negligent in  hiring, negligent in supervising and negligent in entrusting Rodriguez to  supervise Barron (who was jointly an employee of 4711 Berryman at the time of  the accident).    18. Had 4711 Berryman made any effort to look at  the work being done on his property he would have immediately known the work  being performed was unsafe. The scaffolding that was erected by Rodriguez and  his crew was unsafe. The action of using garbage cans as a base for scaffolding  was unsafe. The lack of safety equipment on the job should have identified  Rodriguez and FR Construction as unqualified for the work.    19. 4711 Berryman’s negligence and reckless  indifference to Rodriguez/FR Construction’s ability to carry out the project is  a direct and proximate cause of the injuries suffered by Barron.   (Compl.  ¶¶ 15-19.)  Thus, Plaintiff appears to  allege, that instead of a motor vehicle or other dangerous instrument, Berryman  negligently entrusted the subject real property to the contractors working on  the home, who made it dangerous by virtue of the use of garbage cans as  scaffolding.               It is unclear whether a cause of  action for negligent entrustment can even lie where the item alleged to have  been negligently entrusted is real property.   But even if it can, as discussed above, Berryman hired Icon, a licensed  contractor to perform the work on its home.   Thus, it is not the case that Berryman knew or should have known those  performing construction work at the property were incompetent or unfit to do  so, as would be the case if Berryman had hired an unlicensed contractor.                 Therefore, the Court grants summary  adjudication as to Issue 3.   4.     ISSUES 4-10: FAILURE TO PAY WAGES; PROVIDE  MEAL AND PERIODS; FURNISH ACCURATE WAGE STATEMENTS; AND UNLAWFUL BUSINESS  PRACTICES   The fourth through tenth causes of action are all premised upon an employer-employee  relationship between Berryman and Plaintiff.   As discussed above, there is no employer-employee relationship between  Berryman, as the owner who hired licensed general contractor Icon, and  Plaintiff, who worked for the unlicensed subcontractor hired by Icon.     Therefore, the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issues 4-10.   CONCLUSION AND ORDER   Therefore, having found Berryman met its prima facie burdens of  production and persuasion that it was not Plaintiff’s “ultimate hirer” or  employer, nor did it know or should have known about the dangerous conditions  created by an unlicensed subcontractor at the property, the Court grants  Berryman’s unopposed motion for summary judgment in its entirety.     Further, the Court will enter the Order as lodged/proposed by Berryman  on May 22, 2024.   Berryman shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the  notice with a proof of service forthwith.              DATED:  September 11, 2024                                               ___________________________                                                                                           Michael  E. Whitaker                                                                                           Judge  of the Superior Court  TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 2

 




DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 11, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01585




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Cross-Complainant 4711 Berryman LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Cross-Defendant State Compensation Insurance Fund




 

BACKGROUND

 

Plaintiff Francisco Barron (“Plaintiff”) worked for FR Construction,
Inc. (“FR Construction”) as a laborer. In August or September of 2020, FR
Construction secured a “job” at 4711 Berryman Ave in Culver City, California.
The owner of the property at that time was 4711 Berryman LLC (“Berryman”). 

 

On September 16, 2020, Plaintiff and other workers were instructed to
fix some tile, pipes and grout. The work was situated on the exterior of the
project about 10 feet above ground level. There was no scaffolding or ladders
present. Francisco Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”), the principal of FR Construction, directed
the workers to place several garbage bins in a line and place wooden planks
across the garbage bins so that the workers could reach the work area. While
working on top of the planks, on top of garbage bins, the contraption gave way.
Plaintiff was on top of one area and fell to ground about 8 feet and landed on
his leg, breaking it. 

 

FR Construction and Rodriguez allegedly did not maintain either
workers’ compensation insurance or general liability insurance, among other
alleged shortcomings in their business practices. Plaintiff filed suit against
FR Construction, Rodriguez and Berryman on September 15, 2022, alleging various
claims under the Labor Code including a failure to maintain workers'
compensation insurance coverage. 

 

On May 6, 2024, Berryman filed an Amended Cross-Complaint alleging
eight causes of action for (1) indemnity; (2) apportionment of fault; (3)
comparative fault; (4) declaratory relief; (5) intentional misrepresentation;
(6) negligent misrepresentation; (6) negligence; and (7) indemnity.

 

On June 25, 2024, the Court sustained State Compensation Insurance
Fund’s (“SCIF”) demurrer to all causes of action alleged against it on the
grounds that SCIF owes no duty to Berryman because there is no alleged
contractual or insurer-insured relationship between SCIF and Berryman.  Further, Berryman did not present the Court
with any facts it could plead to suggest otherwise. 

 

Berryman now moves for leave to amend the cross-complaint to add three
causes of action for breach of contract, express indemnity, and equitable
indemnity; to remove SCIF from the (now) fourth cause of action for
apportionment of fault, to remove the cause of action for comparative fault,
and to add allegations that Berryman is an intended third party beneficiary of
the insurance contract between SCIF and Icon. 


 

SCIF opposes the motion and Berryman replies.

 

LEGAL
STANDARD

 

Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions

 

            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”

 

            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”

 

            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)

 

            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil
& Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the motion is
timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing party. (Id.
at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party seeking the amendment has
been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has
discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations omitted.
Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial. “If the
delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the
liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an abuse of
discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the time of
trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where the amendment would result
in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of
preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . . But the fact that the
amendment involves a change in legal theory which would make admissible
evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court
will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656, citations
omitted.)

 

            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)

 

California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements

 

            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:

 

“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;

(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and

(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”

 

            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:

 

“(1) the effect of the amendment;

(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;

(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and

(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”

 

DISCUSSION

 

            In support of the motion, Berryman
has provided the Declaration of Attorney Noah Green, attached to which is a
redlined version of the proposed second amended cross-complaint, and which
provides the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,
and the reasons why the requested amendments were not made earlier.  

 

With regard to when the facts giving rise to the amendments were
discovered and why the amendment was not made sooner, the Green Declaration
provides:

 

·      
“The facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered following receipt of SCIF’s discovery responses in
this matter, which were served on or about March 28, 2024.”  (Green Decl. ¶ 7.)

 

·      
“at the time SCIF provided their discovery
responses disclosing the relevant information, SCIF’s demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint was already scheduled for hearing. Following discovery of the
new information, my office included these new legal theories in Berryman’s
Opposition to SCIF’s demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint. Although
the Court sustained SCIF’s demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint
without leave to amend on or about June 25, 2024, the Court noted that Berryman
may file the instant Motion for Leave to File the Second Amended
Cross-Complaint. On July 2, 2024, SCIF filed and served the Notice of Ruling
Re: Cross-Defendant State Compensation Insurance Fund’s Demurrer to First
Amended Cross-Complaint. Thereafter, my office timely reserved the next
available hearing and filed the instant motion approximately one (1) week
later. Accordingly, Berryman did not engage in any delay prior to filing the
motion.”  (Green Decl. ¶ 8.)

 

The sequence of events are as follows. 
Berryman filed its original cross-complaint on July 24, 2023.  SCIF demurred to the original cross-complaint
on March 25, 2024.  Approximately three
days later, SCIF produced its insurance agreement with Icon in discovery.  Thus, it was SCIF’s demurrer to the original
cross-complaint, not the first amended cross-complaint, that was pending at the
time Berryman obtained the insurance policy in discovery.

 

On April 25, 2024, the Court sustained SCIF’s demurrer to the original
cross-complaint for uncertainty, on the basis that the cross-complaint alleged
there was no worker’s compensation policy at issue, and the remaining
allegations regarding negligent construction work performed at the subject
property did not make any sense as to insurer SCIF.  However, the Court granted Berryman leave to
amend, on the basis that it had since discovered SCIF did in fact provide
worker’s compensation insurance to Icon.

 

On May 6, 2024, Berryman filed the first amended cross-complaint, in
accordance with the scope of leave granted by the Court’s April 25 Minute Order
on SCIF’s demurrer to the original cross-complaint, which did not include any
additional causes of action not previously pled.

 

On June 25, 2024, the Court sustained SCIF’s demurrer to all causes of
action alleged against it, which were all based in negligence, without leave to
amend, on the grounds that an insurer like SCIF owes no duty in negligence to
third parties like Berryman, and Berryman did not articulate any facts it could
add to establish a contractual or insurer-insured relationship between itself
and SCIF to establish such a duty.  

 

Berryman now seeks leave to amend the cross-complaint to add new, contractual-based
causes of action premised on the SCIF-Icon insurance agreement it discovered on
or about March 28, 2024 under a theory that Berryman is an intended third party
beneficiary of that agreement.  

 

SCIF opposes the motion on the grounds that (1) the motion for leave
is really a disguised motion for reconsideration of the Court’s order
sustaining SCIF’s demurrer to the first amended cross-complaint without leave
to amend; (2) the motion is untimely; (3) SCIF will be prejudiced by the
increased litigation costs of being brought back into the litigation; and (4)
the proposed amendment does not state a valid cause of action.  

 

As for SCIF’s first argument, Berryman does not seek to resurrect
causes of action the Court already dismissed without leave to amend premised on
facts presented to (and rejected by) the Court. 
Rather, Berryman seeks to allege new causes of action, premised on a new
theory that Berryman was a third-party beneficiary of the insurance contract
between SCIF and Icon.  Thus, the proposed
amendments do not constitute a covert request for reconsideration of the
Court’s ruling on the prior demurrer, but rather constitute a request to allege
a new legal theory based on newly discovered facts.

 

Regarding SCIF’s second argument, the new facts were discovered on or
about March 28, 2024, at which point the pleadings were already in flux by
virtue of SCIF’s then-pending demurrer to the original cross-complaint.  In accordance with the Court’s April 25
Minute Order, Berryman was obligated to file an amended cross-complaint on or
before May 23, 2024.  Berryman filed its
first amended cross-complaint on May 6, 2024. 


 

At the hearing on SCIF’s demurrer to the first amended
cross-complaint, Berryman requested leave to allege the declaratory relief and
contractual causes of action based on a third-party beneficiary theory of
liability.  The Court indicated it could
not determine whether leave to amend to allege these new theories of liability
on the existing facts would be properly within the scope of its ruling on the
demurrer, and invited counsel to instead file a motion for leave to amend.  

 

Under the circumstances, the Court does not find that SCIF
unreasonably delayed in bringing the instant motion for leave to amend,
notwithstanding that it filed the first amended cross-complaint after it
discovered the insurance contract between SCIF and Icon.

 

Regarding SCIF’s third argument, “the fact that the amendment involves
a change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)

 

Finally, as to SCIF’s fourth argument, the Court will generally not
consider the merits of the proposed amendment in determining whether to grant
leave to amend.  (See Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“the preferable
practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its
legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other
appropriate proceedings”].)

 

CONCLUSION
AND ORDER

 

            Therefore, Berryman’s motion for
leave to amend the cross-complaint is granted. 
Berryman shall file and serve the proposed second amended
cross-complaint on or before  September
25, 2024.  

 

            The Court orders Berryman to provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.

 

 

 

 

DATED:  September 11, 2024                       ___________________________

                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker

                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court

 