  Case Number:  21PSCP00224    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
FIFTH Petition to Confirm the Contractual Arbitration Award is MOOT because
judgment was already entered on 2/7/24; to the extent that Petitioner attempts
to hold Pratella individually liable, that request is denied. 
 
Background
 
On May 7, 2021, Petitioner Martha I. Dube Rowley (“Petitioner”)
filed a “Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award” (“Petition”) as
against Respondent(s) Abraham Anthony Prattella (“Prattella”) and Built on
Solid Rock Construction (“BOSR”).[1]
 
On June 24, 2021, the court denied the petition without prejudice. 
 
On October 20, 2021, the court denied the amended petition without
prejudice. 
 
On August 31, 2021, Petitioner filed the instant third petition to
confirm the arbitration award. 
 
On October 31, 2023, Pratella filed a Response to the third petition. 
 
On May 3, 2023, the court issued the followed minute regarding the
status conference: “Supplemental briefs are allowed but not required. Briefs
are to be filed on or before 06/30/2023.”
 
On September 6, 2023, the court adopted its tentative ruling as final
which denied the petition
without prejudice “for the sole purpose of filing a renewed petition that
excludes Pratella.” (See 9/6/23 minute order.) 
 
On November
1, 2023, petitioner re-filed her petition, making it the fourth petition. 
 
On January
11, 2024, the court conducted its hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to confirm the
arbitration award. The court’s tentative was to deny the petition with prejudice
because Petitioner once again named
Pratella in the petition. The court, however, indicated that it would
strike 8C and 8B4 of the Petition.
 
On February 7, 2024, the court signed the order
confirming arbitration award and judgment (with Plaintiff as the Petitioner
and Built on Solid Rock Inc., dba Built on Solid Rock Construction as the
respondent.) 
 
On February
9, 2024, the court issued the following minute order: “The matter is not called
for hearing. The Court finds Judgment is entered as to Respondent Built on
Solid Rock Inc. DBA Built on Solid Rock Construction as of February 7, 2024.
The Judicial Assistant telephonically contacts Attorney of Record, Gregory
Thomas Annigian. Petitioner's Attorney requests the matter remain on calendar
as to Respondent Abraham Anthony Pratella. In light of the above and by Order
of the Court, the matter is set as follows: Hearing on Motion to Confirm
Arbitration Award as to Respondent Abraham Anthony Pratella is scheduled for
04/23/2024 at 10:00 AM in Department O at Pomona Courthouse South.”
 
On April 17,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant FIFTH petition seeking to confirm the
arbitration award solely against the individual Abraham Anthony Pratella.
 
On April 23,
2024, the court, per the request of Plaintiff, continued the hearing on the
petition because it was untimely served and filed. 
 
On June 4,
2024, the parties filed a Stipulation to continue the hearing from 6/25/24 to
8/6/24.
 
On July 24,
2024, Prattella filed his response/opposition. 
 
On July 29,
2024, Petitioner filed her reply. 
 
 
 
 
Discussion[2]
 
The court’s tentative will echo similar points raised in previous
rulings because this is the court has repeatedly stated the same thing: Prattella
is not a named party to the arbitration award. Effectively, Plaintiff’s request
that Pratella be individually liable is misplaced. (See 5/07/2021
Petition, ¶5 [“[Pratella]
has ignored the CSLB Aribtrator [] and refused
to pay.”].) As summarized in the court’s 9/6/23 ruling, “all the facts indicate
that Prattella as an individual does not have an arbitral award against him and
thus is erroneously named as a party.” Consequently, the court “only grant[ed]
leave to file a renewed fourth petition that is to exclude Prattella.” (See
9/6/23 ruling.) But Plaintiff again names Pratella in this fifth petition. 
 
In doing so, Petitioner now appears to claim that the CSLB has advised
her that it holds an RMO responsible for compliance with an award rendered
against its associated entity. (See e.g., 6/29/23 filing ‘Supplement to Status
Conference Trial Brief’ [hold him responsible individually “for the acts of
[the] entity …since [Prattella] was the [RMO] during the period.”].) But
Plaintiff’s reliance upon Business
and Professions Code Section 7122.5 is misplaced. The statute provides the
following:
 
The performance by an individual,
partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, firm, or association of an act
or omission constituting a cause for disciplinary action,[3]
likewise constitutes a cause for disciplinary action against a licensee who at the time that the act or omission occurred was
the qualifying individual of that individual,
partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, firm, or association, whether or not he or she had knowledge of or participated in the
prohibited act or omission. (emphasis added.)
 
Here, as briefed by Pratella and not
otherwise by Plaintiff in reply, 7122.5, does not create strict civil liability against the RMO/Pratella.
(See Opp. p. 5, citing Swickheimer v. King (1971) 22 Cal. 14 App. 3d
220.) “[T]he fact that the Business and
Professions Code sections upon which plaintiffs rely constitute a valid
exercise of the police power does not render them applicable in a civil action
for damages. The sections in question are regulatory and disciplinary in
nature, and they were clearly not intended to alter the rules governing civil
liability.” (Id. at p. 225.) 
 
To the extent that Rowley seeks to hold Pratella liable because there was no corporation in
existence (Opp p. 6:11-12), there are two problems with that. First, as noted
in opposition, the penalty for failure to register a dba, as BOSR did, is
limited to “a bar from maintaining an action on contracts made in the
fictitious business name until the [registration] statement is filed.” (Opp. p.
7, quoting Bus. & Prof. Code Section 17918.) Second, even if there were
issues with the corporate status,[4]
that issue should have been decided by the arbitrator. (See Opp. p. 7, fn. 3;
see also Corona v. Amherst Partners (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 701, 706 [“Under the statutory scheme, a party's failure to
request the arbitrator to determine a particular issue within the scope of the
arbitration is not a basis for vacating or correcting an award.”].) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff relies upon a latter letter dated 10/19/21 from
the CSLB’s Enforcement Services Section send to Rowley, that letter is
inapposite. (Petition, p. 21 of 22 of PDF.) Setting aside the fact that, as
noted by Pratella, the letter is inadmissible because it is not authenticated,
lacks foundation and is, the letter states that “[w]hen an arbitration award is
not complied with, the laws governing the CSLB’s Arbitration Program allow for an
action against the license and licensee …[t]he Responsible Managing Officer
(RMO) or [RME] is the qualifier of the license. The RMO/RME is the person held
responsible for compliance with the arbitration award.” (emphasis and
capitalization added.) But this is not “an action” against Prattella but
a petition to confirm an arbitration award. Even assuming
Plaintiff instead seeks this court to amend the award, this court
cannot. A trial
court has a limited scope of judicial review, namely as every presumption is in
favor of the arbitration award. (See Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. v. United Rubber Workers of
America (1959) 168 Cal.App.2d 444, 449.) As articulated by the state’s
Supreme Court, “an arbitrator's decision is not
generally reviewable for errors of fact or law, whether or not such error
appears on the face of the award and causes substantial injustice to the
parties.” (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal. 4th 1, 6.)
Twenty-seven years after the Moncharsch holding, the court in Heimlich
v. Shivji (2019) 7 Cal.5th 350 reiterated the soundness of Monarsch.
Judicial review of private arbitration awards is
generally limited to the statutory grounds for vacating or correcting an
award, which are found in section 1286.2. (Honeycutt v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 909, 924.) The statute provides, amongst other determinations, that a court shall
vacate the award if the award was procured by fraud or corruption (1286.2,
subdivision (a)(1)-(2), respectively), none of which are alleged here.
 
In sum, Prattella
as an individual, who did not have an arbitral award awarded against him,
should not have the Arbitration Award confirmed against him, as repeatedly erroneously
claimed by Petitioner Rowley. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, as the court has already confirmed the
arbitration award, the petition/motion is moot. 



