  Case Number:  23STCV15058    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative
Ruling: 
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Natalya
Vydrug’s (1) Motion to Strike Second Amended Answer; (2) Motion to Strike Portions
of Second Amended Cross-Complaint
Motion to Strike Second Amended Answer
Plaintiff Natalya Vydrug moves to strike the
entire second amended answer by defendants Nelli Khlebnikova and Karolina
Khlebnikova and moves to strike 20 portions of it.  
A. Service
            Vydrug
argues defendants’ proof of service does not show proper service of the second
amended answer.  Vydrug provides no
authority for striking an answer because it was not served properly.  Moreover, Vydrug specifically addresses “evidence
of service” and a defect in the “Declaration of Service.”  (Motion, p. 15.)  Vydrug has a copy of the second amended
answer.  Whether the proof of service is
erroneous or false makes no difference.    
B. Verification
Vydrug argues defendants’ verifications are
improper because they were signed electronically instead of by hand.  Their verifications are sufficient.  Electronic signatures are permitted—even for
documents signed under penalty of perjury. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.257(b).) 
Vydrug contends the signatures do not comply with rule 2.257(b)(1).  She does not, however, establish the
signatures do not comply with rule 2.257(b)(2), an alternative method of
electronically signing documents.  
Vydrug also argues the California Rules of
Court cannot supersede Code of Civil Procedure section 446(a), which provides,
“Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party or his or her attorney.”  Vydrug relies on a footnote in People v.
Pierce (1967) 66 Cal.2d 53 stating, “The word ‘subscribe’ is defined as
follows: ‘To write (as one's name) underneath: sign (one’s name) to a document
* * * to sign with one’s own hand.’ ”  (Id.
at p. 59, fn. 5.)  This dicta was written
before there was such a thing as an electronic signature, and thus refers to
excluding alternatives such as stamps.  Moreover,
there is no indication the verifications were not signed by each defendants’
hand—but electronically.  Rather than
simply typing “/s/ Nelli Khlebnikova”, for example, the signatures are in cursive,
drawn or written by hand either using a computer mouse or via a touch
screen.   
C. Specific Portions of Second Amended Answer
Vydrug does not establish grounds for
striking the specified 20 portions of the second amended answer.  That defendants allegedly committed “perjury”
by making statements that purportedly contradict other pleadings is, at most, a
matter for impeaching defendants’ credibility, not striking the answer.  Moreover, plaintiff’s claim that defendants
committed “perjury” is not well taken.  Perjury
is a crime with specific elements that the prosecution must prove beyond a
reasonable doubt in a criminal case.  In
this civil case, the court shall not determine whether anyone has committed the
crime of perjury.  
Vydrug also contends defendants improperly
made “general denials.”  “A general
denial is a blanket denial of the whole complaint.”  (Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter) § 6:403.) 
For example, Judicial Council Form PLD-050 includes an option that
states: “Defendant generally denies each and every allegation of plaintiff’s
complaint.”  Defendants did not assert a
general denial because they answered each paragraph.
It is true defendants stated that they “deny
generally, and specifically” various allegations.  (E.g., SAA, ¶¶ 2, 4, 6.)  This archaic language is commonly used by
attorneys without quite understanding its purpose or origin.  That defendants used the phrase here is not
ground to strike the answer or any portion of it.
Motion to Strike Second Amended
Cross-Complaint
Cross-defendant Natalya Vydrug moves to
strike the entire second amended cross-complaint by cross-complainants Nelli
Khlebnikova and Karolina Khlebnikova. 
The motion repeats arguments made in the motion to strike the second
amended answer: improper proof of service, improper electronic signatures, and
purported perjury.  The court rejects
those arguments for the same reasons as above.
Disposition
Plaintiff Natalya Vydrug’s motion to strike defendants’
second amended answer is denied.
Cross-defendant Natalya Vydrug’s motion to
strike the second amended cross-complaint by cross-complainants Nelli
Khlebnikova and Karolina Khlebnikova is denied.  Natalya Vydrug shall answer the second
amended cross-complaint within 15 days.