 Case Number:  23STCV20072    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



MARK ONG, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PARKWEST BICYCLE CASINO LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  23STCV20072
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 18, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  7



 
 
 
Defendants Parkwest Bicycle Casino LLC, Park
West Casinos, Inc., and Grisel Fernandez (collectively, “Defendants”) move for
an order compelling Plaintiff Mark Ong (“Plaintiff”) to submit his claims
against Defendants to binding arbitration. 
 
The Defendants’ motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  The Court orders Plaintiff to arbitrate his claims against Defendants. The
mediation and judicial reference provisions and requirements in the arbitration
agreement are not enforceable and are severed from the arbitration
agreement.  
 
The Court stays this matter pending completion
of the arbitration.  The Court sets a
status conference regarding arbitration for October 15, 2024 at 8:30 am.   
 
Background
 
          Plaintiff filed this employment law action on August 22, 2023. 
 
          On
September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants, The Bike Casino, L.P., and Does 1 to 100, inclusive, asserting
the following 18 causes of action: (1) age discrimination in violation of the
Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (2) disability discrimination in
violation of FEHA; (3) failure to accommodate/engage in a good faith
interactive process of others in violation of FEHA; (4) interference with the
California Family Rights Act (“CFRA”) rights and retaliation for
taking/requesting CFRA leave in violation of FEHA; (5) race/color/national
origin/ancestry discrimination in violation of FEHA; (6) hostile work
environment in violation of FEHA; (7) retaliation for opposing practices
forbidden by FEHA and requesting reasonable accommodation; (8) failure to do
everything reasonably necessary to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation from occurring in violation of FEHA; (9) retaliation and
interference/violation of kin care; (10) violation of paid sick
leave/retaliation for taking/requesting paid sick leave; (11) interference
with/violations of Covid-19 supplemental paid sick leave; (12) violation of
suitable seating laws; (13) invasion of privacy; (14) wrongful
termination/adverse employment action in violation of public policy; (15)
negligent hiring and retention; (16) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; (17) retaliation for whistleblowing in violation of Labor Code
section 1102.5; and (18) violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq. 
 
The FAC alleges, among other things, that during
Plaintiff’s employment with the defendants, the defendants denied Plaintiff
leave of absence for his disabilities, even though the leave was covered by
various federal and state laws, and then disciplined Plaintiff when he missed
work due to those disabilities. (FAC, ¶¶
6, 26, 29, 30, 32, 33.) The defendants also denied Plaintiff other
accommodations for his disabilities, failed to engage in a good faith
interactive process, subjected him to racial and age harassment, invaded his
privacy, and subjected him to Labor Code violations. (FAC, ¶¶ 35, 38, 43, 49, 52.) 
 
          On
October 27, 2023, Plaintiff amended the FAC to substitute TBC, L.P. for the
defendant sued fictitiously as Doe 1. 
 
          On
December 4, 2023, Defendants filed the current motion to compel arbitration and
stay proceedings. 
 
          On
January 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition to the motion. 
 
          On
January 10, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
          Both the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”)
and the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) “are driven by a strong public policy
of enforcing arbitration agreements.” (Weiler v. Marcus & Millichap Real
Estate Investment Services, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 970, 979.) “Thus, a
court generally must compel arbitration in accordance with the agreement when
requested by one of the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; 9 U.S.C. § 2.)” (Ibid.)

 
“The FAA applies to
arbitration clauses in contracts involving interstate commerce and ‘was
designed “to overrule the judiciary’s long-standing refusal to enforce
agreements to arbitrate,” [citation], and to place such agreements “‘upon the
same footing as other contracts.’”’ [Citation.]” (Rodriguez v. American
Technologies, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1117 (“Rodriguez”).)

 
Section 2 of the FAA
states that “[a] written provision in ... a contract ... to settle by
arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract ... shall be
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or
in equity for the revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.)
 
The CAA “echoing the FAA’s language and its policy favoring arbitration, likewise,
provides that a written arbitration agreement ‘is valid, enforceable and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.’” (Rodriguez, supra, 136 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1117 [discussing Code of Civil Procedure section 1281].) 
 
“The court’s role
under the [FAA] is … limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to
arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the
dispute at issue.” (Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc. (9th
Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.) “If the response is affirmative on both
counts, then the Act requires the court to enforce the arbitration agreement in
accordance with its terms.” (Ibid.) 
 
Even when the FAA
applies, “[i]n determining the rights of parties to enforce an arbitration
agreement within the FAA’s scope, courts apply state contract law while giving
due regard to the federal policy favoring arbitration.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
 
Under California law,
“[t]he petitioner [seeking to compel arbitration] bears the burden of proving
the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the
evidence, while a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v.
Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842; see also Knutson
v. Sirius XM Radio Inc. (9th Cir. 2014) 771 F.3d 559, 565 [discussing an
arbitration agreement governed by the FAA and stating that “the party seeking
to compel arbitration, has the burden of proving the existence of an agreement
to arbitrate by a preponderance of the evidence”].) 
 
“The trial court sits
as the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its
discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group,
Inc., supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 842.)
 
Discussion
 
          Whether a Valid
Agreement to Arbitrate Exists 
          “The moving party ‘can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the [motion or] petition a copy of the
arbitration agreement purporting to bear the [opposing party’s] signature.’
[Citation.] Alternatively, the moving party can meet its burden by setting
forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. [Citations.] For this step, ‘it
is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document authentication.’
[Citation.] If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the
opposing party does not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement,
then nothing more is required for the moving party to meet its burden of
persuasion.” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th
158, 165 (“Gamboa”).)
 
Here, Defendants have submitted a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the Plaintiff’s signature.        

 
To authenticate the arbitration agreement, Defendants have submitted the
declarations of Cristina Stephens (“Stephens”) and Erika Borchard (“Borchard”).
(Defendant’s Index of Evidence, filed December 4, 2023, Exhibit A – Declaration
of Erika Borchard (“Borchard Decl.”); Exhibit B – Declaration of Cristina
Stephens (“Stephens Decl.”).) Stephens is a Human Resources Manager at Parkwest
Bicycle Casino, LLC. (Stephens Decl., ¶ 1.) The company operates as a cardroom
offering a wide array of table games to its customers in Bell Gardens,
California. (Stephens Decl., ¶ 6.) Borchard is a Human Resources Manager at
Fortiss, LLC. (Borchard Decl., ¶ 1.) 
 
Borchard and Stephens attest to the following facts. 
 
After Parkwest Bicycle Casino, LLC purchased the assets of The Bicycle
Casino, LP, employees who previously worked for the latter, including
Plaintiff, were offered employment with Parkwest Bicycle Casino, LLC. (Stephens
Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4, 9.) Parkwest Bicycle Casino, LLC, hired Borchard and other
consultants to assist with employee onboarding and new hire orientation. (Stephens
Decl., ¶ 9.) 
 
On March 25, 2022, Plaintiff signed new hire paperwork, completed the
onboarding process, and subsequently began work with Parkwest Bicycle Casino,
LLC, as a California Asian Games Dealer. (Stephens Decl., ¶ 10; Borchard Decl.,
¶¶ 3, 4.) 
 
The same day that Parkwest Bicycle Casino, LLC hired Plaintiff on March
25, 2022, Plaintiff signed an Agreement to Mediate and Arbitrate Dispute (the “Arbitration
Agreement”), agreeing to arbitrate any dispute that arose between Defendants
and his employment or termination. (Borchard Decl., ¶ 4; Exhibit A – a copy of
the Arbitration Agreement; Stephens Decl., ¶ 11.) 
 
The Arbitration Agreement states:
 
If the Parkwest Bicycle Casino
Parties and [Plaintiff] are unable to resolve a dispute relating to any Claims
submitted through mediation, the Parties agree to submit that dispute to final
and binding arbitration, in accordance with the Agreement and the FAA.
 
(Borchard
Decl., Exhibit A, p. 2, Arbitration section, the first paragraph.) 
 
The Arbitration Agreement has the employee’s initials and signature, and
the “Printed Name of the Employee Representative” matches Plaintiff’s name, Mark
Ong. (Exhibit A, p. 4.)
 
          In light of this evidence, the Court
finds that Defendants have met their initial burden of showing an arbitration
agreement exists between the parties. 
 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the
opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the opposing
party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of
the agreement.” (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) “The
opposing party can do this in several ways. For example, the opposing party may
testify under oath or declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw
or does not remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or
does not remember signing the agreement.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden of producing
evidence challenging the authenticity of the Arbitration Agreement. Plaintiff
testifies (among other things) that he was not given enough time to review the
agreement. (Declaration of Mark Ong, filed January 4, 2024 (Ong Decl., ¶¶
13-15.) However, he does not dispute that he signed the Arbitration Agreement. “To
form a valid contract [under California law] there must be a meeting of the
minds, i.e., mutual assent.” (Moritz v. Universal City Studios LLC
(2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 238, 246.) “‘“Mutual assent is determined under an
objective standard applied to the outward manifestations or expressions of the
parties, i.e., the reasonable meaning of their words and acts.”’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
“A party’s acceptance of an agreement to arbitrate may be express, as where a
party signs the agreement.” (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development, LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (“Pinnacle”).) By
signing the Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiff showed acceptance of its terms. 
 
For those reasons, the Court finds that Defendants have proven the
validity of Arbitration Agreement. 
 
Whether the Arbitration Agreement Encompasses the
Dispute 
 
 “‘In determining whether an arbitration
agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only the
agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration.’” (Rice
v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 185.)
 
Here, the Arbitration Agreement states that if the parties are unable to
resolve their dispute relating to any “Claims” through mediation, they will
submit to arbitration. (Borchard Decl., Exhibit A, p. 2, Arbitration section,
the first paragraph.) 
 
The agreement defines “Claims” as “any issue between Employee and
Parkwest Bicycle Casino, or any of its employees, agents, officers, directors,
or affiliates … which relates to [Plaintiff’s] employment with Parkwest Bicycle
Casino including, but not limited to, any claims of discrimination, harassment,
retaliation, or other statutory, tort or contract claims, claims which relate
to pre-employment activity, or claims which relate to the termination of [Plaintiff’s]
employment ….” (Borchard Decl., Exhibit A, p. 1, top of the page, the first sentence.)

 
The Court finds (and Plaintiff does not dispute) that the Arbitration Agreement’s
broad language covers Plaintiff’s claims in this case. 
 
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff argues that
the Arbitration Agreement is unenforceable because it is unconscionable and does
not comply with Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 98 (“Armendariz”).)
 
“The burden of
proving unconscionability rests upon the party asserting it.” (OTO, L.L.C.
v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126.) 
 
“‘[U]nconscionability
has both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’
or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’
results.” (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114 [citations
omitted].)  
 
“As a matter of
general contract law, California courts require both procedural and substantive
unconscionability to invalidate a contract.” (Torrecillas v. Fitness
International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485, 492 (“Torrecillas”).)  California courts “apply a sliding scale,
meaning if one of these elements is present to only a lesser degree, then more
evidence of the other element is required to establish overall
unconscionability. In other words, if there is little of one, there must be a
lot of the other.” (Ibid.)     
 
(a)  Procedural Unconscionability 
 
Procedural unconscionability concerns the manner in which
the contract was negotiated and the parties’ circumstances at that time. It
focuses on the factors of oppression or surprise. (Kinney v. United
Healthcare Servs. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.) 
 
“[P]rocedural unconscionability requires either
oppression or surprise.” (The McCaffrey Group, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1330, 1349.)
 
Surprise occurs “where the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Pinnacle, supra,
55 Cal.4th at p. 247.) 
 
“Oppression generally takes the form of a contract of
adhesion, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 [quotations and citations omitted].) 
 
“‘“The circumstances relevant to establishing oppression
include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of time the party is given to
consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on
the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length of the proposed
contract and the length and complexity of the challenged provision; (4) the
education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party’s review of
the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.”’ [Citation.]” (Swain v. LaserAway
Medical Group, Inc. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 59, 69.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff cannot establish surprise because there
is no evidence that the Arbitration Agreement was hidden within a prolix
printed form; it was a standalone document with legible font. 
 
As for oppression, Plaintiff testifies that administrative employees told
him he had to sign every document, could not continue working for the casino if
he did not sign all of the documents, could not negotiate the terms of any of
the documents (including the Arbitration Agreement), did not explain to him
what the Arbitration Agreement meant, did not give him enough time to review
the documents he was signing, and was not permitted to ask questions about the
Arbitration Agreement or other documents. (Ong Decl., ¶¶ 8-17.)
 
Although Plaintiff’s declaration establishes some degree of oppression,
the Court finds that the degree of oppression was not high given that (1) the
Arbitration Agreement warned Plaintiff (in capital letters) that (a) he had 30
days to opt out of the agreement, (b) would not be subject to retaliation for
exercising that right, and (2) by signing the agreement despite that warning, he
was giving up any right to a judge or jury trial with regard to all claims
subject to the agreement. (Borchard Decl., Exhibit A, p. 4 [“Arbitration is not
a mandatory condition of employment. If the employee does not want to be
subject to this agreement, the employee may opt out by mailing via u.s. mail,
return receipt requested, written notice of the desire to opt out within 30
calendar days of signing this agreement [sic] to: ….Attn: Human Resources. The
employee will not be subject to retaliation for exercising the right to assert
claims or opt out of this agreement. ¶ By signing below, employee affirms
that he/she knowingly and freely entered into this agreement, has had
sufficient time to read and understand its terms, and understands that by using
arbitration to resolve disputes, the parties are giving up any right to a judge
or jury trial with regard to all claims subject to this agreement” (emphasis removed)].)
 
          For
those reasons, the Court finds that Plaintiff has shown low procedural
unconscionability. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff would have
to show a high level of substantive unconscionability to invalidate the entire
Arbitration Agreement. 
 
(b)  Substantive Unconscionability 
 
“‘Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness
of an agreement’s actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly
harsh or one-sided. [Citations.] A contract term is not substantively
unconscionable when it merely gives one side a greater benefit; rather, the
term must be “so one-sided as to ‘shock the conscience.’”’” (Carmona, supra,
226 Cal.App.4th at p. 85.) “‘“[T]he paramount consideration in assessing
[substantive] unconscionability is mutuality.”’” (Ibid.)
 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court held
that, for the enforcement of a mandatory employment arbitration agreement to be
lawful, it must satisfy the following five minimum requirements: “(1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2)
provides for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4)
provides for all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in
court, and (5) does not require employees to pay either unreasonable costs or
any arbitrators’ fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration
forum.” (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 102.) 
 
1.     Attorney’s Fees and Costs Incurred During Mediation 
 
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement does not
provide all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court as
required by Armendariz because FEHA allows him to recover his attorney’s
fees and costs if he prevails, but the agreement requires that (1) the parties
to attend mediation before arbitration and (2) Plaintiff to pay his own
attorney fees and costs associated with that mediation. (Opposition, pp.
13:26-10; see Borchard
Decl., Exhibit A, p. 1, Mediation section [“Before invoking the arbitration
procedure set forth below, the parties shall first participate in mediation of
any dispute arising under this Agreement. ¶ The mediator shall be selected by
mutual agreement of the Parties from a list of mediators provided by the
American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’). The mediation shall be held in Los
Angeles County or, if [Plaintiff] reside[s] outside of Los Angeles County, at a
location within twenty-five miles from [Plaintiff’s] work location at the time
of the mediation at a place selected by the mediator. Except for any attorney’s
fees and costs [Plaintiff] may incur for which [Plaintiff] will be solely
responsible, the cost of mediation shall be borne by the Parkwest Bicycle
Casino Parties.” (Emphasis added)].)
 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated
that “when an employer imposes mandatory arbitration as a condition of
employment, the arbitration agreement or arbitration process cannot generally
require the employee to bear any type of expense that the employee would
not be required to bear if he or she were free to bring the action in court.” (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at pp. 110–111 [italics in original].) “This rule will
ensure that employees bringing FEHA claims will not be deterred by costs
greater than the usual costs incurred during litigation, costs that are
essentially imposed on an employee by the employer.” (Id. at p. 111.)
 
“[A] prevailing plaintiff in a workplace discrimination
lawsuit is usually entitled by statute to an award of attorney fees. ([Gov.
Code] § 12965, subd. (b); Williams v. Chino Valley Independent Fire Dist.
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 97, 115, 186 Cal.Rptr.3d 826, 347 P.3d 976 [in a FEHA action ’a
prevailing plaintiff should ordinarily receive his or her costs and attorney
fees unless special circumstances would render such an award unjust’].)” (Caldera
v. Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 601,
606.)
 
Here, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that by forcing
Plaintiff to attend mediation before arbitration and then pay for his own attorney’s
fees and costs for that mediation without the possibility of recovering such
fees and costs upon prevailing in arbitration, the mediation provision is substantively
unconscionable because Plaintiff is not required to mediate his FEHA claims
before litigating them in court. 
 
2.     Judicial Reference Provision 
 
Plaintiff also argues the Arbitration Agreement is
unconscionable because of its Judicial Reference provision. Specifically,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants did not give him notice of the provision, they
did not give him time to review the provision, the provision does not address
how the referee’s fees would be paid and/or split, waives his right to a jury,
and Code of Civil Procedure section 683 does not require a court to appoint a
referee because the parties agreed to it (instead, a court has the discretion
to refuse to enforce such a provision). (Opposition, pp. 16:6-17:19.) 
 
The Judicial Preference provision states in full:
 
In the event arbitration of any Claim or dispute between
Employee and Parkwest Bicycle Casino Parties cannot be conducted due to a
change in the law, a court ruling on a motion to compel arbitration or the
unenforceability of arbitration provisions of this Agreement, Employee and the
Parkwest Bicycle Casino Parties agree to submit such dispute or Claims which
they have against each other to general judicial reference pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure sections 638, 640, 641, 642-645.1, and 643
or any successor statutes (‘Reference’). The Parties shall select a single
neutral referee who shall be a retired state or federal judge. If the Parties
are unable to agree upon a referee within ten (10) calendar days of a written
request to do so by either Party, either Party may thereafter seek to have a
referee appointed under California Code of Civil Procedure sections 638 and
640. The proceeding before the referee shall be conducted in the same manner as
it would be before a court under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure sections 1855 -
2015.6. The Parties shall be entitled to discovery and the referee shall
oversee discovery and may enforce all discovery rules and orders applicable to
judicial proceedings in the same manner as any trial court judge under
California Code of Civil Procedure sections 2016 - 2035.5. The Parties agree
the selected or appointed referee shall have the power to decide all issues in
the action or proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and shall report a
statement of decision thereon.
 
(Borchard
Decl., Exhibit A, p. 3.)
 
“[A]lthough plaintiffs may ‘certainly’ waive their
constitutional right to a jury trial, ‘“the right to pursue claims in a
judicial forum is a substantial right and one not lightly to be deemed waived.”’
[Citations.] Hence, before upholding the provisions of the parties’ agreements
purporting to effect a waiver of plaintiffs’ constitutional right to trial by
jury, [a court] must closely scrutinize the impact of the waiver on the
parties.” (Pardee Construction Co. v. Superior Court (2002) 100
Cal.App.4th 1081, 1091 (“Pardee”).)
 
In Pardee, the California Court of Appeal found
the judicial reference clause at issue there substantively unconscionable
because the plaintiffs received nothing in return for waiving their
constitutional right to a jury trial. (Pardee, supra, 100
Cal.App.4th  at pp. 1091-1092.)
Specifically, there was no evidence that a waiver of jury trial in that case
would result in any significant saving of time or costs (e.g., a referee-tried
matter would be shorter than a jury trial). (Ibid.)
 
Here, there is no evidence that Plaintiff received
anything in return for waiving his constitutional right to a jury trial for
claims or disputes that could not be resolved through arbitration. In reply,
Defendants argue, among other things, that the Court should uphold the
provision because California laws allows parties to avoid trial by jury by
contractually agreeing to decide the dispute through arbitration or judicial
reference. (Reply, p. 7:10-14.) However, Plaintiff has testified that he was
only given 30 minutes to review his employment documents, and the Judicial
Reference used language only those with a law background would understand. For
example, the provision states that the parties “agree[d] to submit such dispute
or Claims … to general judicial reference pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure sections 638, 640, 641, 642-645.1, and 643 or any successor statutes
….” (Borchard
Decl., Exhibit A, p. 3, the first sentence under the Judicial Reference
section.) The provision did not explain those statutes, and there is no
evidence that Plaintiff understood their meaning. Therefore, contrary to Defendants’
argument, there is no evidence that Plaintiff “contractually agreed” (i.e.,
mutually assented) to the Judicial Reference provision. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds the
Judicial Reference provision unconscionable. 
 
3.     Class Action Waiver 
 
Plaintiff also argues the Arbitration Agreement is
unconscionable because it prohibits class and representative actions. (Opposition,
p. 17:20-26.)
 
As Defendants allude to in their reply, “the FAA ‘preempts
any state rule discriminating on its face against arbitration—for example, a
law “prohibit[ing] outright the arbitration of a particular type of claim
[including a class action claim].”’ [Citations.]” (Viking River Cruises,
Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, 650 [citing a case that cited AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333 (“Concepcion”)]; Reply,
p. 7:19-21 [citing Concepcion].)
 
However, there are instances where a class action waiver
is unconscionable. Last year, the California Supreme Court held that “where a
plaintiff has filed a [Private Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”)] action comprised
of individual and non-individual claims, an order compelling arbitration of
individual claims does not strip the plaintiff of standing to litigate
non-individual claims in court.” (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)
14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123.)
 
Here, the class waiver section at issue states that “[c]lams
must be brought on an individual basis only” and that the parties cannot “proceed
on a multi-plaintiff, class, collective, or representative basis.” (Borchard Decl., Exhibit A, p. 3,
the first paragraph.)
 
However, it also states that (1) a court (not an
arbitrator) shall determine any disputes concerning the applicability and validity
of the class waiver, and (2) if that court finds that the waiver is
unenforceable with respect to a specific claim (e.g., a PAGA claim), the claim
will only be initiated in court as the exclusive forum. (Borchard Decl., Exhibit A, pp. 2-3
[the class action waiver section], beginning at the bottom of Page 2.)
 
          Here,
Plaintiff is not bringing a class action, and there are no disputes concerning
the class action waiver at this time.  
 
          Accordingly,
the Court does not find the class action waiver entirely substantively
unconscionable. 
 
4.     Mutuality
 
Plaintiff also argues that the Arbitration Agreement is
unconscionable because it only requires Plaintiff to arbitrate his claims
against “Parkwest Bicycle Casino, or any of its employees, agents, officers,
directors, or affiliates,” but does not require those affiliates to arbitrate
their claims against Plaintiff. (Opposition, pp. 14:24-15:8.)
 
The Court disagrees. The Arbitration Agreement clearly
states that both parties must arbitrate any issue related to Plaintiff’s
employment. (Borchard
Decl., Exhibit A, p. 1, top of the page, the first sentence [“Parkwest Bicycle Casino and the undersigned employee (‘I’
or ‘Employee’) (collectively, ‘Parties’) hereby both agree that any issue
between Employee and Parkwest Bicycle Casino, or any or its employees, agents,
officers, directors or affiliates (the ‘Parkwest Bicycle Casino Parties’) which
relates to my employment with Parkwest Bicycle Casino including, but not
limited to, any claims of discrimination, harassment, retaliation, other
statutory, tort or contract claims, claims which relate to pre-employment
activity, or claims which relate to the termination of my employment (the ‘Claims’)
…”].) 
 
5.     Whether the Unconscionable Provisions are Severable 
 
“In the context of severing unconscionable provisions
from an arbitration agreement, ‘the strong legislative and judicial preference
is to sever the offending term and enforce the balance of the agreement:
Although “the statute appears to give a trial court some discretion as to
whether to sever or restrict the unconscionable provision or whether to refuse
to enforce the entire agreement[,] ... it also appears to contemplate the
latter course only when an agreement is ‘permeated’ by unconscionability.” [Citation.]’
[Citations.]” (Alberto v. Cambrian Homecare (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 482,
495.) “One factor weighing against severance is when ‘the arbitration agreement
contains more than one unlawful provision.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at pp.
495–496; Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 126 [“Civil Code
section 1670.5 makes clear … that an arbitration agreement permeated by
unconscionability, or one that contains unconscionable aspects that cannot be cured
by severance, restriction, or duly authorized reformation, should not be
enforced”].)
 
Here, the Court has found a low level of procedural
unconscionability and the mediation and judicial reference provisions in the
Arbitration Agreement substantively unconscionable. 
 
However, mediation and judicial reference provisions and
requirements can be severed without impacting the rest of the Arbitration
Agreement. This ruling does not prevent the parties from agreeing to mediate
their dispute. 
 
Therefore, the Court does not find that the Arbitration
Agreement is permeated with unconscionability and finds it proper to compel Plaintiff’s
claims to arbitration. 
 
          Request for Stay
Defendants ask the
Court to stay or dismiss this case should it grant their request to compel Plaintiff’s
claims to arbitration. (Motion, p. 14:1-7.)
 
“Section 3 of the FAA
mandates that, if suit is brought in a court ‘of the United States’ upon an
issue ‘referable to arbitration,’ the court must, upon a party’s application,
stay the judicial proceeding until the arbitration is completed.” (Rodriguez,
supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at p. 1117.)
 
Here, the Court notes
another motion to compel arbitration is set for hearing on January 25, 2024.
 
Accordingly, the
request for stay is granted but only as to Plaintiff’s claims against the
defendants who filed the instant motion. 
 
 