  Case Number:  21STCV35967    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ELIZABETH KARR, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
WILLIAM GLAVIN, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV35967
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 18, 2024
 Calendar Number:  9



 
 
 
Defendant William P. Glavin (“Defendant”) moves for summary
judgment against Plaintiff Elizabeth Karr (“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion.
 
Background
 
This is a legal malpractice action. This action arises out
of legal representation which Defendant provided to Plaintiff in an action
dissolving her marriage to Peter Tashman. 
 
Plaintiff filed a petition for dissolution of her marriage
to Tashman on September 28, 1997. On January 12, 2000, a judgment was entered
in the dissolution of marriage action (the “Judgment”).
 
Tashman had three employee retirement benefit plans which
were paid into using community property money: one at Citigroup Inc. (the
“Citigroup Plan”) and two annuities at John Hancock (the “John Hancock Plans”)
(collectively, the “Plans”). Plaintiff had a partial interest in the Plans. However,
Defendant did not join the Plans in the dissolution action or provide them
notice of Plaintiff’s adverse interest in the plan benefits.
 
Plaintiff contends that, following the dissolution, she
always assumed that Defendant was still her lawyer regarding her divorce. (Karr
Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
In 2001, Tashman drew down the entirety of the benefits in
the Citigroup Plan. In 2013, although he was not yet 65, Tashman began
receiving benefits from the John Hancock Plans. No portion of these benefits
was paid to or set aside for Plaintiff. Plaintiff was not aware of these
transactions.
 
In June 2020, Tashman had informed Plaintiff that he would
not cooperate in the preparation of a Qualified Domestic Relation Order
(“QDRO”) regarding the John Hancock Plans, should one be necessary. (Karr Decl.
¶ 4.) As a result, Plaintiff contacted Defendant to ask whether Defendant and
Tashman’s lawyer had determined whether a QDRO was necessary for the John
Hancock Plan. (Karr Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant referred Plaintiff to attorney Darren
Goodman, whom Defendant said handled QDROs. (Karr Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
In August 2020, approaching the age of 65, Plaintiff
contacted Citigroup to obtain the benefits to which she was entitled. In the
first week of October, 2020, Citigroup informed Plaintiff that Tashman had
taken a full distribution of the plan benefit in April 2001 and that, as a
result, there were no remaining benefits payable to Plaintiff from the
Citigroup Plan.
 
Between June 11, 2020 and May 28, 2021, Plaintiff spoke with
Defendant between five and ten times regarding the next steps for dealing with
Tashman’s noncooperation. (Karr Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
On April 14, 2021, Nancy Leary, a QDRO consultant at John
Hancock, emailed Plaintiff to inform her that Tashman had two retirement
accounts with John Hancock. (Karr Decl. ¶ 7.) Sometime after the April 14, 2021
email, Leary informed Plaintiff that Tashman had been receiving the entirety of
the John Hancock Plans’ monthly benefit payments since July 2013. (Karr Decl. ¶
8.) This was the first time that Plaintiff was informed that Tashman was
receiving those payments. (Karr Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
On May 14, 2021, Goodman sent Plaintiff an email stating
that Plaintiff would need to obtain a QDRO from a court in order to access the
John Hancock Plans’ benefits. Plaintiff called Defendant’s office for
assistance. Defendant stated that it would take about ten hours of his time to
prepare and file a request for a QDRO. Defendant sent Plaintiff a proposed
contract calling for Plaintiff to deposit $7,500.00 in Defendant’s trust
account so that Defendant could start on the work.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on September 30, 2021. The
operative complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which states a
claim for legal malpractice against Defendant. The other defendants have been
dismissed from the case.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) 
 
“Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
“To state a cause of action for legal malpractice, a
plaintiff must plead (1) the duty of the attorney to use such skill, prudence,
and diligence as members of his or her profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the breach and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting
from the attorney’s negligence.” (Kumaraperu
v. Feldsted (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 60, 66, quotation marks omitted.)
 
“(a)
An action against an attorney for a wrongful act or omission, other than for
actual fraud, arising in the performance of professional services shall be
commenced within one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of
reasonable diligence should have discovered, the facts constituting the wrongful
act or omission, or four years from the date of the wrongful act or omission,
whichever occurs first. If the plaintiff is required to establish the
plaintiff's factual innocence for an underlying criminal charge as an element
of the plaintiff's claim, the action shall be commenced within two years after
the plaintiff achieves postconviction exoneration in the form of a final
judicial disposition of the criminal case. Except for a claim for which the
plaintiff is required to establish the plaintiff's factual innocence, the time
for commencement of legal action shall not exceed four years except that the
period shall be tolled during the time that any of the following exist:
 
(1) The plaintiff
has not sustained actual injury.
 
(2)
The attorney continues to represent the plaintiff regarding the specific
subject matter in which the alleged wrongful act or omission occurred.
 
(3)
The attorney willfully conceals the facts constituting the wrongful act or
omission when those facts are known to the attorney, except that this
subdivision shall toll only the four-year limitation.
 
(4)
The plaintiff is under a legal or physical disability that restricts the
plaintiff's ability to commence legal action. ….”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 340.6.)
 
          Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s claim is barred by the statute of limitations.
 
Date of Actual Injury
 
“Any appreciable and actual harm flowing from the attorney's
negligent conduct establishes a cause of action upon which the client may sue.”
(Budd v. Nixen (1971) 6 Cal.3d 195, 201.) “Indeed, once having
discovered [the] attorney's negligence and having suffered some damage, the
client must institute [an] action within the time prescribed in the statute of
limitations or [they] will be barred from thereafter complaining of [the]
attorney's conduct.” (Ibid.)
 
It is undisputed that Tashman had drawn down the entirety of
the Citigroup benefits by the end of 2001. Thus, Plaintiff had suffered actual
injury by the end of 2001.
 
Date of Wrongful Ommission
 
          Plaintiff
asserts that there are two mechanisms by which a nonemployee spouse can bind an
employee benefit plan under a QDRO. First, the nonemployee can join the plan as
a party to the dissolution action. (Fam. Code, § 2070.) The judgment in the
dissolution action was entered on January 12, 2000. Thus, Defendant’s failure
to join the Plans certainly occurred by that time.  From this date, the 4-year period would
ordinarily run no later than the end of 2005. 

 
Second, according to Plaintiff, the nonemployee can provide
written notice of their adverse interest in the benefits to the plan, after the
date of which notice the plan will be liable to the nonemployee spouse for
subsequent payments made to the employee spouse. (In re Marriage of Baker
(1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 206, 215 [discussing prior statute].)  Defendant does not address this argument.  Plaintiff’s argument, however, relies on a
case, Baker, which is interpreting a statute that is no longer in effect,
so the continued viability of this rule is not clear to the Court.  But even assuming for the sake of argument
that Plaintiff is correct, any obligation to provide notice would have ended when
Defendant stopped being Plaintiff’s lawyer. 
As explained below, the undisputed facts show that this representation
ended no later than 2004, making the 4-year statute run no later than 2008.
 
Continued Representation
 
“In deciding whether an attorney continues to represent a
client, [courts] do not focus on the client's subjective beliefs; instead,
[courts] objectively examine evidence of an ongoing mutual relationship and of
activities in furtherance of the relationship.” (Shaoxing City Maolong
Wuzhong Down Products, Ltd. v. Keehn & Associates, APC (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 1031, 1038 [citations and quotation marks omitted].)
“[R]epresentation ends when the client actually has or reasonably should have
no expectation that the attorney will provide further legal services.” (Nguyen
v. Ford (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 1, 13.) “[T]he failure to formally withdraw
as attorney of record, standing alone, will not toll the statute of limitations
under the rubric of continued representation.” (Ibid, quoting Flake
v. Neumiller & Beardslee (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 223, 230–231.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant continued to represent her,
tolling the statute of limitations. Plaintiff has declared that she always
assumed that Defendant was still her lawyer regarding her divorce. (Karr Decl.
¶ 9.) Defendant contends that there was no continued representation after 2002
at the latest.
 
Plaintiff’s deposition indicates that she continued speaking
with Defendant to discuss legal strategy in 2003. (Exhibit List, Exh. M-19 at
p. 222:1-224:4.) However, Plaintiff has no recollection of any communications
with Defendant in 2004. (Exhibit List, Exh. M-19 at p. 224:5-19.) The same is
true for the years 2005 through 2019 – Plaintiff does not dispute that she had
no conversations with Defendant, has no documents reflecting communications
with Defendant, and does not recall receiving billing statements, making
payments, or asking Defendant for legal advice in that time period.
(Plaintiff’s Separate Statement (“RUMF”) ¶¶ 39-50.) These facts unambiguously
show a breakdown in the mutual relationship and a cessation of activities in
furtherance of the attorney-client relationship.
 
As a result, the latest that the attorney-client
relationship could have lasted is 2004. The 4-year period would then reach
through 2008. Plaintiff filed this action on September 30, 2021. Thus,
continued representation could not toll the statute of limitations long enough
to extend it to the actual date of filing.
 