 Case Number:  22STCV38057    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



NEW GENERAL MARKET PARTNERS, LLC et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
BEAUTYCON MEDIA ABC TRUST, ACTING
  THROUGH SACCULLO BUSINESS CONSULTING LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV38057
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 18, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiffs New General Market Partners, LLC (“NGM”) and
NGM1, LLC (“NGM1”) (collectively, Plaintiffs) move for an order compelling
Defendant Beautycon Media ABC Trust (the “Trust”) to comply with the Court’s October
24, 2023 discovery order and awarding monetary sanctions against Trust and its
counsel of record.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to compel and ORDERS the
Trust to serve answers compliant with the October 24, 2023 discovery order,
without objection, within 30 days of this order.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions and
ORDERS the Trust to pay $8,400.00 to Plaintiffs’ counsel within 30 days of this
order.
 
Background
 
This action arises out of a business loan from Plaintiffs to
Beautycon Media ABC (“Beautycon”). In 2021, Beautycon allegedly defaulted on
its loans, and Plaintiffs purchased Beautycon’s assets in a foreclosure.
Beautycon’s CEO, Moj Mahdara, refused to turn over certain assets of Beautycon
to Plaintiffs.
 
The Trust currently administers Beautycon’s estate on behalf
of Beautycon’s creditors.
 
Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendants the Trust,
Moj Mahdara, and Elastic Ventures, Inc. (“Elastic”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) on December 6, 2022, raising claims for (1) declaratory judgment;
(2) declaratory judgment; (3) declaratory judgment; (4) constructive fraud; (5)
conversion; (6) trespass to chattels; (7) unjust enrichment; and (8) violation
of the Computer Data Access and Fraud Act.
 
On December 13, 2022, the Trust filed a complaint in the
Superior Court of the State of Delaware (the “Delaware Action”), raising claims
for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting breach
of fiduciary duty, and breach of contract. Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief
causes of action sought declaratory judgment to the effect that the Trust’s
foregoing causes of action were unfounded.
 
On May 9, 2023, the Court sustained Trust’s demurrer to the
three causes of action for declaratory judgment, granting leave to amend.
Plaintiffs did not re-file their causes of action for declaratory judgment.
 
The operative complaint is now the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) which raises claims for (1) conversion; (2) constructive fraudulent
conveyance, (3) conversion; (4) trespass to chattels; (5) unjust enrichment;
(6) violations of the Computer Data Access and Fraud Act; and (6) unfair
business practices.
 
On October 24, 2023, the Court ordered the Trust to respond without
objection to the Form Interrogatories – General (“FIG”), Requests for
Production of Documents (“RFP”), and Special Interrogatories (“SI”)
(collectively, the “Discovery”) which Plaintiffs previously served on Trust.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Trust’s requests for judicial notice.
 
Legal Standard
 
Requests for Production
 
“A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)
 
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
 
“(a)
On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
          (1) A statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete.
(2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
          (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:
(1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
(2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
(3)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
 
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further
response to the demand.
 
…
(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)
 
          The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)
 
Interrogatories
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.220, subdivision (a) requires that “[e]ach
answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, a party may
move to compel further responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s
answer is “evasive or incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of
justifying the objections to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v.
Super. Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.
 
 
Discussion
 
Discovery Order
 
The Trust admits that there is outstanding discovery but
argues that the outstanding discovery pertains only to the declaratory judgment
claims which are no longer a part of this action. The Court considered and
rejected this argument in its October 24, 2023 order. (October 24, 2023 Minute
Order at p. 10.) 
 
The Trust argues that Plaintiffs’ motion is moot because
Trust previously provided all responsive documents in the government action.
However, the objection that the propounding party already has the requested
information was waived along with Trust’s other objections when it failed to
timely respond to the initial discovery. The same is true of Trust’s privilege
objections – the October 24, 2023 order explicitly instructed Trust to respond
to the discovery without objection. The Court will not entertain re-litigation
of those issues here.
 
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion to compel compliance
with the October 24, 2023 discovery order.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs request $8,400.00 in attorney’s fees.
 
The Trust argues that there is no basis to grant sanctions
because sanctions would be punitive. However, Plaintiffs only request
attorney’s fees for time spent filing this motion. Thus, sanctions are
appropriate to put Plaintiffs back in their previous position.
 
          Plaintiffs
request an hourly rate of $700.00 for Gabriel Colwell, who has been licensed in
California since 2001. The Court finds this rate reasonable.
 
          Plaintiffs
request a total of 12 hours for Colwell. The Court finds this time expenditure
reasonable.
 
          The
Court therefore grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions against Trust.