 Case Number:  22STCV38057-B    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



NEW GENERAL MARKET PARTNERS, LLC et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
BEAUTYCON MEDIA ABC TRUST, ACTING
  THROUGH SACCULLO BUSINESS CONSULTING LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV38057
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 18, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendant BeautyCon Media ABC Trust (the “Trust”) moves to
stay this action pending the resolution of related litigation in the Delaware
Court of Chancery.
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion.
 
Background
 
 
This action concerns a number of business loans (the
“Secured Loans”) from Plaintiff New General Market Partners, LLC (“NGMP”) to BeautyCon
Media ABC (“BeautyCon”) which were secured by BeautyCon’s assets. In 2021, BeautyCon
allegedly defaulted on its loans. The Trust currently administers BeautyCon’s
estate on behalf of BeautyCon’s creditors. NGMP and its assignee, NGM1, LLC
(“NGM1”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) foreclosed on the loans and acquired
title to BeautyCon’s assets but have allegedly been unable to take possession
of some of the assets. They seek possession of those assets in this action.
 
On April 26, 2021, BeautyCon and Sacullo Business
Consulting, LLC (“Trustee”) entered into a Trust Agreement and Assignment for
the Benefit of Creditors (the “ABC Agreement”) whereby BeautyCon’s assets were
transferred to the Trust to be managed by Trustee.
 
On April 28, 2021, Trustee filed a petition (the “ABC Action”)
in the Delaware Court of Chancery to administer the Trust.
 
On June 4, 2021, NGMP notified BeautyCon and the Trust that
NGMP intended to exercise its rights under the Secured Loans and that a
foreclosure auction of BeautyCon’s assets had been scheduled for July 1, 2021. 
 
On June 9, 2021, the Delaware Court of Chancery asserted
jurisdiction over the ABC Action for Trustee to administrate the Trust.
 
On July 1, 2021, the foreclosure was held. NGM1, as assignee
of NGMP’s interest in the Secured Loans, was the successful bidder and became
the legal owner of all of BeautyCon’s assets.
 
Plaintiffs then attempted to obtain possession of
BeautyCon’s assets. While they were mostly successful, Defendants Mahdara and the
Trust have not turned over the entirety of the assets.
 
On October 1, 2021, in the ABC Action, NGM1 filed a Motion
to Compel Turnover of Assets and For Order to Show Cause (the “Motion to
Compel”) in the ABC Action. NGM1 sought an order directing Trustee to turn over
the BeautyCon assets in Trustee’s custody. Trustee filed an opposition on
November 4, 2021. On November 10, 2021, NGM1 filed a Notice of Withdrawal of
Motion as to the Motion to Compel. Plaintiffs did not further prosecute the
Motion to Compel in Delaware court.
 
Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendants the Trust,
Moj Mahdara, and Elastic Ventures, Inc. (“Elastic”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) on December 6, 2022, raising claims for (1) declaratory judgment;
(2) declaratory judgment; (3) declaratory judgment; (4) constructive fraud; (5)
conversion; (6) trespass to chattels; (7) unjust enrichment; and (8) violation
of the Computer Data Access and Fraud Act.
 
On December 13, 2022, the Trust filed a complaint against
NGMP in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware (the “Delaware Action”),
raising claims for, inter alia, breach of fiduciary duty; aiding and
abetting breach of fiduciary duty; fraud in the inducement; and breach of
contract. These causes of action arose out of the agreements for the Secured
Loans. Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief causes of action sought declaratory
judgment to the effect that the Trust’s foregoing causes of action were
unfounded.
 
On May 9, 2023, the Court sustained the Trust’s demurrer to
the three causes of action for declaratory judgment, granting leave to amend.
Plaintiffs did not re-file their causes of action for declaratory judgment.
 
The operative complaint is now the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) which raises claims for (1) conversion; (2) constructive fraudulent
conveyance, (3) conversion; (4) trespass to chattels; (5) unjust enrichment;
(6) violations of the Computer Data Access and Fraud Act; and (6) unfair
business practices.
 
On August 11, 2023, the court in the Delaware Action
dismissed the Trust’s claims against NGMP for breach of fiduciary duty; aiding
and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; fraud in the inducement; and breach of
contract with the exception of a claim by the Trust for failure to negotiate
certain provisions in good faith. (BeautyCon Media ABC Trust Through
Saccullo Business Consulting, LLC v. New General Market Partners, LLC (Del.
Super. Ct., Aug. 11, 2023, No. N22C-12-143 MAA CCLD) 2023 WL 5164148, at *1 fn.
1, *19.)
 
The Trust filed this motion on December 4, 2023. Plaintiffs
filed an opposition and the Trust filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants the Trust’s request for judicial notice.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to stay
proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.” (Freiberg
v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489 citing Walker
v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 266, 279.) “The rule which forbids
a later action in the same state between the same parties involving the same
subject matter rests upon principles of wisdom and justice, to prevent
vexation, oppression and harassment, to prevent unnecessary litigation, to
prevent a multiplicity of suits,—in short, to prevent two actions between the
same parties involving the same subject matter from proceeding independently of
each other.” (Simmons
v. Superior Court (1950) 96
Cal.App.2d 119, 124-125.) “Any and all of this may occur where the later action
is commenced in another state, as well as where it is commenced in the same
state.” (Ibid.) Thus, “there is no distinction in reason or difference
in principle between a case where a later action between the same parties
involving the same subject matter is commenced in the same state and a case
where a later action between the same parties involving the same subject matter
is commenced in another state.” (Id. at p. 125.) “Granting a stay in a case
where the issues in two actions are substantially identical is a matter
addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court." (Thompson v.
Continental Ins. Co. (1967) 66 Cal.2d 738, 746, citing Simmons, 96
Cal.App.2d at p. 123.)
 
“Where … the actions are pending
in courts of different states, the determination whether to stay the
later-filed action is discretionary, not mandatory, and should be raised by
motion[.]” (Leadford v. Leadford (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 571, 574; see also
Farmland Irr. Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208, 215 “When an
action is brought in a court of this state involving the same parties and the same
subject matter as an action already pending in a court of another jurisdiction,
a stay of the California proceedings is not a matter of right, but within the
sound discretion of the trial court.”].)
 
Discussion
 
The parties agree that this action was filed on December 6,
2022, whereas the Delaware Action was filed on December 13, 2022. The Trust
argues that the ABC Action, which was filed almost a year before this action,
is the prior action. Moreover, the Trust asks the Court to exercise its
discretion to stay the current action in favor of the ABC Action.  There are a number of problems with this
argument and request.  
 
First, the parties are not identical between the two
actions. Defendant Mahdara is not a party to either the
ABC Action or Delaware Action.

 
Second, the subject matter is not the same between this
action and either the ABC Action or the Delaware Action. The ABC Action does
not involve Plaintiffs’ claims at issue in this case.  The mere fact that NGM1 filed and withdrew a
motion to compel the turnover of the Trust assets in that action is not dispositive
– that motion is not currently pending, and the ABC Action does not otherwise
have binding control over the disposition of the collateral. Moreover, the ABC
Action does not involve the damages claims that Plaintiffs are asserting in
this case.  
 
Similarly, the pending causes of action in the Delaware
Action are not of the same subject matter in this action. The remaining causes
of action there are for breach of contract by failure to negotiate in good
faith to establish a prospective long term commercial partnership and for
tortious interference with contract. (BeautyCon Media ABC v. New General
Market Partners, LLC (Del. Super. Ct., Aug. 11, 2023, No. N22C-12-143 MAA
CCLD) 2023 WL 5164148, at *15.) Those causes of action would not put the
legitimacy of Plaintiffs’ foreclosure on the Secured Loans at issue.
 
The Court notes that the ABC Action is not inconsistent with
Plaintiffs’ efforts to enforce their rights in the current action.  Indeed, “the commencement of an ABC does not
enjoin creditor collection.” (Andrew B. Dawson, Better Than Bankruptcy?
(2016) 69 Rutgers U. L. Rev. 137, 147.) “Thus, creditors with a prior perfected
security interest may still foreclose against their collateral[.]” (Ibid.)

 
California is also a more economical forum in which to try
this case. BeautyCon had its principal place of business in Los Angeles and
Trustee currently has its principal place of business in Los Angeles. (Colwell
Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) Defendant Mahdara resides in Los Angeles. (Colwell Decl. ¶ 6.)
The majority of relevant witnesses and evidence are located in California.
(Colwell Decl. ¶¶ 8.) Plaintiffs’ causes of action appear to arise under
California law. Not only would it therefore be inconvenient to try the case in
Delaware, but there is also a significant risk that Delaware courts may be
unable to exercise compulsory process over all of the parties and witnesses.
 
For all these reasons, the Court does not view the ABC Action
as a prior action that precludes the efficient litigation of the claims here,
nor is a stay warranted in favor of the Delaware Action.  The Court therefore declines to exercise its
discretion to stay the current case given the differences between the actions
and the interests of judicial economy. (See Leadford, supra, 6
Cal.App.4th 571, 574.)
 
The Court denies the Trust’s request to stay this action.