 Case Number:  23AHCV01734    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



VENESSA GARCIA, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SR
   HOSPITALITY GROUP, LLC,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01734
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT SR HOSPITALITY GROUP LLC’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO
   STRIKE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   24, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
July 28, 2023, plaintiff Venessa Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendant SR Hospitality Group LLC (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that on April
6, 2023, she stayed at a franchised Motel 6 owned and operated by Defendant. (Compl.,
¶ 16.) On the morning of April 7, 2023, she awoke at 5 a.m. to excruciating
pain on her left foot and bedbug bites. (Compl.,¶ 18.) She alleges that she
informed “Defendants’ agents” the front desk that she had been bitten by a
bedbug and requested a new room but the agents laughed in her face and stated,
“Sorry, we can’t help you.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff was not given a new room
or any assistance. (Compl., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff sought medical attention on April
9, 2023, and saw multiple medical providers. (Compl., ¶¶ 22-25.) She alleges
she experienced severe pain and swelling in her foot for almost an entire month
and that her foot has not fully healed. (Compl., ¶ 26.) 
          Plaintiff
asserts causes of action for: (1) violation of Business & Professions Code
§ 17200, et seq. (“UCL”), (2) negligence, (3) intentional infliction of
emotional distress (“IIED”), (4) negligent infliction of emotional distress
(“NIED”), (5) negligence per se, (6) breach of contract, (7) premises
liability, (8) private nuisance, (9) violation of Civil Code § 1750, et seq.
(“Consumer Legal Remedies Act” or “CLRA”). 
          On
October 26, 2023, Defendant filed this demurrer and motion to strike. Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s First, Third, Fourth, Sixth, Eighth, and Ninth Causes of
Action. Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s claims for restitution, punitive
damages, and attorneys’ fees. 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face.  (City of Atascadero v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the
factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which
may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California Department
of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations
are to be liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be
brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer may also be
brought if the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous or unintelligible. (Id.,
subd. (f).) Further, in an action founded upon contract, a demurrer may be
brought on the ground that it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether
the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct. (Id., subd.
(g).) 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954)
42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim
is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations
of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
III.     DISCUSSION
A.  
Demurrer
1.  
Breach
of Contract
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Sixth
Cause of Action for breach of contract is insufficient, ambiguous, and not
properly pleaded because she fails to state whether the contract is written,
oral, or implied by conduct, nor does Plaintiff attach any purported contract
or identify which contractual provisions are at issue. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
she has pleaded that the contract was implied by nature. Plaintiff refers to
the use of the word “implied” in paragraph 42 to show that the contract was
“implied by nature”, but this word was used to describe an implied duty and a
description of the hotel room, not to allege that the contract’s formation was
implied. (Opp., p. 6.) She then cites to a case that holds that, in an action
based upon a written contract, it is sufficient to plead the legal effect of
the contract rather than its precise language, and that she has sufficiently
identified the key terms of the contract which was to rent a habitable hotel
room. (Opp., pp. 6-7, referring to Compl., ¶¶ 42, 84-88.) By describing the
contract as implied while relying on statement of law applicable to written
contracts, Plaintiff proves Defendant’s point that her contract claim is
ambiguous. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the Sixth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.  
2.  
IIED
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s IIED
claim fails because she does not state facts alleging extreme or severe
conduct. (Demurrer, p. 5.) Defendant argues that the “simple existence of a
bedbug problem, without any specific facts that show some intent to cause
severe harm, or showing substantial and pervasive conduct, does not rise to the
level of severe, extreme and outrageous conduct needed to plead IIED.”
(Demurrer, p. 6.) 
“Conduct to be outrageous must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Davidson v. City of Westminster (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, 209.)
In order for conduct to be outrageous, there must be (1) a specific intent to
injure, or (2) a reckless disregard of the substantial certainty of a severe
emotional injury. (Id. at p. 210 [“Absent an intent to injure, such
inaction is not the kind of ‘extreme and outrageous conduct’ that gives rise to
liability under the ‘intentional infliction of emotional distress’ tort”]; Christensen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903 [“substantially certain to
cause extreme emotional distress”].) The conduct must be “directed at the
plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is
aware.” (Christensen, supra, 54 Cal.3d at p. 903.) “The
requirement that the defendant's conduct be directed primarily at the plaintiff
is a factor which distinguishes intentional infliction of emotional distress
from the negligent infliction of such injury.” (Id., at p. 904.)
Here, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant’s “outrageous conduct” and acts of recklessness consist of their
failure to “comply with the cleanliness, sanitation, and safety laws required
of them” which led to the bedbug infestation. (Compl., ¶¶ 58-60.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant “knew, and/or reasonably should have known about the
bedbugs, yet continued their pattern and practice of neglecting their cleaning
and managerial responsibilities to maximize profits at the expense of the
health and well-being of patrons such as Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶ 62.) However, Plaintiff
fails to allege a specific intent to injure her, nor does she plead facts
supporting that Defendant exhibited “reckless disregard of the substantial
certainty of a severe emotional injury” to her. (Compl., ¶ 61.) Plaintiff
emphasizes in her opposition brief that Defendant’s agents allegedly laughed at
her when she requested a new room, but this incident occurred after Plaintiff
already sustained the bedbug bites. (Opp., p. 5.) Additionally, although Plaintiff
refers to various trial court orders to argue that Defendant’s deliberate
failure to eradicate a bedbug infestation constitutes outrageous conduct, these
trial court decisions "are not precedents binding on other courts under
the principle of stare decisis." (See Harrott v. County of Kings
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 1138, 1148, (citation omitted).
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action for IIED is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
3.  
NIED
Negligent infliction of emotional
distress (NIED) is not a separate tort but is a species of negligence. (Marlene
F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric Med. Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.)
It simply allows certain persons to recover damages for emotional distress on a
negligence cause of action even though they were not otherwise injured or
harmed.¿ (See¿Molien v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals¿(1980) 27 Cal.3d 916, 928.) Recovery
for emotional distress damages suffered by “direct victim” plaintiffs has been
recognized only in the following situations: (1) near-miss accidents where the
plaintiff was personally at risk, (2) claims against health care providers, (3)
claims against environmental polluters, and (4) claims against mortuaries that
mishandle human remains. (Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Trial Claims and Def. Ch.
2(V)-B.) Here, none of those circumstances are present. 
Accordingly, the NIED claim is
duplicative of Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for Negligence and the
demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
Instead, Plaintiff may amend the second
cause of action to add emotional distress as a category of damages. (See Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 981 [damages for
emotional distress are available as “parasitic” damages].)
4.  
Private
Nuisance
“Anything which is injurious to health,
including, but not limited to, the illegal sale of controlled substances, or is
indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property
. . . is a nuisance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 3479.) “The essence of a private
nuisance is an interference with the use and enjoyment of land.” (Friends of
H Street v. City of Sacramento (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 152, 160.) Thus, to
allege a cause of action for private nuisance, the plaintiff must allege injury
specific to the use and enjoyment of his land. (See Adams v. MHC Colony Park
Limited Partnership (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 601, 610.)  
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot state
a claim for private nuisance because she does not have a possessory interest in
the motel room. (People v. Minervini (1971) 20 Cal.App.3d 832, 840
[customer of motel has no interest in the realty and is not a tenant].) Since a
private nuisance necessarily interferes with the use and enjoyment of
plaintiff's private property, Plaintiff cannot state a claim for private
nuisance. (Friends of H Street v. City of Sacramento (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th
152, 159-162.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff only relies on
trial court orders to claim that her hotel reservation gives her a possessory
interest. As stated above, these orders are not binding precedent. (See
Harrott, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 1148.) Instead, published case law
distinguishes guests or patrons of an inn, hotel, or similar lodging place from
a tenant as one who has no interest in real estate. (See, e.g., Fox v.
Windemere Hotel Apartment Co. (1916) 30 Cal.App. 162, 164-165.) 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Eighth
Cause of Action for Private Nuisance is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
5.  
Violation
of UCL 
Defendant argues Plaintiff has not
identified any “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice” to
support her UCL claim and mainly discusses whether Plaintiff has identified an
“unfair practice.” Defendant’s reliance on Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980)
101 Cal.App.3d 903, 928, is inapposite because the plaintiff in Stoiber
sought “only injunctive relief on the basis of ‘unfair business practices.” Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant violated California Health and Safety Code
section 17920.3 and Civil Code section 1954.602 because it failed to address
the bedbug infestation after being notified of its existence. (Opp., p. 3; Compl.,
¶ 45.) 
The Court acknowledges that Plaintiff
merely claims that there is a possibility that Defendant failed to change the
sheets and violated California Code of Regulations, Chapter 25, Section 40
(even though the correct citation is to California Code of Regulations, Title
25, Division 1, Chapter 1, subchapter 1, section 40). (Compl., ¶ 46.) The Court
also notes that Plaintiff fails to state a claim under the “fraud” prong by failing
to allege that she relied on any misrepresentation by Defendant. However, Plaintiff’s
allegations under the “unlawful” prong of the UCL are adequate. Accordingly, the
demurrer to the entire cause of action is OVERRULED. 
6.  
Violation
of CLRA
Last, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
claim under the CLRA fails because Plaintiff did not give Defendant proper
notice of the alleged violation. The CLRA requires a plaintiff to notify the
defendant in writing of the alleged violation 30 days before filing this
action. (Civil Code, § 1782, subd. (a.) Here, Plaintiff does not allege that
she gave notice as required by the CLRA. Instead, Plaintiff argues that notice
is not required to be given if she is seeking injunctive relief. This argument
is unpersuasive, however, because Plaintiff does not seek injunctive relief in
her Complaint. Furthermore, since the action has already been commenced,
Plaintiff cannot “cure” this failure to give notice. Accordingly, the demurrer
to the Ninth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
As an initial matter, the motion to
strike is moot as to paragraphs 60, 61, 63, and 117 due to the Court’s ruling on
Defendant’s demurrer. The remaining allegations to be struck from the Complaint
may be divided into the following: Plaintiff’s allegations in her UCL claim,
Plaintiff’s allegations related to her prayer for punitive damages, and
Plaintiff’s allegations related to her request for attorney’s fees. 
1.  
UCL
Allegations
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
requests for restitution in paragraph 115 of the Complaint and paragraph 4 of
the prayer for relief. These requests for restitution are connected with her
claim based on the “fraudulent” prong of the UCL. As discussed above, Plaintiff
fails to state a claim under the “fraudulent” prong of the UCL because
Plaintiff fails to allege that she relied on any alleged misrepresentation.
Accordingly, the motion to strike these allegations is GRANTED with 20 days’
leave to amend. 
Defendant also moves to strike any reference
to “California Code of Regulations Chapter 25, Section 40.” As Defendant points
out, “Chapter 25, Section 40” of the California Code of Regulations is an
incorrect citation. Therefore, the allegations are improper and irrelevant and
the motion to strike these references in paragraphs 29, 31, 45, and 91 is
GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
2.  
Punitive
Damages
A motion to strike punitive damages is
properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for
punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression,
fraud or malice. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not
sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht
Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal. App. 3d 949, 958.) The
allegations supporting a request for punitive damages must be alleged with
specificity; conclusory allegations without sufficient facts are not enough. (Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)
Furthermore, an employer shall not be
liable for punitive damages based on the acts of an employee, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which damages are awarded, or
was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)
Here, Plaintiff fails to identify any
officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant who: (1) had advance
knowledge and conscious disregard of the unfitness of any particular employee,
or (2) authorized, ratified, or engaged in any malice, oppression, or fraud. 
The motion to strike paragraphs 56, 60,
94, 102 of the Complaint and paragraphs 3 and 6 of the prayer for relief is
GRANTED.  
The motion to strike paragraph 38,
lines 16-17, which states, in relevant part, “… and is undertaken with the
intention and effect of Defendants maximizing profits at the Motel 6” is DENIED
because this is a factual allegation.” 
3.  
Attorneys’
Fees 
Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for attorneys’ fees based on her CLRA claim (Civil Code section 1780(e))
is moot because its demurrer to Plaintiff’s CLRA is sustained. Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages based on Civil Code section 3304 for the breach of
the covenant of quiet enjoyment is denied because, as discussed above, she does
not hold a real estate interest in the hotel room. Furthermore, Plaintiff
cannot recover attorneys’ fees for bringing an action in the public interest
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 1021.5 because Plaintiff concedes that she is
not bringing this action on behalf of the public and there are no facts
alleging that there were bed bugs beyond those within her room on the night of
the incident. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED as to
the First Cause of Action for Violation of the UCL. The demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the Third, Fourth, Eighth, and Ninth Causes of
Action. The demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend as to the Sixth
Cause of Action. 
The motion to strike is MOOT as to
paragraphs 60, 61, 63, and 117 and DENIED with respect to paragraph 38, lines
16-17. The motion to strike Plaintiff’s requests for restitution in paragraph
115 of the Complaint and paragraph 4 of the prayer for relief, as well as the
references to “California Code of Regulations Chapter 25, Section 40” in
paragraphs 29, 31, 45, and 91
is GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to amend. The remainder of the motion to strike
is GRANTED without leave to amend at this time. Plaintiff may file a motion for
leave to amend later if discovery yields additional facts which would support a
punitive damages award or an award of attorneys’ fees.  
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 24th
day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 