 Case Number:  23AHCV00002    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



TOVIAS ESPINOZA, by and through his Successor in Interest,
   Socorro Cabral, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ALHAMBRA
   HEALTHCARE & WELLNESS CENTRE, LP dba ALHAMBRS HEALTHCARE AND WELLNESS
   CENTRE, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00002
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF AMY JOHNSON
   AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 3,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On January 3, 2023, plaintiff Socorro
Cabral (“Plaintiff”), individually and as successor in interest to Tovias
Espinoza (“Espinoza”), filed this action against Alhambra Healthcare &
Wellness Centre, LP dba Alhambra Healthcare and Wellness Centre (“AHWC”),
Boardwalk West Financial Services, LLC (“Boardwalk”), and Shlomo Rechnitz
(“Rechnitz”) (collectively, “Defendants”). 
On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendants
with a notice of deposition for Amy Johnson (“Ms. Johnson”), who is the Vice
President of Operations and a member of the governing body of AHWC, a skilled
nursing facility owned and operated by co-defendants Rechnitz and Boardwalk. Defendants
served objections and subsequently filed a motion for a protective order. The
motion for the protective order is scheduled to be heard on July 3, 2024. 
On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed this
motion for an order compelling Ms. Johnson to appear for a deposition. Defendants
filed an opposition brief on April 23, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply brief on
April 26, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A properly served deposition notice is
effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend and to
testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . . fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may
move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production . . . of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff argues that it is necessary
to depose Ms. Johnson, who was identified by AHWC as a member of its “governing
body”, as defined in CFR § 483.75(d), because of her direct and substantial
involvement in operating AHWC’s facility (“Facility”). (Motion, pp. 3, 5.) Plaintiff
contends that the deposition testimony of Luke Magsila, AHWC’s administrator
during the time of Espinoza’s stay, is evidence of Ms. Johnson extensive involvement,
because he testified that she was his direct supervisor with whom he spoke approximately
once a month and the only member of the Facility’s governing body with whom he
had contact. Also, Mr. Magsila created the Facility’s budget with Ms. Johnson
and discussed other issues with her, including any proposed improvements and
quality assurance matters regarding the Facility, as well as any inspections
conducted or deficiencies issued by the California Department of Public Health
(“CDPH”). Mr. Magsila also testified that Ms. Johnson is part of the “detailed
creation of the [written] policy and procedure” created and implemented by the
Facility’s governing body. 
Plaintiff alleges that the Facility was
underfunded and understaffed at the expense of resident care. Ms. Johnson’s
testimony is pertinent because she is someone who worked on the Facility’s
budget, as well as the development of any policies and procedures adopted by
the Facility’s governing body. Also, Plaintiff alleges that the Facility has
received numerous deficiencies from the CDPH that put the Facility on notice of
areas that needed to be improved to ensure resident safety, but failed to take
action. Plaintiff argues that any evidence that the deficiencies were reviewed
and ignored would show ratification of neglect, an element of the elder abuse
claim. 
In opposition, AHWC argues that Ms.
Johnson should not be deposed because she is an “apex” employee. AHWC cites to Liberty
Mutual Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282 (“Liberty
Mutual”) but fails to submit any declaration from Ms. Johnson disclaiming
any personal knowledge or responsibility for the budgeting or policymaking
processes that Mr. Magsila testified she was involved with. AHWC only submits a
transcript of Mr. Magsila’s deposition. AHWC claims that Ms. Johnson’s
testimony is unnecessary because Mr. Magsila was asked during his deposition
whether he felt like “[he] had discretion to disregard any recommendations Ms.
Johnson made”, and Mr. Magsila stated: “Yes. Because ultimately it is my full
responsibility under operations of the [F]acility.” (Magsila Depo., 158:5-8.) This
is unpersuasive because Mr. Magsila could not testify about certain topics,
including the relationship between Rockport Administrative Services (of which
Ms. Johnson was a vice present of operations while concurrently serving as a
member of AHWC’s governing board) and the Facility, nor did he have control over
or information about the Facility’s payments made to third parties and
disclosed to California Office of Health Care Access and Information. Mr.
Magsila also described the general role of the vice president of operations to provide
“education and support” for the licensed administrator for every facility, such
as himself. Therefore, it appears that Ms. Johnson was involved, to some
extent, with the way the Facility was operated; Plaintiff is entitled to
inquire about the extent of her involvement especially with payments to third
parties, which are relevant to Plaintiff’s claims that the Facility was
mismanaged because it paid out unreasonable and unjustifiable fees to other
companies owned by or affiliated with Defendants. 
In light of the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED and Ms. Johnson is ordered to appear for her deposition
within 30 days. 
If a motion to compel deposition is
granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction... in favor of the party
who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party whom the deponent
is affiliated...” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(c).) Plaintiff requests
sanctions in the amount of $1,400 against AHWC. Plaintiff’s counsel, Suzanne M.
Voas, declares that they do not typically charge clients on contingency an
hourly rate and claims that a reasonable hourly rate would be $350 per hour.
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the reduced
amount of $700, consisting of 2 hours at the reasonable hourly rate of $350, to
be paid within 20 days of the date of this order. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. Ms.
Johnson is ordered to appear for their deposition within 30 days.
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
GRANTED. AHWC is ordered to pay $700 within 20 days of the date of this order. 
 
Dated
this 3rd
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 