 Case Number:  22AHCV00856    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LUZ MERCADO, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AUTOMATIC
   DATA PROCESSING, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00856
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT ADP TECHNOLOGY SERVICES, INC.’S MOTION FOR
   PROTECTIVE ORDER 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 3,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On October 17, 2022, plaintiff Luz
Mercado (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant ADP Technology
Services. Inc. (“Defendant”) and Margot Dear. Plaintiff alleges that she
experienced gender and disability discrimination while employed as a UX Designer
by Defendant, and was retaliated against after filing an ethics complaint. 
On March 7, 2024, Defendant filed this
motion for a protective order. Specifically, Defendant seeks an order: (1)
finding the number of special interrogatories and requests for production
propounded by Plaintiff to be excessive, overbroad, unduly burdensome, and
harassing; (2) excusing Defendant from answering Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set Three and Requests for Production, Set Three; and (3)
precluding Plaintiff from serving any additional special interrogatories and
document requests. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief on
April 22, 2024.
Defendant filed a reply brief on April
26, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Upon the motion of any party affected,
“[t]he court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.090,
subd. (a)-(b); 2031.060, subd. (a).) 
With respect to specially prepared
interrogatories, a protective order may include any number of directions,
including, but not limited to instructions (1) that “the set of
interrogatories, or particular interrogatories in the set, need not be answered
at all,” (2) that, “contrary to the representations made in a declaration
submitted under Section 2030.050, the number of specially prepared
interrogatories is unwarranted,” (3) that “the response be made only on
specified terms and conditions,” or (4) that “the method of discovery be an
oral deposition instead of interrogatories to a party.” (Code Civ. Proc.. §
2030.090 subd. (b)(1)-(5).) “If the motion for a protective order is denied in
whole or in part, the court may order that the responding party provide or
permit the discovery” that the proponent sought. (Id., subd. (c).) 
With respect to requests for document
production, a party seeking a protective order must show good cause for
issuance of the order by a preponderance of evidence. (Stadish v. Sup.Ct. (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 1130, 1145.) Upon a showing of good cause, the court may issue
an order: 
-      Excusing production of some or all of the items demanded, or
setting terms and conditions on which items shall be produced;
-      Extending time for production;
-      Changing place for production;
-      Protecting confidential commercial information (trade
secrets, etc.) by restricting the manner in which it is disclosed;
-      Ordering that items produced be sealed and opened only on
court order; or
-      Limiting or setting conditions for discovery of the
information.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (c)-(f)).
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Special
Interrogatories (Set Three)
Plaintiff’s Third Set of Special
Interrogatories includes 49 special interrogatories and brings the total number
of special interrogatories propounded to 82. When more than 35 special
interrogatories have been propounded, and the responding party seeks a
protective order, the burden is on the propounding party to prove that the
number of requests is justified. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.030, 2030.040,
2030.070.) Specifically, the propounding party must show that the number of
requests is warranted by “any of the following:
-      The complexity or the quantity of the existing and potential
issues in the particular case. 
-      The financial burden on a party entailed in conducting the
discovery by oral deposition. 
-      The expedience of using this method of discovery to provide
to the responding party the opportunity to conduct an inquiry, investigation,
or search of files or records to supply the information sought.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.040, subd. (a); Catanese v.
Superior Ct. (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165.) 
Plaintiff argues that the 49 special
interrogatories can be broken into three categories. First, SROG Nos. 34 to 77 relate
to Defendant’s internal investigations of four complaints, each which are
individually identified using Defendant’s numbering system. Plaintiff states
she seeks information regarding the different components forming these
investigations, which include all witnesses interviewed, all documents and
evidence reviewed, all “issues to be resolved”, all “findings”, all “analysis/conclusions”,
all “issue disposition”, all “actions taken”, and all decision makers. 
Defendant argues that the
interrogatories are duplicative because it has already produced all the
investigation reports and related documents, and the information sought is
contained within the investigation reports themselves. However, Defendant can
avail itself of Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230 and reference the
documents which have already been produced, and add any information as needed. Furthermore,
identification of documents and persons is generally better accomplished on
paper than by oral deposition, and it affords the propounding party an
opportunity to identify with accuracy and specificity the individuals and
documents that contain information relevant to the action. In this way, such
special interrogatories avoid the “financial burden” of an unnecessary
deposition, and accordingly, the special interrogatory is an “expedien[t]” way
for Plaintiff to obtain this information. (§ 2030.040, subd. (a)(2)-(3).) 
Next, Plaintiff explains that SROG Nos.
78-80 seek information about complaints made against three managers in
Plaintiff’s same department, and SROG Nos. 81-83 seek information about any
disciplinary actions taken against employees as a result of complaints alleging
discrimination, harassment, or retaliation. (Opp., pp. 8-9.) This information
is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence supporting Plaintiff’s
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation claims. Furthermore, these six
interrogatories do not appear to pose any particular burden on Defendant, who
does not address these six interrogatories in its motion. 
The Court specifically notes that Defendant
is not being ordered to provide a substantive answer to a particular
interrogatory, but only that Defendant is not entitled to a blanket protective
order with respect to SROG Nos. 34 through 83. 
B.  
Requests
for Production of Documents (Set Three) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s third
set of 26 document requests is excessive because she previously already
propounded 61 requests. Defendant argues that a single-plaintiff case does not
require 87 document requests and stresses that it has already produced 1,300
pages of documents. Defendant also argues that the scope of each request is overbroad
because they demand writings authored by or sent to certain individuals, as
well as members of its Global Ethics Department, relating to “any investigation
of complaints submitted . . . by [Defendant’s] employees or independent
contractors” regarding Defendant’s office in Pasadena. Although Defendant
claims that “the burden and expense of responding to each of these . . .
document requests outweighs the usefulness of the information gleaned” and
demands that Plaintiff narrow her demands to only include complaints about
claims of discrimination on the basis of gender and disability, Defendant
submits no evidence of any burden or expense it would incur. Also, while
Defendant may have produced documents relating to the internal investigations
conducted in response to Plaintiff’s complaints, these document requests seek documents
relating to complaints submitted by other employees. 
Therefore, the Court does not find that
a protective order is appropriate or necessary. Again, the Court is not
ordering that Defendant provide substantive responses or produce documents, but
is only ruling that a blanket protective order is not warranted. 
C.  
Monetary
Sanctions
Finally, the court is required to
“impose a monetary sanction . . . 
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order under this section, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (§
2030.090, subd. (d).)
The Court declines to impose sanctions
on Defendant. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
The motion for a protective order is
DENIED. 
The requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
 
Dated
this 3rd
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 