 Case Number:  22AHCV00541    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SARA D. YOUNG, et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MEDMEN
   ENTERPRISES, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00541
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 3,
  2024




 


 


 



 
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory &
Natsis LLP seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for defendants MM
Enterprises USA, LLC, MedMen Enterprises, Inc., and MME Pasadena Retail, Inc. (collectively,
“Defendants”) on grounds that there has been an irreconcilable breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship, and ethical and professional considerations and
obligations justify a termination of the relationship. Absent a showing of
resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request for withdrawal should be granted. (People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.)
The Court notes that no prejudice will
result from granting this motion because judgment has already been entered.
Accordingly, the unopposed motions to be relieved are GRANTED and effective
upon filing a proof of service showing service of this Order on Defendants
and all parties who have appeared.
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 3rd
day of May 2024  
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 