  Case Number:  22STCV04971    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  29 Aviles
v. Bekerian
22STCV04971
Defendant’s Motion to Bifurcate
Tentative
The
motion is DENIED without prejudice.
Background
On
February 9, 2022, Omar Garcia Aviles (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Samuel I. Bekerian, Henaz Bekerian, and Does 1 through 50 for (1) negligence –
Labor Code section 3700, et seq., (2) negligence per se, (3) premises
liability, and (4) general negligence, all arising out of a construction
accident on October 24, 2020.
On
September 30, 2022, Samuel I. Bekerian and Henaz Bekerian filed their answer.
On May
17, 2023, Plaintiff amended his complaint to name Swink’s Creations, Inc. (“Defendant”)
as Doe 1 and August Roofing, Inc. (“August”) as Doe 2.
On July
26, 2023, August filed an answer.
On
August 17, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.
August
settled with Plaintiff. On July 31, 2024, the Court granted the motion of
August for a good faith settlement determination under Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6.  The causes of action
against August in the complaint were dismissed on September 3, 2024.
On
September 13, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. 
On September 17,
2024, Defendant filed this motion to bifurcate. Plaintiff
filed an opposition on September 30, and on October 4 Defendant filed a reply.
 
Trial is set for
February 6, 2025.
 
Legal
Standard
“The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action … or of any separate
issue or of any number of causes of action or issues…”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048 (b).)  The court has general discretion to order
certain issues tried before others “when the convenience of witnesses, the ends
of justice or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be
promoted thereby.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
598.)
Discussion 
Defendant moves to bifurcate the issues of
liability and damages at trial. (Cerezo Decl., ¶ 2.) 
In cases assigned to the Personal Injury Hub,
the case will be tried by a different judge than the one assigned to rule on
this motion. The Court finds that because of the close relationship between
bifurcation motions and trial management, it is appropriate in this matter for
the trial judge to determine whether bifurcation is warranted.
A motion to bifurcate is not a motion in limine.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.57(c).) Nonetheless, as it relates to management
of the trial proceedings, a motion to bifurcate has certain attributes that are
similar to motions in limine. And, in cases assigned to the Personal Injury
Hub, the trial judge (not the judge in the Personal Injury Hub) rules on all
motions in limine. While this bifurcation request is not a motion in limine,
the logic of  having the trial judge
determine it here is similar. The request for bifurcation here appears to be
one for which the trial judge should make a discretionary determination based
on its role in managing the trial proceedings.
Accordingly, the Court rules that Defendant
may submit the bifurcation briefing be included in the trial binders in Tab B
along with any motions in limine filed in the case. If there is any issue with
regard to Rule of Court 3.57, Defendant or any other party may direct the trial
court to this order (which of course does not impose any obligation on the
trial judge with regard to ruling on the motion). 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Swink’s Creative,
Inc.’s motion to bifurcate is DENIED without prejudice.
Moving party to give notice.