 Case Number:  23STCV14185    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Sara Marin,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV14185




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
City of Los Angeles,  


 
 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: April 9, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Pitchess Motion
Moving Party: Plaintiff Sara Marin
Responding Party: Defendant City of Los Angeles
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S PITCHESS MOTION IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
and reply.
 
“A party seeking discovery of a peace
officer's personnel records must follow a two-step process.  First, the party must file a written motion
describing the type of records sought, supported by ‘[a]ffidavits showing good
cause for the discovery. . ., setting forth the materiality thereof to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable
belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or information
from the records.’  [Cal. Evid. Code §
1043(b)(3).]  This initial burden is a
‘relatively relaxed standard [ ].’ 
Information is material if it ‘“will facilitate the ascertainment of the
facts and a fair trial.”’  ‘[A]
declaration by counsel on information and belief is sufficient to state facts
to satisfy the “materiality” component of that section.’”  (Haggerty v. Superior Court (2004) 117
Cal. App. 4th 1079, 1085–1086 [citations omitted].)
 

“Second, if ‘the trial court concludes
the defendant has fulfilled these prerequisites and made a showing of good
cause, the custodian of records should bring to court all documents
“potentially relevant” to the defendant's motion. . . .  The trial court “shall examine the
information in chambers” [Cal. Evid. Code § 1045(b).], “out of the presence and
hearing of all persons except the person authorized [to possess the records]
and such other persons [the custodian of records] is willing to have present.”.
. . Subject to statutory exceptions and limitations. . . the trial court should
then disclose to the defendant “such information [that] is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation.”’”  (Haggerty, supra at 1086.)
 
Plaintiff, a helicopter pilot and LAPD
officer, alleges Defendant discriminated against her based on her sex by, among
other things, denying her instructor pilot assignments. Plaintiff seeks records pertaining to the qualifications and employment history of the
individuals selected for the Instructor Pilot position instead of Plaintiff, as
well as documents pertaining to the Department’s rationale for selecting these
other individuals over Plaintiff. Plaintiff also requests the complaint
investigations and discipline records related to Plaintiff’s claims of
discrimination, retaliation, or failure to prevent discrimination or
retaliation at issue in this lawsuit. These records are relevant and
discoverable.
 
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.


 