  Case Number:  23LBCV01221    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  S25 Motion: Defendant Miguel Gonzalez’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-ComplaintMoving Party: Defendant Miguel GonzalezResponding Party: Defendants Nicholas Tran and Cuong TranTENATIVE RULING: Defendant Miguel Gonzalez’s Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint against Defendants Nicholas Tran and Cuong Tran is GRANTED.Procedural BackgroundThis action arises out of a motor vehicle accident. The Complaint, filed on June 30, 2023, alleges that Plaintiff Samuel Sanchez (Plaintiff) was injured by the negligent operation of a motor vehicle by Defendants Nicholas Tran, Cuong Tran, Miguel Gonzalez. (Complaint at p. 4.) Defendants Nicholas Tran and Cuong Tran filed a cross-complaint for indemnity and apportionment of fault against Defendant Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”) on August 10, 2023. Gonzalez filed an answer to the Complaint on September 12, 2023, and an answer to the cross-complaint on March 7, 2024.Gonzalez filed this motion for leave to file a cross-complaint on February 13, 2024. Nicholas and Cuong Tran filed an opposition on April 12, 2024. Gonzalez filed a reply on April 17, 2024.Analysis“A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(a)–(b).) A cross-complaint filed outside either of the aforementioned times requires leave of court, which may be granted “in the interest of justice at any time during the court of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).)A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the partywho failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) Leave to file a cross-complaint may also be granted “in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (c).)Failure to bring claims in a cross-complaint may have consequences. “[I]f a party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).) “A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)Defendant Gonzalez seeks leave to file a cross-complaint for indemnity, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief, against Defendants Nicholas Tran and Cuong Tran. The proposed cross-complaint arises out of the same August 31, 2021, motor vehicle accident which forms the basis of Plaintiff’s complaint. As Defendant Gonzalez’s claims arise from the same incident alleged Plaintiff’s complaint, the court must allow for the filing of his cross-complaint absent a showing of bad faith.Defendant Gonzalez’s counsel states that she failed to file the cross-complaint at the time the answer by “mistake,” and subsequently delayed seeking leave in the belief that the other parties would stipulate to allow such a claim. (Rousier Decl. ¶¶ 2, 4–7.) Further, Defendants Cuong and Nicholas Tran fail to make any showing of bad faith on the part of Gonzalez or his counsel, arguing only that opposing counsel does not adequately explain the tardiness of the proposed cross-complaint. (Opposition at p. 2.) This argument is unpersuasive. Further, as the other parties would not stipulate to the filing of Defendant Gonzalez’s cross-complaint, counsel was required to bring this motion.As the Court finds there is no evidence of bad faith by the moving party for a short delay in filing of the cross-complaint, Defendant Gonzalez’s leave to file his cross-complaint is GRANTED.Defendant Gonzalez is to give notice