  Case Number:  21STCV28966    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


September 23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV28966




MOTION:  


Motion for Leave to Amend




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Scott Erickson and Ryan Erickson




OPPOSING PARTY:


Cross-Defendant Amit Tidhar



 
MOTION
            Plaintiffs
Scott Erickson and Ryan Erickson (“Plaintiffs”) seek leave to amend to file a
third amended complaint.  Cross-Defendant
Amit Tidhar (“Tidhar”) opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance
of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect;
and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court
may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon
any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”  Therefore, the
Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend pleadings “upon any
terms as may be just.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473, subd. (a)(1).)  Judicial policy
favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore,
leave to amend is liberally granted.  (Berman
vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  “[I]t is an abuse of discretion for the court
to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by
the amendment.”  (Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
Under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading must
include a copy of the proposed amendment, and the allegations the moving party
proposes to add or delete must be stated.  The rule also requires the moving party to submit
a declaration in which is presented the effect of the amendment, why the
amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered, and the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiffs rely on
the declaration of their counsel, Michael J. Peng (“Counsel”), who states Plaintiffs
seek leave to assert a claim against Tidhar based on the facts and theory of
liability on which Defendant Bartlett Loft Association (“Defendant”)
cross-complained against Tidhar.  The
Court granted Defendant’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against
Tidhar in its order of October 24, 2023. 
Plaintiffs necessarily knew of the facts at issue in the cross-complaint
as of that date.  Counsel states in
support of the motion Plaintiffs did not seek leave to amend earlier “because
Plaintiffs were initially focused on [Defendant] as the party primarily responsible
. . . .”  (Declaration of Michael J.
Peng, ¶ 10.)  This is not a satisfactory
explanation for a nearly one year delay. 
Accordingly, the Court denies the motion as being made without
evidentiary support.  Further, with the discovery
cut-off and trial dates approaching, granting the motion would prejudice
Tidhar, as Tidhar has not had the opportunity to defend against Plaintiffs’
claims.  
Additionally, the
Court notes Plaintiffs’ claims appear to be time-barred.  Plaintiffs did not name Tidhar as a “Doe”
Defendant.  Therefore, Plaintiffs’ claims
do not relate back to the filing date of their original complaint.  (See Woo v. Superior Court (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 169, 176 [because party was added as a new defendant, amended
complaint did not relate back to date of filing of original complaint, and
statute of limitations was applied as of the date amended complaint was filed,
not date original complaint filed].)  As
Plaintiffs concede, they could have learned of Tidhar’s role in the underlying
dispute at any time by conducting a title search.  (Peng Decl., ¶ 10.)  Plaintiffs were, thus, on notice of Tidhar’s
identity.  Plaintiffs were required to
assert their claims against Tidhar within four years of the date on which
Plaintiffs allege Tidhar breached his obligations under the governing documents
of Defendant’s condominium association. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 337, subd. (a.) 
According to Plaintiffs, the issues at the heart of their contentions in
the proposed third amended complaint surfaced in January 2019.  (See Proposed Third Amended Complaint, ¶ 31.)  It, therefore, appears Plaintiffs delayed
more than four years in asserting their claims against Tidhar.
Plaintiffs are to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.