 Case Number:  22STCV33353    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers and notice of non-opposition, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
October 12, 2022, Plaintiff Oliver Wang (“Wang”) filed this action against
Defendants Brigitta Tuyet Nguyen (“Brigitta Nguyen”)
and Does 1-25 for assault, battery, and intentional infliction of emotional
distress. 
On April 4, 2023, Brigitta Nguyen filed an answer and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Wang, Anhtuan Nguyen, Jamison Services, Inc. (“Jameson”),
and Roes 1-10 for civil assault, civil battery, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress, false imprisonment, premises
liability and negligence, conversion, conspiracy, and aiding and abetting.  On April 21, 2023, Wang filed an answer to
the cross-complaint. On July 14, 2023, the Court dismissed Jameson from Brigitta
Nguyen’s cross-complaint without prejudice at Brigitta Nguyen’s request. On
July 14, 2023, Brigitta Nguyen withdrew her punitive damage claim against Jameson.  On December 11, 2024, Brigitta Nguyen amended
her cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant Peter Nguyen as Roe 1 (“Peter
Nguyen”). 
On
June 21, 2023, Cross-Defendant Ahn Tuan Nguyen (“Ahn Nguyen”) filed an answer
to Brigitta Nguyen’s cross-complaint.  On
July 12, 2023, Ahn Nguyen filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Brigitta
Nguyen and Roes 1-10 for assault and battery, conspiracy to commit assault and
battery, mayhem, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.  On July 14, 2023, Brigitta Nguyen filed an
answer to Ahn Nguyen’s cross-complaint. 
Trial
is currently set for March 12, 2025. 
B.   This motion 
On
December 26, 2024, Brigitta Nguyen filed a motion for leave to file a first
amended cross-complaint.  The motion was
set for hearing on January 22, 2025.  On
January 13, 2025, Brigitta Nguyen filed a notice of non-opposition.  
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Brigitta
Nguyen asks the Court for leave to file a first amended cross-complaint. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Wang’s complaint 
Wang’s
complaint alleges that on or about July 30, 2022, at approximately 1:30 a.m., Brigitta
Nguyen and Does 1-25 stabbed Wang in his right-side rib cage, lacerating his
liver. 
B.   Brigitta Nguyen’s cross-complaint 
Brigitta
Nguyen’s cross-complaint filed April 4,
2023, alleges that Brigitta Nguyen defended herself using a knife after Wang, Ahn
Nguyen, and an unknown defendant screamed and banged on the door of an
apartment where Brigitta Nguyen was staying with acquaintances, barged into the
apartment, advanced on Brigitta Nguyen while shouting, and attacked Brigitta
Nguyen. 
C.   Brigitta Nguyen’s motion to file a first amended
cross-complaint 
Brigitta
Nguyen asks the Court for leave to amend her cross-complaint to allege that Peter
Nguyen owned or leased the premises where Brigitta Nguyen allegedly was
attacked.  The amended cross-complaint
also would provide additional details about the events leading up to and
including the alleged attack. 
The
Court finds that the amendments are based on the same alleged facts giving rise
to Wang’s complaint and Brigitta Nguyen’s cross-complaint and that the
amendments will not prejudice the other parties.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant, Cross-Complainant, and
Cross-Defendant Brigitta Tuyet Nguyen’s
motion for leave to file an amended cross-complaint.   The Court
orders Defendant, Cross-Complainant, and Cross-Defendant Brigitta Tuyet Nguyen to
file and serve a first amended cross-complaint within 10 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.