 Case Number:  24STCV02428    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
ATI Restoration, LLC vs. CGI+ Manager, LLC, et. al.,
Case No. 24STCV02428
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendant’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
CF Brookhaven
Bliss I, LLC (Defendant) demurs to ATI
Restoration LLC’s (Plaintiff) third and fourth causes of action contained in
its first amended complaint (FAC). Defendant’s demurrer is sustained to the
third cause of action with ten (10) days leave to amend.  The demurrer is overruled as to the fourth
cause of action.
 
A demurrer is
sustained where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., 430.10, subd. (e).) “A demurrer tests the
legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Yalung v.
State (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 71, 80.) In reviewing a complaint’s legal
sufficiency, a court will treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. (Esparza
v. Kaweah Delta Dist. Hospital (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 547, 552.) It is well
settled that a “demurrer lies only for defects appearing on the face of the
complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “We not only treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but also give the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Guclimane Co. v. Stewart Tit. Guaranty Co.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded. (Wilner v. Sunset Life Ins. Co.
(2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.)
When ruling
on a demurrer, a court may only consider the complaint’s allegations or matters
which may be judicially noticed. (Blank,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at 318.) The Court may not consider any other extrinsic
evidence or judge the credibility of the allegations pleaded or the difficulty
a plaintiff may have in proving his allegations. (Ion Equipment Corporation v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881.) A demurrer is properly sustained when the complaint, liberally construed,
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 574, 578.) Demurrer is also appropriate where the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(f).)
When a
demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded
the general set of facts upon which his cause of action is based,” the court
should give the plaintiff an opportunity to amend his complaint, since
plaintiff should not “be deprived of his right to maintain his action on the
ground that his pleadings were defective for lack of particulars.” (Reed v.
Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) 
 
Defendant demurs to
Plaintiff’s causes of action for unjust enrichment and violation of Civil Code
section 8800 on the ground that Plaintiff fails to plead facts sufficient to
constitute either cause of action. The Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer as
to the third cause of action only. 
 
Plaintiff has not pled facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action for unjust enrichment or restitution.
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s third
cause of action for unjust enrichment on the ground that Plaintiff does not
plead sufficient facts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) The causes of
action for unjust enrichment and restitution are interchangeable. One who is
enriched at the expense of another is required to make restitution. (Prof.
Tax Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238
(Kennedy-Wilson).) The elements of a cause of action for unjust
enrichment or restitution are “receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of the
benefit at the expense of another.” (Ibid.) Importantly, an action for
unjust enrichment or restitution does not lie where an express binding
agreement exists and defines the parties’ rights. (California Medical Assn.,
Inc. v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare of California, Inc. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th
151, 172.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges no contract
between itself and Defendant. Rather, Plaintiff alleges a breached contract
between itself and another owner of the at issue property, CGI+ Manager, LLC
(CGI). (FAC ¶ 26.) Separately, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant has benefited
from the uncompensated work of Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 27.) It also alleges
that it has rendered a performance to third-party CGI and not received
compensation. The effect of this performance has conferred a benefit on
Defendant. (Id. ¶ 30.) In such cases, a plaintiff is entitled to
restitution from the defendant if three conditions are met. (Kennedy-Wilson,
supra, 29 Cal.App.5th at p. 239.) First, liability in restitution may
not subject the Defendant to a forced exchange; in other words, the benefit realized
must save the defendant an otherwise necessary expense. (Ibid.) Second, the
plaintiff must not have an opportunity for compensation, while the defendant
will retain the benefit free of any liability to pay for it. (Ibid.)
Third, liability in restitution may not subject the defendant to an obligation from
which the plaintiff and third-party had agreed it would be free. (Ibid.)
 
The second condition is not met in the
present case. Plaintiff has an opportunity for compensation via its breach of
contract action against CGI. (FAC ¶ 14–21.) Additionally, Plaintiff does not
allege that Defendant has no liability to pay CGI in some capacity for the work
done by Plaintiff. Thus, Plaintiff’s third cause of action for unjust
enrichment or restitution fails under Kennedy-Wilson. 
 
Plaintiff has pled facts sufficient to
state a cause of action under the California Prompt Payment Act.
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s cause
of action under the California Prompt Payment Act (Civ. Code, §§ 8800 et seq.)
on the basis that California law does not apply to the contract alleged in this
case. Plaintiff, Defendant, and CGI are all California-based Delaware
corporations. (FAC ¶¶ 1, 3–4.) The present dispute arises out of work performed
on property owned by Defendant and CGI in Georgia. (Id. ¶ 5.) Defendant
argues that Georgia law should apply, while Plaintiff argues in favor of
California law.
 
As the forum state, California applies
its own law unless a party timely invokes the law of a foreign state. (Chen
v. Los Angeles Truck Centers, LLC (2019) 7 Cal.5th 862, 867.) The
governmental interest test determines which jurisdiction’s law will be applied.
This test involves a three-step inquiry. First, the court determines whether the
relevant law of each jurisdiction regarding the contested issue differs. (Ibid.)
If it does, the court examines each jurisdiction’s interest in the application
of its own law to determine if a true conflict exists with respect to the case
at hand. (Id. at pp. 867–868.) Third, if a true conflict is found, the
court “carefully evaluates and compares the nature and strength of the interest
of each jurisdiction in the application of its own law ‘to determine which
state’s interest would be more impaired if its policy were subordinated to the
policy of the other state’ [citation], and then ultimately applies ‘the law of
the state whose interest would be the more impaired if its law were not
applied.’” (Id. at p. 868.)
 
Here, Defendant argues for the
application of Georgia law. Thus, Defendant has the burden “to identify the
applicable foreign law, show that it materially differs from California law,
and show that the foreign law furthers an interest of the foreign state” as
required in the first step of the governmental interest test. (Frontier Oil
Corp. v. RLI Ins. Co. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1436, 1465.) Defendant has not
made a showing that Georgia’s prompt payment statute materially differs from California’s.
Even if a conflict existed, the present case concerns a dispute regarding
payments on a contract likely entered in California and between corporations
headquartered in California. Thus, the fact that the contract concerns property
in Georgia is of comparatively little importance, and the Court would apply
California law. Defendant’s references to a case concerning the public policy
rationale behind mechanic’s liens is inapposite.
 
Additionally, Defendant argues that
Civil Code section 8800 does not apply because Plaintiff is not a direct
contractor of Defendant. “Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the owner
and direct contractor, the owner shall pay the direct contractor, within 30
days after notice demanding payment pursuant to the contract is given, any
progress payment due as to which there is no good faith dispute between them.”
(Civ. Code, § 8800, subd. (a).) A direct contractor is defined as a contractor
with a direct contractual relationship with an owner. (Id., § 8018.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
is an owner under section 8800. (FAC ¶ 5.) Plaintiff further alleges that it is
a direct contractor, having a direct contractual relationship with an owner of
the property in question. (Id. ¶ 5, 7.) Plaintiff further alleges that
Defendant has a legal duty to pay Plaintiff the amounts earned under the
contract. (Id. ¶ 34.) Thus, Plaintiff has stated a cause of action under
Civil Code section 8800. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to
this cause of action.