 Case Number:  23STCV21726    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
Macri vs. Guseinov et.
al., Case No. 23STCV21726
Tentative Ruling
re:  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Site
Inspection
 
Lucrezia Macri (Plaintiff) moves
for an order compelling International Equity Partners, LLC, Gary Guseinov, and
Vera Guseinov (Defendants) to allow Plaintiff to perform a property inspection
at 1929 Curson Place, Los Angeles, California 90046 (Property). (Astanehe Decl.
Ex. D.) Defendants have refused to permit a site inspection to go forward. (Id.
¶ 6–8.) Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions for fees and costs incurred
relating to this motion. The motion is granted. The Court does not award
sanctions.
 
A party may move for an order
compelling a further response to a demand for inspection of a property if: (1) a
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in
the response is meritless or overly general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a).) Such a motion must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery and be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under section 2016.040. (Id., § 2031.310, subd. (b).) Any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
responses is subject to monetary sanctions, unless they acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust. (Id.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (h).)
 
Plaintiff served a notice of demand for permission to inspect the
Property on August 27, 2024. (Astanehe Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendants objected to Plaintiff’s
demand on various grounds. (Newell Decl., Ex. C.) Plaintiff contends that these
objections are meritless, necessitating an order to compel further response
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a)(3).
Defendants argue the following: (1) that the information sought is irrelevant
given the passage of time; (2) that the inspection of the property would
involve evidence of subsequent remedial measures in violation of Evidence Code
section 1151; (3) that Defendants do not have possession, custody, or control
over the residential space currently occupied by a non-party tenant; and (4)
that any inspection would be in violation of the current tenant’s right to
privacy. 
 
The condition of Plaintiff’s former apartment is relevant.
Defendants argue that the condition of Plaintiff’s former apartment is
irrelevant. The scope of discovery is broad but may be limited if the court
determines that “the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of . . . discovery
clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020.) Over a year
has passed since Plaintiff vacated the Property. While an inspection of the
property would have been more fruitful around the time Plaintiff first vacated
the property, the Court does not find a subsequent inspection irrelevant. It is
possible that some conditions complained of by Plaintiff still exist on the
property to this day. Thus, the Court finds this objection meritless.
 
Evidence Code section 1151 does not prohibit an inspection of the property.
Defendants argue that any evidence gathered from inspection of the
property would be inadmissible as a subsequent remedial measure. “When, after
the occurrence of an event, remedial or precautionary measures are taken,
which, if taken previously, would have tended to make the event less likely to
occur, evidence of such subsequent measures is inadmissible to prove negligence
or culpable conduct in connection with the event.” (Evid. Code, § 1151.) This
argument is premature. While Plaintiff’s inspection could lead to such
evidence, it could be properly excluded once offered. Discovery may seek
information which will likely lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020.) Such information is sought here. If some of the
discovered information is inadmissible under section 1151, that may be
addressed at a later stage. Thus, the Court finds this objection meritless as
well.
 
Defendants have control over the property.
Defendants argue that they do not currently have possession, custody, or
control over the Property. Inspection demands allow the demanding party to “enter
on any land or other property that is in the possession, custody, or control of
the party on whom the demand is made.” (Id., § 2031.010, subd. (d).) While
Defendants’ tenant may currently be in possession or custody of the Property, it
is still within Defendants’ control as owners. Additionally, Civil Code section
1954, subdivision (a)(4) expressly allows a landlord to enter a dwelling unit
pursuant to a court order. Thus, this objection is without merit.
 
Defendants’ additional objection that section 2031.010, subdivision (d)
does not apply because the current tenant is not a party to the action fails
for similar reasons. While the current tenant may be in custody and possession
of the Property, Defendants retain control over the residence as its owners. Thus,
as a party to the action, the Court may compel Defendants to allow Plaintiff to
enter land under their control for the purpose of inspecting it. (Id., §
2031.010, subd. (d).)
 
No privacy interest has been asserted.
Finally, Defendants argue that any inspection of the property would
infringe on the current tenant’s privacy rights. The California
Constitution ensures a right to privacy in Article 1, Section 1. Information
otherwise discoverable, even when highly relevant, may be shielded from
discovery if its disclosure would violate a person’s constitutional privacy
rights. (County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th
621, 639.) It is the burden of the party asserting the privacy interest to “establish
its extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that
showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.”
(Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557 (Williams).)
Here, Defendants attempt to assert a privacy interest on behalf of another —
the current tenant has not raised the issue. The party asserting the privacy
interest here has not met its burden under Williams to establish the
extent and seriousness of the prospective invasion. Accordingly, this objection
is also without merit.
Monetary Sanctions
“[T]he
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order
compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (c).)
 
Here, both
Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further response and Defendants’ opposition were
warranted. Thus, the Court does not award sanctions. 