  Case Number:  23STCV10783    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No.
Doukoure vs. Los Angeles
Community College District, et. al., Case
No. 23STCV10783
 
Tentative Ruling re:  Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Los Angeles
Community College District (Defendant) moves for summary judgment against Fatoumata
Doukoure (Plaintiff). Defendant argues that one or more elements of each of
Plaintiff’s causes of action cannot be established, and that all of Plaintiff’s
claims are precluded by Plaintiff’s separate workers’ compensation claims.
Plaintiff contends that triable issues of material fact exist as to each cause
of action, and that Plaintiff’s workers’ compensation claims do not bar claims
under the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA). The Court grants summary
judgment.
 
Plaintiff’s Late Opposition
Defendant
argues that the Court should disregard Plaintiff’s late opposition. The
opposition papers to a motion for summary judgment shall be served and filed no
less than 14 days preceding the date of hearing, unless the court finds good
cause for such a delay. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(2).) The court may,
in its discretion, refuse to consider a late filed paper. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1300(d).) Defendant needed to file their opposition by November 5, 2024,
to meet this deadline. Instead, Defendant filed their opposition on November
12. Defendant’s counsel blames his tardiness on a family emergency, a legal
assistant’s illness, and a resulting calendaring error. (Opiaenwemuche Decl. ¶¶
5–8.) The Court exercises its discretion to consider Plaintiff’s filing regardless.
 
Legal Standard
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party can
show evidentiary support for a claim or defense and if not to enable an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code
of Civil Procedure Section 437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, a
moving defendant “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the opposing plaintiff “to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment on the basis that no
triable issues of material fact exist to support Plaintiff’s three remaining
causes of action. Additionally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s action has no
merit because her only remedy is through workers’ compensation statutes. The
Court will first address the workers’ compensation defense before turning to
each cause of action.
 
Plaintiff’s workers’ compensation claims do not bar her FEHA
claims.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claims are precluded by California’s
workers’ compensation statutes. (Lab. Code, §§ 3600 et seq.) Where certain conditions of compensation occur, relief under
the workers’ compensation statutes is the “sole and exclusive remedy of the
employee,” subject to a few exceptions. (Id., §§ 3600, subd. (a), 3602,
subd. (a).) Exceptions include cases where the employee’s injury is caused by a
willful physical assault of the employer, where the injury is aggravated by the
employer’s fraudulent concealment of the existence of the injury and its
connection with employment, and where the injury is caused by a defective
product manufactured by the employee. (Id., § 3602, subd. (b).) 
 
It is Defendant’s burden to show that Labor Code section
3602 provides a complete defense to the present action. Plaintiff is currently
pursuing a workers’ compensation action claim against Defendant related to
physical injuries. (Ex. 23.) Plaintiff also alleges physical injury in the
current action resulting from Defendant’s discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation. (Compl. ¶¶ 43, 53, 63.) However, “unlawful discrimination and
retaliation in violation of FEHA falls outside the compensation bargain” as separate
from the normal employment relationship. (Light v. Department of Parks &
Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 100–101.)  Thus, allegations of FEHA discrimination and
retaliation are exceptions to workers’ compensation exclusivity under section
3602. (Id. at p. 101.) Citing no contradictory authority, Defendant has
failed to demonstrate that section 3602 acts as a complete defense to the
present action. Accordingly, the Court does not grant summary judgment on this
basis.
 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action fails, and no triable
issues of material fact exist.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to establish some
required elements and that no triable issues of material fact exist as to Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for retaliation and harassment in violation of FEHA. It
is unlawful for an employer to discharge a person from employment or
discriminate against the person in compensation or in terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment, because of their race. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(a).) It is also unlawful for an employer to discharge, expel, or otherwise
discriminate against any person because they have opposed any discriminatory
practices forbidden under section 12940, or filed a complaint, testified, or
assisted in any proceeding to that effect. (Id., § 12940, subd. (h).) To
establish a prima facie case of retaliation under FEHA, “a plaintiff must show
‘(1) he or she engaged in a protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the
employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between
the protected activity and the employer’s action.’” (Nealy v. City of Santa
Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 380.) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not demonstrated that
she engaged in any protected activity. Plaintiff believed that Ley did not
follow proper procedure in assisting Plaintiff with an unruly student in 2019.
(Doukoure Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff filed a complaint concerning Ley’s conduct with
the Dean on December 13, 2019. (Id. ¶ 7.) After the filing of the
complaint, Plaintiff has been subjected to different terms and conditions of
employment than other employees, including being denied seniority hours. (Id.
¶ 10.) The reporting of unruly students does not constitute protected activity.
Plaintiff’s complaint filed with the Dean did not allege any sort of discriminatory
practices forbidden under FEHA; rather, it concerned a workplace dispute
regarding the management of a student. (Id. ¶ 7, Ex. 105.) Plaintiff has
not produced evidence demonstrating that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to Plaintiff having engaged in protected activity that resulted in retaliatory
harassment. 
 
Plaintiff’s second cause of action fails, and no triable
issues of material fact exist.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to establish some
required elements and that no triable issues of material fact exist as to
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for race discrimination in violation of
FEHA. It is unlawful for an employer to discharge a person from employment or
discriminate against the person in compensation or in terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment, because of their race. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(a).) To state a prima facie case for race discrimination, Plaintiff must
establish that: (1) she was a member of a protected class; (2) she was
qualified for her position; (3) she suffered an adverse employment action; and
(4) some other circumstances suggest discriminatory motive. (Guz v. Bechtel
Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
 
Defendant does not contest that Plaintiff has established
the first two elements -- that Plaintiff is African American and qualified to
teach cosmetology courses. (Compl. ¶¶ 12–13.) Thus, she is part of a protected
class and qualified for her position.
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff has not established that
she suffered an adverse employment action. An adverse employment action is one that
“materially affects the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.” (Doe
v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th
721, 734.) This includes not only ultimate employment actions such as
termination or demotion, but also those actions reasonably likely to adversely
and materially affect an employee’s performance or opportunity for advancement.
(Ibid.) Still, “[m]inor or relatively trivial adverse actions or conduct
by employers or fellow employees that, from an objective perspective, are
reasonably likely to do no more than anger or upset an employee cannot properly
be viewed as materially affecting the terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment and are not actionable.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1054 (Yanowitz).) 
 
Defendant has shown that Plaintiff cannot establish this
element through the testimony of Ley. She testifies that she has not done
anything to harm Plaintiff. (Ley Decl. ¶¶ 23–24.) Thus, Plaintiff must offer
evidence of an adverse employment action to show a triable issue of material
fact and survive summary judgment as to this cause of action. First, Plaintiff
points to instances when Ley observed Plaintiff’s class uninvited and provided handwritten
notes of her observations to Plaintiff. (Doukoure Decl. ¶ 15.) Further, Ley
mentioned that Plaintiff was “hired to walk the aisle.” (Id. ¶ 18.) This
had no direct effect on Plaintiff’s employment aside from being upsetting or
potentially angering behavior of the kind considered in Yanowitz.
Additionally, Ley would often refer to Plaintiff as “helping” or “assisting”
other instructors. (Id. ¶ 18.) Once again, while such a
mischaracterization could have been upsetting to Plaintiff as a co-teacher, it
did not affect her employment in violation of FEHA. Finally, Plaintiff argues
that Ley has inaccurately determined Plaintiff’s seniority hours and has
offered assignments to other instructors on the allegedly pretextual basis that
Plaintiff lacked classroom management skills. (Id. ¶ 24.) Refusing to
give Plaintiff assignments and improperly assigning seniority hours arguably
constitutes an adverse employment action affecting Plaintiff’s opportunity for
advancement. Thus, Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of material fact as to
the third element.
 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff cannot establish the
fourth element requiring a showing of discriminatory motive, offering the
testimony of Ley. She claims that she is not against Plaintiff and has not
treated her badly. (Ley Decl. ¶ 24.) Thus, Plaintiff must offer evidence of
circumstances suggesting a discriminatory motive. Such a motive may be
discernible from stray remarks unrelated to the adverse employment action. (Jorgensen
v. Loyola Marymount University (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 882, 886.) The probative
value of a stray remark increases when the declarant might influence the
adverse employment action. (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff offers evidence that
Ley, a person with authority over her employment outcomes, said that Plaintiff
was hired “to walk the aisle” or “work the aisle,” and that she was “helping”
or “assisting” other instructors rather than acting as a co-teacher. (Doukoure
Decl. ¶ 18.) It is unclear how these stray remarks demonstrate or even suggest a
racially discriminatory motive. Plaintiff does not explain her understanding of
the phrase walk the aisle or work the aisle and she offers no suggestion as to why
these comments evidence a discriminatory motive based on Plaintiff’s race.  A charge of helping or assisting another
teacher does not show discriminatory motive either. Thus, Plaintiff has not met
her burden of demonstrating that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
the fourth element. 
 
Plaintiff’s third cause of action fails, and no triable
issues of material fact exist.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to establish a
required element and that no triable issues of material fact exist as to
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for failure to prevent retaliation,
discrimination, and harassment in violation of FEHA. It is unlawful for an
employer to “fail to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent
discrimination and harassment from occurring.” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (k).)
A necessary element of this cause of action is a showing of discrimination or
harassment by the Defendant. The Court having found that no evidence presented
by Plaintiff raises a triable issue of material fact as to her claims for
retaliation, discrimination, or harassment, summary judgment is granted as to
this cause of action as well. 
 