  Case Number:  22VECV01431    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  W JANE DOE V. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, ET AL.
 
defendant los angeles unified school district’s
motion for stay of proceedings pending resolution of two district court writ
proceedings concerning ab 218
 
Date of Hearing:        September
9, 2024               Trial
Date:       February 3, 2025
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV01431
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District   
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff
Jane Doe
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of allegations by Plaintiff Jane Doe that
she was sexually abused by a former employee of Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District (“LAUSD”), Defendant William Paden, while he was employed by LAUSD.
On September 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against LAUSD and Paden for
(1) sexual abuse of a minor, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress,
(3) sexual harassment, (4) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention of an
unfit employee, (5) breach of mandatory duty: failure to report suspected child
abuse (Government Code section 815.6), (6) negligent failure to warn, train, or
educate, (7) negligent supervision of a minor, and (8) negligence. 
 
On March 22, 2024, Los Angeles Unified School District filed a
cross-complaint against William Paden and Richard Coleman for indemnity,
contribution, and declaratory relief. LAUSD dismissed Richard Coleman from the
cross-complaint on June 6, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s Motion for Stay of Proceedings Pending Resolution of Two District
Court Writ Proceedings Concerning AB 218 is DENIED.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant requests judicial notice of various court
filings and court orders in the West Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court and Roe
#2 v. Superior Court actions. The request for judicial notice is GRANTED. (See
Evid. Code § 452(d) [except as to the truth of the matters].) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District moves the court to
issue a stay of proceedings pending resolution of the two pending writs before
the First and Second District concerning the constitutionality of AB 218.  
 
A party can ask the court to stay an action or proceeding based on
the court’s inherent power to stay in the interest of justice and to promote
judicial efficiency. (See Cal. Const., art. VI, §1 (vesting courts with
judicial power); CCP §128 (giving court power in proceedings before it); Adams
v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593 (court has inherent power to stay
related actions); Smith v. Jones (1900) 128 Cal. 14, 15 (court has right
to postpone case); Koch-Ash v. Superior Ct. (2d. Dist.1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 689, 696 (court has inherent authority to stay trial; see also Walker
v. Superior Ct. (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 266-67 (California Supreme Court has
repeatedly recognized inherent power of courts, derived from both statute and
Constitution, to ensure orderly administration of justice). 
 
Defendant argues the instant action should be stayed based on two
pending, unrelated writs in the Court of Appeals – West Contra Costa USD v.
Superior Court (First District Case No. A16934) and Roe #2 v. Superior
Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6, Case No. B334707). Both of these
cases involve the question of whether AB 218 violates the Gift Clause of the
California Constitution, an issue underlying this current litigation. Defendant
contends the interest of judicial economy and the District’s ability to engage
in meaningful settlement negotiations mandate that the court exercise its
authority and stay the proceedings in this matter for the relatively short
period of time it will take for a court of appeal to make a determination. Specifically,
the pending writs make it virtually impossible for the District to resolve this
case by way of settlement as any settlement will require its Board to approve
the settlement, which could violate the Gift Clause or Penal Code section 424. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the Court of Appeal in West
Contra Costa has finally issued a published opinion concerning the “gift”
clause argument. Specifically, the Court of Appeal found: 1) AB 218’s
retroactive waiver of the Government Claims Act's claim presentation
requirement was not a gift of public funds (Id. at p. 9); and 2) AB 218 served
a valid public purpose (Id. at p. 11). As a result, Plaintiff contends the
motion is moot. 
 
Defendant, in reply, argues although there has been a decision
made in West Contra Costa, it is expected that the litigants in that
action will petition the California Supreme Court for review of the First
District’s July 31, 2024 opinion. The deadline for the petition is not until
September 19, 2024. Moreover, no decision has been made in the Second District.
Until that occurs, given the importance of this issue and its broad
implications on public policy, a stay should be issued.
 
The court finds staying the entire action pending the possible
appeal of the decision in West Contra Costa would not be in the interest
of judicial economy. As of now, AB 218 is constitutional. The court is aware
there is always a possibility that the Court of Appeals could issue conflicting
rulings in Roe #2 v. Superior Court. However, the court believes judicial
economy is best served by going forward with the litigation. If the District is
unable to engage in meaningful settlement discussions, then the parties may
just continue with all other proceedings or discovery work. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District’s Motion for Stay of Proceedings Pending
Resolution of Two District Court Writ Proceedings Concerning AB 218 is DENIED. 