 Case Number:  24PSCV00200    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  G Cross-Defendant Michelle
Feil’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint
Respondent: Cross-Complainant
Andrew Feil and Oak Street Properties, LLC
TENTATIVE RULING
Cross-Defendant Michelle
Feil’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED in its entirety.
Cross-Defendant Michelle
Feil is ordered to file an ANSWER to the First Amended Cross-Complaint in ten
(10) days.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for breach of contract arising from a loan agreement. In April
2022, Plaintiff Cherry Blossom Childcare & Preschool, LLC (Cherry Blossom)
entered into an oral agreement with Defendants Andrew Feil and Oak Street Properties,
LLC (Oak Street) in which Cherry Blossom agreed to loan $75,875.00 to Andrew Feil
and Oak Street for the purchase of a property in Pennsylvania. Pursuant to the
terms of their agreement, Andrew Feil and Oak Street allegedly agreed to make
monthly payments of $500 to Cherry Blossom and repay the rest of the loan when
they flipped and resold the Pennsylvania property within two years. In January
2024, Cherry Blossom alleges Andrew Feil and Oak Street breached the agreement
by failing to make a monthly payment and failing to sell the Pennsylvania
property.
On
January 19, 2024, Cherry Blossom filed a complaint against Andrew Feil, Oak
Street, and Does 1-30, alleging the (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the
warranty of good faith and fair dealing, (3) promissory estoppel, and (4)
fraud.
On
March 27, 2024, Andrew Feil and Oak Street filed an answer the Complaint and a
cross-complaint against Cherry Blossom, Michelle Feil, and Roes 1-10, alleging
causes of action for (1) contribution and indemnity and (2) declaratory relief.
On
May 28, 2024, Andrew Feil and Oak Street filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint
(FACC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On July
2, 2024, Michelle Feil filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing, Michelle
Feil’s counsel attempted to meet and confer telephonically with Andrew Feil and
Oak Street’s counsel and was unable to reach a resolution. (Sanchez Siqueiros
Decl.)
A hearing
on the demurrer is set for July 30, 2024. A case management conference is also
set for September 18, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Michelle
Feil demurs to Andrew Feil and Oak Street’s entire FACC. For the following
reasons, the court OVERRULES the demurrer in its entirety.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers,
courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc.
(2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Contribution and Indemnity (First Cause of Action)
Michelle
Feil argues Andrew Feil and Oak Street’s first cause of action for contribution
and indemnity fails because there are no allegations to establish Michelle Feil
is jointly liable. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
A claim
for contribution requires allegations of (1) “a money judgment,” (2) “rendered
jointly against two or more defendants in a tort action,” (3) “in accordance
with the principles of equity,” (4) “after one tortfeasor has, by payment,
discharged the joint judgment or has paid more than his pro rata share
thereof,” (5) without intentional injury by the tortfeasor. (Code Civ. Proc., §
875, subd. (a)-(d).)
“An
indemnitee seeking to recover on an agreement for indemnification must allege
the parties' contractual relationship, the indemnitee's performance of that
portion of the contract which gives rise to the indemnification claim, the
facts showing a loss within the meaning of the parties' indemnification
agreement, and the amount of damages sustained.” (Four Star Electric, Inc.
v. F & H Construction (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1380.) “To state
a claim for equitable indemnity, a defendant must allege the same harm for
which he may be held liable is properly attributable—at least in part—to the cross-defendant.”
(Platt v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate Services (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 1439, 1445, fn.7.)
Discussion
In
this case, Michelle Feil argues the FACC fails to allege how Michelle Feil, Andrew
Feil, and Oak Street are jointly liable to Cherry Blossom. (Demurrer, p. 7:4-8.)
Michelle Feil also argues the FACC fails to allege the existence of an express
indemnity contract between the parties. (Demurrer, p. 7:10-14.)
The
FACC alleges that to the extent an agreement exists as alleged in the
Complaint, Michelle Feil was a party to that agreement and participated in its
negotiation. (FACC, ¶ 7.) The FACC also alleges Michelle Feil is responsible
for any representations at issue in the Complaint and thus is the sole or
primary tortfeasor. (FAC, ¶ 7-8.) Based on these allegations, the court finds
the FACC adequately alleges Michelle Feil is jointly liable.
Accordingly,
Michelle Feil’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Declaratory Relief (Second Cause of Action)
Michelle
Feil contends Andrew Feil and Oak Street’s second cause of action for declaratory
relief fails because the FACC does not allege the existence of a controversy
between the parties. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
“To
qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action
presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,
and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the
party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) “The courts do
not issue advisory opinions about the rights and duties of the parties under
particular agreements, if no actual, justiciable controversy has yet
developed.” (Otay Land Co. v. Royal Indemnity Co. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th
556, 563.)
Discussion
In
this case, the FACC alleges there is an actual controversy between the parties
with regards to whether Michelle Feil is required to indemnify Andrew Feil and
Oak Street as a co-obligor of any such alleged agreement. (FACC, ¶ 15.) Because
the FACC adequately alleges Michelle Feil was involved as a party to the
alleged agreement and was responsible for any representations, the Court finds
there is an actual controversy involving Michelle Feil. While Michelle Feil
also contends this remedy is duplicative of Andrew Feil and Oak Street’s first
cause of action, the Court notes there is a split of authority on whether a
demurrer can be sustained on grounds that a cause of action is duplicitous. In Blickman
Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858 (Blickman
Turkus), the Sixth District Court of Appeal held a demurrer could not be
sustained on grounds that it is duplicative pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10. (Id., at p. 890.) In Palm Springs Villas II
Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268 (Palm Springs
Villas), the Fourth District Court of Appeal held the opposite, noting a
duplicative cause of action is grounds upon which a demurrer may be sustained
according to Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494,
501 (Rodrigues). (Palm Springs Villas, supra, 248
Cal.App.4th at p. 290.)
Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10 authorizes a party to bring a demurrer on
eight different grounds, none of which explicitly include grounds that a cause
of action is duplicative or superfluous. In Rodrigues, the Fourth
District Court of Appeal noted the cause of action at issue merely combined all
the previous causes of action and did not add anything to the complaint by way
or fact or theory of recovery. (Rodrigues, supra, 87 Cal.App.3d
at p. 498, 501.) However, the Court finds the reasoning of Blickman Turkus more
persuasive. Noting the jurisprudential maxim that “superfluity does not
vitiate” (Civ. Code, § 3537), the court held “[t]his is the sort of defect
that, if it justifies any judicial intervention at all, is ordinarily dealt
with most economically at trial, or on a dispositive motion such as summary
judgment.” (Blickman Turkus, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at p. 890.)
Accordingly,
Michelle Feil’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Michelle Feil’s demurrer to Andrew Feil and Oak Street’s FACC is OVERRULED
in its entirety.
Cross-Defendant Michelle Feil
is ordered to file an ANSWER to the First Amended Cross-Complaint in ten
(10) days.