  Case Number:  21STCV06266    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



JESUA OCHOA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
GENERAL MOTORS LLC, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV06266




Hearing Date:


June 5, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS PURSUANT TO CIVIL
  CODE SECTION 1794(d)



 
Background    
Plaintiff
Jesua Ochoa (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on February 16, 2021 against
Defendant General Motors, LLC (“GM”). 
Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on August 2, 2021. The FAC
alleges causes of action for (1) breach of implied warranty of merchantability
under the Song-Beverly Act, (2) breach of express warranty under the
Song-Beverly Act, and (3) fraudulent inducement-concealment. 
On
February 28, 2022, the Court issued an Order sustaining GM’s demurrer to the
third cause of action of the FAC for fraudulent inducement-concealment without
leave to amend. 
 Plaintiff indicates that on September 18,
2023, Plaintiff signed a “Settlement Agreement and Release of All Claims”
(herein, the “Settlement Agreement”). (Barry Decl., ¶ 40, Ex. 5.) The
Settlement Agreement provides, inter alia, that “Defendant shall
pay Plaintiff attorney’s fees, costs, and expenses in an amount determined by
the Court, by way of a single noticed motion, to have been reasonably incurred
by Plaintiff in the commencement and prosecution of this action, unless the
parties agree on the amount of fees, costs and expenses to be paid absent such
a motion. The parties agree that Plaintiff is the prevailing party for purposes
of the motion. Defendant reserves the right to oppose any fee motion to be
filed in this case.” (Barry
Decl., ¶ 40, Ex. 5, § 2(b)(iii).)
Plaintiff
now moves for an order awarding his attorney fees, costs, and expenses.
GM opposes. 
Evidentiary
Objections 
The Court rules on
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Xylon Quezada
as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled
Objection No. 2: sustained
Objection No. 3: overruled 
Objection No. 4: sustained as to the first and
third sentence, overruled as to the second sentence. 
Objection No. 5: sustained as to the first
sentence, overruled as to the second sentence.
Objection No. 6: overruled
Objection No. 7: sustained
Objection No. 8: sustained
as to the second and fourth sentences, overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection No. 9: overruled
Objection No. 10: sustained
Objection No. 11: sustained as to the first
sentence, overruled as to the second sentence. 
Objection No. 12: sustained as to the second
sentence, overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection No. 13: overruled 
Discussion
The
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act grants car buyers the right to sue a
manufacturer or retail seller for failure to comply with implied or express
warranties. (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (a).)
“If the buyer prevails in an action under this section, the buyer shall be
allowed by the court to recover as part of the judgment a sum equal to the
aggregate amount of costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees based on
actual time expended, determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred
by the buyer in connection with the commencement and prosecution of such
action.” (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (d).) 
As
set forth above, the subject Settlement Agreement provides, inter alia,
that “Defendant shall pay Plaintiff attorney’s fees, costs, and expenses
in an amount determined by the Court, by way of a single noticed motion, to
have been reasonably incurred by Plaintiff in the commencement and prosecution
of this action, unless the parties agree on the amount of fees, costs and
expenses to be paid absent such a motion. The parties agree that Plaintiff is
the prevailing party for purposes of the motion. Defendant reserves the right
to oppose any fee motion to be filed in this case.” (Barry Decl., ¶ 40, Ex. 5, § 2(b)(iii).)
In the opposition, GM does not dispute that Plaintiff “prevails in an
action under this section” for purposes of Civil Code section 1794,
subdivision (d).
“[T]he
fee setting inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e.,
the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly
rate. … The reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for
similar work. The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration
of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market
value for the legal services provided.” ((PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095 [internal
citations omitted]); ((see
Robertson v. Fleetwood Travel Trailers of California, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 785, 818 [applying
the lodestar method to determine attorneys’ fees in Song-Beverly action].)
The
Hourly Rate of Counsel
From
January 20, 2021 through the present, The Barry Law Firm billed 212.40 hours for services rendered for a total
of $86,519.50. (Barry
Decl., ¶ 47, Ex. 6.) The Barry Law Firm indicates that the following attorneys
performed work on this case, followed by their requested hourly rates:  
David N. Barry: $525/hour for September
2019-December 2021; $600/hour for January 1, 2022-March 31, 2023;
and $625/hour for April 1, 2023 to the present
Stephanie Papayanis: $250/hour 
Carrie A. Shumake: $300-$350/hour
Anna H. Galaviz: $425-$515/hour 
Elizabeth Eabisa: $250/hour
Erik Whitman: $425/hour
Brian Kim: $250-$300/hour 
Andrew P. Matera: $290-$400/hour 
(Barry
Decl., ¶¶ 44, 45, 50, 55, 56; Mot. at p. 16:4-23.)
In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel set forth
their background and experience. (Barry Decl., ¶¶ 44, 45, 51-53; Galaviz
Decl., ¶¶ 3-6; Shumake Decl., ¶¶ 3-5; Matera Decl., ¶¶ 3-6; Kim Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)
In the opposition, GM does not appear to challenge Plaintiff’s requested hourly
rates. 
The
Court finds that the hourly rates requested by Plaintiff’s counsel are
reasonable and commensurate with rates charged by attorneys with comparable
skill and experience.
Reasonableness
of the Requested Fees
“[T]he
court’s discretion in awarding attorney fees is … to be exercised so as to
fully compensate counsel for the prevailing party for services reasonably
provided to his or her client.” ((Horsford v. Board of Trustees of California State
University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 395.) The trial court may reduce the award
where the fee request appears unreasonably inflated, such as where the
attorneys’ efforts are unorganized or duplicative. ((Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635, fn. 21.) “[T]he
verified time statements of the attorneys, as officers of the court, are
entitled to credence in the absence of a clear indication the records are
erroneous.” (Horsford v. Bd. of Trustees
of California State Univ., supra,
at p. 396.)
Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel has attached billing statements to the instant motion
detailing the nature of the work performed. (Barry Decl., ¶ 47, Ex. 6.) In the
opposition, GM asserts that “the actual hours of legal ‘work’ should be
cut and Counsel awarded no more than…$35,864.72 in fees and costs.” (Opp’n at
p. 2:26-27.) 
First, GM asserts that Plaintiff “has zero
statutory or contractual rights to recover any fees from GM for the common law
fraud claim.” (Opp’n at p. 4:22-23.) The parties cite to Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
334, 349, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[w]hen a cause of action for which attorney fees are provided by
statute is joined with other causes of action for which attorney fees are
not permitted, the prevailing party may recover only on the statutory cause of
action. However, [s]uch fees need not be apportioned when incurred for
representation on an issue common to both causes of action in which fees are
proper and those in which they are not. Moreover, [a]pportionment is not
required when the claims for relief are so intertwined that it would be
impracticable, if not impossible, to separate the attorney’s time into
compensable and noncompensable units.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) The Court of Appeal in Santana noted that “[t]he trial court found the latter exception applied,
describing the two causes of action—fraud and Song-Beverly Act—as encompassing
‘one set of facts.’ We agree.” (Ibid.) 
            The Santana Court also noted that “[b]eyond the estoppel argument, Chrysler has not proposed any practical
method of apportioning fees in this case. It has not, for example, identified
any discrete portion of the litigation that was solely focused on fraud. Moreover, Chrysler’s only
proposals for how to apportion fees are unpersuasive: a 50
percent reduction in fees, calculated simply attributing half of the fees
to each of two causes of action; or a 92 percent reduction in fees to reflect
the fact that 92 percent of the damages were attributable to fraud.
Unsurprisingly, Chrysler does not cite any authority for those approaches, both
of which are completely out of keeping with the principle of ensuring the
prevailing party receives a full recovery of attorney fees on the fee-shifting
cause of action. Consequently, the court did not err in refusing
to apportion fees.” ((Id. at p.
350 [internal citation omitted].) 

            In its opposition, GM states that it
is “propos[ing] [a] practical method of apportioning fees in this
case…by identif[ying] [a] discrete portion of the litigation that was solely
focused on fraud.” (Opp’n at p. 3:17-20, citing Santana.) GM states that
it “seeks to strike compensation of $9,570.00 (10.7 hours) related only to the
fraud claim…” (See Opp’n at pp. 3:24-4:21.) 
            In the
reply, Plaintiff asserts that “GM incorrectly interprets Santana
v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 334 to hold that merely providing
a method for apportionment of fees between those incurred relating to
Plaintiff’s fraud cause of action and Song-Beverly cause of action is
sufficient to establish that apportionment should occur. In fact, the court in Santana
said the opposite by pointing out that the apportionment proposals made by the
defendant in that case were unpersuasive.” (Reply at p. 2:21-25.) Indeed, the Santana
Court did not appear to hold that the apportionment of fees is required if a
proposal for apportionment is made. In addition, as noted by Plaintiff, “like
the defendant in Santana, GM has provided no legal support for its
method of apportionment.” (Reply at p. 4:16-17.) 
Further, as set forth above, the Santana
Court noted held “[w]hen a cause
of action for which attorney fees are provided by statute is joined with other
causes of action for which attorney
fees are not permitted, the prevailing party may recover only on the statutory
cause of action. However, [s]uch fees need not be apportioned when incurred for
representation on an issue common to both causes of action in which fees are
proper and those in which they are not. Moreover, [a]pportionment is not
required when the claims for relief are so intertwined that it would be
impracticable, if not impossible, to separate the attorney’s time into
compensable and noncompensable units.” (Santana v. FCA US,
LLC, supra, 56 Cal.App.5th at p. 349 [internal quotations and
citations omitted].) Here, GM does not appear to dispute that the fees
pertaining to Plaintiff’s fraudulent inducement-concealment cause of action were incurred “for representation on an issue common to both causes of
action in which fees are proper and those in which they are not.” (Ibid.) GM
does not appear to dispute Plaintiff’s assertion in the motion that “all
causes of action arose out of the same set of facts.” (Mot. at p. 9:16-7.)
Based
on the foregoing, the Court denies GM’s request to strike compensation for work
related to Plaintiff’s fraudulent
inducement-concealment cause of action. 
            Next,
GM asserts that “Mr. Barry should not recover for the 2.5 hours ($1,312.50) he
‘billed’ to the file before Plaintiff was even a client of Counsel’s firm. He
‘billed’ to talk to [his] ‘potential client,’ ‘[r]eview repair orders and
research technical service bulletins and recalls[,]’ and draft the
representation agreement…this entry should be stricken.” (Opp’n at pp.
5:27-6:1.) GM also asserts that Plaintiff should not recover time spent on
communications with Plaintiff regarding “case status” before the case was filed. (See Opp’n at p. 6:9-12.) However, as noted by Plaintiff, GM does not appear to cite any legal
authority demonstrating that “pre-engagement work” is not recoverable here. The Court finds that the foregoing time was “reasonably incurred by [Plaintiff] in
connection with the commencement and prosecution of such action” and declines
to strike it. (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (d).) 
            GM also contends that “Mr.
Barry ‘billed’ 0.5 hour ($262.50) to draft the Complaint…Given than Counsel has
filed thousands of nearly identical complaints against GM, this amount of time
is absurd. GM requests that the time be reduced to 0.1 hour…” (Opp’n at p. 6:12-14.) The Court
does not agree that the requested 0.5 hours is excessive and declines to reduce
this amount. 
            Next, GM asserts that “Mr.
Barry “billed” .2 hours ($202.50) simply to ‘review’ two Court notices…This
category of task is unreasonable and necessary for an attorney to be charging
his client or shifting to an adversary.” (Opp’n at p. 6:15-17.) It appears GM intended to state “unnecessary” instead of “necessary.”
In any event, GM does not cite any legal authority to support the foregoing
proposition. The Court does not
find that the requested 0.2 hours is unreasonable and declines to deduct this
amount. 
            GM also asserts that “Mr.
Matera should not be permitted to bill 2.5 hours ($725.00) to review GM’s
discovery requests…GM—like Counsel—uses the same requests in each case because
the nature of the claims that Counsel asserts against GM are the same in every
case…” (Opp’n at p. 6:17-19.) The
Court does not agree that the requested 2.5 hours is excessive and declines to
reduce this amount as requested by GM.
            Next, GM asserts that Plaintiff’s
counsel spent an excessive amount of time on preparing 
“templated” discovery responses. (See Opp’n at p. 6:21-26.) GM argues
that “[t]his time is excessive because Plaintiff’s responses were
largely templated objections duplicated from past cases Counsel has brought
against GM.” (Opp’n at p. 6:22-23.) GM also argues that Plaintiff’s counsel
spent excessive time on “templated” discovery requests and deposition notices.
(See Opp’n at pp. 6:26-7:3.) GM also objects to “templated” motions to
compel and “templated” motions in limine. (See Opp’n at p. 8:13-26.) The
Court does not find that GM has shown that the time spent on the foregoing
tasks is unreasonable. The Court
notes that although the use of forms and templates help with efficiency,
counsel is still expected to review and modify each document for each
individual case, and time spent to ensure that each document is appropriately
modified is reasonable. As noted by Plaintiff, GM does not appear to cite any
legal authority supporting the contention that Plaintiff must draft pleadings
and other documents from scratch in order to be entitled to attorney’s fees. 
            GM also asserts that “Ms.
Eabisa billed 4.4 hours ($1,100.00) to read GM’s written discovery
responses…Counsel should not be allowed to recover these fees. Like every other
part of discovery, neither Plaintiff’s requests nor GM’s responses to those
requests were novel nor varied significantly from past cases.” (Opp’n at p.
7:4-6.) The Court does not find
that the requested 4.4 hours for this task is excessive and declines to reduce
this amount.
            Next, GM asserts that Plaintiff’s
counsel spent excessive time, specifically a total of 8.9 hours, on
“canned” meet and confer correspondence, reviewing GM’s meet and confer emails,
and related file review. The time entries GM objects to are from “April 19,
September 1 & 3, October 1 & 18, December 6 & 28, 2021; January 20
& 25-26, March 9 & 16, August 1, 11 & 31, 2022; January 19, 20
& 31, March 17, July 5 & 13, August 4 & 7, 2023.” (Opp’n at p. 7:8-10.)
The Court does not find that the requested 8.9 hours is excessive and declines to reduce this amount.
            GM also asserts that “Ms.
Eabisa ‘billed’ 5.4 hours ($1,350.00) to ‘review file in preparation for’ the
Court-ordered IDC and related activities…This ‘work’ was not standalone but
duplicative of the meet-and-confer activities and review of discovery discussed
above.” (Opp’n at p. 7:16-18.) The Court does not see how this time is
duplicative. The Court does not find that the 5.4 hours is excessive, and
declines to reduce this time as requested by GM. 
            Next,
GM asserts that “Ms. Easbisa should not recover for the 0.3 hour [sic] ($75.00)
she says she has spent to ‘[r]eview’ GM’s Proposed Stipulation and Protective
Order.’…This is the same protective order GM offers in all its cases with
Counsel, and Counsel has reviewed this document hundreds of times.” (Opp’n at
p. 7:19-21.) The Court does not agree that the requested 0.3 hours is
excessive. The Court declines to strike this amount. 
            GM also
asserts that “Counsel should not recover for the 18.6 hours ($9,806.00) that
Counsel, mainly Mr. Barry, ‘billed’ in total to telephonically give updates to
their ‘client re case status,’ ‘draft email correspondence to client,’ or
‘review email correspondence from client re case status.”…A closer look reveals
that Mr. Barry’s entries often seem duplicative and inefficient. For example,
on August 3, 2023, Mr. Barry ‘billed’ 2.5 hours ($1,562.50) for ‘[t]elephonic
conference with client re[:] case status,’ then ‘billed’ an additional 0.3 hour
($187.50) the next day for the same task…It is only reasonable that many of
these communications could have been performed in half the time by Mr. Matera
at his rate, such that GM requests a reduction of 9.3 hours ($7,109.00).”
(Opp’n at p. 7:24-28.) The Court does not find that the referenced 18.6 hours
is unreasonable. In the motion, Plaintiff notes that “[u]pdating a client is a
fundamental responsibility of an attorney.” (Mot. at p. 7:18-19, citing California Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 3-500.)
The Court notes that California Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.4, “[f]ormerly cited as CA ST RPC Rule 3-500,” provides, inter alia, that “(a) A lawyer shall:…(3) keep the client reasonably…informed about significant
developments relating to the representation, including promptly complying with
reasonable…requests for information and copies of significant documents when
necessary to keep the client so informed…” (Cal. Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.4, subd. (a)(3).) 
            Next, GM asserts that it “should not be
billed for various clerical tasks or tasks which Counsel must do to manage
their files…To cite but one example, on February 17, 2023, Mr. Barry ‘billed’
0.4 hours ($240.00) to “[d]raft memo to file re[:] case status.’…Three days
later, Ms. Shumake likewise ‘billed’ 0.2 hours ($60.00) to ‘[d]raft memo to
file re[:] case status.’…Because of these numerous entries— which did nothing
to advance Plaintiff’s case—GM asks that the Court deny these entries in their
entirety for a reduction of 27.4 hours.” (Opp’n at p. 8:2-7.)[1] But
GM does not appear to cite any legal authority demonstrating that such costs
are not recoverable. The Court finds that the requested time is reasonable and
declines to deny these entries in their entirety, as requested by GM.  
Next, GM asserts “[c]ounsel should get no credit
for the 7.9 hours…that Counsel claims that Mr. Barry, Mr. Matera, and Ms.
Papyanis spent or will spend on travel time to various events, including the
future fee motion hearing…Traveling to court is part of cost of doing business
and involves none of the special skill or knowledge presumably supporting
Counsel’s outrageous hourly rates. Also, travel time is rarely charged to one’s
client and fees not properly charged to one’s client may not be imputed to GM.”
(Opp’n at p. 8:8-11.) The Court notes that GM does not cite any legal authority
to support the proposition that Plaintiff may not recover fees incurred for an
attorney’s travel time. The Court does not find that the requested 7.9 hours is
unreasonable and declines to strike this amount.  
GM also asserts that “[c]ounsel is asking to
recover 6.8 hours ($2,400.00) that Ms. Shumake ‘billed’ preparing proposed jury
instructions, a joint pretrial statement, verdict form, stipulated facts,
exhibit and witness lists, and so forth…But these documents, such as jury
instructions, do not vary from case to case…And the time spent on this work is
excessive. At most, it should have taken no more than 1.0 hour to perform these
tasks.” (Opp’n at pp. 8:27-9:1.) The Court disagrees and finds that the
requested 6.8 hours for the subject tasks billed on January 25, 2023 is
reasonable. And to the extent GM is arguing that Plaintiff used “templates,”
the Court notes, as set forth above, that time spent to ensure that each document is appropriately modified is
reasonable.
Lastly, GM asserts that “[c]ounsel should not
get full credit for the 12.6 hours ($5,684.50), excluding claimed travel time,
that Counsel claims that has been spent or that it will spend on its fee
motion—for three reasons…First, this total includes 1.2 hours for four of the
timekeepers to ‘[r]eview and revise’ their personal declarations as to their
experience and hourly rate, which are not case-specific and do not change from
case to case except for the caption…Second, Counsel’s fee motion is the same as
fee motions Counsel has recently filed in other Song-Beverly cases against GM,
like the declarations from the involved attorneys…Finally, this activity alone
counts for over nearly 6% of all of Counsel’s billed fees.” (Opp’n at p.
9:2-8.) GM contends that “1.0 hour to prepare the fee motion (at Ms. Shumake’s
rate), 1.0 hour to prepare a reply brief (at Ms. Sumake’s rate), 1.0 hour to
prepare the memorandum of costs (at Ms. Shumake’s rate), and 1.0 hour to go to
the hearing (at Mr. Barry’s rate) will adequately compensate Counsel’s
templated efforts and asks for a reduction of 9.1 hours…” (Opp’n at p. 9:8-9.) The Court does not find that any of the
entries related to the fee motion reflect excessive or unreasonable amounts of
time for the particular tasks specified. Thus, the Court declines to reduce the
hours as requested by GM. 
Costs

Lastly,
Plaintiff indicates that his counsel incurred $4,810.50 in costs in prosecuting
this matter. (Barry Decl., ¶ 49, Ex. 8 (Memorandum of Costs).) In the
opposition, GM asserts that Plaintiff’s memorandum of costs includes “expenses
not actually or reasonably incurred.” (Opp’n at p. 9:15-16.) 
As an initial matter, in the reply, Plaintiff
cites to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1700,
which provides in part that “[a]ny notice of motion
to strike or to tax costs must be served and filed 15 days after service of the
cost memorandum. If the cost memorandum was served by mail, the period is
extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section
1013. If the cost memorandum was served electronically, the period is
extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section
1010.6 (a)(4).” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700, subd. (b)(1).) Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1700, subdivision (b)(4),
“[a]fter the time has passed for
a motion to strike or tax costs or for determination of that motion, the clerk
must immediately enter the costs on the judgment.” Plaintiff asserts that because “GM did
not file a timely motion to tax costs, pursuant to California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(b)(4), the Court should award all costs sought
in Plaintiffs Motion.” (Reply at p. 10:2-4.) 
However, Plaintiff seeks both attorney’s fees
and costs in connection with the instant motion. Plaintiff does not appear to
cite any legal authority demonstrating that GM must challenge Plaintiff’s
requested costs in a motion to tax costs as opposed to in an opposition to the
instant motion. The Court notes that in Gorman v. Tassajara
Development Corp. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 68, the Court of Appeal noted that “[o]n appeal, plaintiffs renew their contention that
contractor has forfeited any objections to plaintiffs’ claim for costs by
failing to file a motion to tax costs.” The Gorman Court noted that “[t]here
is no statute requiring the filing of a motion to tax costs.” ((Id. at p.
69.) The Gorman
Court found that “[w]hile contractor’s opposition to plaintiffs’
motion was alternatively entitled a motion to tax costs, contractor did not
specify objectionable line items in the cost memo, but then again, $ 76,954.76
of plaintiffs’ claimed costs (22 percent) were not itemized in this memo, so no
such objection could be made to them. We consider it clear enough from
contractor’s opposition what cost claims contractor objected to. We perceive no
prejudice to plaintiffs, or even a claim of prejudice, from the absence of a
more formal motion to tax costs.” ((Ibid.)
Here too, Plaintiff does not claim any prejudice
from GM’s failure to file a more formal motion to tax costs. 
Moreover, as
set forth above, the parties’ Settlement
Agreement provides, inter alia, that “Defendant shall pay
Plaintiff attorney’s fees, costs, and expenses in an amount determined by the
Court, by way of a single noticed motion, to have been reasonably
incurred by Plaintiff in the commencement and prosecution of this action,
unless the parties agree on the amount of fees, costs and expenses to be paid
absent such a motion. The parties agree that Plaintiff is the prevailing party
for purposes of the motion. Defendant reserves the right to oppose any fee
motion to be filed in this case.” (Barry
Decl., ¶ 40, Ex. 5, § 2(b)(iii), emphasis added.)
In Gorman, the Court of Appeal found that “Section 1032, subdivision (c) states in part: ‘Nothing in this section shall
prohibit parties from stipulating to alternative procedures for awarding costs
… .’…The wording of the settlement agreement and the subsequent conduct of the
parties provided substantial evidence for the trial court to conclude that the
parties had stipulated to an alternative procedure for awarding costs,
dispensing with the usual formalities of a complete cost memo and a motion to
tax costs. The trial court was justified in considering the merits of
contractor’s objections to plaintiffs’ cost claims. We conclude there was
neither error nor prejudice in the omission of a formal motion to tax costs.” ((Id. at p. 70.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court will consider the
objections in GM’s opposition to Plaintiff’s cost claims.  
As noted in the opposition, Plaintiff claims $150.00
for jury fees. (Barry
Decl., ¶ 49, Ex. 8, ¶ 2.) GM asserts that it “should not be forced to
reimburse Counsel $150 for ‘Jury fees’ because the case never went to trial and
GM should therefore not be billed for this.” (Opp’n at p. 9:17-18.) Plaintiff
does not appear to address or dispute this point in the reply. Thus, the Court
deducts $150.00 from the total amount of costs requested. 
Plaintiff also claims $500.00 for “[c]ourt
reporter fees as established by statute.” (Barry Decl., ¶ 49, Ex. 8, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff’s attached
“Memorandum of Costs (Worksheet)” references $550.00 in court reporter fees for
“Motion for Attorneys’ Fees.” (Barry Decl., ¶ 49, Ex. 8.) GM asserts that “costs
are only allowed if actually incurred; Counsel has spent nothing for future
services. $550 seems to be an estimate, not an actual charge incurred.” (Opp’n
at p. 9:20-21.) Plaintiff also does not appear to address or dispute this point
in the reply. Thus, the Court deducts $550.00 from the total amount of costs
requested. 
In addition, Plaintiff claims $337.60 for
“[f]ees for electronic filing or service.” (Barry Decl., ¶ 49, Ex. 8, ¶ 14.) GM contends that “[c]ounsel
improperly seeks $337.60 in ‘[f]ees for electronic filing or service’ because
Counsel provides no explanation for these alleged costs.” (Opp’n at p.
9:22-23.) But it is unclear what additional explanation GM seeks, and GM does
not appear to assert that electronic filing fees are not recoverable. Thus, the
Court declines to strike the $337.60 in costs. 
Further, Plaintiff claims $266.95 in “Other” costs. (Barry Decl., ¶ 49, Ex. 8,
¶ 16.) Plaintiff’s attached “Memorandum of Costs (Worksheet)” indicates that
Plaintiff seeks, inter alia, costs for “parking” and “mileage.” (Barry
Decl., ¶ 49, Ex. 8.) GM contends that “the Court should disallow these
expenses since travel and parking are an inherent cost of doing business.”
(Opp’n at p. 9:27.) GM does not cite to any legal authority to support its
assertion that costs for parking and mileage are not recoverable. Thus, the
Court declines to deduct these costs from the total amount. 
Plaintiff’s attached “Memorandum of Costs (Worksheet)” also
indicates that Plaintiff’s “Other” costs include $94.13 in costs for
“Courtesy Copy Delivery.” (Barry Decl., ¶ 49, Ex. 8.) GM contends that “‘Courtesy’
copies, as the name implies, are not required and such expenses are
unreasonable and excessive. These costs should be disallowed.” (Opp’n at pp
9:28-10:1.) The Court does not find that these costs are unreasonable or
excessive, particularly in light of the Court’s requirement that courtesy
copies be delivered to Dept. 50 when a brief includes a points and authorities
or a filing is more than 15 pages in length. Thus, the Court declines to strike
the $94.13 in costs.
In light of the foregoing, the Court deducts $700.00
from the total amount of costs requested. Thus, the Court awards Plaintiff $4,110.50
in costs. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’
fees and costs is granted in the amount of $90,630.00 ($86,519.50 in attorneys’ fees + $4,110.50
in costs.)

 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  June 5, 2024                                   
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court
 


