  Case Number:  22STCV28777    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff alleges that she was subjected
to racial discrimination and eventually terminated in retaliation for her complaints.
            Defendant Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation
moves to compel arbitration and dismiss or stay this action.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation’s motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED.
The litigation is ordered stayed pending arbitration.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
            The parties
are ordered to meet and confer to agree upon the arbitral forum. If the parties
are unable to agree, Defendant may request a hearing to resolve the dispute. Regardless
of the forum, Defendant will bear all costs of arbitration and the arbitrator’s
fees.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
Request For Judicial Notice
            Defendant requests
that the Court take judicial notice of various superior court rulings in other case
is DENIED. These are irrelevant as they do not hold precedential value vis-à-vis
this motion. 
 
            The Court need only take judicial notice of relevant
materials. (Mangini v. R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Co. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1057, 1063, overruled in part on other grounds
noted in In re Tobacco Cases II (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1257, 1276.) The Court may deny a request
for judicial notice of material unnecessary to its decision. (Rivera v. First DataBank, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th
709, 713.)
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Declaration
of Leslie Donester:
 
Nos. 1 – 4: OVERRULED. Goes to weight.
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation
moves to compel arbitration and stay this action.
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
California
favors arbitration. (Haworth v. Superior Court
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 372, 380.) Civ. Proc. Code, §1281.2 provides: 
 
On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence
of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent
to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that:

 (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived
by the petitioner; or

 (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.


            Under
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.
(Cable Connection, Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1343; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration
has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and
the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving by a preponderance of
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348,
356.) The court may weigh the evidence by considering affidavits, declarations,
documents and oral testimony. (Id. at
357.)
 
            Defendant
submits a Dispute Resolution Agreement, with an Effective Date of 04/10/03. (Declaration
of Matthew Van Dyke, Exhibit A.) This 10-page Agreement only addresses the steps
of the Dispute Resolution policy, the final step of which is arbitration. 
 
            Defendant
also submitted a New Hire Policy Acknowledgement Form which reads:
 
Please click on
each policy document link (not the checkbox) to read the policy. By doing this I
acknowledge that I have read the policy and understand how this policy affects me
and understand the guidelines and requirements of each.
. . .
 
[box checked]
Policy CP-6-56: Dispute Resolution 
 
Immediately beneath
the checked boxes is the following language:
 
Electronic Signature
 
I acknowledge
that l have reviewed and understand the documents listed above. Further I
understand that, as an employee of (your Company Name goes here), I am expected
to comply fully with the policies set forth and any acknowledgment l have made
are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. Furthermore, I agree to notify
Human Resources if, in the future, I become aware of a violation of these policies.
I realize that failure to observe and comply with these policies could result in
discipline, up to and including termination of employment. In addition to disciplinary
actions, I realize that violation of these documents may result in civil or criminal
fines and/or imprisonment.
 
     (New Hire Policy Acknowledgement Form [bold
emphasis added].) 
 
Plaintiff’s electronic signature dated 07/27/2018 appears directly
below, and the “I Agree” box is checked. 
 
Importantly,
the Dispute Resolution Agreement does not disclaim any binding contractual effect,
but instead indicates that all employees will be subject to the policies contained
therein:
 
This policy (“DRP”
or the “Policy”) applies to all applicants for employment, and current employees
of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and all of its direct
and indirect subsidiaries (collectively the “Company”).  The Policy applies to all employees who were employed
by the Company while the Policy or any version was in effect (collectively referred
as the “Employee” or “Employees”). The Policy will not apply to employees who are
covered under a collective bargaining agreement or not covered by U.S. law.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that arbitration agreements contained in employee handbooks are not binding,
citing Sparks v. Vista Del Mar Child & Family Services (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 1511. However, Sparks
is distinguishable because the circumstances under which the Sparks court
held that an employee handbook arbitration clauses could not be binding upon an
employee are not present in this case:
 
The Handbook, which
was “distributed” to all employees, included in one of many clauses an arbitration
clause not prominently distinguished from the other clauses. The arbitration provision
is not specifically highlighted, and there is no place for the employee to acknowledge
it in writing. Interestingly, defendant corrected this deficiency in the later handbook,
which plaintiff did not acknowledge in writing receiving, by providing that an employee
had to sign an arbitration provision.
 
A relevant case in California is Mitri v. Arnel Management Co.
(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1164 [69 Cal. Rptr. 3d 223] (Mitri), which, as here,
involved an employee handbook stating that “ ‘[a]ny dispute arising out of employment
with the Company, as allowed by law, will be settled by binding arbitration.’ ”
(Id. at p. 1167.) The court held that the employer did not establish the  [*1520] 
employee's consent to binding arbitration of claims arising out of the employment
relationship because the handbook also stated that “ ‘[a]s a condition of employment,
all employees are required to sign an arbitration agreement,’ ” and further stated
that “ ‘[e]mployees will be provided a copy of their signed arbitration agreement.’
” (Id. at pp. 1167, 1168.) According to the court in Mitri, these
two provisions indicated an intent to have employees sign a separate arbitration
agreement, which the employee in that case did not sign. (Id. at pp.
1170–1171.) The court said that the acknowledgment of receipt form signed by
employees did not constitute evidence of an employee's acquiescence to the arbitration
agreement provision in the employee handbook because the acknowledgment form relegated
the employee handbook's status to “ ‘an excellent resource for employees with questions
about the Company.’ ” (Id. at p. 1173.) The court further stated that
the employee handbook was “‘designed to acquaint new employees … with Human Resource
policies, operational issues, employee services, and benefits that reflect the desire
to provide a professional work environment.’ ” (Ibid.) The court noted
that the acknowledgment of receipt form made no reference to an agreement by the
employee to abide by the handbook's arbitration provision. (Ibid.) Although
Mitri is distinguishable from the instant case, its observations as to the
purpose of an employee handbook and the significance of the acknowledgment form
are applicable to the Handbook and acknowledgment form here. (See Romo v. Y-3
Holdings, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1153, 1159–1160 [105 Cal. Rptr. 2d 208];
Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 804–805 [137 Cal.Rptr.3d
773].)
 
The language in the Handbook here, as the language at issue in Mitri,
supra, 157 Cal.App.4th 1164, suggests that the Handbook, which was “distributed”
to all employees, was informational rather than contractual. Thus, because
defendant failed to point out or call attention to the arbitration requirement
in the acknowledgment, plaintiff should not be bound to arbitrate.
 
. . .  [*1521]  . . . [*1522]  . . .
 
No authorities have been cited to us that support defendant's position.
On the contrary, whatever authorities there are support plaintiff's position. (See,
e.g., Hubner v. Cutthroat Communications, Inc. (2003) 318 Mont. 421 [80 P.3d
1256, 1260]; Snow v. BE&K Construction Co. (D.Me. 2001) 126 F.Supp.2d
5, 11–15; Ex Parte Beasley (Ala. 1998) 712 So.2d 338, 340, 341.) To
support a conclusion that an employee has relinquished his or her right to assert
an employment-related claim in court, there must be more than a boilerplate arbitration
clause buried in a lengthy employee handbook given to new employees. At a minimum,
there should be a specific reference to the duty to arbitrate employment-related
disputes in the acknowledgment of receipt form signed by the employee at commencement
of employment. The increasing phenomenon of depriving employees of the right
to a judicial forum should not be enlarged by imposing upon employees an obligation
to arbitrate based on one obscure clause in a large employee handbook distributed
to new employees for informational purposes.
 
Plaintiff signed
a form acknowledging receipt of the Handbook, which Handbook contained “important
information about [defendant's] general personnel policies” and included an “understand[ing]”
he would be “governed” by its contents. That should not, under the circumstances,
qualify as an agreement to be bound by the arbitration clause. At best, it expressed
the employee's understanding that he must comply with personnel policies and obligations,
rather than an agreement to arbitrate.
 
Moreover, the Handbook expressly provides: “This Handbook is not
intended to create a contract of employment … .” One authority has noted, “Efforts
by an employer to have it both ways by claiming that a handbook is not a contract
[(as here)] but that an employee acknowledging receipt of a handbook has contracted
to arbitrate any disputes with his or her employer can backfire.” (1 Domke on Commercial
Arbitration, supra, § 16:11, p. 16-67.) Courts have determined that such
a provision renders the matter ambiguous, and that the ambiguity is to be construed
against the employer that drafted the document. (See, e.g., Hubner v. Cutthroat
Communications, Inc., supra,  [*1523]  80 P.3d at p. 1261.) Also suggesting the
noncontractual aspect of the Handbook is defendant's acknowledgment that it “distributed”
the Handbook to all of the employees.
 
(Sparks v. Vista Del Mar Child & Family Services (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 1511, 1519-23 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            Rather
than Sparks, this case is closer to v. Balco Properties Ltd. (2015) LLC, 235 Cal.App.4th 165, wherein the arbitration policy was a separate
document, clearly labeled as an arbitration policy, which did not indicate a separate
arbitration agreement would need to be signed, nor did it disclaim contractual rights.
(Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd. (2015) LLC, 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 172-75.)
 
            The
scope of “Covered Claims” is set forth at Page 2 of the Dispute Resolution policy,
“Level 4 – Arbitration” as follows:
 
Covered Claims
–Covered Claims are employment-related claims between an individual Employee and
the Company, its parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, and their respective individual
managers and other present or former employees. 
Covered Claims involve a claim of a legal right, obligation or entitlement
regarding or arising from the employment relationship[1].  Covered Claims include, but are not limited to,
the following: 
 
1. Claims relating
to involuntary terminations, such as layoffs and discharges (including constructive
discharges); 
 
2. Employment
discrimination and harassment claims, based on, for example, age, race, sex, religion,
national origin, veteran status, citizenship, disability or other characteristic
protected by law; Retaliation claims for legally protected activity, and/or for
whistleblowing; 
 
3. Claims relating
to state or federal Family and Medical Leave Acts; 
 
4. Claims relating
to workplace accommodation due to physical or mental disabilities; 
 
5. Tort claims,
intentional torts, negligence, defamation, invasion of privacy, infliction of emotional
distress, etc.; 
 
6. Claims of violation
of public policy; 
 
7. Claims based
on express or implied contracts; and 
 
8. Claims relating
to wages, hours, overtime, or other wage payment issues. 
 
Excluded Claims

 
Claims excluded
from the DRP are the following: 
 
1. Claims for
benefits under a Company benefit plan, including those covered by Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (ERISA); 
 
2. Claims for
workers’ compensation, violations of specific safety requirements or unemployment
compensation benefits; 
 
3. Claims involving
patents or inventions; 
 
4. Claims covered
under the National Labor Relations Act; 
 
5. Claims against
the Company or a present or former Employee which do not have any relationship to
the Employee’s work or relationship to the Company; 
 
6. Claims which
are personal in nature and do not involve a claim of a legal right, obligation or
entitlement.
 
Plaintiff’s claims for violation of FEHA, wrongful termination/retaliation,
wage and hour violations and unfair business practices come within the scope of
the arbitration agreement.
 
Plaintiff’s
argument that the arbitration agreement is not an agreement, but simply a description
of how Gulfstream expects its employees to act as work is not persuasive. The 10-page
Dispute Resolution policy is how the employee agrees to resolve disputes, which
has nothing to do with performing daily work duties. 
 
Further, Plaintiff’s
argument that the electronic acknowledgment form is not an agreement nor trustworthy
is not persuasive.  Plaintiff’s challenge
to Van Dyke’s declaration is not well-taken. 
Under the three-step analysis the Court of Appeal has established for
purposes of section 1281.2, a party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement
must initially present prima facie evidence of the existence of the agreement,
which the opposing party may challenge. 
(Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058-59.)  If the opposing
party presents evidence challenging the authenticity of their signature, the burden
shifts back to the moving party to prove by a preponderance of admissible
evidence that the signature is genuine. 
(Id.)  
 
Plaintiff
contends that she “never knowingly entered into any agreement with Gulfstream,
or agreed with Gulfstream in any fashion, that . . . both parties would be
required to submit any legal claims against each other to arbitration.”  (Donester Decl., ¶ 2.)  This is more equivocal than the types of
declarations that the Court of Appeal has held to be sufficient to raise a
second-step challenge, such as a denial that she signed the agreement, (see,
e.g., Fabian v. Renovate America, Inc. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th
1062, 1065) or an assertion that she did not remember signing it and would not
have done so if she knew of the agreement. 
(Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158,
167; Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 840-41.)  Moreover, Defendant’s moving papers have condensed
the three-stage analysis by preemptively providing authenticating evidence with
the opening brief:  a declaration of
Matthew Van Dyke, which describes the onboarding process at Gulfstream, establishes
the security protocols for electronic signatures, and contends that Plaintiff electronically
signed onboarding papers, including the dispute resolution procedures policy.  (Van Dyke Decl., ¶¶ 4-9.)  Plaintiff’s declaration does not directly
contradict the Van Dyke Declaration, and the assertion that she did not “knowingly
enter” an agreement does not preclude a finding that an agreement was formed.  (See Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023)
87 Cal.App.5th 747, 758 (“It is hornbook law that failing to read an agreement
before signing it does not prevent formation of a contract.”).)  Thus, the Court finds that Defendant’s
evidence establishes the authenticity of Plaintiff’s signature for purposes of
this motion.
 
Plaintiff’s
argument that there is nothing of value exchanged in the policy is not persuasive.
Plaintiff and Defendant both receive the value of Plaintiff’s continued performance
in exchange for wages/salary.
 
Here, at Page
3, the Dispute Resolution policy provides as follows:
 
Acceptance/No
Change in Terms of Employment The submission of an application, acceptance of
employment or the continuation of employment by an individual shall be deemed to
be acceptance of the DRP.  No signature
shall be required for the Policy to be applicable. The mutual obligations set forth
in this DRP shall constitute a contract between the Employee and the Company
but shall not change an Employee’s at-will relationship or any term of any other
contract or agreement between the Company and Employee. This Policy shall constitute
the entire agreement between the Employee and Company for the resolution of Covered
Claims.
 
     (Bold emphasis added.)
 
[A]n agreement to arbitrate may be express or implied so long as it
is written. After restating the hard and fast rule that general
contract law determines the enforceability of an arbitration agreement, our colleagues
in Division One of our appellate district held: “This means that a party's acceptance
of an agreement to arbitrate may be express (e.g., Mago v. Shearson Lehman
Hutton Inc. (9th Cir. 1992) 956 F.2d 932 [agreement to [*384]  arbitrate included in job application]; Nghiem
v. NEC Electronic, Inc. (9th Cir. 1994) 25 F.3d 1437 [agreement to arbitrate
included in handbook executed by employee]; Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton
& Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105 [88 Cal. Rptr. 2d 664] [employer may
terminate employee who refuses to sign agreement to arbitrate]) or implied-in-fact
where, as here, the employee's continued employment constitutes her acceptance of
an agreement proposed by her employer (Asmus v. Pacific Bell (2000) 23
Cal.4th 1, 11 [96 Cal. Rptr. 2d 179, 999 P.2d 71] [implied acceptance of changed
rules regarding job security]; DiGiacinto v. Ameriko-Omserv Corp. (1997)
59 Cal.App.4th 629, 635 [69 Cal. Rptr. 2d 300] [implied acceptance of changed compensation
rules]).” (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 420
[100 Cal. Rptr. 2d 818].)
 
Here, plaintiff
was offered employment on an at-will basis under the terms of the Employee Handbook.
Plaintiff unequivocally accepted the offer of employment by commencing
to work for TAP Worldwide, LLC, for which he was paid. Plaintiff's commencement
of performance under the Employee Handbook constituted assent to its terms. Under
California law, assent to an offer can occur either by way of performance under
the contract or the acceptance of consideration. ( Civ. Code, § 1584 [“Performance
of the conditions of a proposal, or the acceptance of the consideration offered
with a proposal, is an acceptance of the proposal.”]; Davis v. Jacoby (1934)
1 Cal.2d 370, 378 [34 P.2d 1026] [“‘Performance of the conditions of a proposal,
… is an acceptance of the proposal.’”]; Estate of Klauenberg (1973) 32 Cal.App.3d
1067, 1070 [108 Cal. Rptr. 669] [“Performance and acceptance of the consideration
constitute … modes of acceptance.”]; Blaustein v. Burton (1970) 9 Cal.App.3d
161, 183 [88 Cal. Rptr. 319] [“‘“[The] acceptance of the consideration offered with
a proposal, is an acceptance of the proposal”’”].) And page 9 of the Employee
Handbook expressly addressed the effect of an employee's failure to execute the
attached arbitration agreement. According to page 9, upon commencing employment,
the employee was deemed to have consented to the agreement to arbitrate by virtue
of acceptance of the Employee Handbook. Plaintiff cannot have it both ways, acceptance
of the at-will job offer with all its emoluments and no responsibility to abide
by one of its express conditions.
 
Neither these contractual
terms nor this scenario were present in Sparks. Accordingly,
defendants have demonstrated Tap Worldwide, LLC, and plaintiff entered into an arbitration
agreement. Given the foregoing analysis we need not discuss the effect of Civil
Code section 1584 which states, “Performance of the conditions of a proposal, or
the acceptance of the consideration offered with a proposal, is an acceptance of
the proposal.” Further, we need [*385]  not
address those cases which hold that when an employee signs an acknowledgment of
receipt of an employee handbook, she or he is bound by its contents. And this includes
an agreement to arbitrate contained within the employee handbook. (24 Hour Fitness,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1199, 1215 [78 Cal. Rptr. 2d 533]
(24 Hour Fitness) [acknowledgement referred to arbitration provision in employee
handbook]; Boys Club of San Fernando Valley, Inc. v. Fidelity & Deposit Co.
(1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1266, 1271–1272 [8 Cal. Rptr. 2d 587] [party bound by incorporation
of a contract into a performance bound]; Ware v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith, Inc. (1972) 24 Cal.App.3d 35, 41 [100 Cal. Rptr. 791] [broker's
signature on application that referred not to arbitration but to exchange rules
which contained an agreement to arbitrate disputes]; Gear v. Webster (1968)
258 Cal.App.2d 57, 61 [65 Cal. Rptr. 255] [realtor who agreed to abide by association
bylaws bound by arbitration agreement contained therein]; see Adajar v. RWR Homes,
Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 563, 569 [73 Cal. Rptr. 3d 17]; Knight et al., Cal.
Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution (The Rutter Group 2015) ¶ 5:18, pp.
5-12 to 5-13.) Here, page 9 of the Employee Handbook expressly addresses
the situation where an employee fails to execute the arbitration agreement and accepts
employment. Given this specific contractual language, this is a stronger case for
finding an agreement to arbitrate than the immediately foregoing incorporation by
reference cases.
 
(Harris v. TAP Worldwide (2016) LLC, 248 Cal.App.4th 373,
384-85 [bold emphasis added].)
 
Armendariz Factors:
            
Where a party
seeks to arbitrate nonwaivable statutory civil rights in the workplace (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
702, 711-12), such as the FEHA claims involved here, there
are: 
 
five minimum requirements
for the lawful arbitration of such rights pursuant to a mandatory employment arbitration
agreement. Such an arbitration agreement is lawful if it "(1) provides for
neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires
a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that would otherwise
be available in court, and (5) does not require employees to pay either unreasonable
costs or any arbitrators' fees or expenses as a condition of access
to the arbitration forum. Thus, an employee who is made to use arbitration as a
condition of employment 'effectively may vindicate [his or her] statutory cause
of action in the arbitral forum.' " (Citation omitted.) 


(Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.)
 
Initially, we see no reason why Armendariz's
"particular scrutiny" of arbitration agreements should be confined to
claims under FEHA. Rather, under the Supreme Court's analysis, such scrutiny
should apply to the enforcement of rights under any statute enacted "for a
public reason."
 

(Mercuro v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal. App. 4th 167, 180 [bold emphasis
added].)
 
However, 
 
Armendariz
held that to the extent that the arbitration agreement was silent on these issues,
these requirements must be implied as a matter of law. (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at pp. 106, 107, 113 [interpreted the agreement to provide for adequate
discovery, a written arbitration award, and the employer's payment of arbitration
costs].) To the extent that the agreement
expressly limited these rights, Armendariz held that the agreement was contrary
to public policy and unenforceable. (Id. at p. 104 [stated that a provision
limiting damages was unlawful].)

(Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 176 [bold emphasis added].)
 
(1)  Neutral arbitrators:  
§§ 3 and 4 of the Arbitration provisions provide
as follows:
3.  Qualifications
of a Neutral Arbitrator –The Arbitrator shall have a minimum of three years’ experience
in the practice of or arbitration of employment law disputes or comparable experience
in the applicable area of law.  
An Arbitrator chosen by the parties must be available
within a reasonable period of time to arbitrate the claim.   
In addition, the Arbitrator must have no financial
interest in the Company or outcome of the arbitration, or other potential conflict
of interest with either party. 
4. Arbitrator Selection – The Employee and the Company
will attempt to agree on the Arbitrator. 
If the parties cannot agree within ten (10) days, the Company shall appoint
a recognized and independent DR Service Provider, such as the American Arbitration
Association, to provide lists of local Arbitrators to the parties to the extent
that local Arbitrators possess the qualifications required by Paragraph 3, Qualifications
of a Neutral Arbitrator.  However, the parties
will accept lists which include Arbitrators that are not local to the jurisdictions
in question to the extent that qualified local Arbitrators are not available. 
The DR Service Provider will provide each of the
parties with a list of seven (7) arbitrators together with the subject arbitrators’
resumes and fee schedules.  Each party may,
within ten (10) days of the DR Service Provider’s transmittal date, reject any and
all of the arbitrators on the list by so advising the DR Service Provider.  Failure to advise the DR Service Provider in writing
within ten (10) days of unacceptable arbitrators shall be deemed to be a party’s
acceptance of any of the arbitrators on the list.  The DR Service Provider will assign an arbitrator
from those acceptable to both parties.  If
there are no mutually acceptable arbitrators on the first list, the DR Service Provider
will provide the parties a second list of seven (7) arbitrators, from which each
party may advise the DR Service Provider in writing of unacceptable arbitrators
within ten (10) days of the DR Service Provider’s transmittal date.  If there is no mutually acceptable arbitrator
on that list, the DR Service Provider will provide a third list of at least five
(5) arbitrators from which the parties will alternately strike names until only
one arbitrator is left.  The first strike
will be determined by a flip of the coin. 
If the DR Service Provider cannot provide the requisite number of names or
lists, the Company may select another DR Service Provider to add additional names
or lists.
            This
requirement is satisfied.
(2)  More than minimal discovery:
 
 “Adequate discovery is indispensable for the vindication
of statutory claims. (Citation omitted.) “ ‘[A]dequate’ discovery does not mean unfettered discovery … .”
(Citation omitted.) And parties may “agree
to something less than the full panoply of discovery provided in Code of Civil
Procedure section 1283.05.” (Citation omitted.) However, arbitration agreements
must “ensure minimum standards of fairness” so employees can vindicate their public
rights. (Citation omitted).” (Fitz v. NCR
Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 715-16[bold emphasis added].)
 
§§ 8 – 15
of the Arbitration provision provide:
 
8. Discovery –
Discovery is the process by which parties to a pending Covered Claim obtain certain
non-privileged information in possession of the other party, which is relevant to
the proof or defense of any Covered Claims. 
This includes information concerning the existence, description, nature,
custody and location of any records, documents or other tangible things and the
identity and location of persons having knowledge of any such matter.  Consistent with the expedited nature of arbitration,
discovery is subject to certain limitations set forth below, including the requirement
that the parties shall complete all discovery no later than 30 days prior to the
start of the arbitration hearing. 
 
9. Disclosure
of Witnesses and Documents – At least 20 calendar days before the 
arbitration hearing,
each party shall provide written notice to the other party of the names and addresses
of all witnesses the party intends to call at the arbitration hearing, copies of
all documents the parties intend to introduce, as well as the names and addresses
of attorneys who will attend the hearing. 
The parties may supplement this information up to ten (10) calendar days
prior to the hearing or as may be allowed for good cause by the Arbitrator.
 
10. Protective
Orders – The Arbitrator may issue protective orders in response to a request by
either party or by a third-party witness. 
Such protective orders may include, but are not limited to, sealing the record
of the arbitration hearing, in whole or in part, to protect the privacy, trade secrets,
proprietary information and/or other legal rights of the parties or the witnesses.
 
11. Depositions
–May be allowed by agreement of the parties or by order of the Arbitrator. 
 
12. General Limitations
on the Obligation to Produce Documents – Each party has the right to request the
production of relevant documents at the actual copying cost of the requesting party.  Either party may submit a request to the Arbitrator
for additional discovery, to resolve discovery disputes including claims regarding
privileged documents or other pre-hearing disputes. 
 
13. Discovery
Disputes – The Arbitrator shall have the authority to resolve discovery disputes
between the parties.  In addition, if either
party wants to bring a discovery dispute to the Arbitrator’s attention, the party
must arrange for a teleconference with the Arbitrator and the other party.  If the Arbitrator is unable to make a ruling at
the end of the teleconference, the Arbitrator may schedule a meeting with the parties
to resolve the discovery dispute.  The party-seeking
discovery must bring the discovery dispute to the attention of the Arbitrator. 
 
14. Subpoenas
– Each party may request the Arbitrator to subpoena witnesses or 
documents for
the arbitration hearing, pursuant to Section 7 of the Federal Arbitration Act, 9
U.S.C.A. sections 1-14, or the applicable state arbitration statute. 
 
15. Oaths –The
arbitrator will require witnesses to testify under oath.
 
This requirement
is satisfied.
 
 (3)  Written
award:
 
§ 7 requires
the Arbitrator to issue a written opinion to the parties not more than 30 calendar
days after the arbitration hearing, or 30 calendar days after the Arbitrators receipt
of the parties’ briefs, whichever is later.
 
This requirement
is satisfied.
 
 (4)  All
types of relief available in court:
 
§ 19 provides:
 
Authority
of the Arbitrator – The Arbitrator shall act in accordance with the DRP and 
may grant
any remedy or relief that would have been available to an individual Employee 
had the claim
been asserted in court for a Covered Claim. The Arbitrator shall have the 
authority
to determine whether a dispute or any part thereof is a Covered Claim.
 
This requirement
is satisfied.
 
 (5)  Does
not require employee to pay unreasonable
costs or any arbitrator’s fees or expenses as a condition to access to arbitration:
 
§ 25 provides:
 
Costs and Fees – The Company will
pay (1) administrative fees other than $100.00 filing fee; (2) the Arbitrator’s
fee and reasonable travel expenses; (3) the cost of renting an arbitration hearing
room, if necessary; and (4) the Employee’s salary, if still employed by the Company,
for the time spent at the arbitration hearing up to a maximum of seven hearing days.  Each party shall pay its own experts’ and/or attorneys’
fees unless the Arbitrator awards reasonable experts’ and/or attorneys’ fees to
the Employee.
 
      This requirement
is satisfied.
 
Accordingly,
the minimum Armendariz requirements are satisfied. 
 
            As such, the
Court finds that an agreement exists whereby Plaintiff agreed to submit all of the
claims asserted in her Complaint to mandatory arbitration. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff to demonstrate that the arbitration agreement should not be enforced.
 
            Plaintiff argues
that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable. 
 
The doctrine of unconscionability was
summarized in Walnut Producers of California
v. Diamond Foods, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 634, 645-48 as follows:

“ ‘To briefly recapitulate the principles of unconscionability, the doctrine has
“ ‘both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘ “oppression”
’ or ‘ “surprise” ’ due to unequal bargaining 
power, the latter on ‘ “overly harsh” ’ … or ‘ “one-sided” ’ results.” [Citation.]
The procedural element of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of
a contract of adhesion, “ ‘which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the
contract or reject it.’ ” … [¶] Substantively unconscionable terms may take various
forms, but may generally be described as unfairly one-sided.’ [Citation.]” (Citation
omitted.)

“Under this approach, both the procedural and substantive elements must be met before
a contract or term will be deemed unconscionable. Both, however, need not be present
to the same degree. A sliding scale is applied
so that ‘the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term
is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ (Citations omitted.)


(Bold emphasis added.)
 
Procedural Unconscionability
 
“The procedural element of the unconscionability
analysis concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances
of the parties at that time. [Citation.] The element focuses on oppression or surprise.
[Citation.] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power that results
in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice.’ [Citation.] Surprise
is defined as ‘ “the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain
are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the
disputed terms.” ’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)

Plaintiffs claim the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is an adhesion
contract. An adhesion contract is “a standardized contract … imposed upon the subscribing
party without an opportunity to negotiate the terms.” (Citation omitted.) “The term
signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it. [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)

The California Supreme Court has consistently stated that “ ‘[t]he procedural element
of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a contract of adhesion
… .’ ” (Citations omitted.)

“Whether the challenged provision is within a contract of adhesion pertains to the
oppression aspect of procedural unconscionability. A contract of adhesion is ‘ “
‘ “imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength” ’ ” ’ and ‘
“ ‘ “relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract
or reject it.” ’ ” ’ (Citations omitted.) “[A]bsent
unusual circumstances, use of a contract of adhesion establishes a minimal degree
of procedural unconscionability notwithstanding the availability of market alternatives.”
(Citation omitted.)
 
(Walnut
Producers of California, supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at 645-46 [bold emphasis
added].)
 
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration
agreement is adhesive because it was presented on a take-it-or-leave it basis, and
Plaintiff was required to sign it as a condition of employment, as part of new-hire
paperwork. The Court accepts, for purposes of argument, that these conditions made
the contract adhesive, presented to Plaintiff on a “take it or leave it” basis,
which presents only a modest degree of procedural unconscionability. (Nguyen v. Applied Medical Resources Corp.
(2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 232, 248.) 
 
            However, Plaintiff’s
argument that Defendant did not talk with Plaintiff about arbitration is not persuasive.
The document itself explains arbitration at Page 7.
 
            Under the sliding
scale approach, then, Plaintiffs must demonstrate at least a substantial degree
of substantive unconscionability. 
 
“A provision is substantively unconscionable
if it ‘involves contract terms that are so one-sided as to “shock the conscience,”
or that impose harsh or oppressive terms.’ [Citation.] The phrases ‘harsh,’ ‘oppressive,’
and ‘shock the conscience’ are not synonymous with ‘unreasonable.’ Basing an unconscionability
determination on the reasonableness of a contract provision would inject an inappropriate
level of judicial subjectivity into the analysis.  ‘With a concept as nebulous as “unconscionability”
it is important that courts not be thrust in the paternalistic role of intervening
to change contractual terms that the parties have agreed to merely because the court
believes the terms are unreasonable. The terms must shock the conscience.’ [Citations.]”
(Citation omitted
 
(Walnut
Producers of California, supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at 647-48.)
 
            Plaintiff argues
that the arbitration provision lacks mutuality in that it applies only applicants
for employment, current employees and former employees, but not Gulfstream. Plaintiff
argues that Gulfstream has not agreed to be bound by anything in this regard. This
argument is not persuasive. 
 
            As
noted above, the arbitration provision defines covered claims to include any employment-related
claims arising from the employment relationship. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the CPM is internally inconsistent.  For example, litigation is mentioned nowhere in
the document except one short paragraph which confusingly references the only alleged
“agreement” the CPM and which simultaneously purports that: 1) an action by an employee
against Gulfstream in court must be a bench trial and not a jury trial[2];
and 2) when an employee sues Gulfstream, he or she cannot do so as any part of a
class action.   (“The Employee and Company
agree and hereby waive any right to jury trial for any Covered Claim. The Employee
further agrees that no Covered Claim may be brought as a class or collective action
either under this Policy or in court and that he/she will not act as a class or
collective action representative or participate as a member of a class of claimants
with respect to any Covered Claim.”)   
            
            Page 3 of the Dispute Resolution Policy
provides:
 
Exclusivity of
the Dispute Resolution Policy 
 
The DRP is the
sole and exclusive forum and remedy for all Covered Claims. 
 
The Employee and
Company agree and hereby waive any right to jury trial for any Covered Claim.  The Employee further agrees that no Covered Claim
may be brought as a class or collective action either under this Policy or in court
and that he/she will not act as a class or collective action representative or participate
as a member of a class of claimants with respect to any Covered Claim.
 
Here, the
above language clearly states that the parties are waiving the right to jury trial.
Class action waivers in arbitration agreements are enforceable under the Federal
Arbitration Act.
(Evenskaas v. Cal. Transit, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 285, 297-98.)
 
Here, the agreement relates to Plaintiff’s employment, which involves
interstate commerce. See Declaration of Matthew Van Dyke, ¶ 2: 
 
GAC designs, manufactures, sells, and services high-end aircraft. The company
sells its aircraft to customers located around the world, including to several foreign
governments. GAC’s principal manufacturing facility and headquarters are located
in Savannah, Georgia and it has several other facilities in the United States and
Mexico. GAC uses interstate communication networks including U.S. Mail, the Internet,
and cellular phones, to run its business operations.
“The FAA applies when the contract “evidences a transaction involving
interstate commerce.” (Citation omitted,.).” (Khalatian v. Prime Time Shuttle,
Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 651, 657.)
Plaintiff also argues:
 
The
DRP states that Plaintiff “waives all rights to pursue” her claims if she fails
to submit her claim “within 30 days” at the Level 2, Level 3, and Level 4 process.  These arbitrary and unilateral deadlines are only
for the employee, and not Gulfstream.  The
three separate and unilateral deadlines purport to severely shorten the various
statute of limitations periods Plaintiff is entitled to under California law.  The DRP requires Plaintiff to “complete each level
of the process before proceeding to the next level.” In contrast, Gulfstream has
the unilateral and unfettered right to “bypass one or more steps prior to arbitration.”  The DRP only prohibits “Claimants” (like Ms. Donester)
from “retaliating against anyone for submitting a dispute to, or participating in
DRP, as a party, witness or otherwise.”  Tellingly,
there are no restrictions against Gulfstream HR or Gulfstream management retaliating
against a Claimant for submitting a dispute. 
For the “Level 4-Arbitration” process, Gulfstream provides five pages of
restrictions and purported rules, including specific choice of evidence law, expedited
discovery, arbitrator limitations, and limits on witness and document disclosures
which severely limit Plaintiff’s ability to pursue her FEHA and other claims, in
contrast to state court proceedings.
 
            First, the details
regarding arbitration bolster, rather than undermine, the enforceability of the
arbitration clause. 
 
            Second, contractually
shortened limitations periods have been upheld where the triggering event is immediate
and obvious. (Zamora v. Lehman (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 193, 205-08.) As it
pertains to the motion to compel arbitration, the Court construes Defendant bringing
this motion to compel without raising the contractual statute of limitations as
a waiver of that limitations period. 
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that the retaliation clause does not apply to Defendant, but this would
prohibit an employee of Gulfstream from retaliating against an employee for submitting
a dispute. 
 
All Employees are prohibited from retaliating
against anyone for submitting a dispute to or participating in DRP, as a party,
witness or otherwise.  Any person having knowledge
of such retaliation shall immediately notify their supervisor or the Human Resources
department.
 
(Dispute Resolution policy, Page 3.)
 
            In light of
the foregoing, the Court does not find sufficient substantive unconscionability
to rendering the entire agreement unenforceable. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
The litigation
is ordered stayed pending arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
            The
parties are ordered to meet and confer to agree upon the arbitral forum. If the
parties are unable to agree, Defendant may request a hearing to resolve the dispute.
Regardless of the forum, Defendant will bear all costs of arbitration and the arbitrator’s
fees. 


