  Case Number:  18STCV00548    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  31 DEPT:  31 HEARING DATE: 10/23/2023 CASE NAME/NUMBER: 18STCV00548 CARINA DE LA CRUZ, et al. vs ROBIN HILL GINGOLD, et al. PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF PENDING ACTION OF A MINOR Jonathan Hernandez, Age 8 Mario Hernandez, Age 16 RECOMMENDATION: DENY   TENTATIVE¿ ¿ The Court excuses the personal appearance of Claimant and the guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference call.¿¿  The Court has reviewed the Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor Jonathan Hernandez, age 8, and Mario Hernandez, Age 16. The Court denies the petition for the following reasons:  Petitioner filed the instant petition on an outdated version of Judicial Council Form MC-350, Rev. January 1, 2011 and outdated version of Judicial Council Form MC-351, Rev. January 1, 2010.  The Court asks Counsel, who assisted in preparing the petition, to use the updated version of Judicial Council Form MC-350 and MC-351, Rev. January 1, 2021, in the amended petition.  Petitioner requests 40% from both of Claimants’ settlement proceeds be used for attorney fees.  Based upon the declaration submitted, the Court is not satisfied the efforts in this case justify such a high fee.  Counsel provides that this case involved heavy litigation – however, the list of services provided do not indicate extraordinary efforts. Preparing the complaint, statement of damages, drafting a policy limits demand letter, reviewing Defendants’ Answer, property inspection, research, conducting and defending depositions, and mediation are all within the ordinary scope of litigation. Furthermore, Counsel breaking down each and every single task, from receipt, review, service, drafting, preparation, and research both skews and highly inflates the amount of work performed for the Court’s review. Based upon Counsel’s representation and the amount of work performed, the Court is not inclined to award attorney fees here in excess of 25% absent actual evidence of extraordinary efforts on the part of counsel. The Court asks counsel to consider reducing the fee in connection with the amended petition on the updated Judicial Council Forms.    Petitioner is to file a new petition and cure the above noted defects at their earliest convenience.  Moving party is ordered to give notice. 