  Case Number:  24TRCV02868    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JAMES
  E. SMITH, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02868




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
SWAMI
  INTERNATIONAL, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December 20,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Swami
International and 14323 Cerise Street, LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs James E. Smith and Coffey Smith
(1)  
Demurrer to Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fifth cause of action. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
sixth cause of action.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
BACKGROUND
            On August 27, 2024, James E. Smith
and Coffey Smith filed a complaint against Swami International and 14323 Cerise
Street, LLC for (1) negligence, (2) premises liability, (3) breach of the implied
warranty of habitability, (4) private nuisance, (5) breach of the implied
covenant of quiet use and employment, (6) IIED, and (7) breach of lease.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747. 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case “with reasonable
precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the
defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal. App. 2d 636, 643-44.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendants demur to the fifth and
sixth causes of action in the complaint on the grounds they fail to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
The complaint alleges that in 1994,
plaintiffs moved into an apartment located at 14323 Cerise Avenue, Apt. 8,
Hawthorne and entered into a rental agreement. 
Complaint, ¶¶5, 10.  Plaintiffs
noticed paint bubbling in the bathroom and a small hole in the bathroom floor,
which over time, grew larger.  Plaintiffs
were not aware that this was being caused by water intrusion.  Id., ¶18. 
In fall 2022, plaintiffs noticed a black substance on the bathroom floor
in and around the hole, and also on the bathroom walls, which they believe was
mold.  Id., ¶19.  Plaintiffs reported this to defendant
management company Swami employee and manager Elise Murro in November
2022.  Id., ¶20.  In November/December 2022, plaintiffs
received a report from a company called Pureclean, which showed water
intrusion.  Id., ¶21.  Plaintiffs submitted the report to Swami,
through Murro, who came out to inspect. 
Swami refused to adequately remediate. 
Plaintiffs suggested that a mold test be done and was told it was
tenants’ responsibility.  Id., ¶22.  As a result, plaintiffs paid for and obtained
a mold report in January 2023, which indicated the presence of toxic mold and
water intrusion in the bathroom.  Id.,
¶23.  There may also have been asbestos
found.  Id., ¶24.  Plaintiffs reported these findings to Swami
through Murro.  Id., ¶25.  Defendants promised to remediate the
problem.  Id., ¶26.  Defendants attempted to do some repair work
in February/March 2023 solely by patching up the hole. The repair was
ineffective and failed to address the molds or water intrusion.  Id., ¶27. 
The alleged remediation was inadequate and left plaintiffs exposed to
further water intrusion, mold, potentially asbestos, and further injury.  Id., ¶28.
The complaint further alleges that
by mid-2023, no real or effective remediation had been done, and there was no
follow-up by defendants.  Accordingly,
plaintiffs contacted mold remediation companies.  They were told that effective remediation
would require at least four days of work and that plaintiffs would need to
leave the premises during that time. 
Id., ¶30.  In September 2023,
Swami came to the premises to remediate, but did not adequately do so.  The work was completed by a maintenance
person over several hours.  He ripped up
the floor and the wall and replaced it. 
There was visible mold underneath the floor.  Id., ¶31. 
The alleged remediation was inadequate. 
Id., ¶32.  Plaintiffs began
getting sick from the water intrusion, mold, and potentially asbestos that they
were being exposed.  It got worse over
time due to the lack of adequate remediation. 
Id., ¶34.  Plaintiffs still reside
in the rental unit.  Id., ¶36. 
            Fifth
cause of action for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment
“In the absence of language to the
contrary, every lease contains an implied covenant of quiet enjoyment,
whereby the landlord impliedly covenants that the tenant shall have quiet
enjoyment and possession of the premises.” 
Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal. App. 4th 578, 588
(citations omitted).  The covenant “’insulates
the tenant against any act or omission on the part of the landlord, or anyone
claiming under him, which interferes with a tenant’s right to use and enjoy the
premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.’”  Id. (citations omitted).  “The implied covenant of quiet enjoyment is
partially codified in Civil Code section 1927 . . . which provides:  ‘An agreement to let upon hire binds the
letter to secure to the hirer the quiet possession of the thing hired during the
term of the hiring. . . .’”  Id.
at 588-89.
“California case law has recognized
a tort cause of action for wrongful eviction, including breaches of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment that compel a tenant to vacate, whereas breach of
covenant of quiet enjoyment that does not result in a wrongful constructive or
actual eviction is a breach of contract.” 
Bevis v. Terrace View Partners, LP (2019) 33 Cal. App. 5th 230,
250 (citation omitted).
“Minor inconveniences and
annoyances are not actionable breaches of the covenant of quiet enjoyment.  To be actionable, the landlord’s act or
omission must substantially interfere with the tenant’s right to use and enjoy
the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.”  Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005)
125 Cal. App. 4th 578, 589.
Defendants argue that because
plaintiffs have alleged that they still reside in the unit, they do not allege
constructive eviction or actual eviction and thus may not pursue a breach of
quiet enjoyment as they are limited to contract damages.
In opposition, plaintiffs assert
that the allegations are sufficient because defendants’ failure to remediate
interfered with plaintiffs’ exclusive right to possession of the entire
apartment and daily use of the bathroom with mold.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient and do not meet the element that they were
constructively evicted or actually evicted.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fifth cause of action.
Sixth cause of action for IIED
The tort of intentional infliction
of emotional distress is comprised of three elements:  (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe
or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the plaintiff's injuries were actually
and proximately caused by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  McMahon v. Craig (2009) 176 Cal. App.
4th 222, 234.  “In order to meet the
first requirement of the tort, the alleged conduct . . . must be so extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  Id. at 234-35. Whether conduct is
sufficiently extreme and outrageous so as to be actionable may be determined as
a matter of law.  Cochran v. Cochran
(1998) 65 Cal. App. 4th 488, 494.  To
avoid demurrer, the plaintiff must allege such acts with great
specificity.  Yau v. Santa Margarita
Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal. App. 4th 144, 160-61.  “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.”  Newby v. Alto Riviera
Apartments (1976) 60 Cal. App. 3d 288, 297. 
“[I]t is clear that the availability of a remedy for breach of implied
warranty of habitability does not preclude a tenant from suing his landlord for
intentional infliction of mental distress if the landlord’s acts are extreme
and outrageous and result in severe mental distress.”  Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.
App. 3d 903, 922.
            Defendants argue that there are no
facts to show any extreme or outrageous conduct and that the allegation that
defendants’ actions were undertaken deliberately and with malice and with the
intent to oppress plaintiffs is conclusory.
            In opposition, plaintiffs argue that
they have sufficiently alleged the elements that they suffered extreme
emotional distress as a result of defendants’ knowing, intentional, and willful
failure to correct the deficiencies in the premises and that defendants were
made aware on various occasions of the unhealthy, dangerous, unsafe, and
defective conditions caused by the mold, contaminants, and water intrusion.
            The Court finds that the allegations
are conclusory and do not show that defendants engaged in extreme and
outrageous conduct or that such conduct “exceeded all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.” 
Plaintiffs also do not show that defendants intended to cause plaintiffs’
emotional distress.  Further, the “mere
allegation that the plaintiffs suffered severe emotional distress, without
facts indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result
of the defendant’s alleged outrageous conduct, fail[s] to state a cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.”  Pitman v. City of Oakland (1988) 197
Cal. App. 3d 1037, 1047.)
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND as to the sixth cause of action. 
 
            Motion to Strike
            Defendants
request that the Court strike paras. 109 – 111 (under the fourth cause of
action for nuisance), 138 – 140 (under the sixth cause of action for IIED), and
prayer at 5. for punitive damages.
            Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
A claim for punitive damages may
not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but
instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a
conclusion.  See Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-42 (Court of Appeal
issued a peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking
plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking
punitive damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any
factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice”).
A tenant may state a cause of
action in tort against his landlord for damages resulting from a breach of the
implied warranty of habitability.”  Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal. App. 3d 903, 918-19; see also Smith v.
David (1981) 120 Cal. App. 3d 101, 112 n.3 (a tenant “may seek general and
punitive damages for . . . breach of warranty [of habitability]”).  The court in Stoiber found that
plaintiff stated sufficient facts to support exemplary damages when she “alleged
that defendant had actual knowledge of defective conditions in the premises
including leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof,
broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions . . . [and] alleged
defendants ‘In maintaining said nuisance, . . . acted with full knowledge of
the consequences thereof and the damage being caused to plaintiff, and their
conduct was willful, oppressive and malicious.’”  Stoiber, supra, at 920 (citation
omitted). 
“Inasmuch as Civil Code section
3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery of punitive damages that the
defendant ‘has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,’ the cases have
uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even gross negligence, or
recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.”  Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal. App. 3d 82, 87 (citations omitted). 
            Defendants argue that the
allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. 
            In opposition, plaintiffs argue that
the allegations are sufficient.
            The Court rules as follows:  In light of the ruling on the demurrer on the sixth
cause of action, the motion is GRANTED. 
The allegations are conclusory and do not show oppression, fraud, or
malice.  Further, as to the request for
punitive damages under the fourth cause of action for private nuisance, the
allegations are insufficient also to show oppression, fraud, or malice as they
are conclusory.
 
ORDER
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fifth cause of action. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sixth cause of action.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice of ruling.