 Case Number:  22STCV10458    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  30 SOFIA JAMORA vs JAXSON HAYESTENTATIVEDefendant Jaxson Hayes’ motion or sanctions is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff’s counsel Waukeen McCoy is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $720, to be paid within 30 days of this order.  Moving party to give notice.Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure section 2025.430 provides: “If the party giving notice of a deposition fails to attend or proceed with it, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against that party, or the attorney for that party, or both, and in favor of any party attending in person or by attorney, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2025.430.)DiscussionPlaintiffs served Defendant with a Notice of Deposition of Officer Robert Tamate on September 6, 2023, noticing the deposition of Officer Tamate for September 21, 2023. (Baghdishyan Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A). On September 21, 2023, defense counsel appeared at the time and place designated for the deposition expecting the deposition to go forward. (Id., ¶ 3.) However, the door was locked and no one answered the door despite several knocks. (Id.) Defense counsel waited for approximately thirty minutes but no one opened the door. (Id.) While waiting in the hallway, defense counsel sent an email to Plaintiff’s counsel stating that he was at the location, but no one appeared to be behind the locked door. (Id.) The same email also asked whether the deponent was served. (Id.) Neither Plaintiff’s counsel responded to the email until the following day. (Id., ¶ 4, Exh. C.)Officer Tamate was indeed served by Plaintiff’s process servers and had arrived at the location of the deposition and was similarly met with a locked and unanswered door. (Baghdishyan Decl., ¶ 5.) To Defendant’s knowledge, neither Plaintiff nor her counsel ever arrived at the deposition site on the scheduled date. (Id., ¶ 3.)Defendant argues monetary sanctions are appropriate because Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Officer Tamate, did not cancel it, and failed to attend and proceed with it.In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel argues that he tried to confirm with the process serving company prior to the date his deposition was noticed that Officer Tamate had in fact been served with the notice of deposition. (McCoy Decl., Exh. C.) The process serving company responded that they would contact the server regarding their attempts and update the portal with information once it was received. Consequently, Plaintiff's counsel did not issue any notice to the parties about proceeding with the deposition. Unbeknownst, to Plaintiff's counsel, Officer Tamate had in fact been served on September 8, 2023. (McCoy Decl., Exh. B). It was only six days past the scheduled deposition date that the process serving company finally provided Plaintiff's counsel with the proof of service. (See McCoy Decl., Exh. D).                The Court finds sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel are warranted. Plaintiff’s counsel noticed the deposition of Officer Tamate, did not cancel it, and failed to attend and proceed with it. While Plaintiff’s counsel has explained why he believed the deposition would not proceed, he failed to notify defense counsel of this, resulting in a waste of defense counsel’s time in attending the deposition. As a result, Plaintiff’s counsel has not provided any justification for failing to inform defense counsel that the deposition would not proceed as noticed. However, the Court finds the amount requested is unreasonable for this simple and straightforward motion. Further, the time spent on the preparation of the deposition has not been wasted, as the next time the deposition is set, defense counsel will likely spend less than half the time preparing due to his previous preparation. As a result, the Court will impose sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel Waukeen McCoy in the amount of $720 ($660 per hour for one hour, plus $60 filing fee) to be paid within 30 days of this order. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions for having to oppose this motion is denied, as this motion is being granted, and because the notice of the opposition did not request sanctions. (See CCP section 2023.040.) 