 Case Number:  24STCV14500    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 10, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Michael Tootle v. Wedgewood Homes
Realty, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV14500            
 
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 128.7

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Wedgewood Homes Realty, LLC, Wedgewood,
LLC, and Neighborhood Stabilization, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Michael
Tootle
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/11/24: Complaint filed.
·        
06/11/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination and wrongful termination.
Plaintiff alleges that he was harassed because of his race.
 
Defendants move for sanctions
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Sanctions
is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move for sanctions
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Complaint in the action Tootle
v. Wedgewood Homes Realty, LLC, et al., Nevada Eighth Judicial District
Court Case No. A-23-873467C (the “Nevada Action”); (2) Defendants’ Motion to
Compel Arbitration in the Nevada Action; (3) Plaintiff’s Opposition to the
Motion to Compel Arbitration; (4) Defendants’ Reply in Support of the Motion to
Compel Arbitration; (5) the Notice of Entry of Order Granting the Motion to Compel
Arbitration; (6) Plaintiff’s Complaint in this action; and (7) Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint in this action. 
 
            Defendants’
requests are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
Compliance with the Safe Harbor Provision of Code of
Civil Procedure § 128.7(c)(1)
 
Defendants seek sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.7. The safe-harbor provision of section 128.7 provides, in relevant
part:
 
A motion for sanctions under this section shall be made
separately from other motions or requests and shall describe the specific
conduct alleged to violate subdivision (b). Notice of motion shall be served as
provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court
unless, within 21 days after service of the motion, or any other period as the
court may prescribe, the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention,
allegation, or denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7(c)(1).)
 
Defendants complied with this provision by serving
Plaintiff with the motion on June 27, 2024. (Declaration of Dean A. Rocco ISO
Mot. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff therefore had until July 22, 2024 to withdraw the
Complaint. This time was further extended to July 24, 2024, as July 22 and 23
were considered court holidays due to a ransomware attack which disabled the
Court’s electronic services. Plaintiff did not withdraw the Complaint, and
Defendants filed this motion on July 31, 2024. Thus, Defendants met the
requirements of the safe harbor provision.
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
seek sanctions on the ground that this action is being presented for an
improper purpose and is not warranted by existing law or a nonfrivolous
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, if the
Court determines that subsection (b) has been violated, it may “impose an
appropriate sanction upon the attorneys, law firms, or parties that have
violated subdivision (b) or are responsible for the violation.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 128.7(c).) Violations of subsection (b) include presenting allegations “primarily
for an improper purpose, such as to harass or cause unnecessary delay or
needless increase in the cost of litigation” or are not “warranted by existing
law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal
of existing law or the establishment of new law.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
128.7(b)(1)-(2).) Sanctions under this section “shall be limited to what is
sufficient to deter repetition of this conduct or comparable conduct by others
similarly situated.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7(d).) The sanction may include,
“if imposed on motion and warranted for effective deterrence, an order
directing payment to the movant of some or all of the reasonable attorney’s
fees and other expenses incurred as a direct result of the violation.” (Id.)
 
To obtain sanctions on this ground, the moving party
must show the “party’s conduct in asserting the claim was objectively
unreasonable,” meaning that “any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is
totally and completely without merit.” (Bucar v. Ahmad (2016) 244
Cal.App.4th 175, 189.) Indeed, even “the fact that a plaintiff fails to provide
a sufficient showing to overcome a demurrer or to survive summary judgment is
not, in itself, enough to warrant the imposition of sanctions.” (Peake v.
Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 448.) 
 
            Defendants
contend that the conduct of Plaintiff’s counsel in filing this action was
objectively unreasonable in light of the history of the Nevada Action.
Plaintiff filed a class action complaint in the Eighth Judicial District Court
of Nevada on July 5, 2023, alleging that he was discriminated against and
ultimately terminated on the basis of his race while employed as a house
flipper for Defendants. (RJN Exh. 1.) Plaintiff asserted claims for racial
discrimination, hostile work environment harassment, retaliation, wrongful
termination, and intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress. (Id.)
Defendants moved to compel arbitration on the basis that Plaintiff had agreed
to arbitrate claims arising out his employment and agreed to delegate threshold
questions of arbitrability to the arbitrator. (RJN Exh. 2.) The Nevada District
Court granted the motion on October 3, 2023, finding that the parties had
entered into an arbitration agreement governed by the Federal Arbitration Act,
that the threshold questions of enforceability were delegated to the
arbitrator, and Plaintiff had failed to demonstrate unconscionability. (RJN
Exh. 5.) The Nevada District Court therefore ordered the matter to arbitration
and dismissed the Nevada Action without prejudice. (Id.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that the Complaint in this action filed June 11, 2024, which alleges
substantially identical facts and similar legal claims, was filed for an
improper purpose and not warranted by law because the matter had already been
ordered to arbitration and dismissed by the Nevada District Court. Defendants
assert, without elaboration, that Plaintiff’s Complaint in this action is
barred by res judicata, collateral estoppel, and comity. Defendants’ assertions
do not establish these contentions. Moreover, the Court is not prepared to find
that it is objectively unreasonable to refile an action in Los Angeles,
California when, as the undisputed facts establish, the Arbitration Agreement
requires the arbitration to take place in Los Angeles and be governed by the
California Arbitration Act to the extent the act does not conflict with the
Federal Arbitration Act. (Defendants’ RJN Exh. 2 § 2(e); (k).) Applying that
language, the parties would be obliged to bring an action in Los Angeles, at
minimum, to confirm, correct, or vacate an arbitration award pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1285. The Court also rejects the notion that this
filing constitutes an attempt to evade the Nevada District Court’s order, as
section 1281.4 of the Code of Civil Procedure expressly permits a party to move
to stay an action when arbitration of an issue has been ordered by “a court of
competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not,” and that motion,
when made, “shall” be granted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.) 
 
            For these
reasons, the Court is not persuaded that the filing of the Complaint in this
action standing alone is objectively unreasonable.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 10,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 