  Case Number:  21STCV45351    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 10, 2024               TRIAL DATE: November
12, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Barry Ben-Ron et al. v. Maria De Lourdes
Ruiz.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV45351
            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Barry Ben-Ron and Brian Sean Costello
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Maria De
Lourdes Ruiz
 
CASE
HISTORY:

12/13/21:
             Complaint filed.
06/15/22:
             Cross-Complaint filed.

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract
case. Plaintiffs purchased a property from Defendant which Plaintiffs allege
was subject to a PACE loan. Plaintiffs contend that Defendant agreed to pay off
the loan through escrow, such that the property would be transferred to
Plaintiffs clear of any lien and failed to do so, despite receiving money in an
amount equal to the balance on the loan, from escrow. 
 
            Plaintiffs
move for summary adjudication of whether each defendant owed a duty to
Plaintiffs to pay off a PACE lien through escrow for sale of the subject
property to Plaintiffs, and for summary adjudication of Defendant’s First
Affirmative Defense. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to Friday, October 11, 2024, at
9:00 AM. 
 
            The
parties are directed to serve and file supplemental briefing as to the proper
interpretation of Paragraphs 13 and 17 of the Agreement, with particular regard
to the meaning of the terms “encumbrances,
easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, rights and other matters,”
“monetary liens of record,” and “real property taxes and assessments” and the
application of those terms to the Notice of Assessment recorded against the
Property. Briefing shall be conducted according to the following schedule:
 
Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief due Wednesday, September 18, 2024. 
 
            Defendant’s Supplemental Opposition
due Monday, September 30, 2024. 
 
            Plaintiff’s Supplemental Reply due
Friday, October 4, 2024.
 
            All briefs shall be limited to ten
pages each, not including captions, tables of contents and authorities, or
proofs of service. 
 
            Moving
parties to give notice. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiffs
move for summary adjudication of the issue of whether Defendants owed a duty to
either Plaintiff to pay off a PACE lien through escrow for sale of the subject
property to Plaintiffs, and for summary adjudication of Defendant’s First
Affirmative Defense. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Request for
Judicial of Notice
 
            Plaintiffs request that the Court
take judicial notice of a Notice of Assessment recorded in the Official Records
of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on October 1, 2018. Plaintiffs’
request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(c) (official acts). 
 
Defendant’s Tardy
Opposition
 
            Plaintiffs object to Defendant’s
opposition on the grounds that it was served and filed on Wednesday, August 28,
rather than the due date of August 27 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c subdivision (b)(2). The Court has discretion to consider or
disregard late filed papers. (See Cal. Rule of Court 3.1200(d).) As this motion
seeks summary adjudication of issues which are central to the dispute in this
matter, the Court is not inclined to disregard an opposition that is merely one
day late, and which appears to have caused no prejudice to Plaintiffs in
preparing their reply papers. 
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiffs object to portions of Defendant’s
evidence submitted in opposition to this motion. The Court rules on these
objections as follows:
 
Objection No. 1: SUSTAINED.
The Declaration contradicts prior adverse deposition testimony. (D’Amico v.
Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 20-22.) 
 
Objection No. 2: SUSTAINED
as irrelevant. (Evid. Code § 350.)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiffs request a determination
that Defendants owed a duty to both Plaintiffs to pay off the PACE lien on the
subject property through escrow for the sale of that property. Plaintiffs also
request summary adjudication of Defendant’s First Affirmative Defense that the
Seller Property Questionnaire contains the printed language “This disclosure is
not intended to be part of the contract between Buyer and Seller.” As the
issues of duty and the affirmative defense are intertwined, the Court will
address them together. 
 
            The undisputed facts of this case
are that, in October 2020, Plaintiffs and Defendant executed a written contract
for the purchase of real property located at 212 East 24th Street, Los Angeles,
CA. (Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact &
Defendant’s Separate Statement of Disputed Fact Nos. 1, 8.) The contract was
prepared on a form entitled California Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint
Escrow Instructions with a Seller Multiple Counter Offer. (Id.) The
Agreement was signed on October 10, 2020 by Defendant, as Seller, and Plaintiff
Ben-Ron as Buyer. (Id.) Plaintiff Ben-Ron assigned an interest in the
agreement to Plaintiff Costello. (Id. No. 11.) Paragraph 13.B of the
Agreement provides:
 
Title is taken in its present condition
subject to all encumbrances, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions,
rights and other matters, whether of record or not, as of the date of
Acceptance except for (1) monetary liens of record (which Seller is obligated
to pay off) unless Buyer is assuming those obligations or taking the Property
subject to those obligations; and (ii) those matters which Seller has agreed to
remove in writing. 
 
(SSUMF No. 2, 9;
SSDF No. 2, 9.) Defendant and Plaintiffs also signed a Seller Property
Questionnaire indicating that the property was subject to a PACE lien. (SSUMF
Nos. 3-4, 10, 12; SSDF Nos. 3-4, 10, 12.) Specifically, Paragraph 14.E of the
Questionnaire asks if the seller is aware of “Any PACE lien (such as HERO or
SCEIP) or other lien on your Property securing a loan to pay for an alteration,
modification, replacement, improvement, remodel or material repair of the
Property?” (SSUMF No. 4, 12; SSDF No. 4, 12.) The box labeled “Yes” next to
Paragraph 14.E is checked, and in the “Explanation” section there is a
handwritten statement “Has a Loan for improvements that will be paid through
escrow.” (Id.) At the time of the sale, there was a recorded PACE lien
on the subject property. (SUMF Nos. 5, 13, SSDF Nos. 5, 13.) 
 
            Plaintiffs categorically state that
they did not agree to assume the obligations on the PACE lien, nor did they
agree to take the property subject to the PACE lien. (SSUMF Nos. 6, 13.) Further,
Defendant admitted in her deposition that she understood that the bank mortgage
and PACE lien were to be paid through escrow. (SSUMF Nos. 7, 14.) In
opposition, Defendant argues that the PACE Lien is properly considered an
“assessment” by the express terms of the Notice of Assessment. (SSDF Nos. 6, 14;
see RJN Exh. E.) Defendant contends that under Paragraph 17 of the Agreement,
certain listed items “shall be paid current and prorated between Buyer and
Seller as of close of escrow,” including real property taxes and assessments.
(SSDF Nos. 6, 14.) In reply, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant neglects that
paragraph 17 expressly states that it applies only “[u]nless otherwise agreed
in writing. (See Plaintiffs’ Exh. C. ¶ 17.) Plaintiffs contend that the parties
executed such an agreement in the form of the Seller Property Questionnaire via
the handwritten explanation that the loan would be paid through escrow. 
 
            The effect of the Seller Property
Questionnaire is also the subject of the First Affirmative Defense, which
contends that the Questionnaire is not a promise to pay off the PACE loan
through escrow, as alleged in the Complaint, because the Questionnaire states in
Paragraph 1 that “[t]his disclosure is not intended to be part of the contract
between Buyer and Seller.” (See Answer to Complaint.) Plaintiffs argue that the
handwritten explanation stating that the Pace Lien would be paid through escrow
overrides the form language in Paragraph 1 under general rules of contract
interpretation. (See Civ. Code § 1651 [handwritten contract language controls
over printed; original language controls over form language].) In opposition,
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs beg the question by assuming that the
Questionnaire is a contract in the first place. According to Defendant, the
Questionnaire, by its express language, is not a contract and therefore is not
subject to contractual rules of interpretation. In reply, Plaintiffs dismiss
Defendant’s argument as “sophistry” and stand on their position. 
 
            It appears that, in focusing on
whether the Questionnaire constitutes an agreement in writing, the parties have
neglected the threshold issue of whether the Agreement’s reference to
“assessments” properly includes the PACE lien. This question is subject to
“well-established” rules for contract interpretation in the context of a
summary adjudication motion:
 
“The interpretation
of a contract is a judicial function. [Citation.] In engaging in this function,
the trial court ‘give[s] effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it
existed’ at the time the contract was executed. [Citation.] Ordinarily, the
objective intent of the contracting parties is a legal question determined
solely by reference to the contract's terms. [Citation.]” (Wolf v. Walt
Disney Pictures & Television (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1107, 1125-1126, 76
Cal.Rptr.3d 585 (Wolf).)
 
“The court generally
may not consider extrinsic evidence of any prior agreement or contemporaneous
oral agreement to vary or contradict the clear and unambiguous terms of a
written, integrated contract. [Citations.] Extrinsic evidence is admissible,
however, to interpret an agreement when a material term is ambiguous.
[Citations.]” (Wolf, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at p. 1126, 76 Cal.Rptr.3d
585; see also Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. G.W. Thomas Drayage &
Rigging (1968) 69 Cal.2d 33, 39-40, 69 Cal.Rptr. 561, 442 P.2d 641 [if
extrinsic evidence reveals that apparently clear language in the contract is,
in fact, “susceptible to more than one reasonable interpretation,” then
extrinsic evidence may be used to determine the contracting parties’ objective
intent].)
 
“The interpretation
of a contract involves ‘a two-step process: First the court provisionally
receives (without actually admitting) all credible evidence concerning the
parties’ intentions to determine “ambiguity,” i.e., whether the language is
“reasonably susceptible” to the interpretation urged by a party.  If in light of the extrinsic evidence the
court decides the language is “reasonably susceptible” to the interpretation
urged, the extrinsic evidence is then admitted to aid in the second step –
interpreting the contract. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Wolf v. Superior Court
(2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1343, 1351, 8 Cal.Rptr.3d 649 (Wolf II);
[citations].) 
 
“When there is no
material conflict in the extrinsic evidence, the trial court interprets the
contract as a matter of law. [Citations.] This is true even when conflicting
inferences may be drawn from the undisputed extrinsic evidence [citations] or
that extrinsic evidence renders the contract terms susceptible to more than one
reasonable interpretation. [Citations.] If, however, there is a conflict in the
extrinsic evidence, the factual conflict is to be resolved by the jury.
[Citations.]” (Wolf, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1126-1127, 76
Cal.Rptr.3d 585; see id. at p. 1134, 76 Cal.Rptr.3d 585 [“that extrinsic
evidence may reveal an ambiguity subjecting a contract to more than one
reasonable interpretation does not mean resolution of that ambiguity is necessarily
a jury question. Absent a conflict in the evidence, the interpretation of the
contract remains a matter of law”].)
 
(Brown v. Goldstein (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 418, 432-33.) 
 
When a dispute arises
over the meaning of contract language, the first question to be decided is
whether the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged by
the party.  If it is not, the case is over.  If the court decides the language is
reasonably susceptible to the interpretation urged, the court moves to the
second question: what did the parties intend the language to mean? ... Thus,
where contract language is clear and explicit and does not lead to absurd
results, we ascertain intent from the written terms and go no further. If the contract is capable of more than one reasonable
interpretation, it is ambiguous, and we apply the standard rules of
interpretation in order to give effect to the mutual intention of the
parties.  In sum, courts must give a
reasonable and commonsense interpretation of a contract consistent with the
parties' apparent intent.  
 
(Department of
Forestry & Fire Protection v. Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC (2015)
239 Cal. App. 4th 1060, 1066 [internal quotation marks, ellipses,
and citations omitted].)
 
            The Court desires
briefing from the parties as to the proper interpretation of Paragraphs 13 and
17 of the Agreement, with particular regard to the meaning of the terms “encumbrances, easements, covenants,
conditions, restrictions, rights and other matters,” “monetary liens of
record,” and “real property taxes and assessments” and the application of those
terms to the Notice of Assessment recorded against the Property. 
 
            To that end, the Court will continue
the hearing on this matter to October 11, 2024, at 9:00 AM and order the
parties to file and serve briefing according to the following schedule:
 
Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief due Wednesday, September 18, 2024. 
 
            Defendant’s Supplemental Opposition
due Monday, September 30, 2024. 
 
            Plaintiff’s Supplemental Reply due
Friday, October 4, 2024.
 
            All briefs shall be limited to ten
pages each, not including captions, tables of contents and authorities, or
proofs of service. 
             
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to Friday, October 11,
2024, at 9:00 AM. 
 
            The
parties are directed to serve and file supplemental briefing as to the proper
interpretation of Paragraphs 13 and 17 of the Agreement, with particular regard
to the meaning of the terms “encumbrances,
easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, rights and other matters,”
“monetary liens of record,” and “real property taxes and assessments” and the
application of those terms to the Notice of Assessment recorded against the
Property. Briefing shall be conducted according to the following schedule:
 
Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief due Wednesday, September 18, 2024. 
 
            Defendant’s Supplemental Opposition
due Monday, September 30, 2024. 
 
            Plaintiff’s Supplemental Reply due Friday,
October 4, 2024.
 
            All briefs shall be limited to ten
pages each, not including captions, tables of contents and authorities, or
proofs of service. 
 
            Moving
parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: September 10, 2024.                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 