  Case Number:  24STCV00908    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



SUNNA KIM,  
  
         vs.
 
YOUNG CHUL
  LEE, et al. 


 Case No.: 24STCV00908
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 12, 2024



 
Defendants
Yong Chul Lee’s, Hye Young Moon’s, and Hong Gi Kim’s special motion to strike
portions of Plaintiff Sunna Kim’s First Amended Complaint is denied in part and
granted in part.  Moving Defendants’
special motion to strike FAC ¶¶40-41, lines 15-22 including n.1 is denied.  Moving Defendants’ special motion to strike
FAC ¶2, lines 25-27; ¶25, lines 21-23; ¶¶27-28, lines 9-21; and ¶49, lines 1-5
is granted.
Moving
Defendants may separately move for attorneys’ fees and costs incurred on the
instant motion.
 
Defendants
Young Chul Lee (“Lee”), He Young Moon (“Moon”), and Hong Gi Kim (“Hong Gi”) (collectively,
“Moving Defendants”) move for a special motion to strike the following portions
of Plaintiff Sunna Kim’s (“Sunna”) (“Plaintiff”) first amended complaint (“FAC”):
(1) ¶2 (“Majority Director Defendants used the Company as an instrumentality to
engage in a wasteful and tortious campaign of harassment against Plaintiff and
others”); (2) ¶25 (“Following Majority Director Defendants’ awareness that
Plaintiff would exercise her put option, the Company, at the behest of Majority
Director Defendants, initiated a wasteful campaign to harass and intimidate
Plaintiff and third parties.”); (3) ¶¶27-28[1]; ¶¶40-41 & n.1[2]; and (4) ¶49 (“by (i)
engaging in a wasteful and vindicative harassment campaign against Plaintiff,
her family, and former employees of the Company for the purpose of devaluing
the Company; (ii) entering into conflicted and self-dealing transactions; and
(iii) misusing Company marketing and business channels to spread falsities for
the purpose of devaluing the Company.”). 
(Notice of Motion, pgs. 2-3; C.C.P. §§425.16 et seq.)  Moving Defendants move on the grounds that Plaintiff’s
claims arise from acts of Defendants in furtherance of their right of petition
or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California
Constitution in connection with a public issue, under C.C.P. §§425.16(b) and
(e) and that Plaintiff’s action is brought to chill the valid exercise of those
constitutional rights, and that it is not probable that Plaintiff will prevail
on her claims.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 3.)  
Moving
Defendants also seek an order assessing their attorneys’ fees and costs against
Plaintiff incurred by Moving Defendants in connection with the instant
motion.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 3; CRC,
Rule 3.1702; C.C.P. §425.16(c).)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Moving Defendants’ June 11,
2024, request for judicial notice of (1) the Complaint filed in The Crème
Shop, Inc. v. Sunna (“Olive”) Kim, et al., LASC Case No. 23STCV27922 (“Employment
Action”) (D-RJN, Exh. A); (2) The Crème Shop’s Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Support of Ex Parte Application for a Temporary Restraining
Order and Order to Show Cause Re Preliminary Injunction filed on November 28,
2023, in the Employment Action (D-RJN, Exh. B); (3) the Declaration of Lee in
Support of The Crème Shop’s Ex Parte Application for a Temporary Restraining
Order and Order to Show Cause Re Preliminary Injunction filed on November 28,
2023, in the Employment Action (D-RJN, Exh. C); and (4) the Stipulated
Preliminary Injunction and the Court’s order thereon filed and entered by the
Court on December 6, 2023, in the Employment Action (D-RJN, Exh. C), is
granted, but the Court does not take judicial notice of the truth of the
matters asserted in the filings.
Moving Defendants’ June 11,
2024, request for judicial notice of the initial complaint in this matter and
the Notice and Acknowledgment of Receipt-Civil, dated and signed by Defendant
Hye Young Moon “…at the City of Seattle, WA” filed in this matter is denied
because this Court does not need to take judicial notice of filings on the
instant docket.
Moving Defendants’ August 13,
2024, request for judicial notice of (1) a news article published in Time
Magazine (Online) dated June 27, 2024, entitled “The Secret of Hello
Kitty’s Half-Century of Success”; and (2) a news article published on Forbes
(Online) dated April 8, 2019, entitled “45 Years After Its Debut, Can Hello
Kitty Finally Conquer Hollywood?” is denied as irrelevant.
Moving Defendants’ August 13,
2024, request for judicial notice of Sanrio’s Summary of Financial Results for
the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2024 (FY2023) [Japanese GAAP], for Sanrio
Company, Ltd. [Listed Stock Exchange: Tokyo Stock Exchange], dated May 14,
2024, publicly available at
(https://ssl4.eirparts.net/doc/8136/ir_material_for_fiscal_ym3/156599/00.pdf) and
(https://corporate.sanrio.co.jp/en/ir/news/) (D-Supp. RJN, Exh. I), is granted.
 
Background 
          Plaintiff filed her
initial Complaint on January 12, 2024.  (See
Complaint.)
          Plaintiff
filed the operative FAC on May 10, 2024, individually and derivatively on
behalf of Crème Shop, against Moving Defendants and Non-moving Defendant The
Crème Shop, Inc. (“Company”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging two causes
of action: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; and (2) accounting.  Plaintiff’s causes of action arise from her
and her mother, non-party Christina Kim’s (“Christina”), April 2022 entry into
a share purchase agreement (“SPA”) with LG H&H Co., Ltd. (“LG H&H”) to sell
65% of the shares of the Company to LG H&H while retaining a 35% ownership
interest.  (FAC ¶¶2, 13.)
 Plaintiff
alleges thereafter, LG H&H appointed three directors to the Company’s board
to represent its majority ownership interest: Defendants Lee, Defendant Hong
Gi, and Defendant Moon.  (FAC ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges that she and Christina
served as directors representing their minority ownership interest, and
Plaintiff continued to operate the Company as co-CEO alongside Defendant Lee,
who also served as the LG H&H-appointed co-CEO.  (FAC ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges personnel issues quickly
arose between Plaintiff and Defendant Lee, resulting in Moving Defendants
taking actions to divest Plaintiff of her managerial powers as co-CEO of the
Company.  (FAC ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges those actions of Moving
Defendants satisfied contractual conditions permitting Plaintiff to resign as
co-CEO and, along with Christina, to exercise a put option requiring LG H&H
to purchase their minority shareholder interests.   (FAC ¶¶2, 13.)
Plaintiff alleges that coinciding with the execution of the
SPA, she, Christina, and LG H&H entered a Shareholder Agreement (“SA”)
which provided certain duties and responsibilities between Plaintiff and
Christina, on the one hand, and LG H&H, on the other, in their capacities
as minority shareholders and majority shareholders, respectively.  (FAC ¶14.)
Plaintiff alleges that coinciding with the execution of the
SPA, she and the Company entered an Employment Agreement setting forth the
obligations and duties of Plaintiff in her role as co-CEO of the Company.  (FAC ¶15.) 
Plaintiff alleges that among other things, the Employment Agreement
provides that Plaintiff has “Good Reason” to resign from her position as co-CEO
if the Company “materially diminishes [Plaintiff]’s authority, duties or
responsibilities, except where such diminution is: (x) in connection with the
termination of [her] employment for Cause, (y) a result of [her] death or disability,
or (z) temporary as a result of [her] illness or other absence; provided that
changes to [Plaintiff]’s reporting structure that otherwise comply with the
requirements of [the Employment Agreement] shall not be considered a material
diminution of [her] authority, duties or responsibilities hereunder[.]”  (FAC ¶16.) 
Plaintiff alleges that per the Employment Agreement, Plaintiff must
notify the Company of an event constituting within thirty calendar days of its
occurrence, and the Company has sixty calendar days to cure any Good Reason.”  (FAC ¶16.)
Plaintiff alleges that among other things, the Employment
Agreement provides that “Cause” for termination of Plaintiff’s employment
exists if Plaintiff: (i) is convicted of a felony or crime involving dishonest
or moral turpitude; (ii) commits material breach of Plaintiff’s duties to the Company
where such breach is documented in writing; (iii) engages in gross neglect or
willful misconduct (including, but not limited to, any theft, embezzlement, or
other criminal misappropriation of Funds by Plaintiff from Company), which
causes material harm to the property, business, goodwill, or reputation of the
Company; or (iv) commits breach of any provision of the Employment Agreement,
any articles of incorporation, bylaws or policy of the Company or SHA, where
such breach is documented in writing and causes material harm to the property,
business, goodwill, or reputation of the Company.  (FAC ¶17.) 
Plaintiff alleges that she disputes that the Company had any basis to
terminate her employment for “Cause.” (FAC ¶17.)
Plaintiff alleges that submitted a notice of her
resignation with Good Reason on July 1, 2023. 
(FAC ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges that
despite her numerous offers to work with the Company and Moving Defendants to
create an effective transition plan over the following months, the Company
ignored her overtures and her resignation became effective on October 6, 2023.  (FAC ¶22, Exh. A.)
Plaintiff alleges the Company purported to provide notice
to Plaintiff that she would be terminated for Cause without ability or
opportunity to cure on September 27, 2023, just days before her resignation was
to be effective.  (FAC ¶23, Exh. B.)
Plaintiff alleges LG H&H initiated an arbitration in
the International Chamber of Commerce (“ICC”) against Plaintiff and Christina
on June 19, 2023.  (FAC ¶24.)  Plaintiff alleges that she and Christina
filed a cross-complaint against LG H&H seeking a determination of their
entitlement to exercise the put option on July 24, 2023.  (FAC ¶24.) 
Plaintiff alleges LG H&H amended its claim to seek a determination
that it is entitled to exercise a call option based upon its purported
termination of Plaintiff for Cause on or around October 20, 2023.  (FAC ¶24.) 
Plaintiff alleges the arbitration is pending in Los Angeles, California.  (FAC ¶24.) 

Plaintiff alleges that following Moving Defendants’
awareness that Plaintiff would exercise her put option, the Company, at the
behest of Moving Defendants, initiated a wasteful campaign to harass and
intimidate Plaintiff and third parties. (FAC ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Moving Defendants also wanted to attack Plaintiff and her good name in an
effort to reduce the value of the Company so that Plaintiff’s put option would
be less valuable.  (FAC ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges Moving Defendants’ actions
have caused direct injury to the Company and its shareholders.  (FAC ¶25.) 

Plaintiff alleges that in the days following Moving
Defendants’ October 6, 2023, ouster of Plaintiff from management of the
Company, experienced and long-term employees—no doubt disappointed with the
inexperienced and myopic direction of the Company under the Majority Director
Defendants—began to exodus en masse.  (FAC ¶26.) 
Plaintiff alleges that on October 9, 2023, seven employees ended their
relationship with the Company, with three more employees following suit shortly
thereafter.  (FAC ¶26.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that
many of these employees were approached about returning to the Company, but
declined to do so when they learned they would be reporting to a new manager
appointed by LG H&H.  (FAC ¶26.)  
Plaintiff alleges The Company, at the direction of Moving
Defendants and over the objection of Plaintiff, has engaged a law firm, Littler
Mendelson P.C. (“Law Firm”), not for purposes of engaging in litigation but
rather to conduct a wasteful harassment campaign against Plaintiff, her family,
and former employees outside of litigation. 
(FAC ¶27.)  Plaintiff alleges on
information and belief that this wasteful campaign was undertaken in an attempt
to damage Plaintiff’s good name and reputation for the purpose of lowering the
value of the Company so that Plaintiff’s put option would be less valuable.  (FAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that the Law Firm and the Company
engaged in a campaign of harassment by posting physical notices on the doors of
the houses of former employees and family members of Plaintiff, making frequent
and disruptive telephone calls to former employees, using private investigators
to track former employees physically and digitally, and purposefully
distributing letters intended for former employees to current employees to
smear former employees’ reputations. 
(FAC ¶28.)  
Plaintiff alleges Moving Defendants proffered justification
for this Company expense is that certain employees downloaded Company data
before leaving and to determine whether Plaintiff orchestrated their leave.  (FAC ¶29.) 
Plaintiff alleges that explanation rings hollow, however, because
Company employees frequently and routinely made similar downloads during the
course of their employment, which Plaintiff explained to Moving Defendants, who
have virtually no experience with the business practices of Company; none of
the downloaded information has been determined to be trade secret or sensitive
information; no evidence that Plaintiff directed the former employees has been
found; and Company has access to Plaintiff’s emails and could therefore
determine whether she orchestrated the employees’ departure without invasive
tactics.  (FAC ¶29.)
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Moving
Defendants’ conduct is not in the benefit of the company but rather retaliation
for perceived slights against LG H&H and to lower the value of Plaintiff’s
put option by lowering the Company’s overall valuation.  (FAC ¶30.)
Plaintiff alleges that after Moving Defendants obtained
control of the Company board, but before succeeding in their attempts to oust
her from management, Plaintiff discovered that Defendant Lee and/or Moving
Defendants caused millions of dollars of Company funds to be transferred to LG
H&H and/or its subsidiaries.  (FAC
¶31.)  Plaintiff alleges that she
confronted Moving Defendants, who blithely explained that other LG H&H
companies could use the money, but a similar amount would be available in the future
if needed by Company.  (FAC ¶32.) 
Plaintiff alleges that even if Moving Defendants’ explanation
is accurate, the funds taken by Moving Defendants and/or Defendant Lee do not
belong to LG H&H and the decision to transfer the funds away from Company
is solely for the benefit of LG H&H and not Company.  (FAC ¶33.)
Plaintiff alleges that after Moving Defendants obtained
control of the Company board, but before succeeding in their attempts to oust
Plaintiff from management, the Company had tens of millions of dollars in
liquid assets available, but Moving Defendants failed to issue dividends, pay
Company debts (including money owed to Plaintiff pursuant to her Employment Agreement),
or reinvest those assets in the Company. 
(FAC ¶34.)
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Moving Defendants’
inaction with respect to the tens of millions of dollars in liquid capital is a
subterfuge to create the appearance that Company is less valuable than it is,
which action is solely for the benefit of LG H&H, and not it in the best
interests of Company.  (FAC ¶35.)
Plaintiff alleges Moving Defendants approved conflicted and
self-dealing transactions between the Company and Avon Products, Inc. (“Avon”),
in which LG H&H owns a majority interest. 
(FAC ¶36.)
Plaintiff alleges that before LG H&H acquired its
majority interest, the Company previously declined to do business with Avon
given its multi-level marketing structure. 
(FAC ¶37.)
Plaintiff alleges that after LG H&H acquired its
interest and appointed the Moving Defendants, the Company in 2022 sold
approximately $1.5 million worth of products to Avon.  (FAC ¶38.) 
Plaintiff alleges approximately six or seven months after that purchase,
Avon returned products which had expired to the Company without having paid the
balance owed to the Company.  (FAC
¶38.)  Plaintiff alleges these actions caused
further damage to the Company.  (FAC
¶38.)  
Plaintiff alleges Moving Defendants abused their board
positions to spread false statements about Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶39.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Moving Defendants’ false
statements are intended to hide the detrimental economic impact that ouster of
Plaintiff had on the value of the Company, and save face on the part of Moving
Defendants before LG H&H, for the personal benefit of Moving Defendants and
to the detriment of Company and its shareholders.  (FAC ¶40.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Moon has falsely represented in
South Korean publications that she is responsible for valuable licensing
agreements by the Company, including The Crème Shop x Sanrio Lunar New Year
Collection, launched in December of 2022. 
(FAC ¶41 & n.1.)
Plaintiff alleges that in actuality she brokered the deals between
Company and Sanrio, as she had in the years predating LG H&H’s acquisition
of shares of, or Defendant Moon’s involvement with the Company.  (FAC ¶42.) 
Plaintiff alleges this was not an isolated incident—Defendant Moon
repeatedly tried to claim credit for work that Plaintiff performed and results
Plaintiff achieved.  (FAC ¶42.)
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Moving
Defendants made false statements to management at LG H&H that Plaintiff
ended her involvement with Company suddenly and without warning, to the
detriment of Company.  (FAC ¶43.)  Plaintiff alleges that in actuality she
offered on numerous occasions to work with Company and Moving Defendants to
effectively transition management of the Company away from Plaintiff and her
family.  (FAC ¶44.)  Plaintiff alleges Moving Defendants rebuffed
and/or ignored those offers, to the detriment of the Company.  (FAC ¶44.)
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Moving
Defendants’ false statements concerning the Company and Plaintiff were intended
to, and did, obscure serious deficiencies in the management of the Company to
LG H&H and the Company’s business partners. 
(FAC ¶45.)
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Moving
Defendants abused the resources and marketing channels of the Company, and
their positions as directors (and, as to Defendant Lee, the position of
officer) of the Company, to self-aggrandize with no concomitant benefit to the
Company, and damaging the Company’s reputation, goodwill, and future business
prospects within the tightly-knit cosmetics industry.  (FAC ¶46.)
On June 11, 2024, Moving
Defendants filed the instant motion.  On August
7, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition. 
On August 13, 2024, Moving Defendants filed their reply.  
 
Special Motion to Strike
          “Litigation of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step
process. First, ‘the moving defendant bears the burden of establishing that the
challenged allegations or claims ‘aris[e] from’ protected activity in which the
defendant has engaged.’ [Citation.] Second, for each claim that does arise from
protected activity, the plaintiff must show the claim has “at least ‘minimal
merit.’ [Citation.]”  (Bonni v. St.
Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009, citations omitted.)  As to the second step inquiry, a plaintiff
seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim “may not rely solely on its
complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent
admissible evidence.”  (Sweetwater Union High School District v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940, citations omitted.)
A defendant opposing a
special motion to strike has the burden to “state [] and substantiate [] a
legally sufficient claim.”  (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88 & 93.)  “‘Put another way, the defendant “must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the defendant is credited.”’ [Citations.]”  (Id. at pgs. 88-89.)  To that end, the defendant must present
competent evidence, “that would be admissible at trial.”  (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.)  “[D]eclarations
may not be based upon ‘information and belief’ [citation]” and documents
submitted without the proper foundation will not be considered.  (Id.) 
The complaint, even if verified, is insufficient to carry the plaintiff’s
shifted burden.  (Roberts v. Los
Angeles County Bar Association (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 614; Karnazes
v. Ares (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 344, 354 [“pleadings do not constitute
evidence”]; see also Burke, Anti-SLAPP Litigation (The Rutter Group,
Civil Litigation Series 2018 §5:13) [“To satisfy prong two, the plaintiff must
submit admissible evidence that if credited is sufficient to sustain a
favorable judgment against the legal theories asserted by the defendant.”].)
 
Prong One: Arising from
Protected Activity
“A cause of action is subject
to a special motion to strike if the defendant shows that the cause of action
arises from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s constitutional right of
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue and the plaintiff
fails to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim. [Citations.]”  (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873,
883.) 
“An ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ is defined by statute to
include ‘(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.’  [Citation.]
If the defendant shows that the cause of action arises from a statement
described in clause (1) or (2) of section 425.16, subdivision (e), the defendant is not
required to separately demonstrate that the statement was made in connection
with a ‘public issue.’ [Citation.]”  (Id.)
“A cause of action is one
‘arising from’ protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(1) only if the defendant’s act on which the cause of action is
based was an act in furtherance of the defendant’s constitutional right of
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue. [Citation.] In
deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied, ‘the court shall
consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the
facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ [(C.C.P. §425.16(b)(2).)]
Whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied depends on the ‘gravamen or
principal thrust’ of the claim. [(Episcopal Church Cases (2009) 45
Cal.4th 467, 477, quoting Martinez v. Metabolife International, Inc.
(2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 193.)] A cause of action does not arise from
protected activity for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute if the protected
activity is merely incidental to the cause of action. [(Martinez, 113
Cal.App.4th at pg. 188.)]”  (Digerati Holdings, LLC, 194 Cal.App.4th at pgs. 883-884.)  To show
that a claim arises from protected activity under §425.16(b)(1), it is not
sufficient to show that the claim “was filed after, or because of, protected
activity, or when protected activity merely provides evidentiary support or
context for the claim.”  (Rand
Resources, LLC v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 621.)  “Rather, the protected activity must ‘supply
elements of the challenged claim.’ [Citation.]”  (Id., citations omitted.)
“At the first step, the
moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all allegations of protected
activity, and the claims for relief supported by them. When relief is sought
based on allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the
unprotected activity is disregarded at this stage.”  (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396, emphasis added.)  
Moving Defendants argue Plaintiff’s
allegation that Defendant Moon’s communication with an online news publication
refers to an “‘act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public
issue’ include[ing]:… (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a
place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of
public interest,” which, therefore, establishes that the challenged conduct
arises from protected activity.  (Motion,
pg. 9, citing C.C.P. §425.16(e)(3).)  Moving
Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s allegations pertaining to Moving
Defendants’ hiring of an employment law firm to investigate the Company’s
potential claims against Plaintiff, which resulted in the filing of multiple
lawsuits against Plaintiff, arises out of Moving Defendants’ protected petitioning
activity.  (Motion, pgs. 6-9, citing
C.C.P. §425.16(e)(2).)
 
1.     Category 1: Statements Made by
Defendant Moon in a South Korean News Publication
a.      The Challenged Allegations
The first category of
challenged allegations concern statements made by Defendant Moon to South
Korean publications.  The identified
allegations are as follows.
Paragraphs 40-41, lines 15-22
& n.1: 
Plaintiff is informed and believes and based thereon
alleges, that Majority Director Defendants’ false statements are intended to
hide the detrimental economic impact that ouster of Plaintiff had on the value
of the Company, and save face on the part of Majority Director Defendants
before LG H&H, for the personal benefit of Majority Director Defendants and
to the detriment of Company and its shareholders. 
For example, Defendant Moon has falsely represented in South
Korean publications that she is responsible for valuable licensing agreements
by the Company, including The Crème Shop x Sanrio Lunar New Year Collection,
launched in December of 2022 [n.1].
[n.1] Korean-language publications containing the false
statements of Defendant Moon are available at https://www.theguru.co.kr/news/article.html?no=49176
and https://www.theguru.co.kr/news/article.html?no=54481.
 
b.    
Analysis
Moving Defendants failed to meet
their burden to demonstrate the specific conduct at issue in this motion that
is alleged in Plaintiff’s FAC arises from an “act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue.”  (C.C.P. §§425.16(b),
(e).)  
Here, the alleged conduct is
merely incidental or collateral to Plaintiff’s causes of action and does not purport
to support a claim for recovery.  (Sheley
v. Harrop (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 1147, 1170.)  As a preliminary matter, none of the parties
in this case submitted a certified translation of the two South Korean articles
referenced in FAC ¶41 n.1 and the notice to the instant motion, which are
writings written exclusively in Korean. 
(See Evid. Code §753(a) [“When the written characters in a
writing offered in evidence are incapable of being deciphered or understood
directly, a translator who can decipher the characters or understand the
language shall be sworn to decipher or translate the writing.”],
emphasis added; §753(b) [“The record shall identify the translator . .
..”], emphasis added.)
For the purposes of this
motion, Moving Defendants fail to demonstrate the South Korean news articles at
issue are in connection with a public issue. 
Therefore, to the extent Moving Defendants’ motion is based on the
purported statements in the South Korean news publications, it does not satisfy
Defendants’ burden of demonstrating that the allegations in the FAC are
protected activity within the meaning of C.C.P. §425.16(e)(3).
 
2.     Category 2: Statements Made
by Moving Defendants in Physical Notices, Telephone Calls, and Distributing
Letters in Advance of Litigation
a.      The Challenged Allegations
The second category of
challenged allegations concern statements made by Moving Defendants in physical
notices, telephone calls, and in letters. 
The identified allegations are as follows.
Paragraph 2, lines 25-28: “Majority Director
Defendants used the Company as an instrumentality to engage in a wasteful and
tortious campaign of harassment against Plaintiff and others, in breach of the
fiduciary duties of loyalty and care owed by the Majority Director Defendants
to the Company.”
Paragraph 24, lines 21-23: “Following Majority Director
Defendants’ awareness that Plaintiff would exercise her put option, the
Company, at the behest of Majority Director Defendants, initiated a wasteful campaign
to harass and intimidate Plaintiff and third parties.”
Paragraph 27, lines 9-15:
The Company, at the direction of Majority Director
Defendants and over the objection of Plaintiff, has engaged a law firm, Littler
Mendelson P.C. (“Law Firm”), not for purposes of engaging in litigation but
rather to conduct a wasteful harassment campaign against Plaintiff, her family,
and former employees outside of litigation. Plaintiff is informed and believes,
and based thereon alleges, that this wasteful campaign was undertaken in an
attempt to damage Plaintiff’s good name and reputation for the purpose of
lowering the value of the Company so that Plaintiff’s put option would be less
valuable.
 
Paragraph 28, lines 16-21:
Plaintiff is informed and believes and based thereon alleges
that Law Firm and Company engaged in a campaign of harassment by posting
physical notices on the doors of the houses of former employees and family
members of Plaintiff, making frequent and disruptive telephone calls to former
employees, using private investigators to track former employees physically and
digitally, and purposefully distributing letters intended for former employees
to current employees to smear former employees’ reputations.
 
Paragraph 28, lines 16-21:
Majority Director Defendants breached their fiduciary duties
by knowingly acting on their personal behalf, and in the sole interests of LG
H&H, and against the interests of the Company and its shareholders as a
whole as detailed, supra, including, inter alia, by (i) engaging in a wasteful
and vindicative harassment campaign against Plaintiff, her family, and former
employees of the Company for the purpose of devaluing the Company; (ii)
entering into conflicted and self-dealing transactions; and (iii) misusing
Company marketing and business channels to spread falsities for the purpose of
devaluing the Company.
 
c.     
Analysis
Moving Defendants met their
burden to demonstrate pre-litigation demand letters served on Plaintiff and her
family members constitutes protected activity under C.C.P. §425.16(e)(2).
          Here, Moving Defendants’ alleged conduct of engaging the
Law Firm to send demand letters to Plaintiff’s husband, Chris Yoon, Plaintiff, by
way of her attorney, and eight other employees of the Company who resigned en
masse, constitute statements or writings “made in connection with an issue
under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or
any other official proceeding authorized by law” under §425.16(e)(2) because
such documents were prepared in advance of litigation in The Crème Shop,
Inc. v. Sunna (“Olive”) Kim, et al., LASC Case No. 23STCV27922 (“Employment
Action”).  (Decl. of Romeo ¶4, Exh. A;
D-RJN, Exh. A; Tuszynska v. Cunningham (2011) 199 Cal. App.4th 257, 268;
accord Shelley v. Harrop (2017) 9 Cal. App.5th 1147, 1165-1166 [“‘litigation
funding decisions’ also constitute protected petitioning activity. . . . We
agree with appellants that, insofar as a cause of action is based on the
payment of funds to maintain a lawsuit, this constitutes protected
activity that will be subject to a special motion to strike pursuant to section
425.16 unless the opposing party can demonstrate a probability of
prevailing on the claim”].)
          The alleged conduct also constitutes an element of
Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.  A cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty requires the following elements: (1) a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the
duty; and
(3) damage caused by the
breach.  (Charnay v. Cobert (2006)
145 Cal.App.4th 170, 182.)  Here,
Plaintiff alleges Moving Defendants “breached their fiduciary duties by knowingly
acting on their personal behalf and in the sole interests of LG H&H and
against the interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole . . . by
(i) engaging in in a wasteful and vindicative harassment campaign against
Plaintiff, her family, and former employees of the Company for the purpose of
devaluing the Company; (ii) entering into conflicted and self-dealing
transactions; and (iii) misusing Company marketing and business channels to
spread falsities for the purpose of devaluing the Company.”  (FAC ¶49.) 
Plaintiff’s allegation pertaining to Moving Defendants’ retention of the
Law Firm to send the demand letters at issue as a form of waste supplies an
essential element of her cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.  (Rand Resources, LLC, 6 Cal.5th at pg.
621 “[T]he protected activity must ‘supply elements of the challenged claim.’”].)
          Accordingly, Moving Defendants met their burden to
demonstrate that the physical notices, telephone calls, and letters distributed
by Moving Defendants’ counsel in advance of litigation constitutes protected
activity under C.C.P. §425.16(e)(2).
          Plaintiff’s argument in opposition that Moving Defendants’
conduct cannot constitute protected activity because the cease-and-desist
letters were extortionate is unavailing. 
Plaintiff’s fails to demonstrate, as a matter of law, that the letters
were illegal.  (Flatley v. Mauro
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 330-331; City of
Montebello v. Vasquez (2016) 1 Cal.5th 409, 424 [“The
defendant must concede the point, or the evidence conclusively demonstrate it,
for a claim of illegality to defeat an anti-SLAPP motion at the first step.”].)  Here, Plaintiff does not conclusively
demonstrate the letters were illegal, and Moving Defendants do not concede that
the letters were extortionate.  Plaintiff
merely argues in a conclusory fashion, “[u]nder the totality of the
circumstances, Mr. Romeo’s letters constituted extortionate threats. Specific
statues were cited. Specific crimes were identified. Quite obviously,
recipients of these letters would have ‘feared’ being reported. The letters
were in furtherance of extortion.” 
(Opposition, pg. 8.)
The burden shifts to Plaintiff
to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on her cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty against Moving Defendants. 
Plaintiff has not met her burden.
 
Prong
Two: Probability of Prevailing
A.   Breach of Fiduciary Duty
A cause of action for breach
of fiduciary duty requires the following elements: (1) a fiduciary duty; (2) breach
of the duty; and (3) damage caused by the breach.  (Charnay, 145 Cal.App.4th at pg. 182.)
Plaintiff failed to establish
a probability of prevailing on her cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.  Plaintiff’s opposition does not address the
probability of prevailing on this cause of action.  (See Opposition.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff failed
to establish a probability of prevailing on her cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty.
 
Conclusion
          Moving Defendants’ special motion to strike FAC ¶¶40-41,
lines 15-22 including n.1 is denied. 
Moving Defendants’ special motion to strike FAC ¶2, lines 25-27; ¶25, lines
21-23; ¶¶27-28, lines 9-21; and ¶49, lines 1-5 is granted.
          Moving Defendants may separately move for attorneys’ fees
and costs incurred on the instant motion. 
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  