  Case Number:  22STCV09010    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV09010




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication 




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Defendant PDQ Manufacturing, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant
  Veritiv Operating Company   



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts
3.     Exhibit Appendix and Declaration of Joshua
Shayne 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Veritiv’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Adjudication
2.     Response to PDQ’s Separate Statement 
3.     Objections to Evidence
4.     Declaration of Carly J. English in Support 
5.     Appendix of Exhibits in Support 
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.     PDQ’s Reply 
2.     Objections to Veritiv’s Additionally
Undisputed Material Facts 
3.     Request for Judicial Notice 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 14, 2022, Plaintiff
Hugo Salcedo (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Veritiv Operating Company
and Does 1 to 60, for premises liability and negligence. Plaintiff alleges that
on March 17, 2020, he tripped and fell on a pothole in Veritiv Operating
Company’s (“Veritiv”) parking lot. 
 
On February 6, 2023, Veritiv
filed the operative second amended cross-complaint (“SAXC”) asserting
contractual/express indemnity and declaratory relief against PDQ Manufacturing,
Inc. The second amended cross-complaint alleges that on March 2, 2020, PDQ
Manufacturing, Inc. (“PDQ”) and Veritiv entered into a Purchase Order
Agreement. (SAXC ¶ 8.) PDQ then contracted with XPO Logistics Cartage, LLC
(“XPO”) to deliver the purchased goods to Veritiv. (Id. ¶ 9.) On March
17, 2020, Plaintiff entered Veritiv’s premises during the course and scope of
his employment with XPO. (Id. ¶ 11.) Veritiv alleges that pursuant to
paragraphs 9 and 13 of the Purchase Order Agreement, PDQ Manufacturing, Inc.
(“PDQ”) agreed to indemnify Veritiv. (Id. ¶ 18.) 
 
PDQ now moves for summary
judgement, or alternatively, summary adjudication against the express
indemnification and declaratory relief causes of action, arguing that Plaintiff’s
action is not subject to the Purchase Order Agreement because he was not PDQ’s
agent or subcontractor under section 9(iii) of the Agreement, and that section
13 of the Agreement does not require indemnification. As a result, there is no
controversy to warrant declaratory relief. 
 
Veritiv opposes and PDQ
replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
an issue of duty.” (Id.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no
triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay
Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court denies PDQ’s request for judicial notice of the Contract
Carriage Agreement. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court overrules Veritiv’s objection to the Declaration of Bryan
Jost, the Vice President and General Manager for PDQ. (See Forest Lawn
Memorial-Park Ass’n v. Superior Court (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 1, 8 [“A
statement lacks foundation if no jury could reasonably find that the witness
has personal knowledge of the matter.”] [Citation and alterations omitted,
emphasis in original.].)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.               
Indemnity Agreements
 
“Parties to a contract, . . . , may define therein their duties toward one another in the
event of a third party claim against one or both arising out of their
relationship.  Terms of this kind may require one party to indemnify the
other, under specified circumstances, for moneys paid or expenses incurred by
the latter as a result of such claims. (See Civ. Code, § 2772 [“Indemnity is a
contract by which one engages to save another from a legal consequence of the
conduct of one of the parties, or of some other person.”].)” (Crawford v.
Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 551 [citation omitted,
emphasis in original] [hereafter, Crawford].)  
 
“As befits the contractual nature of such arrangements, but
subject to public policy and established rules of contract interpretation, the
parties have great freedom to allocate such responsibilities as they see fit.”
(Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at 551.) “In general, such an
agreement is construed under the same rules as govern the interpretation of
other contracts. Effect is to be given to the parties' mutual intent (§ 1636),
as ascertained from the contract's language if it is clear and explicit (§
1638). Unless the parties have indicated a special meaning, the contract's
words are to be understood in their ordinary and popular sense.” (Id. at
552.)
“In interpreting the provisions of a contract, the rules are
well-settled. ‘The whole of a contract is to be taken together, so as to give
effect to every part, if reasonably practicable, each clause helping to
interpret the other.’ [Citations.] ‘Courts must interpret contractual language
in a manner which gives force and effect to every provision, and not in a way
which renders some clauses nugatory, inoperative or meaningless.’ [Citations.]
The contract must also be ‘interpreted as to give effect to the mutual
intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so far as
the same is ascertainable and lawful.’ [Citation.] ‘Such intent is to be
inferred, if possible, solely from the written provisions of the contract.’ [Citation.]
‘In construing a contract which purports on its face to be a complete
expression of the entire agreement, courts will not add thereto another term,
about which the agreement is silent. [Citation.]’ [Citation.] When determining
the intent of the parties, the court will consider a particular provision
paramount over a general provision.” (The Ratcliff Architects v. Vanir
Construction Management, Inc. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 595, 601-02.) 
II.            
Agency 
“An agent is one who represents another, called the principal, in
dealings with third persons. In California, an agency is either actual or
ostensible. Actual agency arises when the principal's conduct causes the agent
reasonably to believe that the principal consents to the agent's act on behalf
of the principal.” (Rogers v. Roseville SH, LLC (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th
1065, 1074 [internal citations and quotations omitted]; Civ. Code, § 2316 [“Actual
authority is such as a principal intentionally confers upon the agent, or
intentionally, or by want of ordinary care, allows the agent to believe himself
to possess.”].) 
“Agency and independent contractorship are not necessarily mutually
exclusive legal categories as independent contractor and servant or employee
are. In other words, an agent may also be an independent contractor. [Citation.]
One who contracts to act on behalf of another and subject to the other's
control, except with respect to his physical conduct, is both an agent and an
independent contractor. [Citations.] But, ‘[t]he law indulges in no presumption
that an agency exists but instead presumes that a person is acting for himself
and not as agent for another.’ [Citation.] ‘[W]hether an agency relationship
has been created or exists is determined by the relation of the parties as they
in fact exist by agreement or acts [citation], and the primary right of control
is particularly persuasive. [Citations.] Other factors may be considered to
determine if an independent contractor is acting as an agent, including:
whether the “principal” and “agent” are engaged in distinct occupations; the
skill required to perform the “agent's” work; whether the “principal” or “agent”
supplies the workplace and tools; the length of time for completion; whether
the work is part of the ‘principal's’ regular business; and whether the parties
intended to create an agent/principal relationship. [Citation.]’” (Jackson
v. AEG Live, LLC (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1156, 1184.) 
“ ‘Ostensible authority is such as a principal, intentionally or by
want of ordinary care, causes or allows a third person to believe the agent to
possess.’ (Civ. Code § 2317; see Civ. Code § 2316 [actual authority defined].)
A corollary derived from this principle is that ostensible authority of an
agent cannot be based solely upon the agent’s conduct.” (Pierson v.
Helmerich & Payne Internat. Drilling Co. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 608,
635.) Therefore, “[a] defendant may be held liable as a ‘principal’ for the acts
of the defendant's ostensible agent (that is, the third party who is not
actually his agent) only if (1) the plaintiff, when dealing with the agent, did
so ‘with [a reasonable] belief in the agent's authority,’ (2) that ‘belief
[was] generated by some act or neglect by the principal,’ and (3) the plaintiff
was not negligent in relying on the agent's apparent authority.” (Pereda v.
Atos Jiu Jitsu LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 759, 768.)
“The question whether an agency relationship has been created is
normally a question of fact. Where a conflict in the evidence exists from which
either conclusion could be reached as to the status of the parties, the
question must be submitted to the jury. However, ‘. . . where but one inference
can reasonably be drawn from the evidence . . . the question of whether one is
an employee or an independent contractor becomes one of law for the court.’” (Stilson
v. Moulton-Niguel Water Dist. (1971) 21 Cal.App.3d 928, 936 [internal
citations omitted].) 
III.          
Analysis
Here, the subject Purchase Order Agreement (“Agreement”) between
Veritiv and PDQ contained the following relevant sections:
“Seller (PDQ)
agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Buyer (Veritiv), its agents,
and employees from and against any and all expenses, claims, demands, losses,
damages, actions, or liability of any kind, including reasonable attorney’s
fees incurred for any and all damage or injury of any kind or nature whatever
(including death) to all persons (including those employed by Seller) or
property which is caused by, arises out of, on account of, or as a result of:
(i) use of goods or services provided hereunder; (ii) breach by Seller of any
of its representations, warranties, covenants and/ or agreements contained
herein;  (iii) any act or omission of
Seller, its agents, employees, representatives or subcontractors  or failure to comply with the terms hereof;
or (iv) any alleged infringement of any trademark, patent, copyright or other
proprietary right, by reason of the sale or use of the goods and/ or services
furnished under these Terms.”
(PDQ Exh. 5,
Terms and Conditions of Purchase, paragraph 9.)
“While on
Buyer’s premises, Seller and its subcontractors shall comply with Buyer’s site specific
regulations and shall ensure that all of its employees, subcontractors and
agents have a safe work environment. Seller is solely responsible for the
safety of the employees of Seller and its subcontractors and the means and
methods utilized by it or its subcontractors’ employees in performing the
services contemplated herein, and Seller agrees that Buyer shall have no such
responsibility.”
(PDQ Exh. 5,
Terms and Conditions of Purchase, paragraph 13.)
The
following facts are undisputed. Plaintiff was an independent contractor for XPO
and was on Veritiv’s premises to deliver goods to Veritiv. (UMF 2.) The goods
that were being delivered were products sold by PDQ to Veritiv pursuant to a
Purchase Order Agreement between PDQ and Veritiv, entered on or about March 2,
2020. (UMF 3.) PDQ requested XPO to deliver the goods. (UMF 4.) Plaintiff
alleges that, as he was exiting a Semi 18-wheeler truck at VERITIV’s premises,
he tripped and fell as a result of a pothole, causing him to sustain injuries.
(UMF 5.) PDQ did not own Plaintiff’s truck, did not employ Plaintiff, train
Plaintiff, pay Plaintiff, instruct Plaintiff to take a certain route, or
instruct him to wear a certain type of shoes while making the delivery. (UMF
12.) Plaintiff’s services as a delivery driver were performed without the
day-to-day supervision of PDQ. (UMF 13.) Plaintiff’s work as a delivery driver
required the use of equipment not owned or provided by PDQ (such as the truck
and PPE). (UMF 14.) Plaintiff’s work as a delivery driver was not part of PDQ’s
regular business of manufacturing cleaning supplies. (UMF 15.) 
PDQ argues
that Plaintiff was not its “agent” or “subcontractor” under the indemnity
agreement. PDQ also notes that paragraph 9(iii) did not expressly include the
subcontractor’s agents or employees when the agreement made that distinction in
paragraph 13 (“subcontractors’ employees”). (See UMF 10, PDQ
Exh. 5.) 
In
opposition, Veritiv contends that Plaintiff was XPO’s agent, and therefore
because XPO was PDQ’s subcontractor, Plaintiff falls under paragraph 9(iii). Veritiv
contends that PDQ failed to meet its burden since it did not address whether
Plaintiff was acting as an agent of XPO. 
Therefore,
the issue framed by the parties is whether Plaintiff is considered PDQ’s
“agent” or subcontractor” under paragraph 9(iii) of the Agreement. 
The parties
agree that Plaintiff was an independent contractor of XPO. (UMF 18.) The
undisputed facts regarding PDQ’s lack of control over Plaintiff, that it did
not employ or pay Plaintiff, and did not instruct his delivery, support that
Plaintiff was not acting as PDQ’s agent. PDQ provides no information about the
relationship between it and XPO other than “PDQ requested XPO to deliver the
goods.” (UMF 4; Drost Decl. ¶ 7.) 
Neither
party submits extrinsic evidence regarding their intent, nor do they argue that
the contract is unclear or ambiguous. Both rely on the express contractual
language. The Court assumes that XPO was PDQ’s subcontractor for purposes of
this motion, which the parties do not appear to dispute.[1]
(See Opposition at p. 5.) However, the agreement does not expressly state that
it applies to PDQ’s subcontractor’s agents. Rather, it states that it applies
to either PDQ’s agents or PDQ’s subcontractors (or PDQ’s employees or
representatives). Veritiv does not point to any language in the agreement or,
moreover, any ordinary or common definition, that would extend one’s
subcontractors to agents of subcontractors. The undisputed fact that Plaintiff
was an independent contractor of XPO is dispositive. (See also Opposition at
p.2 [“Plaintiff, as an agent of XPO, then delivered the goods to Veritiv.”].)
Veritiv
argues that Civil Code section 2775 provides a “common-sense principle in
interpreting indemnity agreements.” (Opposition at p.2.) That section provides:
“An agreement to indemnify against the acts of a certain person, applies not
only to his acts and their consequences, but also to those of his agents.”
(Civ. Code § 2775.) However, this principle is already contained in the
agreement; the agreement expressly covers acts or omissions by PDQ and its agents.
Here, at most, XPO can be considered PDQ’s agent. But it is undisputed that
Plaintiff was not acting as PDQ’s agent.
The Court
finds PDQ has met its initial burden to demonstrate the absence of a triable
issue of fact, and viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to Veritiv,
Veritiv has not raised a triable issue of material fact that Plaintiff’s “act
or omission” is covered by the indemnity agreement.
Accordingly, there
is also no “actual controversy” and the declaratory relief cause of action
similarly fails. (See Ludgate Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000)
82 Cal.App.4th 592, 606 [“All that Code of Civil Procedure section 1060
requires is that there be ‘actual controversy relating to the legal rights and
duties of the respective parties.’”].)
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendant
PDQ Manufacturing, Inc’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant
shall serve and file a proposed judgment within 10 days. 
 
            Moving party shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


