  Case Number:  23PSCV03054    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Infobeans, Inc. v. Grays Peak Capital GP LLC, et al. Plaintiff Infobeans, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One TENTATIVE RULING The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One. The Court also DENIES the parties’ respective requests for monetary sanctions.             Defendant Grays Peak Capital GP LLC is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract action. On October 3, 2024, plaintiff Infobeans, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Grays Peak Capital GP LLC (Grays Peak), Scott Stevens (Stevens),and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for breach of contract, quantum meruit, unjust enrichment, promissory estoppel, and intentional misrepresentation. On October 10, 2024, the parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference, in which the parties agreed that Grays Peak would provide verified code-compliant supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories numbers 15.1, 17.1, and 50.1 through 50.6, by October 25, 2024.[1] On December 4, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories numbers 17.1 and 50.2 through 50.6. On January 7, 2025, Grays Peak opposed the motion. On January 13, 2025, Plaintiff replied. LEGAL STANDARD Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), provides that on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply:            (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)             Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (d), further provides that “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) DISCUSSION Meet and Confer The Court finds Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient. (Minute Order (10/10/24).) Summary of Arguments Plaintiff seeks to compel further supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, numbers 17.1 and 50.2 through 50.6, which Grays Peak served on October 25, 2024. Plaintiff indicates that Grays Peak provided further supplemental responses on October 25, 2024. Plaintiff contends that Grays Peak’s further supplemental responses to Form Interrogatory 17.1, as it pertains to Requests for Admission numbers 5, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, and 14, are the same copied and pasted response that it did not execute an agreement with Plaintiff, are inapplicable to the majority of requests for admission, are inadequate, and are non-responsive. Plaintiff further contends that Grays Peak’s responses to Form Interrogatories numbers 50.2 through 50.6 remain non-responsive and evasive. In opposition, Grays Peak contends its responses to Form Interrogatory number 17.1 are complete, code-compliant, consistent with its position that no agreement exists between the parties, and directly responsive to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. Grays Peak contends it is not reasonable to expect additional facts beyond denial of the formation of the alleged contract. Grays Peak contends it identified emails between Stevens and Plaintiff as supporting the denial to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission. Grays Peak contends it should not be required to fabricate facts or documents that do not exist. Grays Peak further contends its responses to Form Interrogatory numbers 50.2 through 50.6 are complete, code-compliant, consistent with its position that no agreement exists between the parties, and directly responsive to these interrogatories. Grays Peak contends it cannot provide information regarding breaches, excusals, enforceability, termination, or ambiguity for a non-existent agreement. Analysis             The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion unpersuasive. Grays Peak’s responses make clear that it disputes the existence of an agreement between the parties, which is a foundational issue underlying Plaintiff’s discovery requests. (Patel Decl., Ex. O; Plaintiff’s Separate Statement.) The Court finds Grays Peak’s responses sufficient. Given the inherent difficulty of proving a negative, it is unclear to the Court what more Grays Peak could really say or what additional information it could provide to support this contention. While the Court agrees that Grays Peak’s responses stating, “[e]mails between Scott Stevens and Propounding Party” are vague, it is clear that Plaintiff understands what documents Grays Peak means, as Plaintiff contends they do not support Grays Peak’s denials. (See Plaintiff’s Separate Statement.) Plaintiff is free to challenge Grays Peak’s denials and ask further questions in a deposition or by other discovery methods, but the Court otherwise finds that further responses are not warranted or reasonably feasible here. Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion.             The Court further DENIES the parties’ respective requests for monetary sanctions, finding the motion was both brought and opposed with substantial justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) CONCLUSION The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One. The Court also DENIES the parties’ respective requests for monetary sanctions.             Defendant Grays Peak Capital GP LLC is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.