 Case Number:  24PSCV00128    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  H Pierson
v. MJB Partners LLC, et al., Case No. 24PSCV00128


ORDER
ON DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRERS AND MOTION TO STRIKE
1.
      Defendant Gary G. Sandhu, M.D.’s
(erroneously sued and served herein as “Gary Sandu, M.D.”) Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.

2.
      Defendant Gary G. Sandhu, M.D.’s
(erroneously sued and served herein as “Gary Sandu, M.D.”) Motion to Strike
Portions of the First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
3.
      Defendant MJB Partners, LLC dba
Pomona Vista Care Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED. The Court will hear from Plaintiffs’ counsel as to whether leave to
amend is requested, and as to which cause(s) of action, and if so, will require
an offer of proof.

I.        Background 
Plaintiffs
Doris Pierson, Joseph E. Pierson, III, and Ronald Pierson, individually and as
successors-in-interest to decedent, Joseph E. Pierson, II (“Plaintiffs”) allege
that on May 1, 2023, a couple months after being admitted to Pomona Valley
Vista Care Center, Joseph E. Pierson, II (“Pierson”) Pierson “suddenly stopped
breathing” during his lunch and suffered preventable death. 
On
June 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (the “Operative
Complaint” or “FAC”), asserting causes of action against MJB Partners, LLC dba
Pomona Vista Care Center (“MJB Partners”), Kyle Selvig, Nancy Esperanza, Gary G. Sandhu, M.D. (erroneously sued and
served herein as “Gary Sandu, M.D.”)
(“Sandhu”), and Does 1-100 for (1) elder abuse and
neglect, (2) negligence based on medical malpractice, (3) violation of patient
rights, and (4) wrongful death. 
Pending
before the Court are: (1) Sandhu’s demurrer to the Operative Complaint, (2)
Sandhu’s motion to strike portions of the Operative Complaint, and (3) MJB
Partners’ demurrer to the Operative Complaint. 
II.      Legal
Standard
A demurrer may be made on the
grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
“A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905
[citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the
claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie
(1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or facts
impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land Co.
v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].) 
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a)
Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” The
grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) 
“An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:
(1) An allegation that is not
essential to the statement of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an
otherwise sufficient claim or defense. 
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10,
subd. (b).)
“An ‘immaterial allegation’ means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is
used in Section 436.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (c).)
 
III.     Discussion
A.       Sandhu’s
Demurrer
Sandhu
demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e), to the
second cause of action (i.e., for Negligence Based Upon Medical Malpractice) in
the Operative Complaint, on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
“[I]n any medical
malpractice action, the plaintiff must establish: (1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.” (Gami v. Mulliken Medical Center (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870,
877 [quotations and citation omitted].) “A physician’s duty of care to a
patient does not arise until a physician-patient relationship is established.”
(Alexander v. Scripps Memorial Hospital La Jolla (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 206,
235.) 
Sandhu
argues that Plaintiffs cannot establish that Sandhu owed them a duty of care.
Sandhu, however, misconstrues this cause of action as having been brought by
Plaintiffs individually, rather than as a survival cause of action as
decedent’s successors-in-interest. This is incorrect. In Paragraph 1 of the
FAC, the term “Plaintiffs” refers to “Plaintiffs, DORIS PIERSON, JOSEPH E.
PIERSON, III and RONAL PIERSON, individually and as Successors In
Interest to Decedent, JOSEPH E. PIERSON, II.” (Emphasis added). The second
cause of action is asserted by “Plaintiffs.” “Plaintiffs” assert therein that
“Defendants, and each of them, owed a duty to Decedent. . .”
(FAC, ¶ 67 [emphasis added]; see also, ¶¶ 62 [At all times herein, Defendant[].
. . SANDHU [had] . . . an ongoing duty to provide timely medical care, surgery
and  daily custodial care as necessary to
prevent patients from suffering injury and death as hereinafter alleged, so
patients such as JOSEPH E. PIERSON, II would not suffer needless injury and
death. . .”] and 66 [Defendant[ ] . . . SANDHU breached [his] aforesaid duties to
Decedent. . .” [emphasis added].) They are not contending that Sandhu owed
a duty to them directly. 
Sandhu’s
demurrer is overruled.
 
B.       Sandhu’s Motion to Strike 
Sandhu moves the Court, per Code of Civil Procedure
sections 435-437, for an order striking out the following portions of the
Operative Complaint:
1.       “. . . custodial services . . .” (¶ 61);
2.       “. . . custodial . . . care . . . daily
custodial care . . .” (¶ 62); and 
3.       “. . . care needs. . .” (¶ 69). 
Sandhu requests that the foregoing phrases be
stricken, on the basis that Plaintiffs have not asserted an elder abuse cause
of action against him and that the elements for a medical malpractice cause of
action, which is asserted against him, does not require allegations of
“custodial services,” “daily custodial care” and/or “care needs.” 
Sandhu’s motion is granted. The elements of a
medical malpractice cause of action, as set forth in the Court’s analysis on
Sandhu’s demurrer, do not require allegations of “custodial services,” “daily
custodial care,” and/or “care needs.” Plaintiffs argue that “[r]ead in context,
the words ‘custodial services’ apply to Pomona Vista, not Dr. Sandhu[,] because
Plaintiffs have not alleged a cause of action for elder abuse against him.”
(Opp. 3:17-18.) These phrases are more appropriately contained in the first
cause of action for elder abuse and neglect, which is asserted against other
defendants.
 
C.       MJB Partners’ Demurrer
MJB
Partners demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e),
to the first and fourth causes of action (i.e., for Elder Abuse and Neglect and
Wrongful Death, respectively) in the Operative Complaint, on the basis that
they both fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.
(1)      First Cause
of Action (Elder Abuse and Neglect)
The elements of a cause of action for dependent abuse and
neglect are determined by the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection
Act (the “Act”). (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600 et seq.) The Act affords
heightened remedies to elders and dependent adults who can establish “by clear
and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for . . . neglect as defined
in Section 15610.57, and that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse.” (Welf. &
Inst. Code § 15657, subd. (a).)
“Neglect” is defined in Section
15610.57 as “[t]he negligent failure of any person having the care or custody
of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a
reasonable person in a like position would exercise” and includes, inter alia,
the “(1) Failure to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision or food,
clothing, or shelter. (2) Failure to provide medical care for physical and
mental health needs . . . (3) Failure to protect from health and safety
hazards. (4) Failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration.”
The Act excludes liability for acts of professional
negligence; it does not apply to simple or gross negligence by health care
providers. (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 32). Neglect
under the Act “refers not to the substandard performance of medical services
but, rather, to the failure of those responsible for attending to the basic
needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their
professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations. Thus, the
statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not of the undertaking of
medical services, but of the failure to provide medical care.” (Sababin
v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 89 [quotation marks and
citation omitted].)
Further, a plaintiff must show defendant was guilty of
“‘recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of [physical,
neglectful, or financial elder abuse.]’” (Benun v. Superior Court (2004)
123 Cal.App.4th 113, 119 [citation omitted].) Recklessness “refers to a
subjective state of culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been
described as a ‘deliberate disregard’ of the ‘high degree of probability’ that
an injury will occur.” (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 31.) Oppression, fraud, and malice involve
intentional or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature. (Id.)
A plaintiff must also show that an employer “had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice” and, “[w]ith respect to a corporate employer, [that the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b); Welf &
Inst. Code, 15657, subd. (c).)
Several factors, then, “must be present for conduct to constitute
neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the
enhanced remedies available under the Act. The plaintiff must allege (and
ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the
defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or
dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2)
knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for
his or her own basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services
necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult's basic needs, either with
knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or
dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with
conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff
alleges recklessness). The plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by
clear and convincing evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent
adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts
constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect
and the injury must be pleaded with particularity, in accordance with the
pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407 [quotation marks
and citations omitted].)
The
Court determines that Plaintiffs have failed to adequately plead a cause of
action for elder abuse and neglect. Plaintiffs have alleged that on May 1,
2023, no custodial supervision was provided while the decedent ate lunch, that
30 minutes afterwards (at about 1:00 p.m.), a certified nurse aid reported to
the supervising charge nurse that decedent “looked different” while “acting
slower than usual,” that the supervising charge nurse reported to the room
where the decedent was noted as “obtunded,” “non-verbal with shallow
respirations” with “declining vital signs” and that the decedent’s physician
was notified as to his deteriorating status, that at 1:10 p.m. decedent’s vital
signs further declined and the physician was again notified, that at 1:15 p.m.,
the supervising charge nurse contacted 911 for paramedic assistance, that at 1:20
p.m. paramedics arrived to assist with CPR efforts, and that at 1:46 p.m. the
decedent was pronounced dead due to cardiac arrest. (FAC, ¶¶ 23-27.) The majority
of the aforesaid facts sounds in negligence in the undertaking of medical
services. Additionally, Plaintiffs have failed to plead causation between the
purported neglect and injury.
MJB
Partners’ demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained.
(2)      Fourth Cause of Action (Wrongful Death)
“The elements of a wrongful death cause of action
are (1) a wrongful act or neglect on the part of one or more persons that (2)
causes the death of another person.” (Arista v. County of Riverside
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1051, 1060 [quotations and citation omitted].) MJB
Partners demurs to Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action on the basis that the
element of causation has not been pled. The Court agrees.
MJB Partners’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action
is sustained. 