 Case Number:  24PSCV01758    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  H Yao, et al. v. Yang, Case
No. 24PSCV01758
ORDER
ON MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT 
Defendant
Qihui Yang’s Motion to Set Aside Default is DENIED. 
Background 
Plaintiffs Mingwen Yao (“Yao”) and Worldyao Group
(“Group”) (together, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
Yao is the majority shareholder
of Group. On August 10, 2020, Yao and Qihui Yang (“Yang”) entered into a
written agreement, in which Yang agreed to invest $30,000 in Group for a
four-month period in exchange for $15,000.00 in investment profits. After Yao
failed to produce any profits or return Yang’s original investment, Yang sued
Yao and Group. On February 23, 2022, Yang and Yao entered into a confidential
settlement agreement, which contained a non-disparagement clause. The
settlement agreement is usurious. Yang brought a motion to enforce the
settlement agreement after Yao defaulted in making payments due thereunder.
Yang disparaged Plaintiffs in the community. Yang then sued Plaintiffs in Case
No. 22PSCV01615. Yang was able to obtain a default judgment against Plaintiffs
in that case because Plaintiffs were defrauded by James Lee (“Lee”) and his
associate, Sandra DeLeon (“DeLeon”), who falsely represented to Plaintiffs that
they were attorneys and would defend them in the lawsuit. 
On June 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint, asserting causes of action against Yang, DeLeon, Lee, and Does 1-50
for (1) breach of contract, (2) usury, (3) equitable relief to set aside
default, and (4) fraud. 
On September 5, 2024, Yang’s default was entered. 
Pending before the Court is Yang’s motion to set
aside default. 
Legal Standard
“The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
Discussion
Yang
moves the Court for an order setting aside the default entered against her on
September 5, 2024, “on the grounds of improper service and lack of personal
jurisdiction.” (Motion, 2:4-5.)
Defendant
cites to Code of Civil Procedure § 473, subdivision (b) as the basis of her
motion (See Id., 2:5 and 2:22); however, it appears from the foregoing
language that Defendant is arguing improper service, which is a subdivision (d)
argument (i.e., “[t]he court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct
clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the
judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to
the other party, set aside any void judgment or order”). More specifically,
Yang is contending that Plaintiffs improperly electronically served the summons
and complaint upon Peter Deng on July 3, 2024, when he was not yet her counsel
of record (Id. at 2:12-26 [“It is the Defendant’s position that the
purported service by email to Attorney Peter S. Deng (“Deng”) on July 3, 2024,
failed to confer personal jurisdiction over Ms. Yang, as Mr. Deng had not yet
been authorized to represent her, nor was email a sanctioned method of service
under the governing statutes”]; see also, Deng Decl., 2:6-14.)
Plaintiffs’ counsel
Heidi Cheng (“Cheng”), in turn, attests that she spoke telephonically with Deng
on July 16, 2024 at length about this case, during which time Deng confirmed he
represented Yang and agreed to accept service of the First Amended Complaint
via a “Notice and Acknowledgment” (“Notice”) through email (Cheng Decl., ¶ 2);
that she followed up their phone call with a confirming email (Id., ¶ 2,
Exh. 1); that Deng signed and returned the Notice via email to her on July 17,
2024 (Id., ¶ 3, Exh. 2)[FN1];
that on August 16, 2024, she emailed Deng to remind him that his responsive
pleading was due that day (Id., ¶ 4, Exh. 3), and that instead Deng sent
a meet and confer letter after hours that day (Id., ¶ 4). The instant
motion was filed on September 12, 2024. 
The
motion is denied.  

