 Case Number:  22STCV02797    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  28 Having considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. BACKGROUND A. Case number 22STCV02797 On January 24, 2022, Plaintiffs Oscar Eduardo Hidalgo Loya (“Hidalgo”) and Manuela Esmit Tellez Mora (“Tellez”) filed an action against Defendants The Ketter Group, LLC (“Ketter”), Calcrete Construction, Inc. (“Calcrete”), CCDFI Mariposa QOZB, LLC (“Mariposa”), and Does 1-50 for negligence, premises liability, and loss of consortium.On February 3, 2022, Hidalgo and Tellez (“Plaintiffs”) amended the complaint to include Defendant Ketter Construction, Inc. (“Ketter Construction”) as Doe 1. On April 11, 2022, Ketter Construction and Mariposa filed an answer. On May 13, 2022, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant “Bolivar Levi Ramirez an individual doing business as Cal-Crete Construction Co.” as Doe 2.  On May 16, 2023, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to correct the Defendant's name: “Bolivar Levi Ramirez individually and doing business as Cal-Crete Construction Co.” On June 21, 2022, Calcrete filed an answer. On July 1, 2022, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant Ferrocrete Builders, Inc. (“Ferrocrete”) as Doe 3. On July 28, 2022, the Court dismissed Defendant Bolivar Levi Ramirez individually and dba Cal-Crete Construction Co without prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request. On October 14, 2022, Ferrocrete filed an answer. On December 23, 2022, the Court dismissed Ketter without prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request. B. Case number 22STCV05246 On February 14, 2022, Plaintiff Benchmark Insurance (“Benchmark”) filed a complaint for subrogation reimbursement against Defendants Ketter Construction, Calcrete, and Does 1 through 25 under Labor Code section 3852. On April 11, 2022, Ketter Construction filed an answer. On January 3, 2023, Benchmark amended the complaint to add Defendants Ferrocrete as Doe 1 and Calcrete as Doe 2. C. The Court relates and consolidates the cases On May 18, 2022, the Court found that case numbers 22STCV02797 and 22STCV05246 are related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).  22STCV02797 became the lead case. On December 6, 2022, the Court granted the motion of Mariposa and Ketter Construction to consolidate the cases for all purposes.  Trial is currently scheduled for February 16, 2024. D.      Ketter Construction and Mariposa move for summary judgment On April 5, 2023, Ketter Construction and Mariposa (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion for summary judgment to be heard on June 23, 2023.  The Court continued the hearing to January 8, 2024.  On December 22, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  On January 3, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply. PARTIES’ REQUESTS Moving Defendants request that the Court grant summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ complaint in case number 22STCV02797 and on Benchmark’s complaint in case number 22STCV05246. Plaintiffs request that the Court deny the motion. MOVING DEFENDANTS’ REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE               The Court denies Moving Defendants’ request for judicial notice of documents in the case file. PLAINTIFFS’ REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE           The Court denies Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice of California Building Code provisions. MOVING DEFENDANTS’ EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS         Overruled: 1-16 PLAINTIFFS’ EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS         Overruled:  1-12 LEGAL STANDARD A.   Summary judgment           “‘[F]rom commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)            When the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.)            “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)           In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas), quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment]; see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication “shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].) The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)             In ruling on the motion, the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  B.   Negligence and premises liability “The elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury.  [Citations.]  Premises liability ‘is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage the premises’; accordingly, ‘mere possession with its attendant right to control conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for the imposition of an affirmative duty to act.’  [Citation.]  But the duty arising from possession and control of property is adherence to the same standard of care that applies in negligence cases.”  (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159, quoting Preston v. Goldman (1986) 42 Cal.3d 108, 118.) C.   The Privette doctrine In Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 (Privette), our Supreme Court considered whether a landowner could be liable for injuries sustained when an independent contractor's employee fell off a ladder while carrying hot tar up to a roof during a roof installation. (Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 41 (Gonzalez), citing Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at pp. 691-692.)  The Court held that “the doctrine of peculiar risk — which provides that landowners are vicariously liable for injuries to third parties resulting from the negligence of independent contractors in performing inherently dangerous work on the landowners’ property — does not apply to injuries sustained by the contractor's own employees.” (Ibid., citing Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at pp. 691-692.) D.       Loss of consortium A common law claim for loss of consortium has four elements: (1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to plaintiff’s spouse; (3) loss of consortium suffered by plaintiff; and (4) the loss was proximately caused by defendant’s act.  (See LeFiell Manufacturing Co. v. Superior Court (2012) 55 Cal.4th 275, 284-285.) DISCUSSION A.   The complaints 1.    Case number 22STCV02797 The complaint in case number 22STCV02797 alleges the following: Moving Defendants and other defendants were the owner, lessor, lessee, occupant, builder, developer, architect, general contractor, subcontractor, inspector, engineer, and/or otherwise involved with and responsible for the real property, located at and around 744 S. Mariposa Avenue, in the City and County of Los Angeles (the “premises”), and/or the construction of an apartment building on the premises (the “project”).  These defendants controlled and supervised the jobsite and directed the means and methods by which work was performed, prior to and on the date of the incident. Ketter Construction, Ketter, and other Doe defendants had contracted with Hidalgo’s employer, Tierra Site Works (“Tierra”) to perform clean-up and excavation work at and around the premises as part of the project. Tierra’s scope of work included, among other things, excavating a large pit for the construction of an elevator shaft. Approximately two weeks before Hidalgo was injured, Tierra had enclosed the excavation site with security cables to protect persons on the job site from, among other things, falling into the excavated pit. After the excavation site had been enclosed with the safety cables, Ketter Construction, Ketter, Calcrete, and other Doe defendants, and/or their employees, contractors, and/or agents acting within the scope of their employment and/or agency, removed the safety cables in order to place materials and equipment in the excavated pit. Unbeknownst to Plaintiff, these Defendants failed to properly and safely replace and secure the cables. On or about February 17, 2020, Hidalgo and a coworker from Tierra were breaking up concrete on the jobsite and performing cleanup.  Ketter Construction, Ketter, Calcrete, and/or other Doe defendants had placed an air compressor machine in the area around the excavated pit, near the security cable.  Hidalgo reached toward the air compressor to turn it off and his shoulder made contact with the loose and improperly secured cable.  The cable came off and Hidalgo fell to the bottom of the excavated pit.  Hidalgo was severely injured. 2.       Case number 22STCV05246 The complaint in case number 22STCV05246 alleges the following: On or about February 17, 2020, at a construction site located at or near 744 S. Mariposa Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90005, Ketter Construction and other defendants so negligently and carelessly constructed, inspected, maintained, contracted, subcontracted, engineered, designed, owned or controlled the subject premises and/or failed to properly train, direct, supervise or coordinated its employees and operations in the design, construction, and assembly of a fall protection barrier as to cause Hidalgo to fall to the ground and sustain serious injuries while in the course of his employment with A Twister Excavation, Inc. As a result of Defendants’ negligence and Hidalgo’s resulting injuries, Benchmark has been obligated to pay, and has paid, workers’ compensation benefits to and/or on behalf of Hidalgo.  Benchmark therefore is subrogated to A Twister Excavation, Inc.’s rights with respect to all payments made for medical and related expenses and for compensation payments made to or on behalf of Hidalgo up through the time of trial and will amend the complaint to seek recovery of future workers’ compensation benefits and sums for medical care and treatment. B.   Undisputed facts On February 17, 2020, Hidalgo was allegedly injured when he was pulled into a pit by safety cables on the grounds of the construction site located at 744 S. Mariposa Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90005 (the “premises”) while he was acting in the course and scope of his employment with Tierra.  Hidalgo was an employee of Tierra.  He was not employed by Ketter Construction or Mariposa. Mariposa owned the premises.  Mariposa had hired Ketter Construction to act as the general contractor and complete a project (the “project”) for a new 31-unit apartment building to be built on the premises.  Ketter Construction had hired Tierra as a subcontractor to perform excavation, shoring and other necessary work to build a new basement on the premises via a signed subcontract with Ketter Construction and Mariposa. Prior to February 17, 2020, Hidalgo never spoke with, or had any contact with, anyone who worked for Ketter Construction or Mariposa.  A Tierra employee named Troy Floyd was Hidalgo’s supervisor.  Troy Floyd told Hidalgo what to do regarding the project. Hidalgo received safety training from Tierra.  He did not receive any safety training or other training from Ketter Construction or Mariposa. C.   Moving Defendants’ arguments Moving Defendants argue they did not owe Hidalgo a duty of care under the Privette doctrine. The Privette doctrine presumes that, with some exceptions, the hirer of an independent contractor delegates responsibility for workplace safety to the independent contractor. Mariposa, the property owner, hired Ketter Construction to act as the project’s general contractor.  Ketter Construction hired Tierra, an independent contractor, to carry out specific work on the construction site.  Hidalgo, Tierra’s employee, was injured while working in the course and scope of his employment for Tierra.  Under the Privette doctrine, Ketter Construction delegated responsibility for workplace safety to Tierra unless an exception to the doctrine applies.  Moving Defendants assert that no exception to the Privette doctrine applies here as a matter of law.  According to Moving Defendants, they did not retain control for purposes of the exception discussed in Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198 (Hooker) because (1) the relevant subcontract assigned control regarding performance and safety of the excavating/shoring work Tierra was to perform on the project to Tierra, (2) Hidalgo never had any contact with anyone at Ketter Construction or Mariposa prior to the accident, (3) Tierra employee Troy Floyd, Hidalgo’s supervisor, gave Hidalgo instructions regarding what to do at the project and directed Hidalgo’s actions on the day of the accident, (4) the only safety standards at the project that Hidalgo was aware of were provided to him by Tierra directly, (5) neither Ketter Construction nor Mariposa provided any safety training or made any express safety orders to Tierra prior to the accident as it was Tierra’s responsibility to train and implement safety standards with respect to its employees and assigned tasks, and (6) Plaintiffs have not shown that Ketter or Mariposa retained any control over the safety conditions and could not show how any retained control contributed to Hidalgo’s injuries. In addition, Moving Defendants argue, they did not provide unsafe equipment that affirmatively contributed to Hidalgo’s injuries.  (See McKown v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 219, 222 (McKown) [“a hirer is liable to an employee of an independent contractor insofar as the hirer's provision of unsafe equipment affirmatively contributes to the employee's injury”].) Moving Defendants rely on Hidalgo’s deposition testimony that Tierra provided the equipment for the project.  (Exh. G, pp. 31-32.)  Moving Defendants also rely on Ketter Construction employee Leif Wallace’s deposition testimony that Tierra provided and installed the cable railing system.  (Exh. H, pp. 96-97.) Last, Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiffs cannot show Mariposa knew or should have known about a concealed hazard on the property that Tierra did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered.  (See Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 664 (Kinsman).) D.   Plaintiffs’ arguments 1.    Retained control Plaintiffs argue that Ketter Construction retained and negligently exercised control over the means and manner by which Tierra’s employees performed their work and worksite safety, affirmatively contributing to Hidalgo’s injuries.  Plaintiffs rely on (1) the subcontract that Ketter Construction and Mariposa entered into with Tierra for Tierra’s work on the project, which required Tierra to install safety cables for fall protection around the pit that Tierra excavated,  (2) Ketter Construction’s Illness and Injury Prevention Program (“IIPP”) for the Mariposa project, which required Ketter to comply with and enforce safe work practices and inspections at the jobsite, (3) Troy Floyd’s testimony that Ketter Construction chose and provided the type of cable and provided engineer drawings that guided Tierra’s installation of the cable, and (4) deposition testimony of other employees of Ketter Construction, Ferrocrete, and Tierra. 2.    Concealed hazard Plaintiffs also argue that Ketter Construction and its employees knew, or should have known, about the concealed hazardous nature of the safety cable that snapped, causing Hidalgo to fall into the excavation pit, and neither Hidalgo nor Tierra knew of or could have reasonably discovered the hazardous nature of the cable that other subcontractors had removed and improperly replaced prior to the incident. E.   Analysis 1.    Moving Defendants have carried their initial summary judgment burden In Alvarez v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635 (Alvarez), the Court of Appeal explained how the Privette doctrine affects the parties’ respective burdens on a motion for summary judgment.  (Miller v. Roseville Lodge No. 1294 (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 825, 834 (Miller).)  When a person or organization hires an independent contractor, the hirer presumptively delegates to the contractor the responsibility to do the work safely.  (Miller, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 834, quoting Sandoval v. Qualcomm Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 269.) The Alvarez court referred to this as the “ ‘Privette presumption.’ ”  (Ibid., quoting Alvarez, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 642.)  “It held the Privette presumption arises once the defendant establishes the requisite factual foundation—namely, that it hired an independent contractor to perform certain work, and the independent contractor's worker was injured in the course of that work.” (Ibid., citing Alvarez, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 644.)  “Once the presumption arises, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether one of the exceptions to the Privette doctrine applies, and if it cannot, the defendant is entitled to summary judgment.”  (Ibid., citing Alvarez, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 644.)   Here, Moving Defendants hired Tierra, an independent contractor, to perform certain work.  Hidalgo, Tierra’s employee, was injured in the course of that work.  These facts invoke the Privette assumption, shifting the burden to Plaintiffs to raise a triable issue of fact regarding whether an exception to the doctrine applies. 2.    Plaintiffs have not raised a triable issue of fact a.    Plaintiffs have not raised a triable issue regarding the retained control exception Plaintiffs argue they have raised a triable issue of fact concerning the retained control exception to the Privette doctrine discussed in Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th 198.  In Hooker, the Court held that a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the independent contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained control in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. (Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 38, citing Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 202.) The Court “made clear in Hooker that this exception to Privette is not met solely because a hirer is aware that there is an unsafe condition on the worksite or knows that the contractor is engaging in an unsafe work practice.” (Id. at p. 42, citing Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at pp. 214–215.) “Something more is required, such as “ ‘ “inducing injurious action or inaction through actual direction” ’ ” (ibid., quoting Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 211); directing “ ‘ “the contracted work be done by use of a certain mode” ’ ” (ibid., quoting Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 215); or interfering with “ ‘the means and methods by which the work is to be accomplished” ’ ” (ibid., quoting Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 215). The Court “found that the hirer in Hooker did not exercise its retained control in a manner that affirmatively contributed to the injury where it merely permitted vehicles to use the overpass and knew that, in order to allow vehicles to pass through, the contractor's crane operator was required to engage in the unsafe practice of retracting the crane's stabilizing outriggers.” (Ibid., citing Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at pp. 214–215.) But the Court found that the hirer in Hooker’s companion case, McKown, supra, 27 Cal.4th 219, “exercised its retained control in a manner that affirmatively contributed to the injury where it requested the independent contractor to use the hirer's own defective equipment in performing the work.”  (Ibid., citing McKown, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 225.)            The evidence here does not support application of the Hooker exception. Plaintiffs argue Moving Defendants retained control because they did not delegate responsibility for inspecting the safety cable to Tierra or other subcontractors after Tierra installed it.  As a result, Plaintiffs argue, Moving Defendants were responsible for failing to remedy or warn Hidalgo about the subsequent removal (or improper re-securing) of the safety cable.  (See, e.g., Motion pp. 13-15.)  But even if the evidence supported this theory, it does not show that Moving Defendants induced injurious action or inaction through actual direction, directed that contracted work be done by use of a certain mode, or interfered with the means and methods by which the work was to be accomplished. (See Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 215.)  Plaintiffs have presented no evidence that Ketter Construction’s involvement in choosing the safety cable and directing its initial installation according to engineer drawings affirmatively contributed to Hidalgo’s injury.  Although Tierra's safety consultant Gabriel Ramos testified at his deposition that the cables did not meet the definition or requirements of guardrails contained in the OSHA regulations (Exh. 10 p. 75), Plaintiffs have not argued or shown that the cable’s asserted inadequacy caused Hidalgo’s injury. Plaintiffs argue that Ketter Construction “require[ed] [that] all workers, materials and equipment enter and exit the pit through the small platform/staging area, which required the safety cables that Tierra had installed for fall protection to be repeatedly removed and replaced by multiple subcontractors.”  (Motion pp. 14-15.)  Plaintiffs cite no evidence to support this assertion and it is not contained in their separate statement of undisputed facts. The Court finds that Plaintiffs have not raised a triable issue of fact concerning the retained control exception. b.    Plaintiffs have not raised a triable issue regarding the concealed hazard exception  In Kinsman, supra, the Court held that a landowner who hires an independent contractor may be liable if the landowner knew, or should have known, of a concealed hazard on the property that the contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered, and the landowner failed to warn the contractor of the hazard. (Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 38, citing Kinsman, supra, 37 Cal.4th at p. 664.) In Blaylock v. DMP 250 Newport Center, LLC (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 863 (Blaylock), the plaintiff, a project manager for the contractor hired to maintain and service the property owner’s HVAC equipment, fell through an access panel in the floor of a crawl space in which he was working.  The plaintiff sued the property owner.  The trial court granted summary judgment for the property owner and the plaintiff appealed, arguing there was a triable issue of fact about whether the owner and property manager knew or should have known of the allegedly concealed hazardous condition (the access panel).  The Court of Appeal affirmed, holding the Kinsman rule did not apply because, while the evidence might be sufficient to show the owner should have known the access panel existed, “there was no evidence it knew or should have known the panel was either concealed from a person in the crawl space above, or that it was hazardous.”  (Blaylock, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p. 866.)  The contractor had a duty to inspect the work premises for potential safety hazards but there was no evidence that it had conducted an inspection.  If the contractor’s employees had inspected the premises for safety issues, they would have recognized that the access panel was unsafe to walk on.  (Id. at p. 873.)  Its hazardous nature was not concealed.  (Ibid.) In Acosta v. MAS Realty, LLC (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 635 (Acosta), the plaintiff, an electrical technician, was injured when a broken hatch providing access to the roof of a commercial building slammed shut on his back, injuring him.  He sued the building’s owner and property owner, contending they failed to repair a dangerous condition of which they were aware or warn him of it.  A jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff and awarded him over $12 million in damages.  The Court of Appeal reversed, holding the plaintiff and his employer could reasonably have ascertained the dangerous condition on the site – i.e., that the mechanism designed to hold the roof hatch open was broken and the ladder that provided access to the hatch did not reach all the way to the roof.  (Acosta, supra, 96 Cal.App.5th at pp. 511-512.)  Thus, the hazard presented by the roof hatch and ladder were not concealed as a matter of law.  (Id. at p. 527.) Plaintiffs argue that the inadequate re-securing of the safety cable was a concealed hazard.  They assert that “a thorough inspection of the cables by [Ketter employee Leif Wallace] when he took a photograph of the platform/staging area before leaving the jobsite on the date of the incident would have revealed that the cables were loose and/or improperly secured prior to Plaintiff being injured.”  (Motion p. 15.)  Plaintiffs have presented no evidence that Tierra or its employees conducted an inspection of the worksite or that an inspection by Tierra would not similarly have revealed the problem with the safety cables.  Under the reasoning of Blaylock and Acosta, Plaintiffs have not raised a triable fact concerning whether the hazard was concealed. The Court grants Moving Defendants’ motion for summary judgment on Plaintiffs' complaint, including the claim for loss of consortium (which depends on Plaintiffs' other claims against Moving Defendants).  The Court also grants Moving Defendants' motion for summary judgment on Benchmark's complaint, which depends on Plaintiffs’ complaint). CONCLUSION           The Court GRANTS the motion for summary judgment filed by Defendants Ketter Construction, Inc. and CCDFI Mariposa QOZB, LLC on the complaints of Plaintiffs Oscar Eduardo Hidalgo Loya and Manuela Esmit Tellez Mora (case number 22STCV02797) and Benchmark Insurance (case number 22STCV05246).           Moving parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.           Moving parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days.