 Case Number:  23STCV16695    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  28 


Having considered the moving papers, the Court rules
  as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff Felicia Patterson
  (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Shannon Yao Wang
  (“Defendant”) and Does 1-20 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On September 25, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a motion
  to be relieved as counsel to be heard on January 16, 2024. 
Trial is currently scheduled for January 13, 2025. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s counsel request that the Court grant their request to be relieved as counsel.   
LEGAL STANDARD 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice
  of motion and motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section
  284(2) must be directed to the client and must be made on the Notice of
  Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b)
  Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding
  any other rule of court, no memorandum is required to be filed or served with
  a motion to be relieved as counsel. 
“(c)
  Declaration 
“The motion
  to be relieved as counsel must be accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration
  in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
  MC-052). The declaration must state in general terms and without compromising
  the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under
  Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent
  under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1). 
“(d)
  Service 
“The notice
  of motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served
  on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case. The
  notice may be by personal service, electronic service, or mail. 
“(1)  If the notice is served on the client by
  mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
  declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A)   The service address is the current residence
  or business address of the client; or 
“(B)   The service address is the last known
  residence or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable
  to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so
  within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2)  If the notice is served on the client by
  electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule
  2.251, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic
  service address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in
  this rule, ‘current’ means that the address was confirmed within 30 days before
  the filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice
  was sent to the client's last known address and was not returned or no
  electronic delivery failure message was received is not, by itself,
  sufficient to demonstrate that the address is current. If the service is by
  mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b) applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The
  proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting
  Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-053) and must be
  lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order must specify all
  hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of
  trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the court may set
  one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed, a copy of
  the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that have
  appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
  relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
  client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel did not identify the name(s) of the withdrawing
  attorney(s) in section 1 of the MC-051 form. Two attorneys are listed on the
  forms under “ATTORNEY OR PARTY WITHOUT ATTORNEY” but only one is later
  identified in the MC-052 form. 
In addition, the proof of service does not list the
  proposed order as one of the documents being served.  The proposed order must be served on the
  Plaintiff and other parties who have appeared in the case.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 1362(d).) 
The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion to be relieved as
  counsel for Plaintiff Felicia Patterson without prejudice. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel is ordered to file the proof of service of
  this ruling with the Court within five days. 