 Case Number:  21STCV29338    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 9, 2021, Plaintiff Fournier Calixte (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Daniel Shoykhet (“Defendant”) and Does 1-25 for negligence. 
On
October 28, 2021, Defendant filed a general denial and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Sean Beam (“Beam”) and Roes 1-10 for indemnification,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. On January 20, 2022, the Court
dismissed Beam without prejudice at Defendant’s request. 
On
March 1, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment to be heard on November
9, 2023.  The Court continued the hearing
to January 16, 2024. On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
October 30, 2023, Defendant filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 5, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
requests that the Court grant summary judgment. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion.
PLAINTIFF'S OBJECTIONS TO DEFENDANT'S SEPARATE STATEMENT:
    Overruled 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment  
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production
of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least
one element of the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must
‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’
must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original
emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];
see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication
“shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court must consider all of the
evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such
evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
843.)  
B.
Negligence and premises liability 
“The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.)  
DISCUSSION 
 A.   The complaint 
The complaint
alleges the following: 
On
or about August 11, 2019, Defendant placed a saw horse in the walkway of his
residence while having guests, including Plaintiff, over to stay the night. When
Plaintiff went to use the restroom, Plaintiff’s left foot struck the sharp edge
of the saw horse and immediately started bleeding uncontrollably. 
Plaintiff
was taken to the nearest emergency room, where he was treated and received
stitches, staples, and adhesive wound closures.  On September 10, 2019, Plaintiff had surgery
on his left foot as a result of the incident. Plaintiff has continued to
receive physical therapy and treatment for his injuries. 
As a
direct and proximate result of Defendant’s action, Plaintiff has suffered, and
continues to suffer, from physical and mental injuries that affect his ability
to fully live his life. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
Defendant
was a tenant at 2222 S. Figueroa Street, PH3, Los Angeles, CA 90007 (the residence).
Beam was staying at the residence with Defendant’s permission on the date of
the alleged incident. 
Defendant
was helping Beam with an installation project around the time of the incident
in August of 2019 for a period of approximately three weeks. Defendant assisted
with painting the facades of the installation and helping to physically install
it. Defendant was not an employee and was not compensated for his work; instead,
Defendant had a verbal agreement with Beam to assist with the installation
project.  Work on the installation
project was being completed in a warehouse space in Huntington Park,
California.  Defendant used a sawhorse at
the warehouse space to work on the installation project. 
Beam
introduced Defendant to Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff and Defendant met at the warehouse space. 
Plaintiff
spent the night of August 10, 2019 at Defendant’s home. Plaintiff consumed
marijuana and alcohol within 24 hours before the alleged incident. Plaintiff
woke up at some point, presumably in the morning, although he cannot remember the time.  Plaintiff walked, barefoot, through the
residence, intending to take a shower. 
Defendant was not at the residence. 
Plaintiff
struck his left foot on a sawhorse while walking through the residence to the
bathroom. Plaintiff noticed that he was bleeding from striking his foot on the
sawhorse.  Plaintiff went to the
emergency room. 
C.    Analysis 
Defendant
argues that he did not have actual or constructive notice that a sawhorse was
in his residence. 
“If [a]
dangerous condition is brought about by third persons, ‘then to impose
liability the owner must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition or have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to
discover the condition, which if known to him, he should realize as involving
an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises.’ ” (Jones v. Awad (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1208 (Jones), quoting Hatfield v. Levy Bros.
(1941) 18 Cal.2d 798, 806.)  “Actual
knowledge is defined as ‘ “express information of a fact,” ’ while constructive
knowledge is that ‘ “which is imputed by law.” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting In
re Marriage of Cloney (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 429, 436.)   
“Typically,
to charge an individual with constructive notice, he must have, ‘actual notice
of facts or circumstances which are sufficient to put a prudent person on
inquiry as to the existence of the fact with respect to which he is charged
with constructive notice.’ ” (Jones, supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at p.
1209, quoting Nicholson v. Los Angeles (1936) 5 Cal.2d 361, 364.) “Therefore,
a landowner cannot be charged with constructive notice without a showing of
some overt feature surrounding the dangerous condition, which would notify the
landowner of its existence.” (Ibid.) 
Defendant
has presented evidence that he has never owned or rented a sawhorse, he was not
aware of the presence of a sawhorse at the residence, and he was not present at
the residence when Plaintiff allegedly suffered his injury. (See Kothary Decl.
¶ 11, Exh. I; Shoykhet Depo. p. 52:14-15; p. 52:19-21; p. 53:6-24; p. 54:24-55:2;
p. 61:13-20; p. 66:1.) 
Defendant
has carried his initial summary judgment burden, shifting the burden to Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
has presented no evidence showing that Defendant knew or should have known that
a sawhorse was present at Defendant’s residence.  In response to Defendant’s separate statement
of undisputed fact asserting that Defendant
was not aware of the existence of the sawhorse at the residence, Plaintiff
asserts: “Disputed. Defendant provided Form Interrogatory Responses stated that
he “did not recall if there was a sawhorse in the apartment and therefore does
not know if he removed the sawhorse form [sic] the premises.”  (Response to UMF 31, emphasis added.)  Plaintiff’s form interrogatory responses (attached
as an exhibit to Plaintiff’s opposition) do not include any language stating that a sawhorse was present or that Defendant might have removed it. 
Plaintiff
has not carried his burden of raising a triable issue of fact regarding whether
Defendant had actual or constructive notice of a dangerous condition on the
premises.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Daniel Shoykhet’s motion for summary judgment. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.