  Case Number:  20STCV28819    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Demurrer of Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Santa Clarita Electrical, Inc. to
First Amended Cross-Complaint of Alliance Building Solutions.
BACKGROUND
SANTA CLARITA ELECTRICAL, INC. (“SCEI”) filed suit against
ALLIANCE BUILDING SOLUTIONS (“Alliance”) and others for claims arising out of construction
work performed for two school districts. Alliance was awarded construction
contracts by the school districts and then entered into subcontracts with SCEI
and its assignor InScope Innovation, Inc. (“InScope”).
Alliance filed a Cross-Complaint against SCEI for
breaches of contract. After the Court sustained a demurrer with leave to amend,
Alliance filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) for breaches of subcontract
agreements it had with SCEI and InScope. SCEI demurs to the FACC and Alliance opposes
the demurrer. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Demurrers are to be sustained where a pleading fails
to plead adequately any essential element of the cause of action. Cantu v.
Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 879-880.
Regarding uncertainty, "[t]here is no need to
require specificity in the pleadings because ‘modern discovery procedures
necessarily affect the amount of detail that should be required in a pleading.’”
Ludgate Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 592,
608.
 
ANALYSIS
            Alleging
Breached Contract Provisions
SCEI contends that the FACC fails to allege the specific
provisions of the contract allegedly breached and which breaches of contract
were committed by which of the two cross-defendants (SCEI and InScope). 
“[A] pleader must state with certainty the facts
constituting a breach of contract.” Melican v. Regents of Univ. of Cal.
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 174 (emphasis added). The governing authorities do
not require pleaders to allege each contract provision breached by each
defendant, but, distinguishably, only the facts constituting the breach.
SCEI’s cited cases to the contrary are from other jurisdictions that do not
control in California courts. See Demurrer, 6:28 and 7:6-16. State courts are
not bound by decisions of the United States Supreme Court based upon federal
statutory or state law, as distinguished from federal constitutional law. Adolph
v. Uber Techs., Inc. (2023) 14 Cal. 5th 1104, 1119. And California courts
are not bound to follow decisions of lower federal courts. People v. Superior
Court (2002) 103 Cal. App. 4th 409, 431.
Here, the allegations, as amended, are sufficiently
detailed as to the effects of contract language and the facts regarding
breaches of such language. E.g., FACC, ¶¶ 19-24. Thus, the Court determines
that the FACC fairly and certainly apprises SCEI and InScope as to what the
claimed breaches were. Additionally, the issues of specifically supportive
contract provisions are matters for discovery like admission requests and
interrogatories, and not demurrers.
Alleging conduct of defendants and each of them is
sufficient to charge each with liability. 
Lee v. Escrow Consultants, Inc. (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 915, 925. Cited
opinions to the contrary distinguishably involved alleging liability as to one
defendant but not the other. See Demurrer, 7:25-27. The FACC sufficiently
alleges liability as to multiple cross-defendants without leaving one out. 
Therefore, the Court overrules the demurrer as to
specifying breached contract provisions.
            Alleging
Contract Performance and Conditions
SCEI argues that the contracts attached to the FACC
require a notice to cure as a condition precedent and so Alliance must allege
that it either complied with this provision or was excused. 
Where contractual liability depends on performing
conditions precedent, an allegation of performance is essential, which may be
stated generally to the effect that plaintiffs performed all the conditions,
except that specific allegations are required as to occurrences of events, and
pleadings revealing specific facts that do not constitute performance. Careau
& Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371,
1389-90.
“‘[D]efendants cannot set forth allegations of fact in
their demurrers which, if true, would defeat plaintiff's complaint.’” Gould
v. Maryland Sound Industries, Inc. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1144.
There is no pleading requirement to specifically
address contract conditions. The FACC properly alleges generally the
performance of the contract. FACC ¶¶ 14 and 23. Also, the demurrer
impermissibly asserts the possibility of extrinsic facts about failing to give
notices to cure in compliance with contract provisions. See Demurrer, p. 11, ¶
5 (counsel’s declaration stating, “[w]e also had a disagreement on the issue of
ABS being required to plead facts regarding the cure provisions in the contract.”).
Hence, the Court overrules the demurrer as to pleading
contract performance.
 
CONCLUSION
The Court overrules the demurrer. SCEI has fifteen days
to answer. 