  Case Number:  23STCV20733    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
AERRIANNA MCCLELLAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
KIEWIT INFRASTRUCTURE WEST CO., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV20733
  Hearing Date:  October 28, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant kiewit infrastructure west
  co.’s motions to compel further responses to discovery 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff
Aerrianna McClellan filed this action against Defendants Kiewit Infrastructure
West Co. and Katie Williams, asserting FEHA claims and wage violations. 
            On September 30, 2024, Defendant
Kiewit filed the instant four motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses
to requests for production and interrogatories. Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
            A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet
and confer requirement. (See Shook Decl.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Requests for Production
            The party seeking production of
documents bears the initial burden of showing good cause through a
fact-specific showing of relevance. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Once this showing is made, the burden shifts to the
responding party to justify any objections. (Ibid.)
            Defendant’s separate statement sets
forth good cause for the requested documents. Plaintiff responded to each RFP
with the same objections: 
 
“Objection. This
request seeks documents that may be protected from disclosure by the
attorney-client privilege and/or work product doctrine. This request seeks
documents that may be protected from disclosure by Plaintiff’s Constitutional
Right to Privacy and/or the Constitutional Right to Privacy of third parties.
This request is overly broad, burdensome and harassing as many, if not the
majority, of documents responsive to this request are not only equally
available to propounding party, but to some extent exclusively available to
propounding party to the exclusion of Plaintiff.” 
Because Defendant has established good
cause, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to justify her objections. Plaintiff
fails to do so. Thus, further responses are warranted. 
II.
Interrogatories
A party “is entitled to demand answers to
its interrogatories, as a matter of right . . . [and] the burden of justifying
any objection and failure to respond remains at all times with the party
resisting an interrogatory.” (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
541.)
Plaintiff asserted similar objections to
the interrogatories at issue but has failed to justify those objections. Thus,
further responses are warranted. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Kiewit’s motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED. Plaintiff shall provide further responses to the
discovery requests at issue within 20 days of this order. 