  Case Number:  23VECV03586    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  W JESSICA
ALVARADO, et al. v. FORD MOTOR COMPANY, et al.
 
Demurrer to
plaintiffs’ complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 7, 2023                            Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03586
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Ford Motor
Company and Sunrise Ford 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiffs
Jessica Alvarado and Brian Mendes  
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Chen Fei Liu Decl.
¶3, Exh. D.)   
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action which arises
from the purchase of a 2021 Ford Explorer. On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint against Defendants Ford Motor Company and Sunrise Ford for Violation
of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2; Violation of Subdivision (b) of
Civil Code Section 1793.2; Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code
Section; Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability; Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment; and Negligent Repair. 
 
Plaintiff alleges their vehicle had a
sensing defect, which Defendant knew about and concealed. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants
Ford Motor Company and Sunrise Ford Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
Ford Motor Company and Sunrise Ford to the Plaintiffs’ complaint on the grounds
Plaintiffs cannot state their fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement –
concealment against Ford  as a matter of
law and Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action fails to plead facts sufficient to
state a cause of action. 
 
Fifth Cause
of Action
 
Defendants
demur to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment against
Defendant Ford on the grounds Plaintiffs fail to plead the defect Ford
allegedly concealed as well as a duty to disclose and Plaintiffs’ Fraud Claim
is barred by the Economic Loss Rule.
 
The elements of a claim for fraudulent concealment
are: “(1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant
with a duty to disclose that fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended
to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact;
(4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she
did if she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff
sustained damages as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick
v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc.¿(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)
As it is a species of fraud and deceit, such claim must be plead with
specificity. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645
(specificity means pleading the who, where, when, what, and how).) But this
rule for fraud by concealment, unlike fraud by an affirmative
misrepresentation, must be applied differently in the case of non-disclosure
because it is difficult to allege “who” or “how” or “by what means” something
was not disclosed or “when” or “where” a statement was not made. (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Imp. System & Planning Ass’n, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  Because of the nature of such fraud and the fact
such facts supporting concealment are more likely to be known by defendant,
less particularity is required.  (Id.)
 
Defendants first argue Plaintiffs’
fraudulent concealment claim fails to allege with particularity the defect Ford
allegedly concealed. Defendants contend the complaint merely describes a list
of ways in which Ford F-150s transmissions may be defective—e.g. “hesitation
and/or delayed acceleration, harsh and/or hard shifting, jerking, shuddering,
and/or juddering ("Transmission Defect")” (Compl. ¶25) and hazardous
driving conditions relating generally to the purported transmission defect. 
 
The court agrees. The complaint simply
alleges the vehicle suffered from transmission defects, electrical defects,
body defects and Defendants were allegedly aware such defects can cause the
vehicles and their 10-speed transmissions to experience hesitation and/or
delayed acceleration; harsh and/or hard shifting; jerking, shuddering, and/or
juddering. There are no allegations Plaintiffs’ vehicle suffered any of these
issues as a result of the Transmissions Defect. 
 
Next, Defendants argue even if
Plaintiffs had pled an identifiable defect, Plaintiffs fail to allege that Ford
had a legal duty to disclose those facts. “There are ‘four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.’” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326,
336 (citation omitted).) Defendants contend Plaintiffs do not allege any kind
of fiduciary relationship with Ford, Ford had exclusive knowledge, or actively
concealed the defect. The court agrees, as alleged, it is unclear that Ford had
exclusive knowledge of the particular defect in Plaintiffs’ vehicle. The court
notes, however, if Plaintiffs’ were to sufficiently allege defects in their
vehicle, the allegations of Ford’s exclusive knowledge may be sufficient to
establish Ford’s knowledge of hesitation and/or delayed acceleration; harsh
and/or hard shifting; jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering in the subject
vehicle.
 
Lastly, Defendants argue the fifth
cause of action is barred by the Economic Loss Rule. The economic loss rule
prevents “a party alleging fraud or deceit in connection with a contract” from
recovering in tort unless she can “establish tortious conduct independent of a
breach of the contract itself, that is, violation of ‘some independent duty
arising from tort law.’”  (Food Safety Net Services v. Eco Safe Systems
USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130, citing Robinson Helicopter
Co. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 990.)  This exception is
extremely “narrow in scope and limited to a defendant’s affirmative
misrepresentations on which a plaintiff relies and which expose a plaintiff to
liability for personal damages independent of the plaintiff’s economic loss.” (Robinson
Helicopter Co., 34 Cal.4th at pg. 993.)  Courts require a showing that
the alleged product defect opens Plaintiff up to third party liability in order
to overcome the economic loss rule, and a separate tort independent of the
breach of contract itself must be alleged.  (County of Santa Clara v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 326-329; Food Safety
Net Services, Cal.App.4th at pg. 1130.) 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ fraud
claim is based on an alleged fraudulent omission rather than affirmative
misrepresentation, seeks purely economic losses, and derives from Ford’s
alleged breach of warranty. Moreover, there are no allegations of physical
damage to Plaintiffs’ property—beyond the defective vehicle itself—or that
personal injury accompanied such losses. 
 
The Court of Appeal expressly ruled
late last year that the economic loss rule does not apply to fraudulent
concealment claims in Song-Beverly actions. (Dhital v. Nissan North America,
Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843 [review granted February 1, 2023].)[1]
However, even under Dhital, the court finds the allegations
insufficient. Unlike Dhital, Plaintiff has not alleged an actual defect
in their vehicle’s transmission. Plaintiffs’ general allegations are
insufficient to support a fraudulent concealment claim. 
 
Accordingly, the court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the fifth cause of action with leave to amend. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the sixth cause of
action for negligent repair on the grounds the Economic Loss Rule bars
Plaintiffs’ claims and the complaint fails to plead the essential element of
damages. 
 
In a negligent performance case, a
“plaintiff will be entitled to recover economic loss damages without the need
to allege and prove personal injury or property damage” based on a
consideration of the following factors: “(1) the extent to which the transaction
was intended to affect the plaintiff, (2) the foreseeability of harm to the
plaintiff, (3) the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, (4)
the closeness of the connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury
suffered, (5) the moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct, and (6) the
policy of preventing future harm.”¿ (North American Chemical Co. v. Superior
Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 782, 786.)¿ “[T]he
foreseeability of the economic harm to the plaintiff from the defendant’s
negligent conduct [is] the critical factor.”¿ (Id. at 782.)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiffs delivered their car
for repair—a professional service—and reasonably expected that Sunrise would
perform the repair with care and skill.¿ The transaction was clearly intended
to affect the Plaintiffs because the transaction was for repair of their car.¿
The harm to Plaintiffs were foreseeable in the event Sunrise negligently
repaired Plaintiffs’ car.¿ Plaintiffs allege they suffered injury due to the
negligent repair, and public policy supports imposing liability for negligent
repair where the car may result in injury to the owner or others on the road.¿
In sum, even if Plaintiffs’ damages are solely economic, they may still seek
recovery because the economic loss rule does not apply in cases involving the
negligent performance of services that results in foreseeable injury.¿ Moreover,
the holding in North American that the economic loss rule does not apply
to contracts for services was recently reaffirmed by the Court of Appeal in Sheen
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905.
 
As for Defendants’ contention regarding
lack of damages, the court agrees. The elements of a negligence cause of action
are duty, breach, causation and damages.¿ (Burgess v. Super. Ct. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 1064, 1072.)¿ The complaint does not allege that Plaintiffs paid any out
of pocket expenses for any repairs performed by Sunrise, or otherwise explain
how Plaintiff was damaged by the negligent repair.¿ Therefore, the court finds Plaintiffs
have not adequately alleged the essential element of damages to state their
negligent repair claim.  
 
Accordingly, the court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action with leave to amend. 
 


