 Case Number:  22NWCV01253    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  C PEHRSSON v. DOE SCHOOL
DISTRICT 
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV01253
HEARING:  09/12/24
 
#7
 
Defendant
EAST WHITTIER SCHOOL DISTRICT’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
The Alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is MOOT. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action for the sexual assault of a minor was filed by Plaintiff JOHN PEHRSSON
(“Plaintiff”) against Defendant EAST WHITTIER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (“Defendant”
or “District”) on November 8, 2022. On December 5, 2022, the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that he is a survivor of childhood sexual assault within the meaning of
CCP §340.1(d). Plaintiff alleges sexual conduct by a teacher, Jim Wiggins
(“Wiggins”) when Plaintiff was in the 8th grade in the 1967-1968
school year at Hillview Middle School. “Plaintiff was a minor throughout the
period of childhood sexual assault alleged herein.” (FAC ¶2.) “Plaintiff was a 12-year-old,
eighth grade student at the Doe Intermediate School in East WHITTIER SCHOOL
DISTRICT when he suffered the childhood sexual assault, abuse, harassment, and
other misconduct perpetrated by his teacher…. Defendants employed [Wiggins] as
a teacher and were charged with Plaintiff’s supervision and safety.
Nevertheless, [the District] allowed Defendant [Wiggins] to assault Plaintiff
while under their custody, care, and control.” (FAC ¶4.) 
 
The
FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Negligence;

(2)
Negligent
Supervision of a Minor; and 
(3)
Negligent
Hiring/Retention/Supervision of an Unfit Employee 

The Court notes that a Stipulation and Order Re: Dismissal of the fourth cause
of action for Violation of Civil Rights – 42 U.S.C. §1983 and fifth cause of
action for Violation of Civil Rights – Monell Claim against the District was
entered on February 2, 2023. (See, 02/02/23 Stip. and Order.) 
 
Defendant
District now moves for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication
of the following issues: 
 
(1)
Issue
1- Plaintiff’s Negligence causes of action fail because Plaintiff cannot
establish one or more elements of those causes of action; 
(2)
Issue
2 – Plaintiff’s negligence causes of action fail because Plaintiff has no
evidence of actual or constructive notice by a specific administrator or
supervisor; 
(3)
Issue
3 – Plaintiff’s negligence causes of action fail because Plaintiff cannot
establish a specific act that was a legal cause of assault that the District
may be liable for; 
(4)
Issue
4 – Plaintiff cannot sustain the first cause of action for general negligence
or for failing to make a report under the Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act
(“CANRA”); 
(5)
Issue
5 – Plaintiff has no evidence in support of his second cause of action for
Negligent Supervision of a Minor; 
(6)
Issue
6 – Plaintiff has no evidence in support of his third cause of action for Negligent
Supervision, Hiring, Retention, and Supervision of an Unfit Employee; and 
(7)
Issue
7 – Plaintiff’s entire lawsuit is barred because the statute that Plaintiff
brings this lawsuit under is unconstitutional. 
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues that summary judgment/adjudication should be
denied because the District should be held vicariously liable for Wiggins’
conduct; and/or that there are disputed issues of material fact as to whether
the District breached their duty to supervise Wiggins. Plaintiff further argues
that the District’s breach of its duties caused Plaintiff to be repeatedly
sexually assaulted by their teacher in the classroom, and invokes the doctrine
of res ipsa loquitor. Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the entire lawsuit is not
barred and that CCP §340.1 is constitutionally sound under the recently
published Appellate Court Opinion, West Contra USD v. Sup. Ct. of Contra
Costa (A169314). 
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts
with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine
whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c),
requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment “has
met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the
party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot
be established.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . .
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Id.)  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must
consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which
the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences
that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party
opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th
at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.  
Issue 7 – Whether CCP §340.1 is Unconstitutional 
 
On
July 31, 2024, the First Appellate District of California published the West
Contra Costa Unified School District v. Sup. Ct. of Contra Costa County
Decision (A169314), which holds that AB 218 does not violate the gift clause,
and is not unconstitutional. 
 
Summary
judgment/adjudication is not granted on this basis. 
 
B.  
Issues One, Two, Three, Four, Five, and Six – Negligence
Claims 
 
a.   
Negligent Supervision of Minors 
 
The
District argues that they cannot be held vicariously liable for the misconduct
of Wiggins because Wiggins’ misconduct went outside the course and scope of his
employment, and the District did not have actual or constructive notice of
Wiggins’ propensity for sexual misconduct at any time throughout the course of
his employment with the District. 
 
Gov.
Code §815.2 states: “(a) A public entity is liable for injury proximately
caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the
scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section,
have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal
representative. (b) Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public entity is
not liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of an employee of
the public entity where the employee is immune from liability.” §815.2 makes the
District vicariously liable for the act of an employee only if the employee,
while acting within the scope of employment would be liable for the injury to
Plaintiff. The District’s liability, therefore, depends on its employees’
allegedly negligent supervision of Plaintiff, and/or knowledge of any alleged acts
or assault that had occurred.  
 
“The
law regarding the duty of supervision on school premises is very, very well
established. It is the duty of the school authorities to supervise at all times
the conduct of the children on the school grounds and to enforce those rules
and regulations necessary to their protection. The school district is liable
for injuries which result from a failure of its officers and employees to use
ordinary care in this respect.” [Citations Omitted.]  (J.H. v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist.
(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 123, 139.) “Ample case authority establishes that school
personnel owe students under their supervision a protective duty of ordinary
care, for breach of which the school district may be held vicariously liable.”
(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861,
865.) “Students are not at risk merely because they are at school, and schools,
including school restrooms, are not dangerous places per se. [Citation
Omitted.] Foreseeability is determined in light of all the circumstances and does
not require prior identical events or injuries. [Citation Omitted.] It is not
necessary to prove that the very injury which occurred must have been
foreseeable by the school authorities…Their negligence is established if a
reasonably prudent person would foresee that injuries of the same general type
would be likely to happen in the absence of [adequate] safeguards…... Further,
the issue of ‘foreseeability’ does not depend upon the foreseeability of a
particular third party’s act, but instead focuses on whether the allegedly negligent
conduct at issue created a foreseeable risk of a particular kind of harm.” [Citations Omitted] (M.W. v. Panama
Buena Vista Union School Dist. (2003) 110 Cal. App.4th 508, 518-519.) 
 
It
is undisputed that Plaintiff was molested during the 1967-1968 school year
while he was a student in the 8th grade by Jim Wiggins, his teacher
at Hillview Middle School. (SS Nos.1 and 2.) It is also undisputed that Wiggins
resigned from his employment with the District on March 15, 1968. (SS. No. 3.)
On July 9, 1968, Wiggins was convicted of child molestation. (Drake Decl., ¶8,
Ex. F.)  
 
In
support of the Motion, the District proffers Plaintiff’s deposition transcript.
 Plaintiff admitted during his deposition
that: no one else saw any inappropriate touching; no one heard any
inappropriate comments; Plaintiff did not report any inappropriate acts to his
parents, the District, or the police; and that to Plaintiff’s knowledge, no one
else reported Wiggins’ misconduct to the school district. (SS Nos. 7-9;
Plaintiff Depo. Pp. 90:7-93; 112:24-115:8; 116:12-118:14; 126:1-18;
137:21-138:2.) 
 
No
evidence has been submitted to show that Wiggins had any complaints,
disciplinary history regarding inappropriate behavior or sexual misconduct, or
complaints from students or staff related to sexual misconduct. (SS No. 12.) 
 
The
District has met it’s burden in establishing that Plaintiff has failed to
establish a claim for negligent supervision of minors. The burden now shifts to
Plaintiff. 
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiff fails to provide facts and evidence that dispute the
District’s evidence that it did not have knowledge of Wiggins’ inappropriate
sexual propensities. Without evidentiary support, Plaintiff maintains that the
District should have known about Wiggins’ misconduct. However, only 2 persons
were identified by Plaintiff in his deposition testimony who may have suspected
or witnessed any purported misconduct—Marc Day and Bruce Quail. Neither Mr. Day
nor Mr. Quail were deposed by Plaintiff. No evidence is presented to support
Plaintiff’s claims of the District’s knowledge of Wiggins’ misconduct.
Moreover, Wiggins resigned on March 15, 1968 and was convicted of any child
molestation when he was no longer employed by the District, on July 9, 1968. 
 
By
failing to dispute the District’s evidence that it did not have knowledge of
Wiggins’ inappropriate sexual propensities/misconduct, Plaintiff fails to meet
his evidentiary burden. 
 
b.  
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
 
“An
employer may be liable to a third person for the employer’s negligence in
hiring or retaining an employee who is incompetent or unfit.” (Federico v.
Superior Court (Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213.) “[A]n
employer’s duty…is breached only when the employer knows, or should know, facts
which would warn a reasonable person that the employee presents an undue risk
of harm to third persons in light of the particular work to be performed.” (Id.
at 1213.) “[A] public school district may be vicariously liable under section
815.2 for the negligence of administrators or supervisors in hiring,
supervising and retaining a school employee who sexually harasses and abuses a
student.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 879.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that the District had any knowledge that Wiggins
presented an undue risk of sexual misconduct to students. No evidence has been
presented to show that the District knew or should have known about Wiggins’
dangerous propensities at any point throughout the course of his employment
with the District. 
 
c.   
Child Abuse Neglect and Reporting Act (“CANRA”) 
 
Gov.
Code §815.6 provides for liability against public entities that violate a
“mandatory duty” imposed by an enactment. “Where a public entity is under a
mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is designed to protect against the
risk of a particular kind of injury, the public entity is liable for an injury
of that kind proximately caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the
public entity establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge
the duty.” (Id.) As alleged, Plaintiff argues that Defendant should be held
liable for a failure to report child abuse pursuant to Penal Code §11166.
 
Here,
the Court finds that Plaintiff’s claim against the District based on their
breach of mandatory duty to act pursuant to Gov. Code §815.6 fails, as a matter
of law, because Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged or shown that the
District violated a statute, regulation or ordinance. School Districts (such as
Defendant) are not “mandated reporters” under Penal Code §11165.7. Therefore,
the District  has no mandatory duty under
the Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act to report incidents of child abuse to
agencies specified in Penal Code §11168.9. 
 
Since
CANRA does not purport to impose a reporting duty on the District, and
Plaintiff fails to identify any employees of the District who violated a
mandatory duty, CANRA cannot support a claim against the District under Gov.
Code §815.6.
 
The
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. The Motion for Summary Adjudication is
MOOT. 
 
The
District’s Evidentiary Objections in Reply 
 
1.   
Sustained
2.   
Sustained