 Case Number:  23NWCV03762    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  C BR CO I, LLC v.
COOKIES CREATIVE CONSULTING & PROMOTIONS, INC. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV03762
HEARING:  09/12/24
 
#5
 
Petitioner BR CO I, LLC’s petition for writ of mandate to
compel inspection of company records is GRANTED.

 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
Petitioner BR CO I, LLC (“Petitioner”) moves to compel
compliance with Corp. Code §1601.
 
“The accounting books and records and minutes of proceedings
of the shareholders and the board and committees of the board of any domestic
corporation, and of any foreign corporation keeping any such records in this
state or having its principal executive office in this state, shall be open to
inspection upon the written demand on the corporation of any shareholder or
holder of a voting trust certificate at any reasonable time during usual
business hours, for a purpose reasonably related to such holder’s interests as
a shareholder or as the holder of such voting trust certificate.” (Corp. Code
§1601(a).) “Such inspection by a shareholder…includes the right to copy and
make extracts.” (Corp. Code §1601(b).) “Upon refusal of a lawful demand for
inspection, the superior court…may enforce the right of inspection….” (Corp.
Code §1603(a).) “In any action or proceeding under Section 1600 or Section
1601, if the Court finds the failure of the corporation to comply with a proper
demand thereunder was without justification, the court may award an amount
sufficient to reimburse the shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate
for the reasonable expenses incurred by such holder, including attorneys’ fees,
in connection with such action or proceeding.” (Corp. Code §1604.) 
 
In Opposition, Respondent argues that the right of a
shareholder to inspect corporate records is limited to purposes reasonably
related to the holder’s interests as a shareholder—and that Petitioner’s
request goes beyond this right. Respondent maintains that the instant Petition
is no more than a fishing expedition to aid Petitioner in their four other
lawsuits against Respondent in the LASC and AAA. (See Ward Decl., ¶¶3, 7, and
11.) Respondent further argues that the Petitioner is improperly engaging in “forum
shopping” by filing the instant Petition in Norwalk, despite the fact that
numerous related cases are ongoing throughout Los Angeles County. 
 
The Court notes that no cases have been related to the
subject Petition. (See Reply, Ex. B.) 
 
Corp. Code §1603(a) does not limit this court’s authority to
“enforce the right of inspection” of a shareholder when the claim is related to
pending litigation.  It merely provides
that the court has authority to enforce the shareholders’ rights in “any action
or proceeding under Section 1600 or Section 1601.”  This hearing constitutes a “proceeding” under
Corp. Code §1601, et seq.
 
To prevail on the instant motion, Defendants must
demonstrate: (1) that they are shareholders, (2) have made a written demand;
and (3) that their purpose is reasonably related to its interests as a
shareholder. (Corp. Code §1601.) 
 
The Court finds that Petitioner’s written request for
Respondent’s Bylaws; accounting books and records; annual financial reports;
and minutes of all shareholder and board meetings is specifically authorized by
Corp. Code §1601, and that the request is for a purpose reasonably related to
Petitioner’s interest as a shareholder because the foregoing records would help
Petitioner evaluate the financial condition of the company. 
 
The Petition for Writ of Mandate is GRANTED. Respondent is ORDERED to produce the documents referenced
in the Petition within 30 days of the date of the Court’s issuance of this
Order. Costs may be sought by separately noticed motion. 
 
 
 