 Case Number:  22STCV02241    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  C GONZALEZ v. PIH
HEALTH HOSPITAL - WHITTIER
CASE NO.:  22STCV02241
HEARING:  09/12/24
 
#8
 
Defendant BARLOW RESPIRATORY HOSPITAL’s Motion Requiring
Plaintiff to File an Undertaking is GRANTED
in part.  Plaintiff Wanda M. Gonzales
is ordered to post an undertaking in the amount of $10,000 within 30 days of
the issuance of this order. 
 
 
Opposing Party to give Notice. 
 
This medical negligence action was filed by Plaintiff WANDA
M. GONZALES, individually and as Representative of the Estate of Daniel
Gonzalez on January 19, 2022. On September 25, 2023, the operative Third
Amended Complaint (“TAC”) was filed. 
 
Defendant BARLOW RESPIRATORY HOSPITAL (“Barlow”) moves for
an order requiring that Plaintiff file an undertaking in the amount of
$69,016.00 on the grounds that Plaintiff Wanda M. Gonzales currently resides
outside of the state of California, in Montana, and that Defendant Barlow will
obtain a judgment in it’s favor in this action. 
 
Defendant PIH HEALTH HOSPITAL – WHITTIER (“PIH”)’s unopposed
motion to join in Barlow’s Motion is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendants have not met their burden
of showing that they are likely to prevail in this action; and that the Estate
of Daniel Gonzales is a California Plaintiff. (See Plaintiff’s RJN.) 
 
CCP §1030 provides, in pertinent part: “(a) When the plaintiff in an
action or special proceeding resides out of the state, or is a foreign
corporation, the defendant may at any time apply to the court by noticed motion
for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to secure an award
of costs and attorney’s fees which may be awarded in the action or special
proceeding. For purposes of this section, ‘attorney’s fees’ means reasonable
attorney’s fees a party may be authorized to recover by a statute apart from
this section or by contract. (b) The motion shall be made on the grounds that
the plaintiff resides out of the state or is a foreign corporation and that
there is a reasonable possibility that the moving
defendant will obtain judgment in the action or special proceeding. The
motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit in support of the grounds for the
motion and by a memorandum of points and authorities. The affidavit shall set
forth the nature and amount of the costs and attorney’s fees the defendant has
incurred and expects to incur by the conclusion of the action or special
proceeding. (c) If the court, after hearing, determines that the grounds for
the motion have been established, the court shall order that the plaintiff file
the undertaking in an amount specified in the court’s order as security for
costs and attorney’s fees.”  
 
Here, in its joinder motion, PIH submits the Declaration of
Daniella Cho who sets forth a list of expenses PIH has incurred and expects to
incur in this litigation.  The
declaration states that PIH has retained a “wound care nurse” who will offer
expert opinion on standard of care, causation, and damages in this matter. (Cho Decl., ¶5a.) “The expert is
supportive of Defendant’s overall care and treatment of Decedent and is of the
opinion that this does not appear to be a case of liability for Defendant.” (Id.) The declaration also states that PIH has
retained a “medical doctor who is Board Certified in Critical Care and
Pulmonary Medicine” who will offer expert opinion on standard of care,
causation, and damages in this matter. (Cho Decl., ¶5b.) “The doctor is
supportive of Defendant's overall care and treatment of Decedent and is of the
opinion that Decedent's death was unrelated to his decubitus ulcer.” (Id.)  Based thereon, the Court finds that
Defendants have established a reasonable possibility that they will obtain
judgment in the action.  
 
Accordingly, the motion requiring Plaintiff to file an
undertaking is GRANTED.  
 
Amount of undertaking
 
Plaintiff argues that it would be unreasonable to require
her to post a bond that would cover all of Defendants’ expenses.  Plaintiff points out that although she is a
non-resident, her lawsuit on behalf of the Estate of Daniel Gonzalez is not
subject to a bond requirement because the estate is in California.  Defendants argue that in the event of a
defense verdict, Plaintiff would be jointly and severally liable for the
entirety of the costs awarded.
 
CCP §
1030(a) “provides for a pretaking hearing which permits an inquiry into the
validity of the claim, the reasonableness of the amount of
the bond to be posted, and, inferentially, the reasonableness of not
requiring any bond, and the ability of a person to furnish a bond.” (Shannon
v. Sims Service Center, Inc. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 907, 912.) 
 
Here, the Court considers that Plaintiff, in her individual
capacity, may only recover damages for loss of companionship, and the like, in
connection with the third cause of action for Wrongful Death.  The estate stands to recover damages for the
Professional Negligence and Elder Abuse causes of action, including an award of
punitive damages in connection with the latter. 

 
In the exercise of discretion, the Court orders Plaintiff Wanda M. Gonzales to post an undertaking in the
amount of $10,000 within 30 days of the issuance of this order. 

 