


[1] The
Court declines to consider Sound Equity’s reply evidence, except to the extent
it provides the foundation for Murray’s knowledge as to the excerpts of Murray’s
testimony Plaintiff attached to the Opposition, as Plaintiff has not had a fair
opportunity to respond.  (San Diego
Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316
[“Where a remedy as drastic as summary judgment is involved, due process
requires a party be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and be given
adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail”]; see also Wall
Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
1171.)  
 

TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV10330




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Stewart Title of California




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Ginger Drinkwater



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication; Memorandum of
     Points and Authorities
Declaration
     of Candie Y. Chang in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Declaration
     of Lee Wilson in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Appendix
     of Exhibits
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition
     to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Declaration
     of Sean M. Novak in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s
     Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Separate
     Statement of Additional Issues of Material Fact in Opposition to Motion
     for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Objections
     to Plaintiff’s Response to Separate Statement in Opposition to Motion for
     Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Reply
     Declaration of Candie Y. Chang[1]

                     
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Ginger Drinkwater (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Stewart
Title of California; Sound Equity, Inc.; Palms Blvd Venice Beach, LLC; Gold Constructors;
Wiltchik Appraisers; Andre Wegner; Douglas Sanchez; Dee Brothers; Jed Wiltchik;
and DOES 1 to 99 (collectively, “Defendants”); alleging elder financial abuse
in connection with the sale of her residential home in January 2020.  
 
Defendant Stewart Title of California (“Stewart Title” or “Defendant”)
moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative, adjudication with respect to
the following issues:
 
1.      Plaintiff’s
First Cause of Action for Financial Elder Abuse fails as a matter of law
because Plaintiff cannot establish that Stewart Title took, hid, appropriated,
obtained, or retained Plaintiff’s property for a wrongful use or with the
intent to defraud Plaintiff;
 
2.      Plaintiff’s
Second Cause of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation fails as a matter of
law because Plaintiff cannot establish Stewart Title made any representation to
Plaintiff; that Stewart Title knowingly made a false representation to
Plaintiff; that Plaintiff justifiably relied on any such misrepresentation; or
that such reliance caused Plaintiff’s damages;
 
3.      Plaintiff’s
Third Cause of Action for Breach of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
fails because Plaintiff does not have and cannot establish that Stewart Title
engaged in any wrongful conduct;
 
4.      Plaintiff’s
Fourth Cause of Action for Conversion fails because Plaintiff cannot establish
Stewart Title substantially interfered with Plaintiff’s property;
 
5.      Plaintiff’s
Fifth Cause of Action for Constructive Trust fails because Plaintiff cannot
establish Stewart Title took possession of her property by fraud, accident,
mistake, undue influence, or any other wrongful act; 
 
6.      Plaintiff’s
Sixth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress fails
because Plaintiff cannot establish Stewart Title engaged in outrageous conduct,
or that Stewart Title’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s
severe emotional distress; 
 
7.      Plaintiff’s
Seventh Cause of Action for Negligence fails because Plaintiff cannot establish
Stewart Title breached a duty, if any, owed to Plaintiff or that such breach
caused Plaintiff’s damages;
 
8.      Plaintiff’s
Eighth Cause of Action for Injunctive Relief fails because Plaintiff cannot
establish Stewart Title engaged in unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business
practices; 
 
9.      Plaintiff’s
Ninth Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief fails because Plaintiff cannot
establish Stewart Title claims any legal or equitable right, title, estate,
lien, or interest to the subject real property; 
 
10.  Plaintiff’s
Tenth Cause of Action for Wrongful Foreclosure fails because Plaintiff cannot
establish standing or that Stewart Title caused a foreclosure sale of
Plaintiff’s home under a power of sale in a mortgage/deed of trust; and
 
11.  Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages fails because Plaintiff cannot establish by clear
and convincing evidence that Stewart Title acted with malice, oppression,
fraud, or in conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others in the
commission of a tort.
 
 Plaintiff opposes the motion
and Stewart Title replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION

 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 583.)  
 
EVIDENCE
            
            Stewart Title’s Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules Stewart
Title’s Evidentiary Objections in their entirety.
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.   
ISSUE 1: FIRST
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR ELDER FINANCIAL ABUSE
 
“Financial abuse” of an elder
or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any of the following:
 
(1)  
Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an
elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
 
(2)  
Assists
in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal
property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud, or both.
 
(3)  
Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder
or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd.
(a).)
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication on the basis that Plaintiff cannot establish that Stewart
Title took, hid, appropriated, obtained, or retained Plaintiff’s property for a
wrongful use or with the intent to defraud Plaintiff.
 
1.      Defendant’s Evidence
 
In support, Defendant has
provided evidence that 
 
(1)  
On
December 26, 2019, it received a signed purchase agreement for the subject
property, identifying Palms as the buyer and Plaintiff as the seller (UMF 15-16);
 
(2)  
On
January 6, 2020, Palms and Plaintiff signed and submitted their First Amendment
to California Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions to
Stewart Title, indicating, “Buyer(s) will cause Escrow Holder to be handed
$2,534,000.00 of which $254,000.00 has been (POC) deposited with Seller’s with
or prior to delivery of the within executed instruction and buyer shall
deposit any additional funds and instruments required from Buyer(s) to enable
Escrow Holder to comply with these instructions, which Escrow Holder is to use
on or before January 10, 2020 and record any documents called for in this
escrow all of which Escrow Holder may use when Escrow Holder holds for Buyer(s)
a Grant Deed executed by Ginger Drinkwater, an unmarried woman, and when Escrow
Holder can obtain assurance of title in the form of an Owner's Policy of Title
Insurance on said property with liability limited to $2,534,000.00 on real
property in the City of Los Angeles.”
(UMF 17-18); 
 
(3)  
On
January 7, the parties signed and submitted an amendment to the escrow
instructions to Stewart Title (UMF 19);
 
(4)  
On
January 8, Stewart Title prepared an estimated master settlement statement (UMF
20);
 
(5)  
Also on
January 8, Stewart Title was provided with copies of a notarized grant deed,
and the owner’s affidavit and indemnity (UMF 21);
 
(6)  
Stewart
Title also received signed instructions by Plaintiff to pay Gold Constructors
$1,100,000.00 and Dee Brothers $27,380.22 at the close of escrow (UMF 22);
 
(7)  
Stewart
Title provided Palms and Plaintiff with its Amended Preliminary Report dated
January 8, 2020, and the parties submitted the “Acknowledgment of Receipt,
Understanding and Approval of the Preliminary Report” dated January 8, 2020
(UMF 23);
 
(8)  
On
January 13, 2020, Stewart Title provided notice to Palms and Plaintiff that it
completed escrow in accordance with the escrow instructions and escrow closed
on January 10, 2020 (UMF 24);
 
Therefore, Defendant has met
its burden of establishing a prima facie case that it merely acted as escrow
holder for the transaction, following the signed escrow instructions, and Plaintiff
cannot establish that Stewart Title took, hid, appropriated, obtained,
or retained Plaintiff’s property for a wrongful use or with the intent to
defraud Plaintiff.
 
2.     
Plaintiff’s
Evidence
 
Plaintiff has provided
evidence that
 
(1)  
Plaintiff
never intended to sell the subject property (Ex. A to Novak Decl. at pp. 63:22-25;
64:24-65:6; 127:20-128:1);
 
(2)  
There
was no notary the night Wegner came to Plaintiff’s home, urgently asking her to
sign documents without reading them (Ex. A to Novak Decl. at pp. 87:18-88:21;
94:8-19; 96:8-97:8; 97:15-98:2);
 
(3)  
 Plaintiff never spoke to anyone at an escrow
company as part of the transaction (Ex. A to Novak Decl. at p. 102:17-25);
 
(4)  
Plaintiff
never received any notices about the transaction (Ex. A to Novak Decl. at pp.
127:20-128:1);
 
(5)  
Plaintiff
had not seen the purchase agreement, and Plaintiff’s initials at the bottom of
the purchase agreement do not match her signature (Ex. A to Novak Decl. at pp.
128:9-130:12);
 
(6)  
Plaintiff
never saw the escrow instructions directing payments to Dee Brothers and Gold
Constructors (Ex. A to Novak Decl. at pp. 143-144);
 
(7)  
Plaintiff
did not sign the estimated settlement statement (Ex. A to Novak Decl. at pp.
146:21-147:12);
 
(8)  
Plaintiff
never met notary Nancy Rico, and no notary had been to Plaintiff’s house in the
preceding four years (Ex. A to Novak Decl. at p. 148:3-18); and
 
(9)  
Plaintiff
does not recall ever having seen the settlement statement from Noe Gonzalez at Stewart
Title to Plaintiff (Ex. A to Novak Decl. at p. 148:23-149:2).
 
The Court notes that the
shapes of Plaintiff’s initials “G” and “D” as signed at the bottom of the
original purchase agreement do not match the shapes of the capital “G” and “D”
in Plaintiff’s signature on Plaintiff’s driver’s license or Plaintiff’s
signatures on the other escrow documents. 
(Compare UMF 15-16 [purchase agreement] with Ex. W to Novak Decl. [Plaintiff’s
driver’s license] and UMF 17-19, 21-23 [other escrow documents].)  Thus, Plaintiff has produced evidence that
Stewart Title knew or should have noticed that Plaintiff’s signature at the
bottom of the original Purchase Agreement differs from Plaintiff’s signature on
all other escrow documents.  
 
There is also conflicting
evidence as to whether notary Nancy Rico was actually present when Plaintiff
purportedly signed the grant deed.  (Compare
UMF 21 [notarized grant deed] and Ex. E to Novak Decl. at pp. 21:10-24:15
[Nancy Rico testimony that she was present at Plaintiff’s home with Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s son when Plaintiff signed the notarized grant deed and other
“seller’s package” escrow documents] with Ex. A to Novak Decl. at p. 148:3-18)
[Plaintiff’s testimony that she had never met Nancy Rico and no other notary
had been to her house in the preceding four years].)  
 
There is further conflicting
evidence as to whether Stewart Title escrow officer Noe Gonzalez ever
communicated with Plaintiff.  (Compare
Ex. B to Novak Decl. at pp. 45:25-2; 67:10-19; 71:21-72:22 with Ex. A to Novak
Decl. at pp. 102:17-25; 127:20-128:1; 146:21-147:12; 148:3-18; and
148:23-149:2.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has met her
burden of production in establishing disputed issues of material fact as to
whether Defendant wrongfully granted the subject property to Palms and diverted
the loan proceeds to Dee Brothers and Gold Constructors with the intent to
defraud Plaintiff, with the assistance of Defendant.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot
grant summary adjudication as to Issue 1.
 
B.     ISSUE 2: SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION FOR FRAUD/INTENTIONAL
MISREPRESENTATION/DECEIT

 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Aton Center,
Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.) 
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication as to issue 2 on the basis that Plaintiff cannot establish
Stewart Title made any representation to Plaintiff; that Stewart Title
knowingly made a false representation to Plaintiff; that Plaintiff justifiably
relied on any such misrepresentation; or that such reliance caused Plaintiff’s
damages.  
 
As discussed above, there is a
disputed issue of material fact as to whether Stewart Title’s notary Nancy Rico,
or another Stewart Title employee fabricated the purportedly notarized grant
deed and other “seller’s package” escrow documents.  Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s only proof
is her own self-serving statements, but provide no binding legal authority for
the Court to grant summary adjudication on this basis.  Ultimately, it is for the trier of fact to
weigh conflicting evidence.
 
However, Plaintiff has not
provided any evidence that Stewart Title made any other misrepresentations to
Plaintiff or any evidence that Plaintiff relied on any such
representations or misrepresentations.  Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony indicates Plaintiff never met or communicated with anyone
at Stewart Title or saw any of the escrow documents purportedly bearing
Plaintiff’s signature prior to the close of escrow.  
 
Therefore, the Court grants
summary adjudication as to Issue 2.
 
C.   
 ISSUE
3: THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION FOR BREACH OF THE DUTY OF GOOD FAITH AND FAIR DEALING
 
Every contract “imposes upon
each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in its performance and its
enforcement.”  (McClain v. Octagon
Plaza, LLC (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 784, 798.)  “A third party should not be permitted to
enforce covenants made not for his benefit, but rather for others . . . .”  (Gulf Ins. Co. v. TIG Ins. Co. (2001)
86 Cal.App.4th 422, 430.)
 
Defendant moves for summary adjudication on the basis that Plaintiff
does not have and cannot establish that Stewart Title engaged in any wrongful
conduct.
 
As discussed above, there remain disputed issues of material fact as to whether Stewart Title’s notary Nancy
Rico, or another Stewart Title employee fabricated the purportedly notarized
grant deed and other “seller’s package” escrow documents, and whether Noe
Gonzalez actually communicated with Plaintiff or sent Plaintiff any of the
escrow documents.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot
grant summary adjudication as to Issue 3.
 
D.   
ISSUE 4: FOURTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR CONVERSION
 
The elements of a conversion
claim are “(1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of personal
property; (2) the defendant's disposition of the property in a manner that is
inconsistent with the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages.”  (Regent Alliance Ltd. v. Rabizadeh
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181.)
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication on the basis that Plaintiff cannot establish Stewart Title
substantially interfered with Plaintiff’s property.
 
As discussed above, there remain disputed issues as to whether Stewart Title’s notary Nancy
Rico, or another Stewart Title employee substantially interfered with
Plaintiff’s property by fabricating the purportedly notarized grant deed and
other “seller’s package” escrow documents, resulting in the deed to the subject
property being fraudulently transferred to Palms and the substantial portions
of the loan proceeds being disbursed to Dee Brothers and Gold Constructors.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot
grant summary adjudication as to Issue 4.
 
E.    
ISSUE 5: FIFTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR CONSTRUCTIVE TRUST
 
“Under Civ. Code, §§ 2223,
2224, and the case law applying them, a constructive trust may only be imposed
where the following three conditions are satisfied: (1) the existence of a res
(property or some interest in property); (2) the right of a complaining party
to that res; and (3) some wrongful acquisition or detention of the res by
another party who is not entitled to it.” 
(Communist Party v. 522 Valencia, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 980,
981.)
 
Civil Code section 2224
provides: “One who gains a thing by fraud, accident, mistake, undue influence,
the violation of a trust, or other wrongful act, is, unless he or she has some
other and better right thereto, an involuntary trustee of the thing gained, for
the benefit of the person who would otherwise have had it.”
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication on the basis that Plaintiff cannot establish Stewart Title
took possession of her property by fraud, accident, mistake, undue influence,
or any other wrongful act.
 
But as discussed above, there remain disputed issues of material fact as to whether Stewart Title’s notary Nancy
Rico, or another Stewart Title employee fabricated the purportedly notarized
grant deed and other “seller’s package” escrow documents, resulting in the
fraudulent transfer of Plaintiff’s home to Palms and the fraudulent
disbursement of loan funds to Dee Brothers and Gold Constructors.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot
grant summary adjudication as to Issue 5.
 
F.    
ISSUE 6: SIXTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR INTENTIONAL INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS
 
To prevail on the Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”) cause of action, a plaintiff must prove: “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when “it is so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Ibid.
[cleaned up].) Further, the defendant’s conduct must be “intended to
inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.” (Id.
at p. 1051 [cleaned up].) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff
cannot establish Stewart Title engaged in outrageous conduct, or that Stewart Title’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s severe emotional
distress.
 
As discussed above, although Plaintiff has created a disputed issue of
material fact as to whether notary Nancy Rico or another Stewart Title employee
fabricated escrow documents, or whether Stewart Title escrow officer Noe
Gonzalez actually communicated with or provided escrow documents to Plaintiff, Plaintiff
has not provided any evidence that Stewart Title engaged in conduct “so extreme
as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.”  
 
Therefore, the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issue 6.
 
G.   
ISSUE 7: SEVENTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NEGLIGENCE
 
“The elements of any
negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and
damages.”  (Peredia v. HR Mobile
Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot establish Stewart Title breached a
duty, if any, owed to Plaintiff or that such breach caused Plaintiff’s damages.
 
“An escrow agent is a
fiduciary of the parties to the escrow.” 
(Farmers & Merchants Trust Co. v. Vanetik (2019) 33
Cal.App.5th 638, 656, as modified (Mar. 27, 2019).)  Thus, Stewart Title owed Plaintiff a duty of
care, as a party to the escrow.
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff
has created a disputed issue of material fact as to whether notary Nancy Rico
or another Stewart Title employee fabricated escrow documents, and whether
Stewart Title escrow officer ever communicated with Plaintiff or sent Plaintiff
escrow documents, resulting in the deed to Plaintiff’s property being
fraudulently transferred to Palms and loan proceeds being improperly disbursed
to Dee Brothers and Gold Constructors without Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot
grant summary adjudication as to Issue 7.
 
H.   
ISSUE 8: EIGHTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot establish Stewart Title engaged in
unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practices.
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff has created a disputed issue of material
fact as to whether notary Nancy Rico or another Stewart Title employee engaged
in unlawful, unfair, and/or fraudulent business practices by fabricating purportedly
notarized escrow documents, including the grant deed to Palms, and whether
Stewart Title escrow officer Noe Gonzalez withheld escrow documents from
Plaintiff and processed the funds disbursement without ever communicating with
Plaintiff.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot grant summary adjudication as to Issue 8.
 
I.      
ISSUE 9: NINTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR DECLARATORY RELIEF
 
Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action seeks “a declaration of rights as to
her ownership interest in the Subject Property.”
 
“When seeking summary judgment on a claim for declaratory relief, the
defendant must show that the plaintiff is not entitled to a declaration in its
favor by establishing “(1) the sought-after declaration is legally incorrect;
(2)[the] undisputed facts do not support the premise for the sought-after
declaration; or (3) the issue is otherwise not one that is appropriate for
declaratory relief.”  (Cates v.
California Gambling Control Com. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1302, 1307.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot establish Stewart Title claims any
legal or equitable right, title, estate, lien, or interest to the subject real
property.
 
The Court agrees with Defendant. 
Although Plaintiff has provided some evidence that Stewart Title may
have participated in the fraudulent transfer of Plaintiff’s property to Palms
and the improper disbursement of loan proceeds to Dee Brothers and Gold
Constructors, Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that Stewart Title claims
any legal or equitable right, title, estate, lien, or interest to the subject
property.
 
Therefore, the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issue 9.
 
J.     
ISSUE 10:
TENTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR WRONGFUL FORECLOSURE
 
“The basic elements of a tort
cause of action for wrongful foreclosure […] are: (1) the trustee or mortgagee
caused an illegal, fraudulent, or willfully oppressive sale of real property
pursuant to a power of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust; (2) the party
attacking the sale (usually but not always the trustor or mortgagor) was
prejudiced or harmed; and (3) in cases where the trustor or mortgagor
challenges the sale, the trustor or mortgagor tendered the amount of the
secured indebtedness or was excused from tendering.”  (Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 408.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot establish standing or that Stewart
Title caused a foreclosure sale of Plaintiff’s home under a power of sale in a
mortgage/deed of trust.
 
The Court agrees with Defendant. 
Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that Stewart Title caused the
foreclosure sale of Plaintiff’s home under the power of sale in a mortgage or
deed of trust.
 
Therefore, the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issue 10.
 
K.   
ISSUE 11:
PLAINTIFF’S CLAIM FOR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
 
Civil Code section 3294,
subdivision (a), provides for punitive damages “where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice[.]”  “Malice” is “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
(Id., subd. (b)(1).) 
“Oppression” is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Id., subd. (b)(2).)  “Fraud” is “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property
or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
 
Additionally, Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15657.5, subdivision (c) requires the standards set
forth in subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code to be satisfied
before punitive damages may be imposed against an employer found liable for
financial abuse.  Civil Code Section
3294, subdivision (b) provides:
 
An employer shall not be liable for [punitive damages] based upon acts of
an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.  With respect to an
employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff
cannot establish by clear and convincing evidence that Stewart Title acted with
malice, oppression, fraud, or in conscious disregard for the rights or safety
of others in the commission of a tort.
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff has created a triable issue of material
fact as to whether Stewart Title employees acted fraudulently or in conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights.  
 
However, Plaintiff has not produced any evidence that an officer,
director, or managing agent of Stewart Title committed any oppression, fraud,
or malice or had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employees who committed
such oppression, fraud, or malice.  The
only evidence Plaintiff has produced in this regard is deposition testimony of
Stewart Title escrow officer Noe Gonzalez indicating that manager approval was
required (and obtained) prior to disbursing funds in excess of one million
dollars to Gold Constructors.  (Ex. B to
Novak Decl. at pp. 100:9-19; 101:3-13.)
 
For purposes of punitive damages, “[t]he term ‘managing agent’
includes only those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent
authority and judgment in their corporate decisionmaking so that their
decisions ultimately determine corporate policy.”    (Powerhouse Motorsports Group, Inc. v.
Yamaha Motor Corp., U.S.A. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 867, 886.)  
 
Plaintiff has provided no evidence that the manager who approved the
loan disbursement to Gold Constructors had the power or authority to determine
corporate policy at Stewart Title.
 
Therefore, the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issue 11.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
For the reasons stated above,
the Court grants in part and denies in part Stewart Title’s motion for summary adjudication.  
 
Sound Equity’s motion for
summary adjudication is granted as to Issue 2 (Plaintiff’s second cause of
action for intentional misrepresentation); Issue 6 (Plaintiff’s sixth cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress); Issue 9 (Plaintiff’s
ninth cause of action for declaratory relief); Issue 10 (Plaintiff’s tenth
cause of action for wrongful foreclosure; and Issue 11 (Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages.) 
 
Sound Equity’s motion for
summary adjudication is denied as to Issue 1 (Plaintiff’s first cause of action
for elder financial abuse); Issue 3 (Plaintiff’s third cause of action for
breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing; Issue 4 (Plaintiff’s fourth
cause of action for conversion); Issue 5 (Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for
constructive trust); Issue 7 (Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for
negligence); and Issue 8 (Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action for injunctive
relief.) 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for summary
judgment is denied.
 
The Court orders Stewart Title
to give notice of the Court’s ruling, and to file a proof of service of such.   
 
 
 
DATED:  February 29, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


