 Case Number:  22STCV10330    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV10330




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Sound Equity Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Ginger Drinkwater



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities
Declaration
     of Kenneth Hansen in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Declaration
     of Ethan Shakoori in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Index
     of Exhibits
Request
     for Judicial Notice
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition
     to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Notice
     of Errata to Amend Opposition
Declaration
     of Sean M. Novak in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s
     Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Separate
     Statement of Additional Issues of Material Fact in Opposition to Motion
     for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Objection
     to the Declaration of Sean M. Novak
Supplemental
     Request for Judicial Notice
Response
     to Separate Statement in Opposition to Motion for Summary Adjudication
Declaration
     of Joshua D. Franklin[1]

                     
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Ginger Drinkwater (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Stewart
Title of California; Sound Equity, Inc.; Palms Blvd Venice Beach, LLC; Gold
Constructors; Wiltchik Appraisers; Andre Wegner; Douglas Sanchez; Dee Brothers;
Jed Wiltchik; and DOES 1 to 99 (collectively, “Defendants”); alleging elder
financial abuse in connection with the sale of her residential home in January
2020.  
 
Defendant Sound Equity (“Sound Equity”) moves for summary judgment, or
in the alternative, adjudication with respect to the following issues:
 
1.      Plaintiff’s
Second Cause of Action for Fraud fails as a matter of law because Plaintiff
cannot establish that Sound Equity made or authorized any misrepresentation;
 
2.      Plaintiff’s
First Cause of Action for Elder Financial Abuse fails as a matter of law
because Plaintiff cannot establish wrongful use or intent to defraud;
 
3.      Plaintiff’s
Fourth Cause of Action for Conversion against Sound Equity fails as a matter of
law because Sound Equity did not wrongfully exercise dominion over any of
Plaintiff’s personal property;
 
4.      Plaintiff’s
Fifth Cause of Action for Constructive Trust against Sound Equity fails as a
matter of law because such cause of action against Sound Equity has no separate
viability;
 
5.      Plaintiff’s
Sixth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against
Sound Equity fails as a matter of law because Sound Equity did not engage in
extreme outrageous conduct when it properly asserted its legal rights;
 
6.      Plaintiff’s
Seventh Cause of Action for Negligence against Sound Equity fails as a matter
of law because Plaintiff cannot establish Sound Equity owed her a duty;
 
7.      Plaintiff’s
Eighth Cause of Action for Injunctive Relief against Sound Equity Fails as a
matter of law because Plaintiff cannot establish Sound Equity engaged in
unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practices; and
 
8.      Plaintiff’s
Ninth Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief against Sound Equity fails as a
matter of law because Plaintiff cannot establish any wrongful conduct by Sound
Equity.
 
 Plaintiff opposes the motion
and Sound Equity replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION

 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 583.)  
 
EVIDENCE
            
            Sound Equity’s Request for Judicial
Notice
            
A motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication may be supported by matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(1).)  
 
Sound Equity requests Judicial
Notice of (1) the Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents, Security Agreement and
Fixture Filing, dated January 7, 2020, recorded in the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office on January 10, 2020, bearing document number 20200040778; (2)
the Grant Deed, dated January 6, 2020, recorded in the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office on January 10, 2020, bearing document number 20200040777; and
(3) the Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale, dated March 30, 2022, recorded in the Los
Angeles County Recorder’s Office on June 6, 2022, bearing document number
20220599028.
 
With respect to the deeds and
notice of trustee’s sale, courts can take judicial notice of the existence and
recordation of real property records, including deeds, if authenticity is not
reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.)  “The official act of recordation and the
common use of a notary public in the execution of such documents assure their
reliability, and the maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office
makes their existence and text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing
such documents beyond reasonable dispute.” 
(Ibid.)  Moreover, courts
can take judicial notice not only of the existence and recordation of recorded
documents but also matters that can be deduced from the documents, including
the parties, dates, and legal consequences of recorded documents relating to
real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)
            
Each of the recorded documents
bears the stamps of the recorder and of a notary public.  Therefore, the Court grants the request and
takes judicial notice of the deeds and notice of trustee’s sale, requests 1-3.
 
Sound Equity’s Supplemental
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Sound Equity requests Judicial
Notice of Exhibit 4 – the complaint filed by Sound Equity on April 6, 2021 in
the Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles, Case No. 21STCV13141, without
exhibits.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because Sound Equity’s complaint is a Los Angeles Superior Court
record, the Court may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of Sound Equity’s complaint,
but not the truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
            Sound Equity’s Objections to the
Declaration of Sean M. Novak 
 
The Court rules as follows
with respect to Sound Equity’s Evidentiary Objections:
 
1.      Overruled
2.      Overruled
3.      Overruled
4.      Overruled
5.      Overruled
6.      Overruled
7.      Overruled
8.      Overruled
9.      Overruled
10.  Overruled
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.    ISSUE 1: SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION FOR FRAUD/INTENTIONAL
MISREPRESENTATION/DECEIT

 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Aton Center,
Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.) 
 
Sound Equity moves for summary
adjudication as to issue 1 on the basis that Plaintiff cannot establish the
first element – that Sound Equity made or authorized any misrepresentation to
her.  
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges Sound Equity “by and through its
authorized officers, managing agents and designated agents/employees, Curtis
Boyer and Ken Hanson, authorized and directed defendant WEGNER on that date to
misrepresent to Plaintiff that SOUND EQUITY would "assist" her in
"refinancing" her home[.]” 
(Complaint ¶ 38.)
 
1.      Sound Equity’s Evidence
 
Sound Equity has provided
evidence that (1) Defendant Andre Wegner was not ever an agent of Sound Equity
(UMF 2); (2) Plaintiff did not ever meet or communicate with Ken Hansen or
Curtis Boyer prior to the funding of the loan (UMF 3-4); and (3) Sound Equity
did not authorize or ratify any communications between Palms and Plaintiff,
Plaintiff’s execution of any documents referencing the subject property, or any
action related to the transfer of title of the subject property, other than to
fund the loan (UMF 5-7.) 
 
Therefore, Sound Equity has met
its burden to establish a prima facie case that Plaintiff cannot prove it made
or authorized any misrepresentation.
 
2.     
Plaintiff’s
Evidence
 
Plaintiff argues that Sound
Equity was in on the scheme to defraud Plaintiff.  In support, Plaintiff has provided the
following evidence:
 
·        
Excerpts
of the Drinkwater deposition, indicating: 
 
o  
Defendant
Wegner unexpectedly came to her house late one evening with a stack of
paperwork, urging her that she did not have time to read it, and just needed to
quickly sign it. (Ex. A to Novak Decl. at pp. 87:18-88:21; 94:8-19; 96:8-97:8.)  
 
o  
Plaintiff
did not recognize the signatures on various documents as hers, or the name of
the notary on various real estate documents, nor had any notary been present
when she signed documents.  (Ex. A to
Novak Decl. at pp. 97:15-98-2; 102:17-25; 128:9-130:12; 146:21-147:12; 148:3-18)
 
o  
Plaintiff
had never heard of Dee Brothers or Gold Constructors, even though loan proceeds
in excess of $1.1 million had been paid to those entities for renovations to
the subject property.  (Ex. A to Novak
Decl. at pp. 143:1-144:1; 149:25-150:7; 151:4-9.)
 
·        
Excerpts
of the Hansen deposition, indicating: 
 
o  
Sound
Equity began doing business with companies owned by Defendants Wegner and
Sanchez in mid-2018, when Sound Equity employee Curtis Boyer brought them on as
clients. (Ex. D to Novak Decl. at pp. 33:3-10, 33:20-34:2.)
 
o  
By
January of 2020, Sound Equity had provided approximately 25 loans to companies
owned by Wegner and Sanchez, most notably Top Flight Investments, LLC, where
Wegner and Sanchez were guarantors on the loans.  By January of 2020, approximately 10 of those
loans had been paid off, and 12 to 15 of the loans remained outstanding, with a
total outstanding loan balance of approximately $25 million. (Ex. D to Novak
Decl. at pp. 35:21-25; 46:9-16; 65:16-23; 68:16-19; 69:10-18.)
 
o  
At one
point in time, Wegner and Sanchez were not in default on any of the loans, and
at another point in time, they were in default on all of them.  (Ex. D to Novak Decl. at p. 81:7-9.)
 
o  
Sound
Equity did not do a background check on Defendant Wegner because its practice
is to only vet client company owners or members that have over 20 percent
equity in the entity, and Wegner did not have 20 percent equity in Palms
Boulevard, Venice Beach, LLC, the entity Wegner and Sanchez created to purchase
and renovate the subject property.  (Ex.
D to Novak Decl. at pp. 32:10-19; 33:3-10; 33:20-24; 35:21-25; 36:7-37:3; 46:9-16.)
 
o  
In
January 2020, Ken Hansen of Sound Equity was unaware that Andre Wegner had a
criminal background.  (Ex. D to Novak
Decl. at p. 37:24.)
 
o  
With his
criminal background, Wegner would not have met Sound Equity’s standard for
lending.  (Ex. D to Novak Decl. at p.
37:19-24.)
 
o  
Sound
Equity no longer lends money to any entity in which Defendants Wegner or
Sanchez are involved because “they did not pay their bill and they lost their
properties over default.”  (Ex. D. to
Novak Decl. at p. 40:7-13.)
 
o  
It is
the responsibility of the escrow company to verify that the down payment indicated
in the documents was actually paid.  (Ex.
D to Novak Decl. at pp. 59:10-60:5.)
 
·        
Excerpts
from the Murray declaration indicating:
 
o  
“Andre
Wegner, or someone from Top Flight, had been forging the draw requests, sending
us the forged draw requests, and had basically been pocketing the money
themselves.”  (Ex. G to Novak Decl. at p.
16:17-22.)
 
o  
“Andrew
basically let it slip that he was using an appraiser called Jed Wiltchik, I
believe his name was, who was basically appraising these properties above the
contract value; i.e., we buy a property – we have a property and a contract for
$2 million.  You would expect the
appraisals [sic] come in at $2 million.  

You don’t appraise the property at $2.2 million.  That’s not how it’s done.  Right? 
All you’re asking is if the property is worth what you have it under
contract for, not if it's worth more.  Is
it worth the contract value?  

What I believe Jed was doing was writing appraisals for over contract
value.  So, again, using the $2 million
example, we had a contract for $2 million. 
You expect an appraisal to come in at $2 million.  Jed was writing contracts at two-two,
three-three.

Now, you’re asking, well, what’s the benefits of that?  To my understanding, what was then happening
was Andre was giving these inflated appraisals to an underwriter at Sound
Equity, the underwriter being Curtis Boyer, who we discussed earlier.

Curtis was then pushing the appraisal through not at the contract value of $2
million but to the increased appraisal value – or the inflated appraisal value
of, say, 2.2 million.

The benefits of this was effectively to defraud Sound Equity out of money by
having them overleverage the properties.” 
(Ex. G to Novak Decl. at pp. 19:4-20:9.)
 
o  
“When I
got hold of Ken Hansen, I had this conversation that I thought something like
this was happening.  The next day Ken put
Curtis Boyer on leave and stopped all payment to Top Flight.” (Ex. G to Novak
Decl. at p. 22:5-8.)
 
o  
Wegner
told Murray that Jed Wiltchik did all of Wegner and Sanchez’s appraisals.  (Ex. G to Novak Decl. at p. 27:11-12.)
 
o  
Curtis
Boyer would push through the inflated appraisals he was getting from Jed
Wiltchik.  (Ex. G to Novak Decl. at pp.
28:10-29:12.)
 
o  
Wegner
and Dee Brothers set up unlicensed shell LLCs, like Gold Contractors and Think
Greener, to bill Sound Equity for construction work for the properties. (Ex. G
to Novak Dec. at pp. 50:13-51:23.)
 
·        
Excerpts
from the deposition of Cassandra Cameron, Sound Equity’s person most qualified,
indicating:
 
o  
It was
Sound Equity’s guidelines and practice were to run a background check and
credit report on anyone owning 20% or more of an entity Sound Equity lent
to.  (Ex. F to Novak Dec. at pp.
79:3-80:7)
 
o  
Sound
Equity’s guidelines and practice were not to lend to a company if that owner
had unexplained felony offenses, such as fraud, or pending litigation related
to the subject property.  (Ex. F to Novak
Dec. at pp. 80:8-81:6.)
 
o  
The
application submitted to Sound Equity for Top Flight, which listed only Doug
Sanchez as owner, with the owner percentage redacted, should have raised
further questions regarding the applicant’s ability to borrow.  (Ex. F to Novak Dec. at p. 98:6-19.)
 
o  
If
Cameron were presented with an application showing Sanchez and Wegner owning
30% and 60% of the entity, Cameron would likely have run a background check and
credit report on both Sanchez and Wegner. 
(Ex. F to Novak Dec. at p. 123:3-15.)
 
·        
The Top
Flight Investments LLC Articles of Organization, indicating that Defendant
Wegner owns 60%, Sanchez owns 30%, and Dee Brothers own 10% of Top Flight (Ex.
O to Novak Decl. at p. 14.)
 
·        
The
Scope of Work provided by Wegner’s construction company, Think Greener, to
Sound Equity, outlining $198,150.00 in estimated construction costs.  (Ex. K to Novak Decl.)
 
·        
Gold
Constructors’ license was revoked in June 2021 for hiring unlicensed
contractors to perform work, failing to carry worker’s compensation insurance,
and submitting false certificates of completion to receive payment for work not
done.  (Ex. Y to Novak Decl.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has provided evidence that  
 
(1)  
underwriter
Curtis Boyer or someone else at Sound Equity either ran the standard background
check on Wegner, as 60% owner of Top Flight, and repeatedly underwrote loans
for his companies anyway, knowing Wegner was a felon and did not meet Sound
Equity’s lending standards, or underwrote the loans without running Sound
Equity’s standard background checks on Wegner, and therefore knew or should
have known they were doing business with a convicted felon;
 
(2)  
Curtis
Boyer, or someone else on behalf of Sound Equity, hired Wegner’s appraiser, Jed
Wiltchek, who routinely overvalued the property appraisals he did for Wegner;
 
(3)  
Curtis
Boyer underwrote the loans, knowingly using Jed Wiltchek’s inflated appraisal
values as opposed to the contract price; and 
 
(4)  
Sound
Equity helped Wegner launder over $1 million of the loan proceeds through shell
construction companies by approving disbursements in excess of five times the
estimated construction costs of approximately $200k.  
 
Therefore, there remain
disputed issues of material fact as to whether Sound Equity knew or should have
known that Wegner was not a qualified borrower, and whether Wegner was acting
on behalf of Sound Equity when he fraudulently transferred title to the subject
property out of Plaintiff’s name and granted Sound Equity foreclosure rights,
in exchange for Sound Equity (through its underwriter Curtis Boyer) paying
Wegner inflated loan disbursements and laundering a large portion of that money
through Wegner’s shell construction companies.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot
grant summary adjudication as to Issue 1.
 
B.    
ISSUE 2: FIRST
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR ELDER FINANCIAL ABUSE
 
“Financial abuse” of an elder
or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any of the following:
 
(1)  
Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an
elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
 
(2)  
Assists
in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal
property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud, or both.
 
(3)  
Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder
or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd.
(a).)
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication on the basis that Plaintiff cannot establish Sound Equity’s
wrongful use or intent to defraud. 
 
1.      Defendant’s Evidence
 
In support, Defendant has
provided evidence that (1) it procured an interest in the subject property via a
Promissory Note secured by a Deed of Trust executed by Wegner on behalf of
Palms (UMF 9-12); (2) a grant deed purporting to convey the subject property to
Palms was recorded (UMF 13); (3) Sound Equity did not take, secret [sic],
appropriate, obtain, or retain any of the net monetary proceeds from the sale
of the subject property from Plaintiff to Palms (UMF 14); (4) Palms defaulted
on its repayment obligations to Sound Equity (UMF 15); (5) so Sound Equity
foreclosed on the subject property, pursuant to the power of sale in the Deed
of Trust (UMF 16); and (6) the subject property was sold at public auction on
March 30, 2022 (UMF 17.)
 
Therefore, Defendant has met
its burden of establishing a prima facie case that Plaintiff cannot establish
Sound Equity’s wrongful use or intent to defraud.
 
2.     
Plaintiff’s
Evidence
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff
has provided evidence creating a disputed issue of material fact as to whether,
and to what extent, Sound Equity’s underwriter Curtis Boyer was in on the
scheme.  Plaintiff further contends Sound
Equity profited from (1) the origination, underwriting, and other various fees
for its services as lender; and (2) the windfall associated with the sale of
the property that was financed for 80% of the inflated appraisal value.
 
As for the origination and
other fees, Sound Equity charged approximately $52,000, which Palms paid Sound
Equity via wire transfer on January 9, 2020 (Exs. Q & R to Novak Decl.)  
 
As for the windfall from the
foreclosure sale of the property, the purchase price was $2,534,000 (Ex. L to
Novak Decl.), the inflated Wiltchik appraisal came in at $2,850,000 (Ex. J to
Novak Decl.), and the loan amount from Sound Equity was $2,279,700.00 (Ex. J to
Novak Decl.), representing 80% of the appraisal value.  The property sold at public auction for
$3,194,128.26 on March 30, 2022.  (RJN
Ex. 3.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has raised
disputed issues of material fact as to Sound Equity’s wrongful use and intent
to defraud – namely, whether Curtis Boyer, on behalf of Sound Equity,
underwrote the loan for Wegner, who Boyer knew or should have known was a convicted
felon who did not meet Sound Equity’s lending criteria, knowingly using the
inflated Wiltchik appraisal to underwrite a larger loan for Wegner, and helped
Wegner launder a large portion of the loan proceeds through his shell
construction companies, in exchange for Wegner fraudulently transferring the
subject property out of Plaintiff’s name and signing a deed of trust to benefit
Sound Equity upon foreclosure sale of the property.
 
Defendant argues in reply that
(1) as indicated in the Murray deposition testimony, Wegner’s scheme was
designed to defraud Sound Equity, not benefit it (Ex. G to Novak Decl. at p.
20:7-9); (2) Sound Equity has produced a copy of a complaint it has filed
against Wegner, Sanchez, Palms, and TFI., as evidence that Sound Equity did not
benefit from Wegner’s scheme (Supp. RJN 4); (3) all of Wegner’s loans went into
default in August 2020, thus, at the time Sound Equity processed the loan for
the subject property, Wegner had not defaulted on any of the loans; and (4)
there is no evidence that Think Green’s $200k construction estimate was ever
sent to or relied upon by Sound Equity in processing the loan (Ex. K to Novak
Decl.)
 
The Court notes that Sound
Equity seeks to foreclose on the subject properties at issue in its complaint
against Wegner, Sanchez, Palms, and TFI, and if successful, Sound Equity may
recoup all its loan amounts, interest, and other fees, from the foreclosure
sales of those properties.  Moreover, the
$200k construction estimate bears Sound Equity’s logo at the top.
 
Ultimately, Defendant’s
arguments only underscore the factual dispute over whether Curtis Boyer was
working with Wegner to defraud Sound Equity, or was working on behalf of Sound
Equity with Wegner to defraud Plaintiff.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot
grant summary adjudication as to Issue 2.
 
C.   
 ISSUE
3: FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR CONVERSION
 
The elements of a conversion
claim are “(1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of personal
property; (2) the defendant's disposition of the property in a manner that is
inconsistent with the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages.”  (Regent Alliance Ltd. v. Rabizadeh
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181.)
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication on the basis that Sound Equity did not wrongfully exercise
dominion over Plaintiff’s personal property.
 
1.     
Defendant’s
Evidence

 
In support, Defendant has
provided evidence that Sound Equity did not take, acquire, or control any of Plaintiff’s
personal property or any of the net monetary proceeds from the sale of the
subject property from Plaintiff to Palms. (UMF 21-22.)
 
Defendant did acquire an
interest in the subject property by virtue of that sale via the Deed of Trust
Palms executed, securing the Promissory Note for the purchase of the property.  (RJN 1-2.) 
However, “conversion is a tort that may be committed only with relation
to personal property and not real property.” 
(Munger v. Moore (1970) 11 Cal.App.3d 1, 7.)
 
Therefore, Defendant has met
its burden that Plaintiff cannot establish a case of conversion against Sound
Equity.
 
2.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues (1) Sound Equity issued the loan to Palms based on false
representations; (2) disbursed $1.2 million for construction work estimated to
cost only $200,000; and (3) did not investigate Wegner, a known convicted
felon, who owns a 60% interest in Top Flight, an entity Sound Equity repeatedly
loaned money to.  (Novak Decl. Exs. A, D,
F, J, K.)
 
However, Plaintiff has not
created any disputed issue of material fact that Sound Equity ever took,
acquired, or controlled any of Plaintiff’s personal property, including
any of the net monetary proceeds from the sale of the subject property to
Palms.
 
Therefore, the Court grants
summary adjudication as to Issue 3.
 
D.   
ISSUE 4: FIFTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR CONSTRUCTIVE TRUST
 
A constructive trust “is not
an independent cause of action but merely a type of remedy for some categories
of underlying wrong. (Glue-Fold, Inc. v. Slautterback Corp. (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023, fn. 3 [citing 5 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (4th ed. 1997)
Pleading, § 796, p. 252.])
 
Defendant argues that because
Plaintiff’s first four causes of action fail, its fifth cause of action for
constructive trust must also fail. 
Because the Court denies summary adjudication as to the first and second
causes of action for fraud and elder financial abuse, it similarly denies
summary adjudication as to Issue 4.
 
E.    
ISSUE 5: SIXTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR INTENTIONAL INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS
 
To prevail on the Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”) cause of action, a plaintiff must prove: “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when “it is so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Ibid. [cleaned
up].) Further, the defendant’s conduct must be “intended to inflict
injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.” (Id. at
p. 1051 [cleaned up].) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff
cannot establish that Sound Equity engaged in extreme outrageous conduct
directed at Plaintiff.
 
1.      Defendant’s Evidence
 
In support, Defendant cites to
the same evidence listed above, that Sound Equity merely executed a foreclosure
sale as it had a right to do, pursuant to the Deed of Trust.  Therefore, Defendant has met its burden that
Plaintiff cannot establish it engaged in extreme or outrageous conduct.
 
2.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
In response, Plaintiff
similarly cites to the same evidence that Curtis Boyer executed the
underwriting and loan disbursements in furtherance of the fraudulent scheme.
 
While Plaintiff has created a
disputed issue of material fact as to whether Sound Equity was involved in the
fraudulent scheme, Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that Sound Equity,
or any of its agents or employees, engaged in conduct “so extreme as to exceed
all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”
 
Therefore, the Court grants
summary adjudication as to Issue 5.
 
F.    
ISSUE 6: SEVENTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NEGLIGENCE
 
“The elements of any
negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and
damages.”  (Peredia v. HR Mobile
Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Defendant requests summary
judgment on the basis that Plaintiff cannot establish Sound Equity owed her a
duty.
 
1.      Defendant’s Evidence
 
In support, Defendant has
provided evidence that (1) it loaned Palms $2,279,700 for the purpose of
acquiring, refinancing, and/or renovating the subject property (UMF 47); (2)
Sound Equity did not enter into any agreement with Plaintiff at any time (UMF
48); (3) Sound Equity did not authorize or ratify any action related to the
transfer of title of the subject property, other than to fund the loan (UMF
49); (4)  Plaintiff never met with Ken
Hansen or Curtis Boyer of Sound Equity prior to the funding of the loan (UMF
50-51); (5) Andre Wegner was never an agent of Sound Equity (UMF 53); and (6)
Sound Equity never authorized or ratified any communications between Palms and
Plaintiff (UMF 52.)
 
Thus, Defendant has met its
burden of demonstrating that Plaintiff cannot establish Sound Equity owed her a
duty of care.
 
2.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
In opposition, Plaintiff has
provided evidence discussed above that (1) Sound Equity conducted several
transactions with known convicted felon, Wegner, notwithstanding its policy to
investigate anyone owning more than a 20% interest in any borrowing entity; (2)
Sound Equity willingly distributed funds for construction that was never done
in an amount five times the amount estimated for construction when the loan
issued; and (3) the loan from Sound Equity to Palms was based on multiple false
representations.  Plaintiff also argues
that Sound Equity ratified the fraudulent transfer by accepting the subject
property as collateral for the loan.
 
            In
regard to the first three arguments, Plaintiff’s evidence does not demonstrate
that Sound Equity owed Plaintiff any duty of care to not issue a loan to
Wegner/Palms or authorize loan disbursements to Wegner’s closely-held
construction companies.
 
As for ratification, as
discussed above, Plaintiff has provided evidence that Wegner may have been
acting for the ultimate benefit of Sound Equity when he fraudulently
transferred the subject property from Plaintiff to Palms, and then transferred
foreclosure rights to Sound Equity in exchange for Sound Equity overpaying and
laundering loan proceeds for Wegner’s benefit. 
Although Ken Hansen placed Curtis Boyer on leave as soon as he
discovered what was going on ((Ex. G to Novak Decl. at p. 22:5-8), Sound Equity
nonetheless retained the benefit of the bargain by initiating a foreclosure
sale of the property and retaining the sale proceeds (RJN 3.)  
 
Thus, to the extent Wegner
owed and breached a duty of care to Plaintiff, there remains a disputed issue
of material fact as to whether Wegner’s negligence can be imputed to Sound
Equity under a theory of ratification, by virtue of Curtis Boyer’s conduct.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot
grant summary adjudication as to Issue 6.
 
G.   
ISSUES 7 AND
8: EIGHTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AND NINTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR
DECLARATORY RELIEF
 
Defendant argues that summary
adjudication is appropriate as to the eighth cause of action for injunctive
relief because Plaintiff cannot establish Sound Equity engaged in unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent business practices. 
Defendant also argues that summary adjudication is appropriate as to the
ninth cause of action for declaratory relief because Plaintiff cannot establish
any wrongful conduct by Sound Equity.
 
As discussed above, the Court
denies summary adjudication as to Issues 1 and 2, finding disputed issues of
material fact as to whether Sound Equity engaged in fraudulent conduct or
committed elder financial abuse. 
Therefore, the Court similarly denies summary adjudication as to Issues
7 and 8.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
For the reasons stated above,
the Court grants in part and denies in part Sound Equity’s motion for summary adjudication.  
 
Sound Equity’s motion for
summary adjudication is granted as to Issue 3 (Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action for conversion) and Issue 5 (Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress). 
 
Sound Equity’s motion for
summary adjudication is denied as to Issue 1 (Plaintiff’s second cause of
action for fraud); Issue 2 (Plaintiff’s first cause of action for elder
financial abuse); Issue 4 (Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for constructive
trust); Issue 6 (Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for negligence); Issue 7
(Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action for injunctive relief); and Issue 8
(Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action for declaratory relief.)  
 
Plaintiff’s motion for summary
judgment is denied.
 
The Court orders Sound Equity
to give notice of the Court’s ruling, and to file a proof of service of such.   
 
 
 
DATED:  February 29, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


