  Case Number:  21SMCV00182    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 29, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV00182




MOTION


Demurrer to Answer of Chicago Title Company




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Keyway Pride Limited LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Chicago Title Company



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Keyway Pride Limited LLC (“Plaintiff”)
demurs to the general denial and all thirty-three affirmative defenses alleged
in Defendant Chicago Title Company’s (“Defendant”) Answer to Plaintiff’s
verified First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for failure to state facts sufficient
to cause a defense, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.20,
subdivision (a).  
 
Defendant opposes the demurrer and Plaintiff replies.  
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a
declaration stating either” the means by which the parties met and conferred,
or that the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond
to the meet and confer request.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)  
 
Here, Defendant asserts that when Plaintiff’s counsel contacted
Defendant’s counsel to meet and confer prior to filing the instant demurrer,
Plaintiff’s counsel demanded additional factual detail underlying each of
Defendant’s affirmative defenses. 
(Canepa Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. A.)  In
response, Defendant’s counsel indicated that they had only been recently
retained, did not yet know all the facts underlying the various multi-million
dollar real estate transactions, and had filed a general denial and thirty-three
affirmative defenses to retain Defendant’s rights while they got up to speed on
the facts of the case.  (Ibid.)  Defense counsel also granted Plaintiff an
extension of time to demur to the answer, and requested additional time to get
up to speed on the facts of the case and meaningfully meet and confer before
the demurrer was filed.  (Ibid.)  Apparently skeptical of the legal force of a
120-day extension to demur to the answer, Plaintiff filed.  (Ibid.)
 
Under the circumstances, the Court does not find that further meet and
confer efforts would be fruitful.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD - DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a [pleading].”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the [pleading] a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations “with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction” means
that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the drafter, not the
demurring party.  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the [pleading] is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a [defense], the rule is that if on consideration of all the facts
stated it appears the [pleader] is entitled to any relief at the hands of the
court against the [demurring party] the [pleading] will be held good although
the facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the [defense] shown, or although the [pleader] may
demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     
DEMURRER TO ANSWER
 
            As a threshold matter, the Court
finds defects with the form of the Answer. 
First, a verified complaint may not be answered by way of a general
denial.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30,
subd. (d); City of Hollister v. Monterey Ins. Co. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th
455, 476.)
 
Second, “Where a complaint is verified, […] the answer also must be
verified.”  (French v. Smith Booth
Usher Co. (1942) 56 Cal.App.2d 23, 29.) 
“If an answer is not sufficiently verified in such a case, it may be
stricken out[.]”  (Ibid.; see also
Hearst v. Hart (1900) 128 Cal. 327, 328.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff filed a verified
First Amended Complaint, but Defendant responded via an unverified
Answer, with only a general denial.  Therefore,
the Court, on its own motion, strikes the Answer as improper.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd (b) [“The
court may, […] at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper
[…] [s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court”].)
 
            Because the Court strikes the Answer
as improper, it does not address the parties’ arguments regarding the level of
factual detail underlying the general denial and affirmative defenses.
 
2.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
The pleading party has the burden of showing in
what manner the pleading could be amended and how the amendment would change
the legal effect of the pleading, i.e., state an affirmative defense. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) The pleading party must not only state the legal
basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a
denial or affirmative defense. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v
Hulven Int'l, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a pleading
party does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a
demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative [pleading]
deficient, [the pleading party] respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major
Clients Agency v Diemer (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank
of America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to
amend does not satisfy the burden].)
 
Here, Defendant has failed to meet this burden, as Defendant
merely cites to Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318 (hereinafter Blank),
and requests leave to amend.  (Opposition
at p. 3.)  But Blank reiterates
“[t]he burden of proving such reasonable possibility [that the defect can be
cured by amendment] is squarely on the plaintiff.”  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p.
318.)
 
Nonetheless, because the Court strikes the Answer due to improper
form only, the Court grants Defendant leave to file a code-compliant Answer.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court strikes the Answer for improper form,
and overrules as moot Plaintiff’s Demurrer to the Answer.  
 
Defendant shall have up to and including March 20, 2024 to file and
serve a code-compliant Answer to Plaintiff’s verified First Amended
Complaint.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  February 29, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court