 Case Number:  22SMCV00902    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant Starbucks Corporation’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Defendant Starbucks Corporation’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.Defendant Starbucks Corporation shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment per statute.Defendant Starbucks Corporation to give notice. REASONINGDefendant Starbucks Corporation (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff Augustine Rotibi (“Plaintiff”)’s single cause of action for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act in Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) and moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim and prayer for punitive damages.“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)First Cause of Action: Unruh Civil Rights ViolationThe elements of a claim for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act are (1) defendant is a business establishment, (2) defendant intentionally denied plaintiff accommodations, advantages, privileges, facilities, or services, (3) defendant was motivated to do so based on its perception that plaintiff belonged to a statutorily defined group, (4) plaintiff was harmed, and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Civ. Code, § 51; In re Cox (1970) 3 Cal.3d 205, 216.) “The objective of the Act is to prohibit businesses from engaging in unreasonable, arbitrary or invidious discrimination. Therefore, the Act applies not merely in situations where businesses exclude individuals altogether, but also where treatment is unequal.” (Pizarro v. Lamb’s Players Theatre (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1174, citations omitted.)In its prior rulings on Defendant’s demurrer to the initial pleading and Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, the Court ruled that Plaintiff had not alleged sufficient facts to support his claim for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, and Plaintiff has again made no amendments to his claim here. Plaintiff again alleges that he ordered a tea with a spike of lemonade, and when he asked for a refill, he was charged the full amount of the drink based on the color of his skin. (SAC ¶¶ 12, 14, 19-21, 26.) Plaintiff alleges that his client, a Caucasian female, was only charged 50 cents for a refill of the same drink, and he observed other patrons, all Caucasian, requesting and getting a refill for their drinks without any questions or refusal, and discounted rates were only offered to patrons that were Caucasian. (SAC ¶¶ 15, 19, 20.) The Court previously ruled that Plaintiff had not alleged that any discrimination against him was intentional, and Plaintiff had also failed to allege how the corporation may be liable for the cashier’s actions.Plaintiff has added no substantive allegations here, continuing to rely on the same facts. Thus, there remain insufficient facts to support a claim for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, as Plaintiff has provided only conclusions to support his claim without alleging intentional discrimination or facts which may support liability against Defendant for the cashier’s actions. Given that the Court has allowed Plaintiff two opportunities to amend his pleading to state sufficient facts, and he instead relies only on the same facts in each new iteration of the pleading, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment will cure the deficiencies in the pleading, and Plaintiff’s opposition does not compel a different conclusion, as he provides no information about possible amendments, instead focusing solely on the veracity of the current facts.Accordingly, Defendant Starbucks Corporation’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Defendant Starbucks Corporation’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT. Defendant Starbucks Corporation shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment per statute.