 Case Number:  23PSCV01447    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Justin  Charles Johnson v. Miguel Angel Rodriguez, Jr., et al.  Motion  to Compel Miguel Angel Rodriguez, Jr. to Appear and Testify at Continued  Deposition  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court grants leave for Plaintiff to conduct a subsequent  deposition of defendant Rodriguez. Plaintiff must serve an amended deposition  notice according to Code and permit at least ten (10) calendar days’ notice as  required. Defendant Miguel Angel Rodriguez, Jr. must appear and testify at such  second deposition within 30 days of the Court’s order, unless a later date is  agreed upon by counsel.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a personal injury action arising from a car accident. On  May 12, 2023, plaintiff Justin Charles Johnson (Plaintiff) filed this action  against defendants Miguel Angel Rodriguez, Jr., Golden Moving Enterprise LLC  (Defendants), and Does 1-20, alleging causes of action for negligence and  negligence per se.  On June 5, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel Rodriguez to appear and  testify at continued deposition. On June 20, 2024, Rodriguez opposed the  motion. Plaintiff did not reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD The service of a deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is  effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an officer,  director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as  well as produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible  thing for inspection and copying.  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)   If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or  an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person  designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without  having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for  examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the  deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling  the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of  any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in  the deposition notice. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) (a)  Once any party has taken the deposition of any natural person, including that  of a party to the action, neither the party who gave, nor any other party who  has been served with a deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take  a subsequent deposition of that deponent.  (b)  Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for good cause shown, the court may grant  leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the parties, with the consent of any  deponent who is not a party, may stipulate that a subsequent deposition be  taken.  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subds. (a)-(b).)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  A motion to compel answers or produce documents at a deposition  requires the parties to meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.  (b).)[1] It is unclear to the Court to what extent the parties met and conferred before  Plaintiff brought this motion, (Mohamadi Decl., ¶ 13), but the Court also notes  Rodriguez’s opposition does not indicate that the parties failed to meet and  confer, (Park Decl., ¶¶ 2-4). Accordingly, the Court finds the parties’  meet-and-confer efforts sufficient, but admonishes Plaintiff to provide more  details going forward regarding those meet-and-confer efforts.  Summary of Arguments  Plaintiff seeks to conduct another deposition of Defendant  Rodriguez. Plaintiff contends that Plaintiff began Rodriguez’s deposition on  December 15, 2023, but that his deposition revealed certain information that  had been improperly withheld previously, such as photographs at the scene of  the accident sent to his employer, the existence of GPS data, and dash camera  footage of the accident. Plaintiff indicates the deposition was suspended pending  the production of the previously withheld materials. Plaintiff further states  that Plaintiff was able to obtain dash camera footage from a third party, and  upon review, Plaintiff realized Rodriguez had perjured himself during his  deposition. Plaintiff served notice of the continued deposition for Rodriguez,  and after some back and forth, the parties agreed on May 31, 2024. However, on  May 28, 2024, Rodriguez objected to the taking of the deposition, citing Code  of Civil Procedure section 2025.610, subdivision (a), regarding second  depositions.  In opposition, Rodriguez contends Plaintiff unilaterally suspended  the deposition without stipulation from Rodriguez’s counsel, which is required  under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.470. Rodriguez contends there is no  good cause for a continued or further deposition because Rodriguez already  testified that he was not in possession of the items at issue, and that he was  not in possession of any photographs or videos at the time of the deposition.  Rodriguez contends his counsel did not stipulate to a continued session of  Rodriguez’s deposition, and a continued deposition would not uncover relevant  additional facts for this matter. Rodriguez further contends he properly  objected to the continued deposition, and that just because his counsel agreed  to dates for a continued deposition did not constitute a waiver of any  objections. Rodriguez contends Plaintiff failed to cite any authority to  support this contention.  Analysis                  Plaintiff May Not Compel Later  Attendance at a Unilaterally Suspended Deposition  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.470 states:  “The deposition officer may not suspend the taking of testimony  without the stipulation of all parties present unless any party attending the  deposition, including the deponent, demands that the deposition officer suspend  taking the testimony to enable that party or deponent to move for a protective  order ... .”  Neither party provided the Court with any stipulation to suspend  the deposition or that any party demanded the deposition be suspended to move  for a protective order. Thus, in order to suspend Rodriguez’s deposition, all  parties needed to stipulate. Defendants’ counsel states she did not stipulate.  (Park Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff does not contend otherwise. (See MPA, 4:25-26  [deposition “was suspended”]; Mohamadi Decl., ¶¶ 1-14 [no claim of  stipulation]; id., Exh. 6 [deposition excerpt, no stipulation].)  Without  a stipulation, Plaintiff’s “motion to continue a suspended deposition” must  fail. The Court construes this motion as a motion for leave to conduct a  subsequent deposition, brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section  2025.610.[2]  Plaintiff is Entitled to a Subsequent Deposition  In general, “[o]nce any party has taken the deposition of any  natural person, including that of a party to the action, neither the party who  gave, nor any other party who has been served with a deposition notice pursuant  to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that deponent.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2025.610(a).)  However, “[n]otwithstanding subdivision (a)[of section 2025.610, supra],  for good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition  ... .” (Id., subd. (b).)  The Court finds good cause exists for requiring Rodriguez to sit  for a second deposition. While the Court agrees with Rodriguez that Plaintiff  could not unilaterally suspend the prior deposition on December 15, 2023, (see Code  Civ. Proc., § 2025.470), that does not change the outcome here. Rodriguez  offered May 31, 2024 as a date for a second deposition and Plaintiff agreed on  that date. (Mohamadi Decl., Ex. 7.) Plaintiff subsequently served an amended  notice of deposition for May 31, 2024. (Mohamadi Decl., Ex. 8.) The Court reads  this as a stipulation to a second deposition under Code of Civil Procedure  section 2025.610, subdivision (b). (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subd. (b).)  Moreover, Rodriguez’s objection on May 28, 2024 was not made in  good faith. At no point in the parties’ prior discussions regarding a second  deposition did Rodriguez ever mention the limitations provided in Code of Civil  Procedure section 2025.610, subdivision (a), or object on that basis. (Mohamadi  Decl., Exs. 5-7.) Furthermore, Plaintiff identifies specific responsive  documents that were not produced prior to Rodriguez’s deposition. He also  identifies good cause why Rodriguez’s credibility could be questioned. There is  no apparent prejudice to Rodriguez sitting for a second deposition.  Defendants do not contradict any of Plaintiff’s contentions. They  argue he improperly noticed a second deposition without leave of court – which  is correct – but they do not deny he has good cause to conduct one.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion.  Defendant Rodriguez must sit for a second deposition within 30 days of the  Court’s order.  CONCLUSION  The Court grants leave for Plaintiff to conduct a subsequent  deposition of defendant Rodriguez. Plaintiff must serve an amended deposition  notice according to Code and permit at least ten (10) calendar days’ notice as  required. Defendant Miguel Angel Rodriguez, Jr. must appear and testify at such  second deposition within 30 days of the Court’s order, unless a later date is  agreed upon by counsel.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     