  Case Number:  22PSCV00879    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:   Hector Olavarria, Jr. v. Doe  Unified School District, et al.  Defendant  El Monte Union High School District’s Motion to Stay Proceedings  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant El Monte Union High School District’s  motion to stay proceedings. This action will be STAYED pending the resolution  of West Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No.  A16934) and Roe #2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6,  Case No. B334707) in the Court of Appeal. The Court will hear from the parties  as to whether the stay should take effect after the deposition of Trina Cardona.  Defendant El Monte Union High School District is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of service of same within five days  of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND  This is a childhood sexual assault case based on events that  occurred between 1987 and 1988 and the recent enactment of AB 218 which revived  a plaintiff’s right to pursue childhood sexual assault claims. On August 17,  2022, Plaintiff Hector Olavarria, Jr. (Plaintiff) filed this action. Plaintiff  filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on October 26, 2022, against  Defendant El Monte Union High School District (Defendant) and Does 1 through 50,  alleging causes of action for negligence, negligence per se, negligent hiring,  retention, and supervision of an unfit employee, negligent supervision of a  minor, and negligent failure to warn, train, or educate.  On April 30, 2024, Defendant moved to stay the proceedings of this  action pending the resolution of two other cases in the Court of Appeal. On  June 20, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On June 26, 2024, Defendant  replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD The  court has the inherent authority to “amend and control its process and orders  so as to make them conform to law and justice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd.  (a)(8).)  Courts “have an inherent obligation to decide cases properly  brought before them[.]” (Topa Ins. Co. v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Companies  (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1331, 1345.) “Trial courts generally have the inherent  power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial  efficiency.”  (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33  Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.) They may also exercise their inherent  power in order to “prevent wrongful use of process . . . .” (Western Steel  & Ship Repair, Inc. v. RMI, Inc. (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 1108, 1116.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The  Court GRANTS Defendant’s requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452,  subd. (d).) But,  the Court takes judicial notice only as to the existence, content, and  authenticity of such documents; it does not take judicial notice of the truth  of the factual matters asserted therein. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87  Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)   DISCUSSION                        Summary of Arguments              Defendant notes two cases  currently pending before the Court of Appeal which will address the  constitutionality of AB 218, namely, West Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First Appellate District, Case No. A16934) and Roe  #2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6, Case No. B334707).  Defendant contends that both judicial economy and common-sense mandate that  this Court exercise its authority to stay the proceedings in this matter for  the relatively short period of time it will take the Court of Appeal to  determine whether AB 218 violates the Gift Clause of the California  Constitution, as it will save the parties time and money if AB 218 is found to  be unconstitutional. Defendant also contends the pending appellate cases make  it virtually impossible for Defendant to resolve this case by way of settlement,  which might violate the Gift Clause or even violate section 424 of the Penal  Code. Defendant further contends the Court should stay this action so it does  not conflict with the pending appellate cases since they implicate broader  issues than this action, that the Court of Appeal is best suited for  determining issues of law, and that staying this action will not prejudice Plaintiff’s  rights given how much time has already passed.              In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Court has already denied Defendant’s  motion for judgment on the pleadings regarding these issues. Plaintiff also  contends that he would be prejudiced if the Court stayed this action, since  Defendant only recently agreed to produce the alleged perpetrator, Trina  Cardona, for deposition, and the parties are making arrangements for  deposition. Plaintiff contends there is no basis for staying these proceedings  based on the possibility that an appellate action involving different parties  and facts may address legal issues decided by this Court, citing the factors  set forth in Farmland Irrigation Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208  (Farmland Irrigation).              Applicable Standard for Stay of Proceedings  The  Court finds the factors set forth in Farmland Irrigation do not apply to  this case. In Farmland Irrigation, the Supreme Court of California stated  as follows:  “When an action is  brought in a court of this state involving the same parties and the same  subject matter as an action already pending in a court of another jurisdiction,  a stay of the California proceedings is not a matter of right, but within the  sound discretion of the trial court. In exercising its discretion the court  should consider the importance of discouraging multiple litigation designed  solely to harass an adverse party, and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the  courts of other jurisdictions. It should also consider whether the rights of  the parties can best be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction  because of the nature of the subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or  the stage to which the proceedings in the other court have already advanced.  [Citation.]”  (Farmland Irr. Co. v. Dopplmaier  (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208, 215, italics added.)  This  action does not involve the same parties or subject matter as those currently  pending before the Court of Appeal, which is not a court of a different state. Plaintiff’s  arguments regarding this point only reinforces the inapplicability of the Farmland  Irrigation factors to this case. (See Opp., 5:1-6:23.)   The  Court finds that the applicable factors for consideration here are those set  forth in Smith v. Jones (1900) 128 Cal. 14, which provides that courts  may postpone cases when, “it would not only be the right of the judge to do so,  but it would be his duty, in the interest of justice, and to promote the  substantial rights of the parties.” (Smith v. Jones, supra, 128 Cal. at  p. 15.)   Analysis  The Court  finds that staying this action pending the resolution of West Contra Costa  USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No. A16934) and Roe #2 v.  Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6, Case No. B334707) in the  Court of Appeal would be in the best interest of justice and promote the  substantial rights of the parties. (See Smith v. Jones, supra, 128 Cal.  at p. 15.) Trial courts may reasonably decide that the rights of the parties  would be best determined by a different court where the other court resolves  broader issues. (See Caiafa Prof. Law Corp. v. State Farm Fire & Cas.  Co. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 800 (Caiafa) [trial court could reasonably  decide that the rights of the parties would be best determined in related  federal case which raised much broader issues than the California state court  case].)   If the Court  of Appeal finds that AB 218 violates the Gift Clause of the California  Constitution, it would directly affect the continued viability of Plaintiff’s  claims against Defendant. The parties’ continued litigation while awaiting the  decisions on these cases could lead to the expenditure of unnecessary  resources, which is particularly important considering Defendant’s funding is  from taxpayer dollars. (Cf. Stanson v. Mott (1976) 17 Cal.3d 206,  209-210 [decision concerning expenditure of public funds in connection with a  partisan position in an election campaign]; Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20  Cal.3d 25, 49 [consideration of burden on taxpayers in connection with award  for attorney fees].) The Court also notes that the case of West Contra Costa  USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No. A16934) appears to be fully  briefed as of April 12, 2024. (Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 3.) The Court  infers this to mean that the resolution of this issue will come sooner than  later.  As for Plaintiff only  recently having been able to schedule the deposition of Trina Cardona, the  Court does not find this a sufficient reason to deny staying this action,  but will consider this in deciding when the stay will be effective. With  respect to making arrangements for mediation, the Court finds that the case should  still be stayed pending the appeals, as there may ultimately be nothing to  mediate if AB 218 is found unconstitutional. If it is found to be  constitutional, the parties can then resume mediation discussions.  Based on the  foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to stay proceedings.   CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant El Monte Union High School District’s  motion to stay proceedings. This action will be STAYED pending the resolution  of West Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No.  A16934) and Roe #2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6,  Case No. B334707) in the Court of Appeal. The Court will hear from the parties  as to whether the stay should take effect after the deposition of Trina Cardona.  Defendant El Monte Union High School District is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of service of same within five days  of the Court’s order.