 Case Number:  23PSCV03482    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Xinting  Li Chan v. Perla Gu  Defendant  Perla Gu’s Motion for Summary Judgment  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant Perla Gu’s motion for summary judgment.  Defendant must submit a proposed judgment within five days of the Court’s  order.                Defendant Perla Gu is ordered to  give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a dog-bite case. On November 8, 2023, plaintiff Xinting Li  Chan (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Perla Gu (Defendant) and  Does 1 to 10, alleging causes of action for general negligence and premises  liability.  On April 12, 2024, Defendant moved for summary judgment. On June  20, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On June 25, 2024, Defendant replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires  the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and  ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by  other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,  italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The  function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the  scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to  disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited  by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th  59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d  367, 381-382.)  “On  a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party  to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material  fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,  1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met  his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party  has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not  separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense  to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Once  the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show  that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of  action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of  material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the  allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of  material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing  that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a  defense thereto.” (Id.; see also Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts  “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary  judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore  v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              The  Court first notes that Plaintiff’s opposition was filed on June 20, 2024,  instead of June 19, 2024, and is therefore untimely. (See Code Civ. Proc., §  473c, subd. (b)(2).) Nevertheless, the Court exercises its discretion to still  consider the opposition, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the timing  requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. (See Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018)  24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.)              Second, Defendant’s separate  statement does not follow the format set forth in Rule 3.1350, subdivision (h),  of the California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subd.  (h).) The Court will still consider Defendant’s motion, but admonishes  Defendant to comply with the requirements of the California Rules of Court  going forward.              Third, Defendant requested judicial notice in the body of  her motion. (Motion, 9:25-28.) This format is improper. “Any request for  judicial notice must be made in a separate document listing the specific items  for which notice is requested and must comply with rule 3.1306(c).” (Cal. Rules  of Court, rule 3.1113, subd. (l).) The Court again admonishes Defendant to  comply with the California Rules of Court going forward. Nevertheless, the  filing date of the complaint is in the Court’s record, and is something of  which the Court can take judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d); see Starr  v. Ashbrook (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 999, 1014 [court can take judicial notice  of its own records].)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Relevant Material Facts  Plaintiff visited Defendant’s property on October 19, 2021. (SSUF  4.) Defendant’s dog bit Plaintiff. (SSUF 6.) Plaintiff received treatment for  the dog bit on or about October 28, 2021. (SSUF 7.) Plaintiff filed this  lawsuit on November 8, 2023. (SSUF 11.) Defendant did not spend any time  outside of the State of California between October 2021 and November 2023.  (SSUF 19.)  Statute of Limitations – Personal Injury  An action for a personal injury, which includes dog  bite cases, must be filed within two years of the date of the injury. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 335.1 [“Within two years: An action for assault, battery, or  injury to, or for the death of, an individual caused by the wrongful act or  neglect of another.”]; Pritchard v. Sharp (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 530, 531  [decided under former statute, holding that dog bite cases fall under statute  of limitations for personal injury actions].)  Defendant contends there is no triable issue of material fact  regarding Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant. Defendant contends the evidence  shows Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the two-year statute of limitations for  dog bite cases. Defendant contends the evidence clearly establishes that the  date of the dog bite was October 19, 2021, but the complaint was not filed  until November 8, 2023, i.e., more than two years after the alleged incident.  Defendant further contends there is no basis for tolling the limitations  period.  The Court finds Defendant has established the absence of a triable  issue of material fact on Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant. The evidence  shows that the alleged dog bite incident occurred in October 2021. (See Gu  Decl., ¶¶ 5-7; Ex. 3.) There is also no dispute that the complaint was filed on  November 8, 2023, i.e., more than two years after the alleged dog bite incident.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d); see Starr v. Ashbrook, supra, 87  Cal.App.5th at p. 1014.) Defendant further attests that she did not leave the  State of California at any time between October 2021 and November 2023. (Gu  Decl., ¶ 21.) Defendant has therefore met her moving burden. The burden of  proof now shifts to Plaintiff to establish the existence of a triable issue of  material fact.  Plaintiff did not present evidence in opposition to the motion for  summary judgment. Plaintiff presented no responsive separate statement or  evidentiary objections to dispute Defendant’s evidence. Plaintiff therefore has  failed to establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  But, Plaintiff contends that although Defendant completed an  initial round of written discovery, Plaintiff has not yet begun discovery or  taken any depositions. Plaintiff argues this motion for summary judgment is  premature, and requests the Court give Plaintiff additional time to conduct  discovery on the issue of whether Defendant was in the State of California  during the limitations period for tolling purposes under Code of Civil  Procedure section 351. Plaintiff contends additional discovery may reveal credit  card purchases of airline tickets, hotels, and other business or vacation  related accommodations during the limitations, and that Defendant operates a  business with staff who may provide testimonies or documentation regarding this  issue.  The Court finds Plaintiff has not presented a  sufficient basis for the Court to continue the hearing on the motion for  summary judgment.  Section 437c, subdivision (h) of the Code of Civil  Procedure provides that a motion for summary judgment or adjudication shall be  denied, or a continuance shall be granted, ‘[i]f it appears from the affidavits  submitted in opposition ... that facts essential to justify opposition may  exist but cannot, for reasons stated, then be presented....’ The nonmoving  party seeking a continuance ‘must show: (1) the facts to be obtained are  essential to opposing the motion; (2) there is reason to believe such facts may  exist; and (3) the reasons why additional time is needed to obtain these facts.  [Citations.]’ [Citation.] The decision whether to grant such a continuance is  within the discretion of the trial court. [Citation.] But as this court  recently noted, the interests at stake are too high to sanction the denial of a  continuance without good reason. ‘[T]echnical compliance with the procedures of  Code of Civil Procedure section 437c is required to ensure there is no  infringement of a litigant's hallowed right to have a dispute settled by a jury  of his or her peers.’ [Citation.]”  (Frazee v. Seely  (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 627, 633-634 (Frazee).)              The Court does not find this motion for summary judgment  to be premature. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1) [motions for  summary judgment may be made against the opposing party at least 60 days after the  opposing party’s general appearance in the action]; see also C. Procedural  Requirements—Moving Party, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 10-C  [“The purpose, of course, is to give the opposing party a reasonable  opportunity to investigate and obtain discovery before having to deal with a  motion that could terminate the litigation.”])  Moreover, Plaintiff could have started serving discovery shortly  after service of the summons. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.210, subd. (b) [20 days  after service of summons for depositions]; Id., 2030.020, subd. (b) [10  days after service of summons for interrogatories]; Id., 2031.020, subd.  (b) [10 days after service of summons for inspection demands]; Id., §  2033.020, subd. (b) [10 days after service of summons for requests for  admission].) Plaintiff received written discovery from Defendant in February  2024. (Hsu Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff also received service of this summary  judgment motion on April 12, 2024, which presented specific evidence on the  issue of whether Defendant was out of the State of California during the  limitations period. (Gu Decl., ¶ 21.) Plaintiff could have propounded discovery  upon receiving this motion. However, Plaintiff has not conducted any discovery  thus far. (See Hsu Decl., ¶ 6.)  Furthermore, it is unclear to the Court why Plaintiff’s presence  in and out of the country has any bearing on Plaintiff’s counsel’s ability to  conduct discovery. (See Hsu Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s presence in the country or  state is not required for Plaintiff’s counsel to propound written discovery or  depose Defendant. It is also unclear to the Court what Plaintiff’s counsel  means that, “Plaintiff has not had the opportunity to begin discoveries [sic]  yet because it is still in the process of verifying the loss date.” (See Hsu  Decl., ¶ 5.) The purpose of discovery is to determine such facts, so it does  not make sense for Plaintiff to wait until that fact is determined before  conducting discovery. The Court also finds Plaintiff’s counsel’s statements  regarding credit card charges, refueling costs, and testimonies of employees to  be completely speculative as to whether Defendant may have been out of the  State of California or out of the country during the limitations period. (See  Hsu Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff needs to show there is a reason to believe such  facts exist and Plaintiff has not made such showing. (See Frazee, supra,  95 Cal.App.4th at p. 633.)  Finally, if Plaintiff had propounded discovery and was waiting for  responses, had noticed a deposition that was yet to be taken, or had otherwise  shown diligence in attempting to obtain discovery up to this point in the  litigation, the Court would have been inclined to continue the hearing on the  summary judgment motion to permit Plaintiff to complete that discovery. (See Frazee,  supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at p. 633 [finding the trial court abused its  discretion in denying continuance to conduct discovery when the nonmoving party  was still waiting for prior deposition transcripts, previously scheduled  depositions had yet to be taken, the nonmoving party was in the middle of  deposing the moving party, responses to outstanding written discovery were  pending, the need to depose experts to support the opposition, and the  nonmoving party’s attorney had been diligent in attempting to conduct  discovery].) Instead, Plaintiff has done nothing with no plausible explanation  for failing to do so. (see Hsu Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) “[A] party who seeks a  continuance under section 437c, subdivision (h), must show why the discovery  necessary to oppose the motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication  could not have been completed sooner….” (Braganza v. Albertson's LLC (2021)  67 Cal.App.5th 144, 156.) “There must be a justifiable reason why the essential  facts cannot be presented. An inappropriate delay in seeking to obtain the  facts may not be a valid reason why the facts cannot then be presented.” (Cooksey  v. Alexakis (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 246, 257 [19 Cal.Rptr.3d 810].) Here, Plaintiff  has failed to make any such showing and the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel  in support of the request for a continuance contained no explanation of why the  discovery sought could not have been initiated sooner.  Accordingly, the Court declines to grant Plaintiff’s request to  deny the motion in its entirety or to continue the hearing for 180 days to  permit further discovery to be conducted.               Based on the foregoing, the Court finds there is no triable  issues of material fact and Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant Perla Gu’s motion for summary judgment.  Defendant must submit a proposed judgment within five days of the Court’s  order.               Defendant Perla Gu is ordered to  give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.