 Case Number:  21STCV22706    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 25, 2023               TRIAL DATE: December
12, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Nada Shaath v. Los Angeles Unified
School Dist.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV22706            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Nada Shaath
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation that was filed on June 17, 2021. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
discriminated against Plaintiff on the basis of her race, religion, and
national origin, retaliated against her for complaining about discrimination
and for reporting unlawful activity, and that Defendant failed to prevent
others from discriminating against and harassing her.
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to
File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to file a clean, stand-alone copy of the First Amended Complaint
within five days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint.
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court may, “in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 473(a)(1); see also § 576.) A motion to amend a pleading before trial must
meet the following requirements:
 
(a)
Contents of motion
 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
(1)
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2)
State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and
 
(3)
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations
are located.
 
(b)
Supporting declaration
 
A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
(1)
The effect of the amendment;
 
(2)
Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
 
(3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
(CRC 3.1324.) This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
 
Contents of Motion
 
            Plaintiff
included a clean copy of the proposed amended pleading as Exhibit 1 attached to
the motion, as required by Rule 3.1324(a)(1). The motion expressly identifies
the allegations to be added and deleted, and includes a redlined copy of the
proposed pleading as Exhibit 2 which identifies each addition and deletion as
it occurs relative to the original Complaint, as required by Rule 3.1324(a)(2)
and (a)(3). Defendant’s argument to the contrary notwithstanding, Plaintiff has
complied with the requirements of Rule 3.1324(a).
 
Supporting Declaration
 
            The
Declaration of Mary Jean Sumell filed in support of the Motion states that the
effect of the amendments is to correct errors and omissions in the original
Complaint and to allege facts supporting a claim for further retaliation arising
from events that occurred in June and July2023. (Declaration of Mary Jean
Sumell ISO Mot. ¶¶ 4-6, 11.) These statements also demonstrate why the
amendments are necessary and proper. Plaintiff has therefore complied with Rule
3.1324(b)(1) and (b)(2). Further, by the same statements, Plaintiff has shown
that the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered in
between June 30 and July 26, 2023, when the alleged further retaliation
transpired, and that amendment was not sought earlier because the facts were
not known before that time. (Sumell Decl. ¶ 15.) Plaintiff has therefore
complied with Rule 3.1324(b)(3) and (b)(4) and has thus demonstrated compliance
with Rule 3.1324 in its entirety.
 
Defendant’s Opposition
 
            Defendant argues
in opposition that leave to amend should be denied because Plaintiff
unjustifiably delayed seeking leave to amend, and because Defendant will be
prejudiced by amending the Complaint to add new material allegations at this
late date. 
 
Defendant argues leave to amend
should be denied because Plaintiff does not risk forfeiture of any cause of
action. The Court is not persuaded. Under the primary rights doctrine, there is
at least a colorable argument that Plaintiff must assert claims of
subsequent retaliation in this action if she wishes to obtain relief, or else
risk her new claims being barred by the doctrine of res judicata. (See Crowley
v. Katleman (1994) 8 Cal.4th 666, 681-82.) 
 
            Defendant
also asserts that the motion is not supported by sufficient evidence because
Plaintiff’s counsel lacks personal knowledge of the events described. The Court
is again not persuaded. Plaintiff is not required to furnish the bulk of her
evidence on a motion for leave to amend. What is more, such an objection only
goes to the weight of the evidence, and the Court does not think it appropriate
to deny the motion on this basis. 
 
            Defendant
next argues that Plaintiff unreasonably delayed by waiting “since June” to
bring this motion. Defendant plainly mischaracterizes the factual contentions
and allegations in the Complaint, which set forth additional events occurring
on July 26, 2023 (see Exh. 1 ¶ 36), and further neglects Plaintiff’s obligation
to exhaust her administrative remedies before adding new claims. Defendant
offers no authority standing for the proposition that a delay of a single month
constitutes good cause to deny leave to amend.
 
            Finally,
Defendant argues that it has been unfairly prejudiced by Plaintiff seeking
leave to amend so close to the date of trial to assert materially new and
different allegations in the proposed First Amended Complaint. Defendant
contends that it will be prejudiced unfairly because it has already pursued
discovery based on the original allegations—alleging wrongful conduct in 2021—in
the Complaint and filed its trial documents, including trial briefs, exhibit
and witness lists, and motions in limine in April 2023 based on those
contentions. Certainly, such a change in the nature of the case constitutes
some prejudice to Defendant, who has litigated this case and prepared for trial
based on Plaintiff’s allegations arising from events occurring in 2021.
However, when the new allegations are based on events which only occurred in
June and July 2023, after Defendant filed its trial documents, the Court
cannot say that permitting amendment would constitute unfair prejudice
to Defendant. The authorities cited by Defendant in support of their argument
do not contradict this view, as they stand only for the position that amendment
should not be permitted to add radically different claims arising from facts
that were known to the plaintiff much earlier. (Melican v. Regents of Univ.
of California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 176; Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-88.) The Court is therefore not
persuaded that leave to amend should be denied on this basis.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to file a clean, standalone copy of the First Amended Complaint
within five days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 25,
2023                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 