 Case Number:  21STCV11739    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 25, 2023               TRIAL DATE: January
30, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Avraham Bibi v. Roey Burg, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV11739            
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES
(x2)

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Revital Agi and Eydan Berger
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S):  Plaintiff Avraham Bibi; 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/26/21: Complaint filed
·        
08/01/22: Cross-Complaint filed by Roey Burg and
ADB Group Inc. as to Avraham Bibi
·        
01/06/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Eydan Berger
as to Avraham Bibi.
·        
03/13/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, and
fraud arising from the breakdown of a joint venture between the parties in the
beauty supply and spa business. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants entered into unauthorized
partnership agreements and misappropriated company assets.
 
Defendants Revital Agi and Eydan
Berger move to compel further responses to interrogatories propounded to
Plaintiff. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant
Revital Agi’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories is DENIED
for lack of jurisdiction.
 
            Defendant
Eydan Berger’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories is DENIED
for lack of jurisdiction.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants Revital Agi and Eydan
Berger move to compel further responses to interrogatories propounded to
Plaintiff. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the
court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Timing:
 
            A motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories must be served “within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(c).) The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton
v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
            Defendants
served their Special Interrogatories on Plaintiff on January 24, 2023.
(Declaration of Ryan Davis ISO Mot. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff served responses on March
21, 2023, and supplemented responses on June 23, 2023. (Id. ¶¶ 3, 7.) The
parties agreed in writing to extend the time to move to compel further
responses to August 8, 2023. (Id. Exh. 6.) Defendants Agi and Berger each
filed a single Notice of Motion compelling further responses from Plaintiff to
Form and Special Interrogatories on August 9, 2023, but served them, according
to the accompanying proofs of service, on August 8, 2023. (See Proof of Service
filed August 9, 2023.) However, Defendants did not file their moving papers
until August 30, 2023. Plaintiff, in opposition, challenges the timeliness of
these motions because of the late filing of the notices of motion, and because Plaintiff
contends that the notices, without supporting papers, are deficient as a matter
of law. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.300(c) only requires that notice of a
motion be given within the time limit proscribed by the statute, not that the
motion itself must be made within that time. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c);
c.f. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(b) [“This motion [to compel further deposition
responses] shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the
record”].) However, a notice of motion “must state when, and the grounds upon
which it will be made, and the papers, if any, upon which it is to be based.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.) Further, “[i]f any such paper has not previously been
served upon the party to be notified and was not filed by him, a copy of such
paper must accompany the notice.” (Id. [emphasis added].) The
purpose of the notice requirements “is to cause the moving party to ‘sufficiently
define the issues for the information and attention of the adverse party and
the court.’” (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1125,
quoting Hernandez v. National Dairy Products (9154) 126 Cal.App.2d 490,
493.) 
 
            The Court
of Appeal for the Fourth District addressed what is required for a notice of
motion to compel further responses to interrogatories in the recent appellate
opinion Golf & Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 127. In that case, the party seeking to compel further responses
filed and served a notice of motion to compel stating only when the motion
would be made; it was unaccompanied by any supporting papers. (Golf &
Tennis Pro Shop, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at 137.) The Court of Appeal
identified four deficiencies with the notice: it did not identify the specific
interrogatories at issue, it did not cite any statutory authority for the
motion, it did not state what was deficient about the responses that had been
provided, and it failed to identify the papers upon which it was to be based. (Id.
at 138.) 
 
            Here,
Defendants’ identical notices of motion bear substantial similarities to the
one at issue in Golf & Tennis Pro Shop. Although the notices here identify
the specific interrogatories at issue and state what papers the motion will be
based on, the notices do not state the statutory authority for the motion, nor,
critically, do they explain even in general terms, what the purported
deficiency is with the interrogatories at issue. (See Notices of Motion.) Further,
although Defendants claim that Plaintiff agreed to provide supplemental
responses to the specific interrogatories identified, that claim is not
substantiated by the meet and confer correspondence, which does not identify
the interrogatories at issue. (See Davis Decl. Exh. 6.) The June 29, 2023
Minute Order from the Informal Discovery Conference is also of little
assistance, as the Parties’ purported agreement was reached outside the
presence of the Court and was not entered into the record. (Id. Exh. 5.)
Defendants also provide no explanation for the failure to file their moving
papers alongside the notice of motion, but even if they had done so, there is
nothing before the Court to suggest that Plaintiff had actual notice of which
responses to interrogatories would be at issue and the reasons why Defendants
would claim they were deficient. The Court therefore concludes that Defendants’
Notices of Motion are fatally defective, and therefore that notice was not
timely made under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(c). The Court
therefore lacks jurisdiction to hear these motions. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Defendant
Revital Agi’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories is DENIED
for lack of jurisdiction.
 
            Defendant Eydan
Berger’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories is DENIED for
lack of jurisdiction.
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: September 25, 2023                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 