  Case Number:  20STCV16189    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 25, 2023               TRIAL DATE: October
10, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Gary Peterson et al. v. State Farm
General Ins. Co. et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV16189            
 
(1)  
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
(2)  
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION (SET THREE) (x2)
(3)  
MOTION TO CONDUCT TRIAL IN PHASES

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Plaintiffs Gary Peterson and Robin
Barton-Peterson; (3) Defendant State Farm General Insurance Co.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2) Defendant
State Farm General Insurance Co.; (3) Plaintiffs Gary Peterson and Robin
Barton-Peterson
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/28/20: Complaint filed. 
·        
06/26/20: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract and negligence case. Plaintiffs contend that
Defendants failed to pay the entirety of Plaintiffs’ insurance claims following
the loss of their home in the Woolsey Fire, and mishandled Plaintiffs’
insurance coverage. 
 
Plaintiffs move for summary
adjudication on a single issue of duty, and to compel further responses to
requests for production propounded to Defendant. Defendant, in turn, moves to
conduct trial in phases. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED IN PART to the extent described
herein.
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motions to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set Three) are
DENIED for lack of jurisdiction. 
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Conduct Trial in Phases is GRANTED IN PART. Trial on the issue of Defendant’s liability will be
conducted first. Should Plaintiffs prove malice, oppression, or fraud by clear
and convincing evidence during the liability phase, the Court will then proceed
to trial on the issue of the proper amount of punitive damages. Evidence of
Defendant’s profits and financial condition may not be introduced until the
second phase of trial. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Plaintiffs move for summary
adjudication of a single issue of duty as to whether Defendant had a duty to
take into consideration not just Plaintiffs’ physical dwelling, but also the
other structures and grounds on their property when calculating the amount of
additional living expenses Plaintiffs were entitled to receive under their
insurance policy. 
 
Summary Adjudication Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Legal Standards for Construing Insurance Policies
 
“Interpretation of an insurance
policy presents a question of law governed by the general rules of contract
interpretation. . . . 
We must give effect to the intent of the parties when they formed
the contract and, if possible, infer this intent solely from the written
provisions of the contract. . . .  In so
doing, we must look first to the language of the [insurance policy] in order to
ascertain its plain meaning or the meaning a layperson would ordinarily attach
to it. . . .  The language of the policy
must be read in the context of the instrument as a
whole under the circumstances of the case and a policy provision will be
considered ambiguous when it is capable of two or more reasonable
constructions. . . .  If a policy
provision is ambiguous, we resolve the ambiguity in the insureds' favor,
consistent with the insureds' reasonable expectations.” (Davis v. Farmers
Ins. Group (2005) 134 Cal. App. 4th 100, 104 [Citations and internal
quotations omitted].)
 
The task of determining if the
policy language is clear or ambiguous begins with the words themselves.  “If contractual language is clear and
explicit, it governs. . . . A policy provision will be considered ambiguous
when it is capable of two or more constructions, both of which are reasonable. .
. .  The fact that a term is not defined
in the policies does not make it ambiguous. . . . Nor does [d]isagreement
concerning the meaning of a phrase, or the fact that a word or phrase isolated
from its context is susceptible of more than one meaning. [L]anguage in a
contract must be construed in the context of that instrument as a whole, and in
the circumstances of that case, and cannot be found to be ambiguous in the
abstract.  (National Casualty Co. v.
Sovereign General Ins. Servs., Inc. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 812, 818 [Citations
and internal quotations omitted].)  
 
“In determining whether an
ambiguity exists, a court should consider not only the face of the contract but
also any extrinsic evidence that supports a reasonable interpretation. . .
.  [T]o conclude that an ambiguity exists
which will be construed against an insurer, it is necessary first to determine
whether the coverage under the policy, which would result from such a
construction, is consistent with the insured's objectively reasonable
expectations. . . .  In order to do this,
the disputed policy language must be examined in context with regard to its
function in the policy. . . . This requires a consideration of the policy as
[a] whole, the circumstances of the case in which the claim arises and “common
sense.” . . . ’ Even language that may be plain and clear may be found to be
ambiguous when read in the context of the policy and the circumstances of the
case . . . . ” (American Alternative Ins. Corp. v. Superior Court (2006)
135 Cal.App.4th 1239, 1246 [Citations and internal quotations omitted]; see also
Clarendon Am. Ins. Co. v. N. Am. Capacity Ins. Co. (2010)186 Cal. App.
4th 556, 566–67.)  “If an asserted
ambiguity is not eliminated by the language and context of the policy, courts
then invoke the principle that ambiguities are generally construed against the
party who caused the uncertainty to exist (i.e., the insurer) in order to
protect the insured's reasonable expectation of coverage.” (Powerine Oil
Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 37 Cal.4th 377, 390–391[Citations].)
 
Analysis
 
            The
coverage provision at issue in this motion is the Additional Living Expenses provision
of Plaintiffs’ insurance policy, which states:
 
Additional Living Expense. When
a Loss Insured causes the residence premises to become
uninhabitable, we will cover the necessary increase in cost you incur to
maintain your standard of living for up to 24 months. Our payment is limited to
incurred costs for the shortest of: (a) the time required to repair or replace
the premises; (b) the time required for your household to settle elsewhere; or
(c) 24 months. This coverage is not reduced by the expiration of this policy. 
 
(Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact
No. 5 [italics and underline added].) The Policy defines “residence premises”
as:
 
a. the one, two, three or four-family
dwelling, other structures
and grounds; or
 
b. that part of any other building;
 
where you reside and
which is shown in the Declarations. 

(SSUMF No. 6 [italics and underline added].) 
 
            In their
moving papers, Plaintiffs asserted, without much legal analysis, that Defendant
had a legal duty to “take into consideration” the dwelling, other structures
and grounds on Plaintiffs’ property when calculating the appropriate amount of
additional living expenses to which Plaintiffs were entitled under their
insurance policy following the 2018 Woolsey fire.  Plaintiffs’ initial argument simply urged the
Court to find Defendant had violated the policy by failing to evaluate whether
additional living expenses should be computed by reference to a standard of
living that acknowledged not only their dwelling but the other structures and
grounds on Plaintiffs’ property.
 
In response, Defendants criticized
Plaintiffs’ failure to dispose of an entire duty issue by addressing all
relevant language in the policy. Defendants also argued there was no duty to
pay the expansive living expenses Plaintiffs are seeking, contending that the
other structures and grounds were not relevant to the Additional Living Expense
calculation because they did not fall under the definition of “residence
premises . . . where [Plaintiffs] reside.” 
 
Plaintiffs’ reply offered, for the
first time, a comprehensive analysis of the relevant policy language.  Defending the propriety of their motion,
Plaintiffs characterized the issue as whether Defendant had a duty to pay
additional living expenses that covered not only the dwelling but the other
buildings and grounds.  Plaintiffs also
argued, contrary to Defendant’s interpretation, that the clear language of the Additional
Living Expense provision required inclusion of other structures and grounds in
assessing Plaintiffs’ standard of living. 
As an alternative approach, Plaintiffs suggested that Defendant’s
proposed definition of “reside” exposes an ambiguity in the policy language
that should be construed against the insurer to make it consistent with the
reasonable expectations of the insured. 
(Plaintiffs’ Reply, pp. 3-6.)     
 
            After the
initial hearing on this motion, the Court concluded that the motion poses a
legal duty question that is properly resolved by summary adjudication, but that
the primary exposition of Plaintiffs’ policy interpretation was raised in their
reply brief, thus depriving Defendant of a fair opportunity to counter those
contentions. (September 5, 2023 Interim Ruling On Matter Taken Under Submission.)
The Court therefore ordered supplemental briefing offering any extrinsic
evidence that supported the reasonable interpretation advanced by each party
and examining the Additional Living Expenses provision in the context of the
instrument as a whole under the circumstances of this case. (Id.) As to
the latter analysis, the Court noted that the policy provides coverage for the
“Dwelling” and “Dwelling Extension” and uses the phrase “residential dwelling”
in certain places but does not appear to define these terms. (Id.) The
Court invited arguments about the meaning of “dwelling” in the policy as a
whole and in the Additional Living Expenses provision itself which sweeps in
“other structures and grounds” in addition to the “dwelling.” (Id.) The
Court also requested briefing on the significance of the phrase “which is shown
in the Declarations” in the Additional Living Expenses provision. (Id.) The
parties provided supplemental briefing pursuant to the Interim Order, and the
Court now rules on the merits of the motion.
 
            In its
supplemental opposition, Defendant cites to the Coverage Provisions of the
Policy as the principal basis for its argument. The Policy states that the
scope of property covered under Coverage Provision A includes:
 
1.     
Dwelling. We cover the dwelling used principally
as a private residence on the residence premises shown in the
Declarations.
 
Dwelling
includes:
 
a.      
Structures attached to the dwelling;
b.     
Materials and supplies located on or adjacent to the residence
premises for use in the construction, alternation or repair of the dwelling
or other structures on the residence premises;
c.      
Foundation, floor slab and footings supporting the
dwelling; and
d.     
Wall-to-wall carpeting attached to the dwelling.
 
(Defendant’s Separate Statement of Material Fact Nos. 26-27
[bold in original].) It is undisputed that the Declarations identify the
property to be covered only by the address 5635 Trancas Canyon Road, Malibu, CA
90265-3112. (SSMF No. 29.) The Policy also covers other structures under the
following conditions:
 
2.     
Dwelling Extension. We cover other structures on
the residence premises, separate from the dwelling by clear space.
Structures connected to the dwelling by only a fence, utility line, or similar
connection are considered to be other structures.
 
We
do not cover other structures:
 
a.      
Not permanently attached to or otherwise forming a part
of the realty;
b.     
Used in whole or part for business purposes unless such
use consists solely of use of office space for paperwork, computer work or use
of a telephone, and consists solely of activities that are:
(1)  
Duties of the insured’s employment by another; and
(2)  
Performed solely by the insured; or
 
c.      
Rented or held for rental to a person not a tenant of
the dwelling, unless used solely as a private garage.
 
3.     
Property Not Covered. We do not cover:
 
a.      
Land, including the land necessary to support any
Coverage A property. 
 
(SSMF No. 28 [bold in original].) Defendant contends that
the net effect of these provisions is that multiple structures may be located
on the residence premises, but the extent to which they are covered under the
Policy is governed by the exclusions listed here. The Court agrees: this
conclusion is readily apparent from the plain language of the policy. Defendant
also concedes that Plaintiffs’ music studio falls squarely within the
definition of “dwelling extension” as a structure located on the grounds specified
in the Declarations and separate from the dwelling itself. (SSMF No. 15.) In
contrast, Defendant states that Plaintiffs’ vineyard, cottages, and detached
office were not covered because they were used for business or rental purposes,
and thus fell within the exceptions under Coverage A. (SSMF No. 20.) 
 
            Defendant
argues that, applying these provisions to the subject property, the appurtenant
structures and grounds were properly excluded because it was only the loss of
the dwelling structure itself that rendered the premises “uninhabitable.” Defendant
does not dispute that the dwelling and studio were destroyed by the Woolsey
Fire, and that the fire was a type of loss covered under the policy. Defendant
claims, however, that the proper interpretation of the Additional Living
Expenses provision excludes any portion of the premises other than the dwelling
structure because that is the only portion of the property where Plaintiffs
“reside” in the ordinary sense of the word. Defendant also asserts that, under
Plaintiffs’ proposed interpretation, the requirement that the premises be
rendered “uninhabitable” would deny Plaintiffs ALE coverage altogether because
Plaintiffs could hypothetically inhabit some other structure on the property,
such as one of the cottages. 
 
            Defendant’s
interpretation of the policy is not persuasive. Stripped of analogies and
hypothetical scenarios, Defendant’s contention is that the only component of
the subject property that qualifies as “residence premises” for the purpose of
ALE calculation is the dwelling itself, and not any appurtenant structures or
grounds, because the dwelling is where Plaintiffs supposedly “reside.” In other
words, Defendant claims that Plaintiffs reside only in the dwelling because
that is where they reside—a circular argument. The express language of both Coverage
A and the definition of “residence premises” plainly state that other
structures beyond the dwelling are included. Indeed, Defendant concedes
that, at a minimum, Plaintiffs’ recording studio falls within the definition of
“dwelling extension” under Coverage A, which also states that dwelling
extensions are part of the residence premises. What is more, Defendant’s
argument misses the forest for the trees in that Plaintiffs’ position is only
that the entirety of the property is relevant for the determination of Plaintiffs’
standard of living, not that the entirety of the property is relevant for habitability.
 
            Plaintiffs
identify these deficiencies in Defendant’s argument in their supplemental reply
brief, and go on to contend that the entirety of the property, including the
cottages, studio, vineyard, office, and other buildings, should have been
included as other structures under the Dwelling Extension provision. The Court
notes that neither party provided any substantive argument regarding the extent
to which the grounds of the subject property fall within the definition of
“residence premises.” Further, the Court observes that there is a factual
dispute between the parties as to whether the other structures on the property fell
under any of the exclusions to “Dwelling Extension” at the time of the fire.
(See, e.g., Defendant’s SSMF No. 20.) Whether these structures were or were not
used as rental or business properties is not before the Court on this motion,
which seeks only adjudication of an issue of a legal duty. In fact, the
Parties’ agreement that the use of these structures is relevant appears to
suggest that whether a structure is a covered Dwelling Extension is at least
partially determinative of whether it should be included for the purpose of
calculating Additional Living Expenses. 
 
            After considering
the various provisions of the Policy discussed by the parties, the Court
concludes that the Additional Living Expenses of the Policy required Defendant,
when calculating the “necessary increase in cost” to maintain Plaintiffs’
standard of living, to include not only the dwelling structure itself in
Defendant’s calculations, but also the grounds of the property and other
structures, subject to the exclusions in the definition of Dwelling Extension
in Coverage Provision A section 2. This construction gives effect to each of
the provisions in the Policy cited by the parties and respects the ordinary
meaning of the language used. 
 
//
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED IN PART to the extent
described herein.
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production (x2)
 
            Plaintiffs
move to compel further responses to two identical sets of Requests for
Production propounded to Defendant. Although Plaintiffs initially moved to
compel responses to Requests 25 through 60, accounting for the bulk of the set
propounded to Defendant, Plaintiffs state in their reply brief filed August 30
that they are limiting the scope of the motion to Request Nos. 27, 31, 32, 41
through 43, 49 through 53, and 58 through 60. As the two motions and sets of
discovery are identical, the Court will jointly rule on both motions as
narrowed by Plaintiffs. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit
or too general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate
statement filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This
burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).) The 45-day
requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
            Plaintiffs propounded the discovery
at issue in this motion on January 20, 2023. (Declaration of Samuel Bruchey ISO
Mot. ¶ 2.) Defendant provided initial responses on February 22, 2023. (Id.
¶¶ 3.) The final day to give notice of this motion as therefore, April 10, 2023
by operation of law. This motion was filed on May 22, 2023, more than a month
past the deadline. Plaintiffs offer no evidence that the parties agreed in
writing to an extension of the deadline to file this motion. The Court notes
that Defendant expressed a willingness to extend the time for Plaintiffs to
move to compel further responses in the parties’ meet-and-confer correspondence,
but no specific date was mentioned. (See Declaration of Matthew F. Batezel ISO
Opp. Exhs. 4-5.) Thus, it appears that the Court lacks jurisdiction to hear
these motions because they were not timely filed.  
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motions to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set
Three) are DENIED for lack of jurisdiction. 
 
Motion to Conduct Trial in Phases
 
            Defendant
moves to conduct trial of this action in three phases: phase one for
determination of Defendant’s liability by the preponderance of the evidence;
phase two for determination of whether Defendant is guilty of fraud, malice, or
oppression by clear and convincing evidence; and phase three for determination
of the amount of punitive damages to be imposed. 
 
Legal Standard for Partition of Trial
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 598 provides:
The court may, when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after
notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of pretrial
conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held, or, in
other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial of any
issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any
part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be tried first
pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5. The court, on its own motion, may make such
an order at any time. . . .
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 598). Section 1048(b) further
provides:
 
The court, in furtherance of
convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to
expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action,
including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate
issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of
trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the
United States.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1048(b).) In addition, upon
application of a defendant, preclusion of financial condition evidence is
mandatory until after punitive damages are found to be warranted:
 
The court shall, on
application of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of that
defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the trier of fact
returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a
defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section
3294. Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible only as to
the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and to be
guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.
 
(Civ. Code § 3295(d).)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
seeks to conduct trial in this action in three phases: Phase I to determine
Defendant’s liability on the merits of the causes of action asserted against it
by a preponderance of the evidence; Phase II to determine whether Defendant was
guilty of fraud, oppression, or malice by clear and convincing evidence; and
Phase III to determine the extent of any punitive damages to be awarded.
 
            Defendant
contends that partition of trial into three phases, rather than the customary bifurcation
of liability and punitive damages, by separating the liability issue into two
phases is necessary to avoid confusing the jury. Certainly, avoiding confusion
of the jury is facially related to promoting the ends of justice and reducing the
risk of prejudice to all parties. Defendant bases this contention on the
argument that the jury might be confused by being asked to determine
Defendant’s liability for “bad faith” by a preponderance of the evidence at the
same time that the jury is asked to determine whether Defendant is guilty of
fraud, malice, or oppression by clear and convincing evidence under Civil Code
section 3294. 
 
            Although
Defendant cites a raft of authorities standing for the position that a jury
should must be instructed clearly on the burden of proof, (see, e.g., People
v. Gray (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 256, 265-66), Defendant does not provide a
single citation standing for the position that a jury should not be presented
with evidence of fraud, malice, or oppression for the purpose of resolving a
claim for punitive damages during the liability phase of trial. Indeed,
Defendant’s primary citation, State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance Co. v.
Superior Court (Corrick), only held that it was error for the trial court
to consolidate two matters for trial on the merits where the standards
for certain issues in each case would force the jury to draw conflicting
inferences from the same evidence. (State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (Corrick) (1956) 47 Cal.2d 428, 431.) As Defendant
has provided no applicable authority justifying its request, the Court sees no
reason to depart from the well-established practice regarding separation of
issues of liability and damages under section 3295. 
 
            With
respect to the separation of the issue of punitive damages into a separate
phase, Plaintiffs state in their response to this motion that they do not
oppose bifurcation pursuant to section 3295(d) to preclude evidence of
Defendant’s financial condition or profits until after a determination of
Defendant’s guilt of fraud, malice, or oppression by clear and convincing
evidence under Civil Code section 3294.
 
Conclusion
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Conduct Trial in Phases is GRANTED IN PART. Trial on the issue of Defendant’s liability will be
conducted first. Should Plaintiffs prove malice, oppression, or fraud by clear
and convincing evidence during the liability phase, the Court will then proceed
to trial on the issue of the proper amount of punitive damages. Evidence of
Defendant’s profits and financial condition may not be introduced until the
second phase of trial. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED IN PART to the extent described
herein.
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motions to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set Three) are
DENIED for lack of jurisdiction. 
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Conduct Trial in Phases is GRANTED IN PART. Trial on the issue of Defendant’s liability will be
conducted first. Should Plaintiffs prove malice, oppression, or fraud by clear
and convincing evidence during the liability phase, the Court will then proceed
to trial on the issue of the proper amount of punitive damages. Evidence of
Defendant’s profits and financial condition may not be introduced until the
second phase of trial. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 25,
2023                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 