  Case Number:  22STCV20414    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
14, 2024                         TRIAL
DATE:  N/A
                                                           
CASE:                         David Forseth v. The Lobster, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV20414
 





















 
PETITION
TO VACATE ARBITRATION AWARD
 
CROSS-PETITION
TO CONFIRM THE AWARD



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
David Forseth
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant The
Lobster, LLC
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On June 22, 2022, Plaintiff David Forseth filed a Complaint
against The Lobster, LLC; Robert Kull (“Kull”); and Natasha Nathan (“Nathan”)
(collectively “Defendants”), for wrongful termination and violations of the
California Labor Code and the FEHA.  Plaintiff alleges that Kull and Nathan
discriminated against him because of his age.                                  
 
On July 22, 2022, Defendants moved to compel arbitration.  The court granted the motion on August 17,
2022.  The arbitration proceeded with
JAMS.  Arbitrator Zela G. Claiborne
(Arbitrator Claiborne) issued a Final Arbitration Award on December 11, 2023. 
 
            On December
21, 2023, Defendants filed a Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award.  On January 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
Objection and Request to Strike the Petition on the grounds that Defendants had
not provided notice of the hearing.  The
court ordered the parties to participate in further arbitration and struck
Defendants’ Petition.  Plaintiff
concurrently filed a Notice of Agreement to Extend Time Pursuant to CCP § 1290.6
To Respond [sic] Defendant’s Petition to Confirm Arbitrator’s Award.
 
            On March
18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Petition to Vacate Contractual Arbitration
Award.  On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an Amended Petition and a Notice of Hearing of Plaintiff’s Petition to
Vacate Arbitration Award.
            
            On March
25, 2024, Defendant The Lobster, LLC (hereafter, “Lobster” or “Defendant”)
filed an Opposition to Amended Petition to Vacate Contractual Arbitration Award
and Cross-Petition to Confirm the Award (Cross-Petition).
 
            On May 1, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an Opposition to Defendant’s Cross-Petition.
 
            On May 3, 2024,
Defendant filed a Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition to the Cross-Petition.
 
            On May 7,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Reply to Defendant’s Opposition to the Amended
Petition.
 
            Before the
court are the parties’ cross-petitions regarding the arbitration award issued
in this matter on December 11, 2023.  The
court addresses the cross-petitions together.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Once
arbitration is concluded, “any arbitrator’s award is enforceable only when
confirmed as a judgment of the superior court.”¿ (O’Hare v. Municipal
Resource Consultants (2003) 107¿Cal.App.4th 267, 278 (O’Hare).)¿ Any
of the parties may file a petition with the court, which must then “confirm the
award, correct and confirm it, vacate it, or dismiss the petition.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc.,¿§§¿1285, 1286; EHM Productions, Inc. v. Starline Tours of
Hollywood,¿Inc. (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 1058, 1063 (EHM Productions).)¿
“It is well settled that the scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is
extremely narrow.”  (California
Faculty Assn. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943.)¿ “Neither
the trial court, nor the appellate court, may ‘review the merits of the
dispute, the sufficiency of the evidence, or the arbitrator’s reasoning, nor
may we correct or review an award because of an arbitrator’s legal or factual
error, even if it appears on the award’s face. 
Instead, we restrict our review to whether the award should be vacated
under the grounds listed in section 1286.2.” ¿ (EHM Productions,
supra, at pp. 1063-64.)¿ 
Subject to Section 1286.4, the court shall vacate the award
if the court determines any of the following: 
(1) The award was procured by
corruption, fraud or other undue means. 
(2) There was corruption in any of the arbitrators. 
(3) The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a
neutral arbitrator. 
(4) The arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award cannot be corrected
without affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy
submitted. 
(5) The rights of the parties were substantially prejudiced by the refusal of
the arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause being shown
therefor or by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence material to the
controversy or by other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to the provisions
of this title. 
(6) An arbitrator making the award  . . . (B) was subject to
disqualification upon grounds specified in Section 1281.91 but failed upon
receipt of timely demand to disqualify himself or herself as required by that
provision. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2, subd.
(a).) 
Only where both (1) the
arbitrator abused his or her discretion and (2) there was resulting prejudice,
can a trial court properly vacate an arbitration award. (SWAB Financial, LLC
v. E*Trade Securities, LLC (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1198.) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Timeliness
 
A petition to vacate an arbitration award must be filed and
served no later than 100 days after the date of the service of a signed copy of
the award on Petitioner.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§  1288.) 
“The filing and service deadline for a petition to vacate is
jurisdictional; noncompliance deprives a court of the power to vacate an
award…” (Santa Monica College Faculty Assn. v. Santa Monica Community
College District (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 538, 544-45.)  
 
Defendant argues the Petition to Vacate is untimely but
cites 9 U.S.C. section 12 rather than CCP section 1288.  9 U.S.C. section 12 provides, “Notice of a
motion to vacate, modify, or correct an award must be served upon the adverse
party or his attorney within three months after the award is filed or
delivered.”  
 
The lack of argument and evidence complicates the timeliness
inquiry.  The parties do not address
whether state or federal law applies. 
Further, although Defendant represents that the Final Arbitration Award
was made and served on December 11, 2023, neither party provides proof of
service of the Final Arbitration Award indicating when it was served.  Assuming for the moment that December 11, 2023
is the correct date, and applying federal law, the Petition to Vacate may well
be untimely since more than three months separate December 11, 2023 and March
18, 2024 (when the first Petition to Vacate was filed).  However, if California law applies,
Plaintiff’s Petition to Vacate is timely since exactly 100 days separate
December 11, 2023 and March 20, 2023 (when the Amended Petition was filed).  Given the lack of clarity, the court reaches
the merits of Plaintiff’s Petition to Vacate.[1]  
 
B.    
Petition to
Vacate Arbitration Award
Plaintiff identifies multiple
grounds to vacate the arbitration award. 
The court addresses each in turn.
                               
i.           
Corruption of the Arbitrators (CCP § 1286.2(a)(2))
 
Plaintiff argues the
arbitration award should be vacated because Arbitrator Claiborne was prejudiced
against his counsel, Armando Galvan, which amounts to corruption.  In his declaration, Mr. Galvan states “that
the Arbitrator visually was a prejudiced, racist or bigot and was
discriminating against me for being a person of Mexican descent and/or
Hispanic; in effect by her tone and her vehement reaction to my statements she
all but told me “boy” in repeatedly chastising me to “Be Quiet!” when I exercised
my right to act on behalf of Plaintiff. 
It was obvious she favored in a discriminatory manner, the older and
whiter [Defendant] Mr. Kull.  That I am
middle aged makes her treatment of me all the worst and an obvious
discriminatory tone and mistreatment; this was corruption.”  (Decl. Galvan, ¶ 5.)
 
Plaintiff’s
argument lacks merit.  Plaintiff does not
reference any transcripts or any record whatsoever to support the allegations that
the arbitrator was prejudiced against Plaintiff’s counsel based upon race or
ethnicity.  Plaintiff also fails to cite
the alleged rulings or findings that were the product of the arbitrator’s
racist behavior.  The assertion is
unsubstantiated and does not provide a basis for vacating the award.  
 
ii.                 
The arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award
cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the
controversy submitted (CCP § 1286.2(a)(4))
            Plaintiff argues Arbitrator Claiborne exceeded her
powers.  The argument is difficult to
discern.  Plaintiff appears to argue the
Arbitrator exceeded her authority by deciding some of the alleged conduct was
barred by the three-year limitations for violations of the FEHA in Prehearing
Order No. 4 (“Order No. 4”).  Plaintiff characterizes
Order No. 4, which granted in part Defendants’ Motion to Narrow Issues, as an
unauthorized granting of summary judgment. 
Plaintiff
mischaracterizes the ruling.  Order No. 4
states, in pertinent part:
“Respondents
have filed a "Motion to Narrow Issues" on February 1, 2023. Although
not characterized as a motion for summary adjudication, it appears to be just
that: an attempt to bar discovery and evidence regarding acts done before June
6, 2019, when they assert that the three-year statute of limitations would have
run. 
The Motion
is denied insofar as it is an attempt to preclude evidence of events that
occurred before June 6, 2019. Claimant may present testimony on claims of a
toxic work environment before that date. That testimony should be limited to
the testimony of two or three witnesses at most. There will be no time for
cumulative testimony at the hearings. 
However,
the motion is granted with regard to the claims asserted here. Claimant is
limited to claims dated after June 6, 2019. Claimant may present evidence of
discrimination, a hostile work environment, and so forth in support of his
allegation that he was terminated due to his age. Respondents may assert the
defense of the statute of limitations when appropriate.”
(Galvan Decl., Ex. 3.)
Contrary
to Plaintiff’s assertion, Arbitrator Claiborne did not rule in advance of the
arbitration hearing that Plaintiff’s FEHA claim was barred by the statute of
limitations.  Rather, Arbitrator
Claiborne ruled that some of Plaintiff’s alleged claims would not be
recoverable—specifically those dated after June 6, 2019.  The court further notes that the parties
briefed the statute of limitations issue. 
(See Galvan Decl., Exs. 4 and 5.) 
Plaintiff had notice of the Motion to Narrow Issues and had an
opportunity to respond.  
At bottom,
Plaintiff takes issue with Arbitrator Claiborne’s reasoning and application of
the law in Order No. 4.  This is not a
basis to vacate an arbitration award.  “Neither
the trial court, nor the appellate court, may ‘review the merits of the
dispute, the sufficiency of the evidence, or the arbitrator’s reasoning,
nor may we correct or review an award because of an arbitrator’s legal or
factual error, even if it appears on the award’s face.  Instead, we restrict our review to whether
the award should be vacated under the grounds listed in section 1286.2.” ¿ (EHM
Productions, supra, at pp. 1063-64.)¿ Thus, even if the court were
to disagree with Arbitrator Claiborne’s reasoning or to find that the award is
based upon a legal error, the court cannot vacate the award on those grounds.[2]  Plaintiff does not demonstrate Arbitrator
Claiborne exceeded her powers. 
iii.               
The rights of the
parties were substantially prejudiced … by the refusal of the arbitrators to
hear evidence material to the controversy or by other conduct of the
arbitrators contrary to the provisions of this title  (CCP
§ 1286.2(a)(5))
 
Plaintiff next argues that Arbitrator Claiborne unjustly
excluded witness testimony from Chris Prell (“Prell”) and Julia Lehman
(“Lehman”).  Prell was Defendant’s former
employee and Prell similarly alleged that in 2017 and 2018 he was discriminated
against because of his age by former managers. 
Plaintiff’s argument lacks merit. 
As Defendant points out, there is no evidence that Arbitrator Claiborne
prevented Plaintiff from calling Prell or Lehman as witnesses.  The court further notes that, over four days,
Plaintiff called six witnesses in his case in chief.  (See Kull Decl., ¶ 5.)  By all
accounts, Plaintiff had ample opportunity to present extensive evidence in
support of his claims.  Plaintiff does
not merit an order vacating the arbitration award on this ground.
 
C.    
Cross-Petition to
Confirm Arbitration Award
Defendant The Lobster, LLC seeks an order confirming the Final
Award.  An arbitrator’s award is
enforceable only after being confirmed by a court of law. (O’Hare, 107
Cal.App.4th at p. 278.)¿ “An award that has not been confirmed or vacated has
the same force and effect as a contract in writing between the parties to the
arbitration.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.6.)¿ 
“Any party to an arbitration award in which an award has
been made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.) “A petition under this chapter shall: (1) Set forth
the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless
the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement. (b) Set forth the
names of the arbitrators. (c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award
and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
1285.4.) “A response to a petition under this chapter may request the court to
dismiss the petition or to confirm, correct or vacate the award.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1285.2.)
The procedural requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 1285.4 have been satisfied.  In
moving to vacate the Final Award, Plaintiff included a copy of the agreement to
arbitrate (Amended Pet. to Vacate, Attachment 4(b)) and copy of the Final Award
issued by Arbitrator Claiborne (Amended Pet. to Vacate, Attachment 8(c)).  Further, the court has considered Plaintiff’s
challenges to the Final Award which are set forth in Plaintiff’s Petition to
Vacate and Opposition to the Cross-Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award.
            Plaintiff makes one additional
argument against confirming the Final Award. 
He argues that because Defendants Hull and Nathan are not parties to the
Cross-Petition to Confirm (or the Opposition to Plaintiff’s Petition to
Vacate), Defendants Hull and Nathan have defaulted.  The argument lacks merit.  Defendant The Lobster, LLC opposed
Plaintiff’s Petition to Vacate and cross-petitioned to confirm the arbitration
award.  Plaintiff does not cite any
authority for the proposition the arguments raised here do not apply to Hull
and Nathan.
IV.        CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award is DENIED. 

 
            Defendant’s
Cross-Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award is GRANTED. Defendant is directed
to file a proposed judgment consistent with this decision within 10 days. 
 
Defendant to give notice.  
                                                
                                                            
DATED: May 13, 2024
 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 


