 Case Number:  23STCV29151    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
14, 2024                                     TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Bespoke Funding 2021A LLC v. Grupo Flor Corporation, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV29151
 





















 
MOTION
TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Grupo Flor Corporation, East of Eden Cannabis Co., WF Enterprises, Inc., and
Flor X, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Bespoke Funding 2021A LLC
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
In 2022, non-party Bespoke Financial Inc. (Bespoke
Financial) entered into written loan agreements with Grupo Flor Corporation
(Grupo Flor), East of Eden Cannabis Co. (EOE) and WF Enterprises, Inc. (WF).  The EOE and WF loan agreements were
guaranteed by Flor X, Inc. (Flor X). 
Thereafter, EOE and WF defaulted on the monthly payments which
separately triggered Flor X’s obligation and liability.  Grupo Flor, as the alleged alter ego of EOE,
WF, and Flor X, is liable for their breaches. Bespoke Financial assigned all
rights and obligations of the loan agreements to Bespoke Funding 2021A LLC
(Bespoke Funding).
 
On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff Bespoke Funding filed a Complaint
against Defendants, Grupo Flor, EOE, WF, and Flor X, alleging causes of action for
(1) Breach of Contract (EOE Loan); (2) Breach of Contract (WF Loan); (3) Breach
of Contract (Flor X Guaranty); (4) Promissory Estoppel; (5) Quantum Meruit; (6)
Open Book Account; (7) Account Stated; and (8) Restitution.
 
On April 15, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to
disqualify David Welch (“Mr. Welch”) as counsel for Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Defendants replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Courts have the discretion to disqualify a law firm pursuant
to the inherent authority to control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of
its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any matter connected with
a judicial proceeding before it, in every manner pertaining thereto.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(5).) 
 
“[C]onflicts can arise in California (and disqualification
motions can be granted) based on the conjunction of (1) implicit obligations a
lawyer takes on to maintain the confidences of a nonclient received in the
course of representing a client, and (2) the unfair advantage that might accrue
were such a lawyer to pursue substantially related litigation against the
nonclient.” (Acacia Patent Acquisition, LLC v. Superior Court (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 1091, 1099 (Acacia Patent); see also Cal. Prof. Conduct Rule
1.7(b).)  “For purposes of a
disqualification motion, ‘[s]tanding arises from a breach of the duty of
confidentiality owed to the complaining party, regardless of whether a
lawyer-client relationship existed.’”  (Great
Lakes Construction, Inc. v. Burman (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1347, 1356
quoting DCH Health Services Corp. v. Waite (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 829,
832 (Great Lakes).)
 
“Ultimately, disqualification motions involve a conflict
between the clients' right to counsel of their choice and the need to maintain
ethical standards of professional responsibility.” (People ex rel. Dept. of
Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc.¿(1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135,
1145.)  In considering a motion to
disqualify counsel, the court’s “paramount concern must be to preserve public
trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.”  (Ibid.)  
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Defendants seek an order to disqualify Mr. Welch (and by
extension, Mr. Welch’s current firm, Enso Law) as counsel for Plaintiff because
Mr. Welch served as Grupo Flor’s de facto legal counsel for years by regularly
conducting business with Grupo Flor, regularly providing legal advice, and drafting
legal documents for Grupo Flor.  In the
process, Mr. Welch was regularly given access to confidential financial
information for Grupo Flor.  In support,
Defendants offer the declaration of Grupo Flor founder Mustafa “Mike” Bitar
wherein Mr. Bitar details Mr. Welch’s work with Grupo Flor from 2017 through
2023.  
 
Plaintiff argues Mr. Bitar either misremembers or misleads
the court as to Mr. Welch’s relationship with Grupo Flor.  Citing Mr. Welch’s declaration, Plaintiff argues
that Mr. Welch represented clients on the opposite side of the table to
Defendants.  In support, Plaintiff offers
redacted retainer agreements between Mr. Welch’s former law firm, DRWelch and various
clients.  (See Welch Decl., Exs. B, C, D,
E, and G.)  Grupo Flor is not among
DRWelch’s former clients.  
 
In reply, Defendants appear to concede Mr. Welch did not
previously represent Grupo Flor. 
However, Defendants maintain that Mr. Welch has obtained Grupo Flor’s
confidential information which is sufficient to disqualify Mr. Welch and Enso
Law from this matter.  The principal
issue, then, is whether Mr. Welch may be disqualified for obtaining Grupo
Flor’s confidential information despite never having represented Grupo Flor. 
 
Here, Defendants do not meet their burden to show Mr. Welch
and Enso Law should be disqualified.  Specifically,
Defendants do not establish the second element of the Acacia Patent test:
whether this litigation is substantially related to the previous transactions
in which Mr. Welch obtained Grupo Flor’s confidential information.  Defendants’ lone argument on this matter is
that Plaintiff moved (unsuccessfully) for a temporary restraining order based
on confidential information Mr. Welch received in the “Moss Landing” transaction.  (See Bitar Dec., ¶ 10.)  This argument, however, does little to show how
the Moss Landing transaction is related to the issues in this litigation.  Moreover, Defendants fail to overcome Mr. Welch’s
showing that he represented clients in transactional matters adverse to Grupo
Flor and the information obtained in those adversarial transactions was not
confidential.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Accordingly,
the motion to disqualify is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   May 14, 2024                                    




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 
            
 
 