 Case Number:  22STCV18394    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
June 3, 2022, Plaintiff Alejandro Morales (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“Metro”), City of Los Angeles (“City of Los Angeles”), City of Beverly Hills
(“City of Beverly Hills”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), California
Department of Transportation, United States of America, and Does 1-50 for
premises liability and dangerous condition of public property. 
On
December 1, 2022, Defendant The People of the State of California, acting by
and through the Department of Transportation, erroneously sued as California
Department of Transportation, filed an answer.  
On
December 8, 2022, the Court dismissed Defendant United States of America
without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
December 15, 2022, the County filed an answer. 
On March 15, 2023, the Court dismissed the County without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
January 27, 2023, Metro filed an answer. 
On
February 24, 2023, the Court sustained the City of Beverly Hills’s demurrer
with leave to amend. 
On
March 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Metro, City
of Los Angeles, City of Beverly Hills, State, and Does 1-50 for premises
liability and dangerous condition of public property. 
On
June 15, 2023, the City of Beverly Hills and Metro filed an answer to the first
amended complaint. 
On
January 25, 2024, the Court dismissed CA Dept. of Transportation without
prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
March 12, 2024, the City of Los Angeles filed an answer.  On July 2, 2024, the Court dismissed the City
of Los Angeles without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 27, 2025. 
B.   These motions 
On
September 23, 2024, Defendants City of Beverly Hills and Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Moving Defendants”) filed (1) a motion to set the compensation of Plaintiff’s expert Rajan M.
Patel, M.D., and (2) a motion to set the compensation of Plaintiff’s expert
Andrew Morris, D.C.  The motions were set
for hearing on November 20, 2024. On November 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed
oppositions and requests for sanctions. 
The
proofs of service attached to the motions did not show that Moving Defendants
served the motions on Rajan M. Patel, M.D. or Andrew Morris, D.C. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd. (a) [“Notice of this motion shall also be given
to the expert”].) 
On
November 19, 2024, one day before the scheduled hearing, Moving Defendants
filed replies asserting that they had provided proper notice of the motions to
Rajan M. Patel, M.D. and Andrew Morris, D.C.  The
Court continued the hearing to December 19, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to set a reasonable rate for the expert witness
deposition fees of Plaintiff's experts Rajan M. Patel, M.D., and Andrew
Morris, D.C. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motions and impose sanctions on Moving Defendants. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.470 provides: 
“(a) If a party desiring to take the deposition of an
expert witness under this article deems that the hourly or daily fee of that
expert for providing deposition testimony is unreasonable, that party may move
for an order setting the compensation of that expert. Notice of this motion
shall also be given to the expert. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. In any
attempt at an informal resolution under Section 2016.040, either the party or
the expert shall provide the other with all of the following: 
“(1) Proof of the ordinary and customary fee actually
charged and received by that expert for similar services provided outside the
subject litigation. 
“(2) The total number of times the presently demanded
fee has ever been charged and received by that expert. 
“(3) The frequency and regularity with which the
presently demanded fee has been charged and received by that expert within the
two-year period preceding the hearing on the motion. 
“(c) In addition to any other facts or evidence, the
expert or the party designating the expert shall provide, and the court’s
determination as to the reasonableness of the fee shall be based on, proof of the ordinary and customary fee actually charged
and received by that expert for similar services provided outside the subject
litigation. 
“(d) In an action filed after
January 1, 1994, the expert or the party designating the expert shall also
provide, and the court’s determination as to the reasonableness of the fee
shall also be based on, both of the following: 
“(1) The total number of times the presently demanded
fee has ever been charged and received by that expert. 
“(2) The
frequency and regularity with which the presently demanded fee has been charged
and received by that expert within the two-year period preceding the hearing on
the motion. 

“(e) The court may also
consider the ordinary and customary fees charged by similar experts for similar
services within the relevant community and any other factors the court deems
necessary or appropriate to make its determination. 
“(f) Upon a determination that the fee demanded by
that expert is unreasonable, and based upon the evidence and factors
considered, the court shall set the fee of the expert providing testimony. 
“(g) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to set the expert witness
fee, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2034.470.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Rajan M. Patel, M.D. 
1.    Request for judicial notice 
The
Court denies Moving Defendants’ request for judicial notice.  (See Bolanos v. Superior Court (2008)
169 Cal.App.4th 744, 761 [denying request for judicial notice of trial court
ruling because it has “no precedential value”].) 
2.    Reasonableness of fees 
Moving
Defendants contend that Dr. Patel’s fee of $2,500.00 per hour for deposition
and $4,500.00 for one hour of his videotaped deposition testimony is unreasonable
based on his qualifications and experience. 
To support their argument, Moving
Defendants compare Dr. Patel with their expert Ronald S. Kvitne, M.D., and with Stuart M. Gold, M.D.  All three doctors are board-certified
orthopedic surgeons.  For depositions, Dr.
Kvitne – who has practiced medicine and been board certified longer than Dr.
Patel – charges $2,000.00 per hour and Dr. Gold charges $1,500.00 per hour.  Neither Dr. Kvitne nor Dr. Gold increases his
charges when a deposition is videotaped. 
In
opposition, Plaintiff has provided Dr. Patel’s declaration asserting that Dr.
Patel “routinely” collects the fees at issue and has charged these fees since
2022.  Dr. Patel also states that, during
his 24 years as an expert witness, he has testified at deposition over 100
times and has testified at approximately 25 trials. 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2034.470 places the burden on the party designating
the expert to provide “[t]he total number of times the presently demanded fee
has ever been charged and received by that expert” and “[t]he frequency and
regularity with which the presently demanded fee has been charged and received
by that expert within the two-year period preceding the hearing on the motion.”
 (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd.
(d)(1), (d)(2).)  Here, however,
Plaintiff has not provided this information. 
Dr. Patel’s statement that he “routinely” collects the requested fees
does not satisfy Plaintiff’s burden. 
Because
Plaintiff has not provided evidence showing Dr. Patel’s fees are reasonable, and
Moving Defendants have presented evidence that comparable experts charge lower
fees, the Court finds that Dr. Patel’s fees are unreasonable.  The Court grants Moving Defendants’ motion and
sets Dr. Patel’s compensation in this case at $2,000.00 per hour for depositions and
$2,250.00 per hour for videotaped depositions. 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
B.  
Andrew
Morris, D.C. 
Dr.
Morris, Plaintiff’s medical billing expert, charges $1,000.00 per hour for
depositions and $1,500.00 for videotaped depositions, with a minimum charge of
$3,000.00 for remote depositions.  Moving
Defendants contend these fees are unreasonable based on Dr. Morris’s
qualifications and experience.  To
support their argument, Moving Defendants compare Dr. Morris to (1) Moving
Defendants’ expert economist David J. Weiner, M.B.A. (“Weiner”), who charges
$525.00 per hour for depositions and (2) Nancy
Fraser Michalski, RN, BSN (“Michalski”), a medical
billing expert, who charges $550.00 per hour or $1,100.00 per hour for videotaped
depositions with a 1-hour minimum.  Moving
Defendants argue that Weiner and Michalski
are more experienced than Dr. Morris. 
In
opposition, Plaintiff has provided Dr. Morris’s declaration asserting that Dr.
Morris “routinely” collects the fees at issue and has charged these fees since
2014.  Dr. Morris also states that,
during his 10 years as an expert witness, he has testified at deposition approximately
810 times and has testified at approximately 170 trials. 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2034.470 places the burden on the party designating
the expert to provide “[t]he total number of times the presently demanded fee
has ever been charged and received by that expert” and “[t]he frequency and
regularity with which the presently demanded fee has been charged and received
by that expert within the two-year period preceding the hearing on the
motion.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.470, subd. (d)(1), (d)(2).)  Here,
however, Plaintiff has not provided this information.  Dr. Morris’s statement that he “routinely”
collects the requested fees does not satisfy Plaintiff’s burden. 
Because
Plaintiff has not provided evidence showing Dr. Morris’s fees are reasonable,
and Moving Defendants have presented evidence that a comparable expert (Michalski) charges lower fees, the Court finds that Dr. Morris’s fees are unreasonable.  The Court grants Moving Defendants’ motion
and sets Dr. Morris’s compensation in this case at $750.00
per hour for depositions and $1,250.00 per hour for videotaped depositions, with
a one-hour minimum. 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.   
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendants City
of Beverly Hills and Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
to set the compensation of Plaintiff Alejandro Morales’s expert Rajan M. Patel, M.D.  The Court sets the compensation of Plaintiff Alejandro
Morales’s expert Rajan M. Patel, M.D. in this case at $2,000.00 per hour for
depositions and $2,250.00 per hour for videotaped depositions. 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendants City of Beverly Hills and Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority to set the compensation of
Plaintiff Alejandro Morales’s expert Andrew
Morris, D.C.  The Court sets the
compensation of Plaintiff Alejandro
Morales’s expert Andrew Morris, D.C. in this case at $750.00 per hour for
depositions and $1,250.00 per hour for videotaped depositions, with a one-hour minimum. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Alejandro Morales’s
requests for sanctions. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.