 Case Number:  23STCV27553    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 9, 2023, Plaintiff Andrew Jordan Rose (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Aron Alan White (“White”), Uber Technologies,
Inc., Rasier, LLC, Rasier-DC, LLC, Rasier-PA, LLC, and Does 1-50 for
negligence. 
On
February 22, 2024, White filed an answer. 
On
July 15, 2024, Uber Technologies, Inc. and Rasier, LLC (collectively, “Uber”) filed
an answer. 
On
August 20, 2025, Uber filed a motion to compel arbitration.  The motion was set for hearing on September
26, 2024.  On September 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On
September 19, 2024, Uber filed a reply and a corrected supporting declaration. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 8, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Uber
asks the Court to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and to stay the case
pending arbitration. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   The California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) 
“A
written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a
controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, save
upon such grounds as exist for the rescission of any contract.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 provides in part: 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: 
“(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived
by the petitioner; or 
“(b) Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement. 
“(c) A party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court
action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the
party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been
filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition. This
subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes
as to the professional negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to
Section 1295. 
* * *
“If the court determines that a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, an order to arbitrate that controversy may not
be refused on the ground that the petitioner’s contentions lack substantive
merit. 
“If the court determines that there are other issues
between the petitioner and the respondent which are not subject to arbitration
and which are the subject of a pending action or special proceeding between the
petitioner and the respondent and that a determination of such issues may make
the arbitration unnecessary, the court may delay its order to arbitrate until
the determination of such other issues or until such earlier time as the court
specifies. 
“If the court determines that a party to the
arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c), the court (1)
may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order intervention or
joinder of all parties in a single action or special proceeding; (2) may order
intervention or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order
arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending
court action or special proceeding pending the outcome of the arbitration
proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the outcome of the court action
or special proceeding.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2,
subds. (a), (b), (c) & last 3 paragraphs.) 
B.   Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) preemption of the CAA 
“In
accordance with choice-of-law principles, the parties may limit the trial
court's authority to stay or deny arbitration under the CAA by adopting the
more restrictive procedural provisions of the FAA.” (Victrola 89, LLC v.
Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345 (Victrola),
quoting Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 157 (Valencia).)  “ ‘[T]he FAA’s procedural provisions (9
U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) do not apply unless the contract contains a
choice-of-law clause expressly incorporating them.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Valencia,
supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at p. 174, original emphasis.) “ ‘[T]he question
is not whether the parties adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state’s
procedural statutes ([Code Civ. Proc.,] §§ 1281.2, 1290.2) apply by default
because Congress intended the comparable FAA sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10,
11) to apply in federal court. The question, therefore, is whether the parties
expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.’ ”
(Ibid., quoting Valencia, supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at p.
177; see also Cronus Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005) 35
Cal.4th 376, 387, 394 [“Our opinion does not preclude parties to an arbitration
agreement to expressly designate that any arbitration proceeding should move
forward under the FAA's procedural provisions rather than under state
procedural law” (italics omitted)].) 
“By
its terms, the FAA ‘provides for the enforcement of arbitration provisions in
any contract evidencing a transaction involving interstate commerce.’ ” (Victrola,
supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 346, quoting Mount Diablo Medical Center
v. Health Net of California, Inc. (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 711, 717.)  “But agreements to have such enforcement
governed by state rules are enforceable.” 
(Ibid., citing Volt Info. Sciences v. Leland Stanford Jr. U.
(1989) 489 U.S. 468, 479. (Volt).) 
DISCUSSION         
A.   Uber’s motion 
1.    Uber’s contentions 
Uber
argues that (1) Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate his claims against Uber by
accepting Uber’s terms of use, which require arbitration of disputes, (2) Plaintiff
agreed that the FAA would govern the interpretation and enforcement of the
arbitration agreement, (3) Plaintiff was using Uber’s services at the time of the
accident, (4) Plaintiff’s allegations are within the scope of the arbitration
agreement, and (5) only an arbitrator can resolve any dispute about whether
Plaintiff’s claims are subject to arbitration under the arbitration agreement. 
2.    Uber’s evidence 
Uber
has presented evidence that Plaintiff registered for a Uber account on May 29,
2013.  The terms of use that applied on May
29, 2013 went into effect on May 17, 2023. 
These terms of use included an arbitration agreement.  (Chenshan Yu declaration (corrected) (“Yu
dec.”) ¶ 8.) 
On
November 15, 2016, Uber sent plaintiff an email stating that Uber had updated
its terms of use and Plaintiff’s continued use of the of the Uber apps would
constitute assent to the updated terms of use. 
(Yu dec. ¶¶ 9-10.)  The terms of
use in effect on November 21, 2016 included an arbitration agreement. (Yu dec.
¶ 11.) 
On on
January 21, 2021, December 23, 2021, and January 22, 2023, Plaintiff was
presented with an in-app blocking pop-up screen with the header “We’ve updated
our terms.” (Yu dec. ¶ 12.)  It also
stated in large type, “We encourage you to read our Updated Terms in full” and
under that message had the phrases “Terms of Use” and “Privacy Notice,” which
were displayed underlined and in bright blue text, all of which set the text
apart from other text on the screen and indicated hyperlinks. (Yu dec. ¶ 12.)
When a user clicked either hyperlink, the Terms of Use or Privacy Notice that
were published on Uber’s website were displayed.  (Yu dec. ¶ 12.)  The hyperlink was linked to the following
address: https://www.uber.com/legal/document/?name=general-terms-of-use. The
in-app blocking pop-up screen stated: “By checking the box, I have reviewed and
agreed to the Terms of Use and acknowledge the Privacy Notice.” (Yu dec. ¶
12.)  
The
in-app blocking pop-up screen precluded the use of the Uber app unless and
until a user clicked the checkbox on the screen and clicked the large “Confirm”
button at the bottom of the screen.  (Yu dec. ¶ 13.)  
On January
21, 2021, December 23, 2021, and January 22, 2023, Plaintiff accessed his Uber
app, was presented with the in-app blocking pop-up screen regarding the January
18, 2021, December 16, 2021, and January 17, 2023 Terms, and clicked the
checkbox and tapped the "Confirm" button.  (Yu dec. ¶ 15.)  The terms of use in effect on January 18,
2021, December 16, 2021, April 4, 2022, August 16, 2022 and January 17, 2023
contain an arbitration agreement.  (Yu
dec. ¶ 16.) 
Following
Plaintiff’s consent to Uber’s terms of use, Plaintiff continued to use the Uber
app and access Uber’s services. (Yu dec. ¶ 17.) 
The arbitration
agreements provided, among other things, that the FAA would govern the
interpretation and enforcement of the arbitration agreements.  (See exhibits to Yu dec.)  Beginning in January 2021, the arbitration agreements also
provided: 
“Any dispute, claim, or controversy arising out of or
relating to incidents or accidents resulting in personal injury (including but
not limited to sexual assault or harassment claims) that you allege occurred in
connection with your use of the Services, whether before or after the date you
agreed to the Terms, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the state in which the incident or accident occurred.”  (Yu dec. exh. G.) 
B.   Plaintiff’s opposition 
Plaintiff
asserts that, when the accident occurred, he was a passenger in White’s vehicle, White was
logged onto Uber’s application, and White was working as Uber’s agent. 
However,
Plaintiff argues the case is not yet “ripe” for arbitration because (1)
Plaintiff does not know if White “had his own personal policy of automobile
liability insurance at the time of this accident, or if [White] was relying [on
Uber] to establish his financial responsibility” (Opposition p. 2) and (2)
assuming White had his own personal automobile liability insurance, Plaintiff
does not know if the insurer will provide coverage for the accident.  Plaintiff has provided no legal support for
these argument and the Court considers the arguments waived. 
Plaintiff
also argues that the person who drove the
other car involved in the accident, whose identity is currently unknown, is not
bound by the arbitration agreement.  Therefore,
Plaintiff contends, enforcing the arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and
Uber would create a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law
or fact for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c),
permitting the Court to deny Uber’s arbitration request. 
In
addition, Plaintiff argues that he never agreed to arbitrate his claims against
Uber.  He contends that Uber’s terms of
service “are actually several combined, run-on documents,” “[t]here is no
indicia to call its attention to the reader,” “[t]here is no place for
signature or initials of the person who would be bound by this document,” and
“[t]he Terms of Service do not highlight the existence of an obligation to
arbitrate.”  (Opposition p. 4.) 
C.   Uber’s reply 
In
its reply, Uber argues that the Court may not apply Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2 because the parties agreed that the FAA governed their arbitration agreement. 
Uber
also argues that it has presented evidence that Plaintiff and Uber entered into
an arbitration agreement and Plaintiff has not refuted this evidence. 
D.   Analysis 
Based
on the reasoning of Victrola, supra, 46
Cal.App.5th 337, the Court concludes that the arbitration agreements’
reference to “enforcement” under the FAA
requires the Court to consider Uber’s motion to compel arbitration under the
FAA.  (See Victrola, supra,
46 Cal.App.5th at p. 348.)  The provision
in the arbitration agreements (beginning in January 18, 2021) stating that
personal injury claims will be “governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of the state in which the incident or accident occurred” does not displace
the parties’ agreement to proceed under the procedural provisions of the
FAA.  Therefore, the Court may not apply
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c), to deny Plaintiff's motion to compel arbitration. 
In
addition, the Court finds that Uber has shown that Plaintiff agreed to
arbitration based on the evidence discussed above. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration and stay the action filed by
Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc. and
Rasier LLC.  The Court orders Plaintiff Andrew
Jordan Rose to arbitrate his claims against Defendants
Uber Technologies, Inc. and Rasier LLC.  The
Court stays Plaintiff Andrew Jordan Rose’s action against Defendants Uber
Technologies, Inc. and Rasier LLC pending the outcome of arbitration. 
The
Court sets a status conference re: arbitration on June 18, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.