 Case Number:  22STCV40862    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




jane doe

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
religious technology center

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV40862




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   13, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for leave to conduct
  limited discovery on the issue of arbitration
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Jane Doe
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants Church of Scientology International,
Bridge Publications, Inc., and Religious Technology Center
Motion for Leave to Conduct Limited Discovery on the Issue of
Arbitration 
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order
permitting her to conduct limited discovery on the issue of arbitration so that
she can oppose the pending motion to compel arbitration filed by defendants
Church of Scientology International, Bridge Publications, Inc., and Religious
Technology Center (“Defendants”).  Specifically, Plaintiff states that, “[a]mong
other things, [she] seeks limited discovery on the facts and circumstances
leading to Plaintiff’s signature on the document at issue and documents
outlining the scope of a Scientology ‘arbitration.’”  (Notice of Mot., p. 3:21-24.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has shown good cause to conduct limited
discovery necessary to oppose Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
First, the court finds that it has the authority to grant Plaintiff
leave to obtain specified discovery.
As noted by Defendants, the court issued an order on October 27, 2023,
granting Defendants’ motion to stay and ordering that this action is stayed
pending resolution of their motion to compel arbitration pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.4.  (Oct.
27, 2023 Order, p. 2:15-18.)  “‘The
purpose of the statutory stay [required pursuant to section 1281.4] is to
protect the jurisdiction of the arbitrator by preserving the status quo until
arbitration is resolved. 
[Citations.]  [¶]  In the absence of a stay, the continuation of
the proceedings in the trial court disrupts the arbitration proceedings and can
render them ineffective. 
[Citation.]’”  (MKJA, Inc. v.
123 Fit Franchising, LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 643, 658.) 
The court finds Aronow v. Superior Court (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th
865 to be instructive, although the court acknowledges, as Defendants have
pointed out, that the factual circumstances presented in Aronow are
slightly different than those presented here. 
Specifically, the Aronow Court considered whether “a trial court
that granted a defendant’s petition to compel arbitration [has] jurisdiction to
lift the stay of trial court proceedings where a plaintiff demonstrates
financial inability to pay the anticipated arbitration costs[.]”  (Aronow, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th
at p. 870.)  In determining this issue,
the Court of Appeal noted that the defendants claimed the right to challenge
the plaintiff’s in forma pauperis status and asserted the need to conduct
discovery to pursue that objection.  (Id.
at p. 884.)  The court “recognize[d] that
interest and conclude[d], where appropriate, it can be accommodated by the
trial court.”  (Ibid.)  The court further stated that, “[w]here a
party to a contract with an arbitration provision opposes a motion to compel
arbitration on the ground of inability to pay the costs, the moving party can
ask leave to conduct limited discovery directed only to the opponent’s
financial circumstances.”  (Ibid.)

The court finds that the reasoning set forth in Aronow applies
to the circumstances presented by Plaintiff in the pending motion.  Plaintiff has sought leave to conduct limited
discovery to oppose Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration on the ground that
the subject arbitration agreement was executed as a result of duress, undue
influence, and fraud.  (Mot., p.
5:17-19.)  The court finds that it may
grant leave to conduct limited discovery directed only to those issues.  (Aronow, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th
at p. 884; Brown v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 938,
951 [noting that the trial court continued the hearing on a motion to compel
arbitration to allow the plaintiffs to conduct discovery regarding
circumstances of the execution of the arbitration agreement in order to
determine whether there was evidence of fraud or unconscionability].)  The court further notes that granting
Plaintiff leave to conduct limited discovery does not conflict with the purpose
of the statutory stay, since (1) this discovery goes to the formation of the agreement
containing the arbitration provision, and therefore, (2) allowing discovery
will not render any subsequent arbitration proceedings, in the event that the
court grants Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration, ineffective.  (MKJA, Inc., supra, 191
Cal.App.4th at p. 658.) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has shown that leave to conduct
limited discovery on the specified issues is warranted and necessary. 
Plaintiff states that, although she was present when the arbitration
agreement was signed, she does not have access to certain of Defendants’
documents to support her claims of fraud, undue influence, and duress.  For example, Plaintiff states that she does
not have access to “FLAG policies regarding visitors and requiring visitors to
sign such documents,” which may aid in her defenses to Defendants’ motion.  (Mot., p. 7:11-15.)  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has shown good cause to grant her
leave to conduct arbitration-related discovery. 
The court, however, finds that the scope of such discovery shall be
limited in scope.  In Plaintiff’s notice
of motion, she states that she is seeking to conduct discovery regarding, inter
alia, “the facts and circumstances leading to Plaintiff’s signature on the
document at issue and documents outlining the scope of a Scientology
‘arbitration.’”  (Notice of Mot., p.
3:21-24.)  In reply, Plaintiff has set
forth various categories of discovery to be obtained, but Defendants have not
had an opportunity to address the motion as to those specific categories.  (Reply, pp. 7:21-9:19.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has shown good cause to conduct limited
discovery as to the following issues: (1) the circumstances that led to
Plaintiff’s signing the agreement that contains the arbitration clause, and (2)
the rules and procedures governing Scientology arbitration, but only as they
relate to the arbitration agreement at issue in Defendants’ pending motion to
compel arbitration.  The court therefore
grants Plaintiff’s motion to conduct limited discovery as to those issues.
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff Jane
Doe’s motion for leave to conduct limited discovery on the issue of arbitration
as follows. 
The court orders that plaintiff Jane Doe is granted leave to conduct
discovery as to the following issues in order to oppose the motion to compel
arbitration filed by defendants Church of Scientology International, Bridge
Publications, Inc., and Religious Technology Center: (1) the circumstances that
led to plaintiff Jane Doe’s signing the agreement that contains the arbitration
clause, and (2) the rules and procedures governing Scientology arbitration, but
only as they relate to the arbitration agreement at issue in the pending motion
to compel arbitration. 
The court orders plaintiff Jane Doe to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 13, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court