 Case Number:  22STCV32948    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




david blank

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
murray j. blank

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV32948




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   13, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
order to show cause re why the court should
  not, on its own motion, grant a motion for judgment on the pleadings
 



MOVING PARTY:                 The
court, on its own motion
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff David Blank
Order to Show Cause re: Why the Court
Should Not, on Its Own Motion, Grant a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as
to Any or All of the Causes of Action Alleged in Plaintiffs’ First Amended
Complaint, as to Any of the Plaintiffs or Defendants, on the Ground That the
Court Does Not Have Jurisdiction of the Subject of the Causes of Action Because
They are Subject to The Exclusive Jurisdiction of the Probate Court
            The court considered the First Amended
Complaint and the “Declaration of Scott D. Fisher, Esq., in Opposition to
Court’s Order to Show Cause re: Service Upon Murray J. Blank’s
Successor-In-Interest and/or Personal Representative and re: Judgment on the Pleadings
(Subject Matter Jurisdiction,” filed by plaintiff David Blank on December 12,
2023. 
DISCUSSION
On July 26, 2023, the court set for hearing on November 1, 2023 an
Order to Show Cause re: why the court should not, on its own motion, grant a
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the First Amended Complaint, filed
by plaintiffs David Blank and Michael Blank, individually and as trustees of
the Blank Family Trust (“Plaintiffs”) against defendants Murray J. Blank (“M.
Blank”), Steven G. Blank (“S. Blank”), and Diana N. Blank (“D. Blank”)
(collectively, “Defendants”), as to any or all of the causes of action alleged
in Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaints, and as to any of the Plaintiffs or
Defendants, on the ground that the court does not have jurisdiction of the
subject of the causes of action because they are subject to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the probate court.  (July
26, 2023 Minute Order, p. 1.)  The court
ordered that any response to the Order to Show Cause re: why the court should
not, on its own motion, grant a motion for judgment on the pleadings to be
filed and served no later than nine court days before the hearing.  (July 26, 2023 Minute Order, pp. 1-2.)  On October 20, 2023, pursuant to stipulation
of the parties, the court continued the hearing on the Order to Show Cause to
December 13, 2023.  (Stipulation and
Order filed October 20, 2023, p. 4.) 
The court grants its own motion for judgment on the pleadings on the
ground that it does not have jurisdiction over the subject matter of
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint because the causes of action alleged therein
are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the probate court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (b)(2),
(c)(3)(B)(i).)
Plaintiffs allege the following facts in their Complaint.  Defendant M. Blank served as the initial
successor trustee of the Blank Family Trust (the “Trust”).  (FAC ¶ 11.)  Over the course of one year, following the
death of Jeffrey R. Blank, defendant M. Blank (1) diluted Trust assets for his
personal benefit; (2) gave Trust assets, including money, to other,
non-beneficiary individuals; (3) did not respond to inquiries from Plaintiffs,
the Trust beneficiaries; (4) withheld Trust property from Plaintiffs, including
documents necessary to operate the Trust; (5) misrepresented his status as
trustee of the Trust to third parties; (6) failed to safeguard and preserve
Trust assets; (7) failed to timely remit financial and other documents
belonging to the Trust; and (8) removed hundreds of savings bonds from Jeffrey
Blank’s safe following his death.  (FAC
¶¶ 12-13.)  M. Blank retains possession
of documents belonging to the Trust, which M. Blank has refused to provide to
Plaintiffs.  (FAC ¶ 13.) 
“Technically,
California does not have ‘probate courts.’”  (In re Michael R. (2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 126, 131, fn. 1.)  “Rather, probate jurisdiction is vested
in the superior court.”  (Probate Jurisdiction and Venue, Cal. Prac. Guide Probate
Ch. 3-B, § 3:34.)  “The term ‘probate court’ is but a convenient way of
expressing the concept of a superior court sitting in exercise of its probate
jurisdiction.”  (Copley v. Copley (1978) 80 Cal.App.3d 97,
107.)  The probate departments have, pursuant to state statute, exclusive
jurisdiction over certain types of actions, including jurisdiction to probate
and interpret a will, and over proceedings concerning the internal affairs of
trusts.  (Capra v. Capra (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 1072, 1083; Prob.
Code, § 17200, subd. (b)(12) [proceedings concerning the internal affairs
of a trust include proceedings “Compelling redress of a breach of the trust by
any available remedy”].) 
The
first and second causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty and aiding and
abetting breaches of fiduciary duty, respectively, are based on the allegations
that (1) M. Blank, in acting as trustee for the Trust, breached his fiduciary
duties by engaging in the conduct set forth above, including the
misappropriation and withholding of Trust assets and documents, and (2) S.
Blank and D. Blank assisted M. Blank in breaching the fiduciary duties that he
owed to the Trust.  (FAC ¶¶ 12,
18-19.)  The third cause of action for
conversion is based on the allegation that Defendants converted property
belonging to Plaintiffs and to the Trust, including by taking possession of
Trust property and refusing to return such property to Plaintiffs.  (FAC ¶¶ 35-36.)  The fourth cause of action alleges that
Defendants “received money that was intended to be used for the benefit of the
Trust and its beneficiaries[.]”  (FAC
¶ 31.)  The eighth cause of action
for negligence is based on M. Blank’s alleged breach of his duties to
Plaintiffs “in performing tax and financial services for the Trust.”  (FAC ¶ 62.)  The ninth cause of action seeks an accounting
due to M. Blank’s alleged misappropriation of Trust assets and collection of
savings bonds.  (FAC ¶ 70.)  
The
court finds that the first through fourth, eighth, and ninth causes of action,
which are based on Defendants’ alleged actions in committing or assisting
breaches of fiduciary duties to the Trust or the wrongful possession or
misappropriation of Trust property, as set forth above, (1) seek “redress of a
breach of the trust by any available remedy[,]” and (2) therefore are subject
to the exclusive jurisdiction of the probate court.  (Prob. Code, § 17200, subd. (b)(12); Estate
of Bowles, supra, 169 Cal.App.4th at p. 695.) 
The
fifth cause of action for claim and delivery alleges that (1) defendant M.
Blank removed savings bonds from Jeffrey Blank’s safe, and (2) Plaintiffs were
the intended recipients of the savings bonds. 
(FAC ¶¶ 48-49.)  Similarly,
the sixth and seventh causes of action are based on the allegations that
Defendants took possession of money, savings bonds, and documents that belong
to Plaintiffs.  (FAC ¶¶ 51, 55.)  To the extent that the causes of action are
based on the alleged wrongful possession of money and documents (i.e., as
alleged in support of the sixth and seventh causes of action), those facts
appear to allege misappropriation of Trust property, because Plaintiffs have
alleged that M. Blank gave Trust assets, including money, to his children,
ex-wife, and paid certain Trust fees to himself, and that Defendants withheld
documents relating to the Trust from Plaintiffs.  (FAC ¶¶ 12-13.)  
The
court notes that Plaintiffs did not specifically allege that the savings bonds
constitute Trust property.  (FAC
¶ 13 [M. Blank “removed hundreds of savings bonds from Jeffrey Blank’s
safe following his death on November 30, 2020”].)  However, the court finds relevant and helpful
to its interpretation of the First Amended Complaint the allegations set forth
in connection with the ninth cause of action for an accounting, which allege
that (1) M. Blank owed a duty to Plaintiffs “to avoid engaging in actions which
constitute misappropriation and/or theft of Trust documents and monies, including
savings bonds[,]” and (2) M. Blank took the subject “documents, monies, and
savings bonds” while he was serving as trustee of the Trust.  (FAC ¶¶ 69 [emphasis added], 73.)  Thus, in reading the First Amended Complaint
in its entirety, the court interprets the allegations relating to the alleged
theft of savings bonds to constitute misappropriation and theft of Trust
assets.  (Ibid.) 
Thus,
the court finds that the fifth through seventh causes of action of action seek
“redress of a breach of the trust by any available remedy” since they are based
on the allegations that Defendants took possession of money, documents, and
savings bonds belonging to the Trust, and therefore are subject to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the probate court. 
(Prob. Code, § 17200, subd. (b)(12); Estate of Bowles, supra,
169 Cal.App.4th at p. 695.)
The
burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its pleading to
render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v.
Parth (2016) 48 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff
“must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that amendment
will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  The court finds
that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to establish how they can amend their
complaint to bring it within the jurisdiction of this court by failing to address,
in plaintiff David Blank’s response to the court’s Order to Show Cause, what
facts Plaintiffs could allege to render their complaint sufficient.  The court therefore grants the motion for
judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend.   
ORDER
            The court, on its own motion, grants a motion
for judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend as to plaintiffs
David Blank and Michael Blank, individually and as trustees of the Blank Family
Trust’s First Amended Complaint. 
            The court orders that this action is
dismissed. 
The court
orders defendants Steven G. Blank and Diana N. Blank to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
DATED:  December 13, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court