 Case Number:  21SMCV01618    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV01618




MOTIONS


Motions
  to Quash Service of Summons




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Gary Ge




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  PacTec Holdings, LLC 



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a business dispute.  Plaintiff PacTec Holdings, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
alleges Individual Defendants James Zhu (“Zhu”) and Gary Ge (aka Yongchang
Geng) (“Ge”), while employed by Plaintiff, through their companies Defendants
Fanli, Inc.; Shanghai Zhongyan Information Technology Co., Ltd.; Shanghai
Xiangrui Enterprise Management Consulting Firm Co., Ltd. (collectively, “Defendants”)
surreptitiously competed with Plaintiff and stole business opportunities from
Plaintiff, in violation of their employment agreements and their fiduciary and
ethical obligations to Plaintiff.  
 
On January 9, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application
for an Order to Serve Ge by Publication in the Los Angeles Daily Journal.
 
On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Publication,
indicating the summons was published in the Los Angeles Daily Journal on January
23, January 30, February 6, and February 13. 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 415.50 and Government Code
section 6064, service was complete twenty-eight days following the first day of
publication, or February 20, 2024.  
 
On April 4, 2024, Ge filed the instant motion to quash service of the
summons.  The hearing on the motion was
delayed to allow the parties to conduct limited jurisdictional discovery.  Plaintiff now opposes the motion and Ge
replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court rules with respect to Ge’s
evidentiary objections to the Steinberg Declaration as follows:
 
1.    
Overruled
2.    
Overruled
3.    
Overruled
4.    
Overruled
5.    
Sustained
6.    
Sustained
7.    
Overruled
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
            
A.    SERVICE
 
For service on persons within California, generally, service of the summons
and complaint must be done by personal service. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.) 
However, “[i]f a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with
reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served,” they may
be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s
dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing
address with a competent member of the household or person apparently in charge
of the office, place of business, or usual mailing address, at least 18 years
old, by informing them of the contents, and thereafter mailing a copy to the
person at the place where the copy was left. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.20, subd. (b).)
 
Under California law, “[a] summons may be served
on a business organization, form unknown, by leaving a copy of the summons and
complaint during usual office hours with the person who is apparently in charge
of the office of that business organization, and by thereafter mailing a copy
of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the
person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint was
left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day
after the mailing.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
415.95.)
 
Further, “A summons may be
served by publication if upon affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the
court in which the action is pending that the party to be served cannot with
reasonable diligence be served in another manner specified in this article[....]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a).)
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 413.10, subdivision (c), a
summons shall be served on a person “[o]utside the United States, as provided
in this chapter or as directed by the court in which the action is pending, or,
if the court before or after service finds that the service is reasonably
calculated to give actual notice, as prescribed by the law of the place where
the person is served or as directed by the foreign authority in response to a
letter rogatory.  These rules are subject
to the provisions of the Convention of the ‘Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents’ in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service
Convention).”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
413.10, subd. (c).)  The methods
enumerated in Section 413.10, subdivision (c) for serving defendants abroad all
require transmission of documents abroad, and therefore are preempted by the
Hague Service Convention as to defendants in signatory countries.  (Kott v. Superior Court (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 1126, 1136.)
 
“The primary innovation of the Hague Service Convention — set out in
Articles 2–7 — is that it requires each state to establish a central authority
to receive requests for service of documents from other countries.”  (Water Splash, Inc. v. Menon (2017)
581 U.S. 271, 275 [cleaned up].) 
“Submitting a request to a central authority is not, however, the only
method of service approved by the Convention. For example, Article 8 permits
service through diplomatic and consular agents; Article 11 provides that any two
states can agree to methods of service not otherwise specified in the
Convention; and Article 19 clarifies that the Convention does not preempt any
internal laws of its signatories that permit service from abroad via methods
not otherwise allowed by the Convention.” 
(Ibid.)  Article 10 of the
Convention provides: 
 
Provided the State of destination does not
object, the present Convention shall not interfere with—
 
(a)   the
freedom to send judicial documents, by postal channels, directly to persons
abroad,
 
(b)   the
freedom of judicial officers, officials or other competent persons of the State
of origin to effect service of judicial documents directly through the judicial
officers, officials or other competent persons of the State of destination,
 
(c)   the
freedom of any person interested in a judicial proceeding to effect service of
judicial documents directly through the judicial officers, officials or other
competent persons of the State of destination.”
 
(Ibid.)  
 
            A state may also exercise
jurisdiction over an individual who consents to such jurisdiction.  (Nobel Farms, Inc. v. Pasero (2003)
106 Cal.App.4th 654, 658.)  “Express
consent to a court's jurisdiction will occur by generally appearing in an
action or by a valid forum-selection clause designating a particular forum for
dispute resolution regardless of residence.” 
(Ibid. [cleaned up].) 
“Consent to a court's jurisdiction may also be implied by conduct.”  (Ibid.)  For example, a nonresident plaintiff who
commences an action thereby submits to that “[c]ourt’s personal jurisdiction on
any cross-complaint filed against him by the defendant.”  (Ibid.)  “Similarly, a
nonresident plaintiff who has filed a suit in California against particular
parties has consented to jurisdiction in California when these same parties
later sue him in a related action.”  (Sea
Foods Co., Ltd. v. O.M. Foods Co., Ltd. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 769,
786.)  “By choosing a particular forum,
[the] plaintiff is considered to have voluntarily submitted to the court's
jurisdiction ‘for all purposes for which justice to the defendant requires his
presence.”  (Ibid.)
 
B.   
PERSONAL JURISDICTION
 
“A defendant, on or before
the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the
court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one
or more of the following purposes:  (1)
To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  
 
“[W]hen jurisdiction is
challenged by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the
plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘minimum contacts’ exist between the defendant
and the forum state to justify imposition of personal jurisdiction.” (Mihlon
v. Superior Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710.)  It is thus upon the plaintiff to demonstrate
by a preponderance of the evidence that all jurisdictional criteria are met. (Ziller
Electronics Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222,
1232.)   
 
Moreover, “on a challenge to
personal jurisdiction by a motion to quash, the plaintiff has the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the factual bases justifying the
exercise of jurisdiction.”  (ViaView,
Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 209–210 (hereafter ViaView).)  “The plaintiff must come forward with
affidavits and other competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot simply
rely on allegations in an unverified complaint.”  (Id. at p. 210.)  If plaintiff meets this burden, “it becomes
the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the existence of jurisdiction would
be unreasonable.” (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362.)
 
California’s long-arm statute
grants its courts the power to assert personal jurisdiction over out-of-state
parties to the maximum extent that the state and federal constitutions allow.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) Under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the United States Constitution, state courts may exercise personal
jurisdiction over nonresidents who have “minimum contacts” with the forum
state. (International Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)  Minimum contacts exist when the relationship
between the nonresident and the forum state is such that the exercise of
jurisdiction does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.” (Ibid.) The primary focus of the personal jurisdiction inquiry
is the relationship of the defendant to the forum state. (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of California, San Francisco County (2017)
582 U.S. 255 (hereafter Bristol-Myers).) 
 
“Minimum contacts exist where
the defendant’s conduct in the forum state is such that he should reasonably
anticipate being subject to suit there, and it is reasonable and fair to force
him to do so.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v. Superior Court (2005) 130
Cal.App.4th 782, 795, citing World–Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980)
444 U.S. 286, 297 (hereafter Volkswagen); Kulko v. California
Superior Court (1978) 436 U.S. 84, 92; Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002)
29 Cal.4th 262, 269.) 
 
Personal jurisdiction may be
either general or specific. General (also called all-purpose) jurisdiction
means that a defendant's contacts with a state are sufficiently extensive that
the “defendant is ‘essentially at home,’ ” and the court may exercise jurisdiction
over the defendant regardless of whether the claims relate to the forum
state.  (Ford Motor Company v. Montana
Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1024; Goodyear
Dunlop Tires Operations, S. A. v. Brown (2011) 564 U.S. 915, 919.) 
 

Specific personal
jurisdiction hinges on the “relationship among the defendant, the forum, and
the litigation.” (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.117, 133 [cleaned
up]; accord Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 284.)  Such jurisdiction requires “an affiliation
between the forum and the underlying controversy, principally, an activity or
an occurrence that takes place in the forum State and is therefore subject to
the State’s regulation.” (Bristol-Myers, supra, 582 U.S. at p. 262
[cleaned up].) Consistent with the constraints of due process, “the defendant’s
suit-related conduct must create a substantial connection with the forum
State.” (Walden v. Fiore, supra, 571 U.S. at p. 284.) 
 
Further, “a nonresident
defendant may be subject to the court's specific jurisdiction if three
requirements are met: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed itself of
forum benefits with respect to the matter in controversy; (2) the controversy
is related to or arises out of the defendant's contacts with the forum; and (3)
the exercise of jurisdiction would be reasonable and comports with fair play
and substantial justice.”  (ViaView,
supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at p. 216.)

 
ANALYSIS
 
            Ge
moves to quash service of the summons on the grounds that (1) this Court lacks
personal jurisdiction over him; and (2) the service by publication was
deficient.
 
A.    Service
by Publication
 
Taking Ge’s second argument first, Ge contends the service by
publication was deficient because (1) Plaintiff did not establish that it could
not, with reasonable diligence, serve Ge another way; (2) Plaintiff did not
provide an affidavit in support of its Ex Parte Application to serve Ge by
publication; and (3) Plaintiff did not demonstrate that publication in the Los
Angeles Daily Journal was the most likely to give actual notice of the lawsuit
to Ge.
 
Contrary to Ge’s arguments, the Ex Parte application was supported by
the Declaration of Wenfeng Su, which outlines Plaintiff’s repeated attempts to
serve Ge and investigations into potential other avenues for service.  Further the Court disagrees with Ge’s
contention that publication in the Los Angeles Daily Journal was not most
likely to give actual notice of the lawsuit to Ge.  Plaintiff demonstrated that it had contacted
Ge’s California-based counsel, Sam Hyde of Greenberg Traurig, about the
lawsuit, but Ge refused to voluntarily waive his right to service.  (See Jan. 8, 2024 Declaration of Wenfeng Su
in support of Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application to Serve Ge by Publication at ¶
15 and Ex. L.)  Under those
circumstances, publication in the Los Angeles Daily Journal is best calculated
to give Ge actual notice.
 
In any event, the Court has already held that service on Ge by
publication in the Los Angeles Daily Journal is proper, and as such, the Court
will not disturb that order.
 
B.    Personal
Jurisdiction
 
The parties do not dispute that Ge is a citizen of The People’s
Republic of China (“PRC”) who at all relevant times has resided and worked within
the PRC, and as such, California lacks general jurisdiction over him.  (See Ge Decl. ¶¶ 3-7; see also Plaintiff’s
Opposition [no arguments re general jurisdiction.])  Thus, the question of personal jurisdiction
hinges on whether California has specific jurisdiction over Ge.
 
Ge argues he lacks the requisite minimum contacts with California
because (1) the Court already determined, in connection with its ruling on
Zhongyan’s motion to quash for lack of personal jurisdiction, that Ge’s
contacts with California were insufficient to establish personal jurisdiction
and therefore Plaintiff is collaterally estopped from relitigating the issue;
(2) Ge lacks contacts with California because Ge’s direct employer was a
PRC-based company that Plaintiff contends is a subsidiary of the California-based
company OemTec; (3) Ge did not know his employer was affiliated with a California-based
company; and (4) even if Ge had such knowledge, mere knowledge of Plaintiff’s
contacts with California is insufficient to demonstrate Ge had sufficient
contacts with California to establish personal jurisdiction.
 
Ge also argues this action does not arise out of any contacts Ge had
with California, and subjecting Ge to jurisdiction “halfway around the world in
a state he has no contacts with” does not comport with notions of fair play and
substantial justice.
 
Regarding Ge’s first argument that the Court already determined Ge
lacks the requisite minimum contacts with California, on June 2, 2023, in opposing
Defendant Zhongyan’s motion to quash, Plaintiff relied on Micron Technology,
Inc. v. United Microelectroncis Corp. (N.D. Cal. May 2, 2019) No.
17-CV-06932-MMC, 2019 WL 1959487 (hereafter Micron), which this Court
pointed out is a non-binding unpublished federal district court case.  The Court further distinguished Micron as
follows:
 
Plaintiff in Micron claimed two defendants had conspired to induce
Plaintiff’s employees to misappropriate Plaintiff’s trade secrets relating to
DRAM circuit technology and deliver them to defendants. (Id. at *1.) Part of
this plan included attending a job fair in California to attempt to hire
skilled DRAM engineers and place orders for DRAM manufacturing equipment. (Id.
at *3.) The Court found this presence at the job fair had a sufficient nexus to
Plaintiff’s allegations of misappropriation to satisfy the second prong of the
jurisdictional analysis. (Id. at *4.) Plaintiff here cannot point to any
similar actions taken by Defendant [Zhongyan], which did not exist as a legal
entity until after Ge terminated his employment with PacTec Shanghai and after
Ge and Wei are alleged to have misappropriated the idea for a cashback rebate
website from OemTec. Plaintiff’s theory of jurisdiction tied to the alleged
acts of misappropriation thus focuses on the actions and contacts taken by Ge
and Wei as individuals, rather than acts of targeting or inducement by
Defendant itself.
 
(Minute
Order, Jun. 2, 2023, at pp. 7-8.)  Moreover,
the Court found:
 
The question before the Court is not whether Ge or Defendant can be
held liable for misappropriating the intellectual property of Plaintiff’s
predecessor, the question is whether this California Court can adjudicate those
claims as to Defendant [Zhongyan]. Ge’s employment contract with PacTec
Shanghai contains a provision requiring disputes regarding his performance of
the contract be resolved through mediation, arbitration, and litigation in
Shanghai. (Ex. B to Ge Decl.) Plaintiff argues that Defendant cannot sue Ge
under this agreement because the agreement was signed by Shanghai Foreign
Service Co., Ltd, not Defendant. But the agreement pertains to Ge’s employment
with Pac Tec Shanghai, and Plaintiff has not shown it would be unable to pursue
its claims against Ge in Shanghai pursuant to this agreement. Moreover, has
Plaintiff shown why equity requires Defendant or Ge to face Plaintiff’s claims
in California.
 
(Id.
at p. 10.)
 
The Court does not find that collateral estoppel precludes Plaintiff
from litigating the issue of Ge’s minimum contacts with California especially
where, as here, the parties have continued to engage in limited jurisdictional
discovery.  The fact that Plaintiff did
not, in June 2023, demonstrate Ge had sufficient minimum contacts to establish
personal jurisdiction over the entity Zhongyan under a successor-in-interest
theory, does not mean that in October 2024, after additional jurisdictional
discovery, Plaintiff is collaterally estopped from arguing there are sufficient
minimum contacts to establish personal jurisdiction over Defendant Ge.
 
However, Plaintiff must address/overcome the issues previously
identified by the Court, including that Ge’s employment contract with PacTec
Shanghai contains a provision requiring disputes regarding his performance of
the contract be resolved through mediation, arbitration, and litigation in
Shanghai.   Ge has provided a declaration
which indicates:
 
8. I have never worked for a company that was incorporated in the
United States, including in California. 
 
9. I do not own any assets or property located in California nor have
I ever. 
 
10. I have never worked for PacTec Holdings LLC or OemTec LLC,
including signing any agreements with them or performing services for those
companies. 
 
11. On or about February 20, 2006, I signed a contract with Shanghai
Foreign Service Co., Ltd. for the purpose of working for a Shanghai company
called Pactec Software (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., which is referred to hereafter as
PacTec Shanghai. I signed the agreement in Shanghai, PRC. Attached hereto as
Exhibit A is a true and correct copy of my employment agreement with Shanghai
Foreign Service Co., Ltd. for the purpose of working for PacTec Shanghai.
Attached as Exhibit B is what I understand to be an English translation of
Exhibit A. To the best of my knowledge, this was the agreement that set forth
the terms and conditions of my work for PacTec Shanghai.
 
12.  I was hired to perform work
for PacTec Shanghai by an individual named James Zhu, who worked at PacTec
Shanghai.  Zhu was my supervisor at
PacTec Shanghai.  To my knowledge, Zhu
resided in Shanghai, PRC during the entire time I performed work for PacTec
Shanghai.
 
13.  I performed all of my work
for PacTec Shanghai in Shanghai China.  I
never traveled to the United States, including Los Angeles, California, to
perform work for PacTec Shanghai.
 
14.  I do not speak or read
English or Spanish.
 
(Ge
Decl. ¶¶ 8-14.)
 
            In Opposition, Plaintiff has
provided Ge’s responses to Request for Admission 18, where Ge admits that,
while working for PacTec Shanghai, Ge met Josh Steinberg in person at PacTec
Shanghai’s office.  (Ex. 18 to Su Decl.)  Plaintiff also provided Ge’s responses to
Requests for Admissions 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, and 27, where Ge denied
knowing that Ge’s supervisor, Zhu, was simultaneously employed by the affiliated,
California-based company OemTec, that OemTec had instructed Zhu to open a
Shanghai office, that OemTec was affiliated with PacTec Shanghai, that Ge had collaborated
with individuals he knew were in California. 
(Ex. 19 to Su Decl.)  Plaintiff
further provides Ge’s response to Special Interrogatory No. 2, where Ge
indicates his first day working for PacTec Shanghai was February 20, 2006, and
his last day was September 30, 2007. 
(Ex. 20 to Su Decl.)  Ge also
denies any knowledge that PacTec Shanghai worked on a project related to
cashback websites.  (Ex. 21 to Su
Decl.)  
 
            Plaintiff further provides the
Declaration of Tienshiao Ma, a senior software engineer at OemTec’s Marina del
Rey office from 2005 to 2008, which indicates:
 
8. At OemTec, I also worked with Josh Steinberg (“Steinberg”), who was
a principal of the company. 
 
9. In 2005, Zhu was sent to China to open an office for OemTec to
support its research and development efforts. 
 
10. The Chinese company that was set up as an affiliate of OemTec was
PacTec Software (Shanghai) Ltd. Co. (“PacTec Shanghai”). 
 
11. After PacTec Shanghai was formed, Zhu became heavily involved in
managing that company. 
 
12. Initially, Zhu travelled back and forth between Shanghai and
California.
 
13. Eventually, Zhu spent more time in Shanghai than California.
 
14. PacTec Shanghai was considered OemTec’s Shanghai office. 
 
15. PacTec Shanghai enabled OemTec to hire local employees in China. 
 
16. PacTec Shanghai did not have its own independent projects besides
the projects it worked on with OemTec and OemTec’s affiliated companies. 
 
17. Because OemTec and PacTec Shanghai often worked together on the
same projects, OemTec employees worked regularly and closely with PacTec
Shanghai employees. 
 
18. OemTec employees generally worked more closely and interacted more
regularly with those PacTec Shanghai employees with similar roles. 
 
19. For example, as a software engineer myself, I worked closely and
regularly with software engineers of the Shanghai office. They were my
counterparts at the Shanghai office. 
 
20. Employees in the two offices used emails, instant messaging
platforms, and telephone calls to communicate and work together. 
 
21. Employees of OemTec, myself included, considered PacTec Shanghai
employees as members of the same team. 
 
22. Besides Zhu who spent most of his time in Shanghai, many other
employees of OemTec also travelled to Shanghai on occasions to work at our
Shanghai office. 
 
23. I visited the Shanghai office on two separate work trips. 
 
24. On those trips, I worked with employees of the Shanghai office in
person. 
 
25. Employees of the Shanghai office knew I was from California.
 
26. During the period from 2006 through 2007, OemTec planned,
researched, strategized, and worked on developing comparison shopping and
affiliate marketing websites. 
 
27. The Shanghai office and its employees were involved in, and worked
on, these projects.
 
28. Yongchang “Gary” Ge (“Ge”), a defendant in the above-entitled
matter, was an employee of the Shanghai office in or about 2006 and 2007. 
 
29. Ge was a front-end web designer and developer. 
 
30. Ge and I interacted on occasion. 
 
31. I met Ge in person on my two trips to the Shanghai office. 
 
32. OemTec also had front-end web designers and developers at its
Marina del Rey office. They were Ge’s counterparts at OemTec. 
 
33. Based on my understanding of how the Shanghai office operated in
general, i.e., all employees of the Shanghai office generally worked with their
counterparts at OemTec, Ge would have worked closely with his counterparts at
OemTec.
 
(Ma
Decl. ¶¶ 8-33.)  Plaintiff also provides
the Declaration of Josh Steinberg, which provides:
 
9. OemTec was a technology incubator with physical offices in Marina
del Rey, California. It researched, developed, and produced software and
internet products and services. 
 
10. Almost all OemTec employees worked out of the Marina del Rey
offices. 
 
11. In or about 2005, OemTec decided to expand and open an office in
China to support its research and development efforts. At that time, it was
common practice for non-Chinese companies like OemTec to set up a local entity
to access the Chinese labor market. 
 
12. In or about 2005, OemTec sent its Head of Technology, Defendant
James Min Zhu (“Zhu”), to China to help open an office there. 
 
13. The Chinese company that Zhu helped set up was PacTec Shanghai. 
 
14. OemTec put Zhu in charge of managing PacTec Shanghai after it was
formed. Zhu reported directly to me.
 
15. As OemTec’s Shanghai office, since its formation through 2008,
PacTec Shanghai’s sole function was to hire local employees in China and
provide services to OemTec and its other affiliated companies. It had no other
customers. 
 
16. Other than Zhu and their internal communication, the only external
contacts that PacTec Shanghai employees, including Ge, would have primarily
interacted, interfaced, or worked with on a daily basis in performing their
jobs were OemTec employees based in California. 
 
17. This meant that PacTec Shanghai employees had to work closely with
their counterparts at OemTec. 
 
18. Indeed, one of PacTec Shanghai’s main selling points in attracting
potential job candidates was the unique opportunity to work remotely, but
closely, with a California tech company while remaining in Shanghai physically.

 
19. To work together, OemTec and PacTec Shanghai employees
communicated using instant messaging platforms (such as Skype), emails, and
conference calls. 
 
20. Most OemTec employees, including myself, did not speak Chinese.
Therefore, OemTec and PacTec Shanghai employees used English as the primary
language when they worked together. 
 
21. The time difference between California and Shanghai is either 15
hours (during daylight saving time) or 16 hours (during standard time). To
account for this, calls between OemTec and PacTec Shanghai were typically
scheduled for late afternoons and early evenings in California, which
corresponded to morning hours in Shanghai. 
 
22. In addition to collaborating remotely, many OemTec employees
traveled to Shanghai on business trips to work at PacTec Shanghai’s offices. 
 
23. Zhu travelled back and forth between Shanghai and California in
connection with his dual roles as OemTec’s head of technology and the head of
PacTec Shanghai. 
 
24. In 2006 and 2007, I often travelled to Shanghai to work with
PacTec Shanghai and its employees. While in Shanghai, I informed the PacTec
Shanghai employees I worked with that OemTec and I were based in California.
 
25. Ge and non-party Yuanyuan “Yoyo” Wei (“Wei”) were employees of
PacTec Shanghai in 2006 and 2007. 
 
26. Ge’s role at PacTec Shanghai included, but were not limited to,
front-end web developer and web designer. Wei had a similar role. They worked
together on many projects. Zhu worked directly with them and was their
supervisor. 
 
27. Ge would have to work with his counterparts at OemTec using
English. 
 
28. I met Ge in person while visiting PacTec Shanghai. The PacTec
Shanghai employees that I met in-person in Shanghai, including Ge, knew I was
visiting from California. 
 
29. Tienshiao Ma (“Ma”) was a senior software engineer at OemTec. Like
Zhu and me, Ma also travelled to Shanghai on occasion to work with PacTec
Shanghai employees. 
 
30. Ma and Ge interacted on occasion. Ge should have known that Ma was
based in California and was visiting Shanghai for work. 
 
31. Just like Zhu, Ma, and me, some of the OemTec employees that Ge
worked with also visited PacTec Shanghai on occasion.
 
32. In 2006 and 2007, OemTec planned, researched, strategized, and
worked on developing comparison shopping and affiliate marketing websites,
including websites that cater to the Chinese market. One of such websites was a
cashback rebate site that directs shoppers to affiliated retailers and pay
shoppers a percentage of the commission it receives from those affiliated
retailers when the shoppers purchase goods and services from them. 
 
33. PacTec Shanghai assisted OemTec on these projects. As part of the
collaboration and to help PacTec Shanghai better perform its responsibilities,
OemTec provided PacTec Shanghai with proprietary information, data, research,
and studies related to the comparison shopping and affiliate marketing websites
that OemTec was working on, including but not limited to the cashback rebate
site. 
 
34. Ge and Wei participated in the projects of developing comparison
shopping and affiliate marketing websites, including the cashback rebate site.
The proprietary information, data, research, and studies related to the
comparison shopping and affiliate marketing websites that OemTec provided
PacTec Shanghai included information and guidance that enables and facilitates
front-end web developers and web designers to perform their jobs. 
 
35. PacTec Shanghai required all of its employees to enter into a
Supplement to Employment Agreement. A true and correct copy of the Supplement
to Employment Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
 
(Steinberg
Decl. ¶¶ 9-35.)
 
            At best, the Ma and Steinberg declarations
demonstrates that others at OemTec and possibly PacTec Shanghai knew the Shanghai-based
company was working with a California-based company.  But it does not refute Ge’s declaration and
discovery responses indicating that Ge did not know his company and coworkers
worked with a California-based company and employees.  Further, despite declaring that Ge “would
have” communicated with his “counterpart” in English, via Skype and e-mail,
Plaintiff has not identified who Ge’s California counterpart is or produced a
single document or communication Ge made in English in the course of his
employment.  In short, the Steinberg
declaration does not disprove Ge’s declaration that Ge does not speak or read
English and was unaware his company and some of his colleagues worked for a
California company.
 
            Thus, Plaintiff has not established
that Ge “worked closely with” a California company or otherwise purposefully
availed himself of the laws and protections of the State of California – the
subject forum.
 
            Further, the Supplement to
Employment Agreement attached as Exhibit A to the Steinberg Declaration does
not modify the provision in Ge’s employment agreement that disputes arising
from Ge’s employment are to be resolved in Shanghai.  As such, Plaintiff has not provided
sufficient additional evidence to counter the Court’s prior findings that Ge’s
contacts with California are insufficient to establish personal jurisdiction
over him with respect to a dispute arising from Ge’s alleged misappropriation
of company secrets in connection with his employment.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has not demonstrated sufficient minimum contacts to
establish personal jurisdiction over Ge in California, and therefore grants
Ge’s Motion to Quash for lack of personal jurisdiction.  Consequently, the Court orders the summons
issued concerning Ge quashed.  
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 
DATED:  October 3, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 