  Case Number:  20SMCV01202    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20SMCV01202




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Ardeshir Haerizadeh




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Landec Corporation and Curation Foods Inc. f/k/a
  Apio, Inc.



 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 2, 2020, Plaintiff Ardeshir Haerizadeh (“Plaintiff”), the
founder of Yucatan Foods, brought suit against Defendants Landec Corporation
and Apio Inc. (collectively, “Landec” or “Defendants”), who acquired Yucatan
Foods, alleging four causes of action for (1) breach of employment contract;
(2) breach of holdback agreement; (3) declaratory relief (as to whether the
non-compete provisions in the Employment Agreement are enforceable in light of
Plaintiff’s termination without cause); and (4) accounting.  
 
On July 16, 2024, the Court granted summary judgment in Landec’s favor
as to the second cause of action for breach of the holdback agreement.  (Minute Order, July 16, 2024.)  Upon analyzing the various agreements, the
Court determined that the holdback agreement simply restricts Plaintiff’s
ability to transfer or pledge to transfer any of the held-back shares during
the “holdback period” but the payment of those held-back shares is
governed by the Escrow Agreement, which provides for the release of the stock
only upon joint written instructions to release the funds or a notification of
a final non-appealable decision, order, judgment, or decree regarding the
release of stock.  (Ibid.)  Because there remains a dispute concerning
the amount (if any) that should be properly deducted from the held back shares
in connection with the wastewater-related (and other environmental related)
expenses, no such joint instructions or final decision, order, judgment, or
decree has yet issued, and as such, payment of the held-back stock is not yet
required, but an accounting is warranted. 
(Ibid.)  
 
In Plaintiff’s August 30 trial brief and at the September 3 final
status conference, Plaintiff argued that Landec was required to repay the
held-back stock under the Stock Purchase Agreement (“SPA”), and proposed jury
instructions to that effect, which the Court rejected on the grounds that there
was no cause of action pled for breach of the SPA. 
 
A jury trial on the liability issues in the operative complaint began
on September 9, 2024 and is ongoing.
 
On September 4 (the day after the final status conference), Plaintiff filed
the instant motion for leave to amend the complaint to modify the breach of employment
contract claim to become a general breach of contract claim to reassert damages
for the loss of the stock pool under the SPA and other agreements (and to
delete the cause of action for breach of the holdback agreement, consistent
with the Court’s summary adjudication ruling). 

 
The Landec Defendants oppose the motion and Plaintiff replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Landec objects to the Reply
Declaration of Niki Kalantari.  The Court
does not generally consider evidence filed with a reply brief, because it
creates due process problems, as it deprives the other party of a fair
opportunity to respond.  (See San
Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th
308, 316 [“due process requires a party be fully advised of the issues to be
addressed and be given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to
prevail”]; see also Wall Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times Co.
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171.)  
 
            The Kalantari Reply Declaration
provides only the following two paragraphs:
 
1. I am an attorney at law, duly licensed and practicing under the
laws of the State of California, and an attorney at the Afifi Law Group,
attorneys for Plaintiff and Cross-defendant, Ardy Haerizadeh in this action.
Each of the matters stated herein is known to me of my own personal knowledge
except those stated on information and belief, which I believe to be true. 
 
2. The previously attached “Exhibit 1” to Plaintiff’s Motion when
converted to PDF inadvertently did not include the redlines reflecting the
changes in the Complaint. Attached hereto and labeled “Exhibit 3” is a true and
correct copy of a comparison document which contains in redline form the
changes between the Complaint and the proposed FAC.
 
            Landec’s opposition to the motion is
not primarily premised on Plaintiff’s failure to include a redlined copy of the
proposed amended complaint, and in fact raises this issue only in a footnote.
 
            Thus, because the Kalantari Reply
Declaration simply corrects an inadvertent failure to attach a redlined copy of
the proposed amended complaint to the moving papers, and that failure did not form
the thrust of Landec’s opposition to the proposed amendments, the Court
overrules Landec’s objection and considers the Kalantari Reply Declaration and
redlined version of the proposed amended complaint.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            In support of the motion, Plaintiff
has provided the Declaration of Faryan Andrew Afifi, to which Plaintiffs have
attached a copy of the proposed amended complaint. (Afifi Decl. ¶ 2 and Ex. 1.)  As discussed above, Plaintiff attached a
redlined copy of the proposed amended complaint to the Kalantari Reply
Declaration.   The Afifi declaration also indicates:
 
3. This amendment is necessary and proper because
in a brief filed on September 3, 2024, Landec seeks to limit Plaintiff’s
damages based on existing causes of action. However, the original complaint
already had allegations of and a prayer for relief in the breach of contract
cause of action for the stock pool which was not timely paid. Plaintiff
reasonably believed that the stock claims are part of the existing case. In
fact, the Employment Agreement attached to the original complaint referenced
the Stock Purchase Agreement and related agreements in Section 14. Since the
obligation to pay the stock consisted of language in various documents,
including the Employment Agreement as to termination without cause, in the SPA
as to the allocation of stock consideration and total to each equityholder, and
in the Escrow Agreement and Holdback Agreement as to dates of disbursing them,
those issues we believed were captured by the existing allegations in the
complaint relating to stock in escrow, and the prayer for specifically
disbursing stock. 
 
4. The proposed amendment is necessary and proper
to avoid the loss of such claims by the statute of limitations. Plaintiff’s
claim for 50% of his stock, if he were terminated without cause would have
arisen in February 2020 when he was terminated. With a 4 year statute of
limitations on breach of a written contract, there will not be enough time to
file a claim for such breach after the court rules in the present case, finding
in favor of Plaintiff on his claim for being terminated without cause. Also,
even if timely, it would require a new trial on the claim for the stock and the
failure to pay it timely, with the same witnesses, testimony and evidence to be
provided to a new trier of fact. The delay and duplicity of resources alone,
even if the statute of limitations were not a factor, mandate trying these in
the same case. 
 
5. Finally, there is no prejudice to Landec by
allowing this minor amendment. First, Landec never sent a single interrogatory,
form interrogatory or even a request for admission as to Plaintiff’s damage
claim. Indeed, the attached discovery shows that Landec only sought information
about water discharge, or disclosures in the SPA, nothing about Plaintiff’s
damages. Attached hereto and labeled “Exhibit 2” is a true and correct copy of
Landec’s Request for Admissions, Set One and Two and Special Interrogatories,
Set One with Plaintiff’s responses to each. 
 
6. Further, Plaintiff’s deposition was only
recently taken in July 2024, and his testimony as an expert is set for
September 5, 2024. It is his testimony as an expert which yields his claim for
damages as a result of not having the stock pool paid to him timely. Landec
would be receiving the same information at the same time in this deposition,
since they never sought such information in prior discovery. Nonetheless,
Plaintiff’s written opinions were provided to Landec on August 27, 2024, as
they would have been even if the FAC was the operative pleading. 
 
7. Finally, the only reason the request for
amendment was not made earlier is that Plaintiff truly believed the existing
allegations and the cause of action for beach (sic) of contract already allowed
for the damages addressed herein. It was not until September 3, 2024 when
Landec objected to jury instructions on the damages claim that this issue first
surfaced for Plaintiff. Plaintiff acted immediately in seeking the present
relief. This was a legal assessment I made on this case, and it would be unjust
for my client to be prejudiced by virtue of the same.
 
(Afifi
Decl. ¶¶ 3-7.)
 
            The Afifi Declaration does not indicate
any new facts that were discovered warranting the proposed amendment.  Rather, the Afifi Declaration indicates that
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel only became aware at the final status
conference on September 3 that it was necessary for them to plead an
alternative legal theory to try to recover the held-back stock in this lawsuit,
upon the Court’s denial of jury instructions relating to the held back stock.
 
            Further, the proposed amended
complaint seeks to drastically expand the damages sought for failure to timely
pay the held back stock to Plaintiff, from $6.8 million, as originally
requested in connection with the cause of action for breach of the holdback
agreement, to $100 million, without adequate explanation, indicating only that
Plaintiff’s deposition as an expert, set for September 5, will support the
requested $100 million damages.  But this
provides no explanation as to why Plaintiff did not demand these damages sooner.
 
            These proposed amendments would
greatly prejudice the Landec Defendants, who have litigated this matter for
over four and a half years, through the completion of discovery, on the basis
of two breach of contract causes of action – one premised on the holdback
agreement (which the court granted summary adjudication in Landec’s favor) and
one premised on breach of the employment agreement.  Discovery on liability issues has closed, jury
instructions concerning liability for the held back shares were already denied,
and the jury trial on liability has already been under way for over three
weeks.
 
            By contrast, the only prejudice
Plaintiff points to is his assertion that Plaintiff is time barred from
asserting a cause of action for breach of the SPA in a separate lawsuit.  But Plaintiff’s unexcused failure to timely allege
a cause of action for breach of the SPA, or to request an amendment at any
point in the prior four and a half years, does not warrant granting the
requested amendment to greatly expand the scope of Plaintiff’s breach of
contract claims three weeks into the jury trial on liability.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend the complaint, as Plaintiff’s unjustified extreme
delay in seeking the proposed amendments would severely prejudice the Landec
Defendants at this very late juncture.
 
            The Court orders Plaintiff to
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  October 3, 2024                             ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 