 Case Number:  23SMCV04029    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04029




MOTION


Sanctions and Compel Depositions




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff 5916 S Village Dr LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Negrin LLP



 
BACKGROUND
 
This legal malpractice action arises from allegations that Defendants
Negrin LLP and Matthew Negrin (“Defendants”) improperly handled an unlawful
detainer case on behalf of landlord in the underlying unlawful detainer case
and Plaintiff in this action, 5916 S Village Dr LLC (“Plaintiff”).  
 
Plaintiff now moves for monetary sanctions against Defendant Negrin
LLP and its counsel of record, Kaufman Dolowich LLP for failing to submit to an
authorized method of discovery under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.030,
2023.010, and 2025.450 and for an order compelling the depositions of Negrin
LLP’s employees Matthew Negrin and Amy Gershoony pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450.
 
Defendant Negrin LLP opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
            Motion to Compel
 
“The purpose of the discovery rules is to enhance the truth-seeking
function of the litigation process and eliminate trial strategies that focus on
gamesmanship and surprise.  In other
words, the discovery process is designed to make a trial less a game of
blindman's bluff and more a fair contest with the basic issues and facts
disclosed to the fullest practicable extent.” 
(Juarez v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc.
(2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389 [cleaned up].)  

 
            Per Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, if a party to the action fails to appear for deposition after service
of a deposition notice and the party has not served a valid objection to that
deposition notice, the party that noticed the deposition may move for an order
to compel the deponent’s attendance and testimony. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the
following: ¶(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. ¶(2) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b).)
 
Sanctions
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff has not established that Defendant Negrin LLP or the
deponents failed to appear for deposition or failed to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.  Rather, Plaintiff has
outlined a series of discussions about potential dates for scheduling the
depositions.  After Defendant committed
to October 25 for Matthew Negrin’s deposition, Plaintiff filed the instant
motion.  But Plaintiff has not
demonstrated that a deposition was formally scheduled and the deponent failed
to respond, object, or appear.
 
In opposition, Defendant points out that there is an IDC currently
scheduled for October 21, 2024 regarding the depositions in this matter, and that
Defendant already agreed for Matthew Negrin to sit for deposition on October
25.  Defendant also offers the
alternative date of October 10, 2024 for Matthew Negrin’s deposition and
October 15, 2024 for Amy Gershoony’s deposition, both of which dates Plaintiff
suggested in the motion.
 
As such, because Plaintiff has not demonstrated that Matthew Negrin or
Amy Gershoony failed to respond, object, or appear for a noticed deposition, and
because there are currently three mutually agreeable dates for the depositions,
neither an order compelling their attendance nor an order for monetary
sanctions is yet appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDERS
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
Motion for Sanctions and to Compel the depositions of Matthew Negrin and Amy
Gershoony.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice
of the Court’s order and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED:
 October 3, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 