 Case Number:  23SMCV04421    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04421




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended
  Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTIONS
 
This case arises from a dispute over injuries Plaintiff Angel Lomeli,
a minor, by and through his guardian ad litem, Juana Meyer (“Plaintiff”),
allegedly suffered at school on or about August 18, 2022, when he was assaulted
by another student.  
 
The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff against
Defendants Santa Monica High School; Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School
District; and City of Santa Monica; alleges six causes of action for (1)
negligence; (2) premises liability; (3) negligent hiring, supervision and
retention; (4) negligent supervision of school premises; (5) negligent
infliction of emotional distress; and (6) violation of mandatory duty.  Plaintiff subsequently dismissed the City of
Santa Monica from the action.
 
Defendant Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District (“Defendant” or
“SMMUSD”) now demurs to the first five causes of action for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for uncertainty, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f)
respectively.  Defendant also moves to
strike the first two cause of action and various ancillary allegations on the
grounds that Plaintiff may not allege common law general negligence or premises
liability against a governmental entity.
 
Both motions are unopposed.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the case Doe v. Petaluma City School District (N.D. Cal. 1993) 830
F.Supp. 1560.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of “[t]he decisional, constitutional, and statutory law of any state of the
United States[;]” of “[o]fficial acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States[;]” and of “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of
record of the United States or of any state of the United States” records of
any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, §
452, subd. (a); (c); (d).)  
 
Thus, judicial notice of the
Northern District of California’s decision in Doe v. Petaluma is proper
under all three of these subdivisions.  
 
However, “while courts are
free to take judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file,
including the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of
the truth of hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the Northern District of California’s decision in Doe v.
Petaluma and the truth of results reached, but not the truth of any hearsay
allegations contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services
Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.) 

 
Although Defendant argues that the first five cause of action are
uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), Defendant
does not identify any portions of the FAC are so bad that Defendant cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are
directed against it.  
 
The Court thus declines to sustain Defendant’s demurrer on the basis
of uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Governmental
Immunity
 
Government Code section 815
provides that “[a] public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such
injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public
employee or any other person” except as provided by statute.  (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a); see Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932.)  “[D]irect
tort liability of public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring
them to be liable, or at least creating some specific duty of care, and not on
the general tort provisions of Civil Code section 1714. Otherwise, the general
rule of immunity for public entities would be largely eroded by the routine
application of general tort principles.” 
(Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th
1175, 1183.)  To state a claim against a
public entity, “every fact essential to the existence of statutory liability
must be pleaded with particularity, including the existence of a statutory duty.”  (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986)
177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.)  
 
Here, the first cause of
action for negligence; second cause of action for premises liability; third
cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision and retention; and fifth
cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress do not include
allegations regarding any statutory ground for relief.
 
As such, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the first, second, third, and fifth causes of action.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Negligent Supervision
of School Premises
 
As to the fourth cause of
action, the FAC alleges:
 
14. This incident took place on or about August
18, 2022 where Plaintiff ANGEL LOMELI sustained various severe injuries,
including but not limited to lacerations to his head, as he was lawfully
allowed on the school premises, after he was violently assaulted by another
student on campus (hereinafter “SUBJECT PREMISES”). 
 
15. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
thereon alleges that Defendants SANTA MONICA HIGH SCHOOL, a public school;
SANTA MONICA-MALIBU UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT; a governmental entity; CITY OF
SANTA MONICA, a governmental entity; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, and each
of them, owned, possessed, leased, built, operated, occupied, inspected,
supervised, maintained, repaired, operated, managed, designed, constructed,
and/or controlled the aforementioned real property including but not limited to
the SUBJECT PREMISES. 
 
16. At all relevant times Plaintiff was lawfully
present upon the SUBJECT PREMISES and used the SUBJECT PREMISES in a reasonable
and normal way. 
 
17. At all relevant times, Plaintiff was fault
free and did not contribute in any way to his injuries. 
 
18. At all relevant times, Defendants failed to
adequately, and properly warn, and guard anyone present on the SUBJECT
PREMISES, including the Plaintiff against the dangerous conditions on the
SUBJECT PREMISES. 
 
19. As a proximate and legal result of the
negligent, reckless, and/or tortious acts and omissions of the Defendants,
Plaintiff suffered serious injuries, including but not limited to lacerations
to his head, general damages, and special damages.
 
[…]
 
47. At all times mentioned herein, Defendants and
DOES 1 through 50, and each of them, had a special relationship with Plaintiff
and had an affirmative duty to take all reasonable steps to protect him. Under
Cal. Const. Article I, §§ 28(a)(7), (f)(1), students have the inalienable right
to attend safe, secure, and peaceful campuses, which Defendants, and each of
them, were required to provide. A special relationship is formed between a
school and its students resulting in the imposition of an affirmative duty. The
affirmative duty arises, in part, based on the compulsory nature of education
for students between the ages of 6 and 18 years of age. 
 
48. At all times mentioned herein, Defendants and
DOES 1 through 50, and each of them, had heightened duties of care: (i) to
supervise, at all times, the teachers, staff, and students of the school; (ii)
to ensure that Defendants and DOES 1 through 50’s duties and responsibilities
to students, including Plaintiff, to provide a safe, secure and peaceful
campus, were being carried out and acted upon; and (iii) to enforce rules and
regulations necessary to prevent disorderly and dangerous practices by students
against other students, which are foreseeable and likely to result in injury to
students. 
 
49. Notwithstanding the aforementioned duties,
Defendants, and its employees and agents, including but not limited to DOES 1
through 50, breached their duties to Plaintiff by failing to provide Plaintiff
with a safe, secure and peaceful campus that was safe and fit for learning by
committing acts and/or omissions, which include but are not limited to, the
following: (i) failed to provide adequate and qualified supervision of their
students, and (ii) failed to provide an environment where the school community
upholds the standards of inclusion, respect, and civility and fosters an
understanding that bullying, hazing, harassment, and discrimination are
unacceptable, inappropriate, and harmful. 
 
50. As a direct and proximate result of the
careless and negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendants, and its employees
and agents, including but not limited to DOES 1 through 50, Plaintiff has
suffered physical assault, severe and pervasive bullying, and verbal and
emotional assaults. 
 
51. As a direct and proximate result of the
careless and negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendants, and its employees
and agents, including but not limited to DOES 1 through 50, Plaintiff was hurt
and injured in his health, strength, and activity, sustaining serious injuries
to his body and shock and injury to his nervous system and person. These
injuries have caused and continue to cause Plaintiff great mental, physical,
and nervous pain and suffering. Plaintiff continues to suffer from emotional distress,
fear, worry, and insecurity associated with the verbal harassment and physical
assault. As a result of such physical and emotional injuries, Plaintiff has
suffered general damages. 
 
52. As a further direct and proximate result of
the careless and negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendant, and its
employees and agents, including but not limited to DOES 1 through 50, Plaintiff
has incurred medical and other bills, which Plaintiff will continue to require
in the future.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 14-19, 47-52.)
 
            Thus, the FAC alleges the
constitutional basis for the claim (Cal. Const. Article I, §§ 28(a)(7),
(f)(1)), as well as specific facts about the what (violent assault by another
student causing severe head lacerations) when (August 18, 2022), where (at
Santa Monica High School), and how (Defendant’s inadequate supervision of the
school.)  Although the FAC does not
allege the specific identity of the individual(s) tasked with the
responsibility for implementing supervision, that identity would be known to
Defendant.
 
            As such, the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Here, Defendant moves to strike the following from the FAC:
 
1. “SANTA MONICA HIGH SCHOOL” (1:15; 1:23-24;
2:8-9; 4:4-5; 4:28-5:1; 5:18; 5:27; 6:18-19; 6:28-7:1; 7:14; 8:2; 8:10;
8:14-15; 8:24-25: 9:10; 9:25-26; 10:3-4; 15:22-23.) 
 
2. “dangerous condition” (4:15-16; 5:17; 6:3;
6:6; 6:10; 6:12; 6:13; 6:15; 6:16.) 
 
3. “dangerous conditions” (7:22.) 
 
4. Plaintiff’s entire first cause of action for
general negligence based on common law negligence. (4:20-7:8.) 
 
5. Plaintiff’s entire second cause of action for
premises liability based on common law negligence. (7:9-9:4.) 
 
6. “3. Prejudgment and post-judgment interest
according to law and proof, to the extent authorized by law;….” (16:4.)
 
Having sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second causes
of action, the Court denies as moot Defendant’s motion to strike the entire
first and second causes of action.
 
With regard to references to “SANTA MONICA HIGH SCHOOL,” Defendant
moves to strike all references to Santa Monica High School on the grounds that
it “is not a separate legal entity apart from SMMUSD which can sue or be sued.”  (Motion to Strike at p. 13.)  In support, Defendant cites to Hovd v.
Hayward Unified School District (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 470, 472, where a
vocational skills center was held not to be a public agency, and Doe v.
Petaluma City School District (N.D. Cal. 1993) 830 F.Supp.1560, 1583, where
the Northern District held, “Kenilworth Junior High School is not an entity
capable of being sued” without any analysis or explanation.  
 
The Court does not find, at this juncture, a sufficient legal or
factual basis to strike Santa Monica High School as a defendant from the
FAC.  Further, to the extent the
allegations indicate that the assault took place on Santa Monica High School’s
campus, striking those allegations would be inappropriate, regardless of
whether Santa Monica High School ultimately remains a named defendant.
 
With regard to references to a “dangerous condition” or “dangerous
conditions,” Defendant argues that these allegations should be stricken,
because “in order to invoke any liability for a dangerous condition, a
plaintiff must demonstrate that some physical characteristic of a governmental
entity’s property contributed to his/her injury.”  The Court need not make a finding that
Plaintiff has adequately pleaded an allegation premised on a dangerous
condition to some physical characteristic of Santa Monica High School to permit
Plaintiff to factually allege that conditions at the high school were generally
dangerous (and led to Plaintiff’s claimed head laceration injuries.)  Therefore, the Court denies Defendant’s
motion to strike references to dangerous condition[s] from the FAC.
 
Finally, Defendant moves to strike from the FAC Plaintiff’s request
for “Prejudgment and post-judgment interest according to law and proof, to the
extent authorized by law” on the grounds that Civil Code 3291, which allows for
the recovery of interest on damages recovered, expressly exempts public
entities.  The Court does not find this a
sufficient basis to strike from the FAC Plaintiff’s request for interest “to
the extent authorized by law.”  
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to strike in its
entirety.
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet this burden as Plaintiff did
not oppose the demurrer or motion to strike, and therefore did not address
whether leave should be granted if either the demurrer is sustained or the
motion to strike is granted.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains without leave to amend
Defendant’s demurrer to the first, second, third, and fifth causes of action,
but overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action.  Further, the Court denies Defendant’s motion
to strike in its entirety.  
 
Defendant shall file and serve an Answer to the FAC on or before October
24, 2024.  Further, Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.  
 
DATED:  October 3, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court