 Case Number:  21STCV06169    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff John Doe’s Motion to Seal Exhibit Numbers 22 and 23 Attached to the Previously Filed Declaration of Patrick J. Hughes in Support [of] Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Exhibit Numbers 22 and 23, attached to the previously filed declaration of John H. Gomez in support of Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.Defendant Hilton Domestic Operating Company, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint on Hilton Domestic Operating Company Inc. (C.C.P. § 418.10) is GRANTED.Moving parties to give notice.REASONINGPlaintiff John Doe’s Motion to Seal Exhibit Numbers 22 and 23 Attached to the Previously Filed Declaration of Patrick J. Hughes in Support [of] Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary JudgmentThe trial court “may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (McGuan v. Endovascular Techs., Inc. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988, paragraph breaks omitted.)Plaintiff John Doe (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for an order to seal Exhibits 22 and 23, attached to the declaration of John H. Gomez in support of Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative Summary Adjudication. The Court notes that although the motion is said to be as to exhibits attached to the declaration of Patrick J. Hughes, the exhibits were attached to the declaration of John H. Gomez. Exhibit 22 is a copy of the Hilton Global Brand Operating Standards, and Exhibit 23 is a copy of a Hilton franchise agreement. Plaintiff states that the brand standards set forth in Exhibit 22 qualify as trade secrets because they are a compilation, method, and process that derives economic value from not generally being known, and the franchise agreement in Exhibit 23 qualifies as a trade secret because there is value derived from the highly negotiated terms and conditions set forth therein, and there is information which has independent economic value to the parties. The Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently set forth a basis for sealing the identified exhibits, as the information therein constitutes trade secrets, and the Court is unaware of any public interest in this information as to the Court’s resolution of the pending motion for summary judgment. Accordingly, Plaintiff John Doe’s Motion to Seal Exhibit Numbers 22 and 23 Attached to the Previously Filed Declaration of Patrick J. Hughes in Support [of] Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Exhibit Numbers 22 and 23, attached to the previously filed declaration of John H. Gomez in support of Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.Defendant Hilton Domestic Operating Company, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint on Hilton Domestic Operating Company Inc. (C.C.P. § 418.10)Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, subdivision (a)(1), provides that a defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. Defendant Hilton Domestic Operating Company, Inc. (“Hilton Domestic”) moves the Court for an order quashing service of the summons and complaint served upon it and dismissing the action against it for lack of personal jurisdiction.Hilton Domestic argues that this Court does not have jurisdiction over it because it lacks sufficient contacts with California, the controversy does not arise out of Hilton Domestic’s forum contacts, and the exercise of jurisdiction over Hilton Domestic would not be fair or reasonable.California courts may exercise personal jurisdiction on any basis consistent with the Constitutions of California and the United States. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) The exercise of jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant comports with these Constitutions “if the defendant has such minimum contacts with the state that the assertion of jurisdiction does not violate traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268 (Pavlovich), quotation marks omitted.) “A court may exercise either general or specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant.” (Sher v. Johnson (9th Cir. 1990) 911 F.2d 1357, 1361 (Sher); see also Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445 (Vons) [stating same].)“A plaintiff opposing a motion to quash service of process for lack of personal jurisdiction has the initial burden to demonstrate facts establishing a basis for personal jurisdiction.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1168.) “If the plaintiff satisfies that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (Ibid.)General JurisdictionA court may assert general jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant when the defendant’s activities in the forum state are substantial, continuous, and systematic. (Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 445.)  Hilton Domestic’s moving papers and evidence adequately establish that it is not a California entity, nor does it have substantial, continuous, and systematic contact with California. While Hilton Domestic is qualified to do business in California, and it has contractual relationships with California residents unrelated to the DoubleTree Hotel in Culver City, it has no office or employees in California, and there is no evidence that Hilton Domestic has substantial, continuous, and systematic contact with California. (Mot., Smith Decl. ¶¶ 2, 11-12.) Plaintiff does not argue that general jurisdiction applies and, in opposing the present motion to quash, instead focuses his arguments on specific jurisdiction.Specific JurisdictionJurisdiction is specific when the defendant’s contacts with the state are not substantial, continuous, and systematic, but “the defendant has sufficient contacts with the forum state in relation to the cause of action.” (Sher, supra, 911 F.2d at p. 1361.) “Under the minimum contacts test, an essential criterion in all cases is whether the quality and nature of the defendant’s activity is such that it is reasonable and fair to require him to conduct his defense in that State.” (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 268, quotation marks omitted.) “The defendant’s conduct and connection with the forum State must be such that the defendant should reasonably anticipate being haled into court there.” (Sher, supra, 911 F.2d at p. 1361.)  To determine whether specific jurisdiction exists, “courts consider the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.” (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 269, quotation marks omitted.) “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Ibid., quotation marks, brackets, and citations omitted.)Hilton Domestic argues that Plaintiff’s claim arises from a stabbing at the DoubleTree Hotel in Culver City, and Hilton Domestic has no contacts with the hotel, contractual or otherwise. Hilton Domestic provides evidence that the hotel is independently owned and operated by Woodbine Legacy/Plaza Owner, LLC, and Hilton Domestic is merely the parent of the entity who was the franchisor for the hotel at the time of the incident to present. (Mot., Smith Decl. ¶¶ 4-7.) Hilton Domestic is not a party to any contract related to the operation of the hotel; it does not own, operate, manage, or control the day-to-day-operations of the hotel; and it does not employ or supervise the personnel at the hotel. (Mot., Smith Decl. ¶¶ 8-10.)Based on the evidence provided by Hilton Domestic, it appears that Hilton Domestic does not have sufficient contacts with California in relation to the cause of action, i.e., it does not have sufficient contact with the subject hotel to warrant a finding of specific jurisdiction. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Hilton Domestic has a California representative, with a registered California address, who was served with a copy of the summons and complaint while physically present in California, and Hilton Domestic has connections with the other Hilton defendants in this case. As to the agent for service of process, this alone is insufficient to warrant jurisdiction over a party. (Gray Line Tours v. Reynolds Electrical & Engineering Co. (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 190, 194 [entity did not consent to exercise of jurisdiction for all purposes when it appointed entity in California to accept service on its behalf].) Further, Hilton Domestic’s contracts with other California parties are not relevant here when Plaintiff does not argue that these contracts had any relation to Plaintiff’s claim. As to Hilton Domestic’s relationship with other Hilton defendants in this action, the Court will not impute the jurisdiction of another party to Hilton Domestic. If the Court were to adopt this argument, it would be required to find jurisdiction exists as to any party with a relationship to a party who is subject to jurisdiction in California, rendering the analysis of an entity’s contacts irrelevant. Thus, the Court finds there is no basis to conclude that specific jurisdiction is properly exercised here.Fair Play and Substantial Justice“The exercise of jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant comports with [the United States and California Constitutions] if the defendant has such minimum contacts with the state that the assertion of jurisdiction does not violate traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 268, quotation marks omitted.) Here, the evidence submitted with the motion shows that Hilton Domestic lacks sufficient contact with California. Plaintiff argues that it would be unjust to find that Hilton Domestic is not subject to jurisdiction where it registered the entity with the Secretary of State. If this alone were a basis to exercise jurisdiction, the Court is sure there would be legal authority to this effect, but there is not. Accordingly, Defendant Hilton Domestic Operating Company, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint on Hilton Domestic Operating Company Inc. (C.C.P. § 418.10) is GRANTED.