  Case Number:  21SMCV00307    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff/Cross-Defendant Appleton Way LLC and Cross-Defendants Jill Latiano and Glenn Howerton’s Demurrer to the Third Amended [Cross-] Complaint of Amy Goldman is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend as to the first, third, and fourth causes of action, OVERRULED as to the second, sixth, eighth, and ninth causes of action, and SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the fifth, seventh, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth causes of action.Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amy Goldman may amend her complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Appleton Way LLC and Cross-Defendants Jill Latiano and Glenn Howerton to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff/Cross-Defendant Appleton Way LLC (“Appleton”) and Cross-Defendants Jill Latiano and Glenn Howerton (“Cross-Defendants”) demur to all 15 causes of action alleged in Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amy Goldman (“Cross-Complainant”)’s Third Amended Cross-Complaint (“TACC”). The Court notes that on October 18, 2023, it advised Cross-Complainant that her pleading was excessively lengthy given the nature of the claims, which are relatively simple, i.e., that Cross-Defendants harassed Cross-Complainant, the property was an unpermitted Ancillary Dwelling Unit (“ADU”), and that the property suffered from various issues. Cross-Complainant’s pleading remains 75 pages long with 15 causes of action, which obfuscates the important facts and issues in this action. Nonetheless, the Court analyzes each cause of action as currently alleged. Insofar as Cross-Defendants argue about the liability of Latiano and Howerton in certain claims, the Court notes that not every claim has been brought against these Cross-Defendants, and the Court analyzes each claim only as to the parties against whom the cause of action has been alleged per the heading to each claim.Legal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)First Cause of Action: Breach of Written ContractTo state a cause of action for breach of contract, Cross-Complainant must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)Cross-Complainant alleges that she leased the property pursuant to a written lease agreement and a one-year extension entitled “First Amendment to Residential Lease.” (TACC ¶¶ 20, 162.) No exhibit has been attached to the pleading. If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) Cross-Complainant alleges various breaches by Appleton under the lease agreement, but the Court cannot determine if a proper claim exists where it lacks the contract itself. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Second Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Warranty of HabitabilityTo establish a breach of the implied warranty of habitability, Cross-Complainant must establish (1) “the existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises’ habitability,” (2) “notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant’s discovery of the condition,” (3) “the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and” (4) “resulting damages.” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.) Cross-Complainant alleges that Appleton failed to provide a habitable unit because of the mechanical and structural defects at the property. (TACC ¶¶ 174-175.) Cross-Defendants argue this claim is barred by the two-year statute of limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 335.1. It would appear here that Cross-Complainant’s claim is a contractual claim with contract damages. (Hjelm v. Prometheus Real Estate Group, Inc. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1155, 1168.) A contract claim has a four-year statute of limitations (Code Civ. Proc., § 337), making Cross-Complainant’s claims timely. Whether Appleton substantially complied with applicable code standards is a matter for the trier of fact. Thus, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.Third Cause of Action: Intentional Misrepresentation and Fourth Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment“The elements of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) “The elements of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment are: (1) concealment of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose; (3) the defendant intended to defraud by failing to disclose; (4) plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as it did had it known the fact; and (5) damages.” (Butler America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance Company, LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 136, 144.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants made various statements about the condition of the property on October 4, 2019, but these representations were false. (TACC ¶¶ 187, 194.) Cross-Complainant provides no clarity as to the specific representations that were made to her, by whom, and when the representations were made. Cross-Complainant must amend these claims to meet the specificity requirements of a fraud claim. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Fifth Cause of Action: Conspiracy to Violate the Covenant of Quiet EnjoymentThe elements of a claim for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment are: (1) a lease agreement between plaintiff and defendant; (2) absence of language contrary to the implied covenant that tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession; (3) act or omission of the landlord, or anyone claiming under the landlord, which “substantially interfere[s] with a tenant[’]s right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy”; and (4) an applicable remedy. (See Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588-591.) “Civil conspiracy is not an independent tort. Instead, it is a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors a common plan or design in its perpetration.” (City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211-212, quotation marks omitted.) “The elements of a civil conspiracy are (1) the formation of a group of two or more persons who agreed to a common plan or design to commit a tortious act; (2) a wrongful act committed pursuant to the agreement; and (3) resulting damages.” (Id. at p. 212.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Latiano verbally attacked Cross-Complainant, and Howerton intended to disturb Cross-Complainant’s sleep. (TACC ¶¶ 205, 207.) Put simply, this is not a conspiracy claim, as Cross-Complainant alleges specific, direct conduct by Cross-Defendants, and there are no specific facts about a purported conspiracy. Moreover, this claim is based on the same allegations of other causes of action, as stated below. The Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment could state a proper claim for conspiracy to violate the covenant of quiet enjoyment. Thus, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Sixth Cause of Action: Constructive Eviction“A constructive eviction occurs when the acts or omissions to act of a landlord, or any disturbance or interference with the tenant’s possession by the landlord, renders the premises, or a substantial portion thereof, unfit for the purposes for which they were leased, or which has the effect of depriving the tenant for a substantial period of time of the beneficial, enjoyment or use of the premises.” (Groh v. Kover’s Bull Pen, Inc. (1963) 221 Cal.App.2d 611, 614.) “Any interference by the landlord by which the tenant is deprived of the beneficial enjoyment of the premises amounts to a constructive eviction if the tenant so elects and surrenders possession.” (Johnson v. Snyder (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 86, 88.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Appleton engaged in an intentional and deliberate attempt to retaliate, harass, and create a constructive eviction aimed at forcing Cross-Complainant to vacate the premises. (TACC ¶ 219.) Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainant voluntarily vacated pursuant to a stipulation, but this is not pled in the claim; thus, this is a matter for the trier of fact. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.Seventh Cause of Action: NegligenceIn order to state a claim for negligence, Cross-Complainant must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants sought to injure, hurt, and undermine Cross-Complainant’s health by seeking to drive her out of the property. (TACC ¶¶ 229-230.) Cross-Complainant fails to state a claim for negligence, as she fails to state the nature of the duty owed to her by any of the Cross-Defendants, and insofar as it is a duty under the lease, this is duplicative of Cross-Complainant’s contract claims. The Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment could state a proper claim for negligence. Thus, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Eighth Cause of Action: NuisanceTo establish an action for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263, citations, italics, brackets, and quotation marks omitted.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Appleton has failed to correct the defective conditions at the property, including mold, in a manner that caused illness, property damage, and emotional distress to Cross-Complainant. (TACC ¶¶ 233-239.) The Court finds that Cross-Complainant has properly stated a nuisance claim because she alleges that Appleton was responsible for, and failed to abate, mold and other issues at the property in a manner that deprived Cross-Complainant of her ability to enjoy the property. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth cause of action is OVERRULED.Ninth Cause of Action: Conversion of Security Deposit“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Appleton improperly deducted funds from her security deposit to cover unpaid rent, construction repairs, and water utility bill. (TACC ¶¶ 251-261.) Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainant has not alleged a specific amount, but this is belied by her claim, wherein she states that she was charged $12,000 for unpaid rent, $4,878.32 for repairs, and $3,582.97 for water bill. (TACC ¶¶ 252, 253, 256, 261.) Whether the amount was proper is a matter for the trier of fact. Thus, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the ninth cause of action is OVERRULED.Tenth Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealings“A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty itself and it has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken judgment.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated . . . [T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of action for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id. at pp. 1394-1395.) To recover in tort for breach of the implied covenant, the defendant must “have acted unreasonably or without proper cause.” (Id. at p. 1395, citations and italics omitted.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Appleton breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by misrepresenting the condition of the home and failing to disclose issues with the property. (TACC ¶ 268.) This claim is no different than the breach of contract claim and seek the same damages as that claim. The Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment could state a proper claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Thus, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the tenth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Eleventh Cause of Action: Violation of Fair Employment/Housing ActGovernment Code section 12955, subdivision (a), makes it unlawful “[f]or the owner of any housing accommodation to discriminate against or harass any person because of the race, color, religion, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, familial status, source of income, disability, veteran or military status, or genetic information of that person.”Cross-Complainant alleges that Appleton committed unlawful housing practices in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) by failing to provide reasonable accommodations to Cross-Complainant, who has a physical disability. (TACC ¶¶ 273-274.) Cross-Complainant specifically takes issue with Appleton’s conspiracy conduct with Latiano and Howerton to harass her to evict her from the property. (TACC ¶ 274.) Notably, Cross-Complainant provides no facts linking the alleged conduct to her disability; she provides only a conclusory statement in this regard, she alleges that Appleton knew she was disabled, and that various issues with the property harmed her because she was disabled. This is insufficient, as this simply alleges harassment and failure to repair, that Cross-Complainant was disabled, that Appleton knew, and that the failure to abate issues caused Cross-Complainant harm because she was disabled, not that the harassment or failure to abate was because of Cross-Complainant’s disability. The Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment could state a proper claim for violation of FEHA. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Twelfth Cause of Action: Breach of Cal B&P § 17200To set forth a claim for a violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, Plaintiff must establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action for unfair competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Appleton failed to abate known habitability violations, and Latiano and Howerton made Cross-Complainant a pariah in the neighborhood to coerce her to vacate the property. (TACC ¶¶ 284, 287.) This claim is duplicative of Cross-Complainant’s other claims without providing any new or different facts, making this claim merely one that is an attempted substitute for a tort or contract claim, i.e., Cross-Complainant has not alleged any specific unfair business conduct by Cross-Defendants. The Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment could state a proper claim for violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the twelfth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Thirteenth Cause of Action: Breach of Unruh Civil Rights Act, CC § 51The elements of a claim for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act are (1) defendant is a business establishment, (2) defendant intentionally denied plaintiff accommodations, advantages, privileges, facilities, or services, (3) defendant was motivated to do so based on its perception that plaintiff belonged to a statutorily defined group, (4) plaintiff was harmed, and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Civ. Code, § 51; In re Cox (1970) 3 Cal.3d 205, 216.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants terminated Cross-Complainant’s lease because she asserted her rights under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). (TACC ¶¶ 298-300.) None of the Cross-Defendants are a business establishment, and it is axiomatic that “[t]he objective of the Act is to prohibit businesses from engaging in unreasonable, arbitrary or invidious discrimination.” (Pizarro v. Lamb’s Players Theatre (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1174.) The Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment could state a proper claim for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act. Thus, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the thirteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Fourteenth Cause of Action: Breach of the Disabled Persons Act, CC § 54.1 et seqCivil Code section 54.1 provides that individuals with disabilities are entitled to full and equal access of the same places to which the general public is invited, and a violation of the ADA also constitutes a violation of this section. (Civ. Code, § 54.1, subds. (a), (d).) To state a violation of the ADA, “a plaintiff must show: (1) [she] is a qualified individual with a disability; (2) [she] was either excluded from participation in or denied the benefits of a public entity’s services, programs, or activities, or was otherwise discriminated against by the public entity; and (3) such exclusion, denial of benefits, or discrimination was by reason of [her] disability.” (Payan v. Los Angeles Community College District (9th Cir. 2021) 11 F.4th 729, 737, quotation marks omitted.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants denied or interfered with her use and enjoyment of her dwelling. (TACC ¶ 311.) Again, Cross-Complainant provides no facts linking the alleged conduct to her disability; she provides only a conclusory statement in this regard, she alleges that Appleton knew she was disabled, and that various issues with the property harmed her because she was disabled. This is insufficient, as this simply alleges harassment and failure to repair, that Cross-Complainant was disabled, that Appleton knew, and that the failure to abate issues caused Cross-Complainant harm because she was disabled, not that the harassment or failure to abate was because of Cross-Complainant’s disability. The Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment could state a proper claim for violation of the Disabled Persons Act. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the fourteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Fifteenth Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants inflicted emotional distress on Cross-Complainant by way of their misconduct, false statements, and malice. (TACC ¶ 316.) Cross-Complainant provides no specific statements as to the conduct underlying this claim, but the Court lacks a basis to conclude that mere failure to remedy issues with the property and failure to properly disclose existing issues would constitute extreme and outrageous conduct, and insofar as Cross-Complainant alleges that the constructive eviction constituted extreme and outrageous conduct, the Court is not convinced, as this would essentially make any constructive eviction a basis for an intentional infliction of emotional distress claim. While Cross-Complainant may have suffered emotional distress due to Cross-Defendants’ conduct, this alone does not establish a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, as Cross-Complainant must also show that Cross-Defendants intended to cause, or recklessly disregarded the probability of causing, Cross-Complainant emotional distress through their conduct that is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. The Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment could state a proper claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress. Thus, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the fifteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.