  Case Number:  19STCP02828    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
County of Los Angeles’ Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice.
 
I.                  
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff Krista Perez objects to portions of the materials submitted by
Defendant County of Los Angeles in support of its motion for summary judgment.
However, most of these objections are not objections to the admissibility of
any evidence submitted by Defendant, but are rather recitals of the arguments
made in Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s separate statement, regarding its
characterization of the evidence cited in support of the propositions contained
therein. These objections are OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s evidence submitted in opposition to
the motion are more substantive. The declarations submitted by Plaintiff are
replete with conclusory and speculative attributions of discriminatory and
retaliatory motive to Defendant employees offered without evident basis in
personal knowledge. 
 
Objections No. 1–3 to the declaration of Julio Garcia are SUSTAINED,
because although Garcia may testify to the transfer and replacement of Hispanic
employees, he provides no basis for his knowledge of their relative
qualifications, or how Banuelos treated Hispanic employees after Garcia was
transferred from the facility.
 
Objection No. 1 to the declaration of Maurice F. Allmond is SUSTAINED as
to Allmond’s relation of the hearsay statements of Avila and Hernandez as to
why they were crying when he spoke to them.
 
Objection No. 1 to the declaration of Asuncion Jimenez is OVERRULED, as
Jimenez’s testimony concerning Bryant’s state of “bother” when he requested
FMLA leave is supported by his testimony concerning her outward behavior.
 
Defendant’s objections to the declaration of Javier Rodriguez are
SUSTAINED, as Rodriguez offers no basis in personal knowledge for the facts
offered in the declaration.
 
Objections No. 2, 5, and 6 to the declaration of James Juarez are
SUSTAINED, as Juarez offers no foundation for his diagnosis of a ”long history
of discrimination against Hispanic employees in the terms and conditions of
their employment” save a conclusory statement that he has “observed” the
phenomenon. The other objections are OVERRULED, as Juarez may testify to an
incident in which he was undeservedly disciplined, and to his own performance
history.
 
Defendant’s Objections No. 1–5, 7, 9, 10, 15–17, 23, 24, 27, 30–32, and
34 to the declaration of Krista Perez are SUSTAINED as to Plaintiff’s
consistent imputation of discriminatory and retaliatory motives to the actions
of her supervisors. Defendant’s Objection No. 36, 40, and 42 are also SUSTAINED
as to Plaintiff’s lack of personal knowledge of the matters concerned, i.e. a
matter regarding the disciplining of an employee named Rodriguez, and her
conclusory invocation of a history of discrimination in the probation
department. Objection No. 39 is also SUSTAINED, as to Plaintiff’s secondhand
knowledge of Bryant’s behavior at another facility, which is based on hearsay. 
 
However, Defendant’s other objections to the Perez declaration are
OVERRULED, including Plaintiff’s testimony concerning how Bryant’s treatment of
her and other Hispanic women employed at the facility differed from her
treatment of other groups. Plaintiff offers foundation for this testimony,
given that she “had to interact with Bryant several times every day, every time
[she] had to come up to the main administrative building.” (Perez Decl. ¶ 48.) 
 
II.               
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party
will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by
itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed
in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant County of
Los Angeles (Defendant) moves for summary judgment or adjudication on Plaintiff
Krista Perez’s claims for employment discrimination, retaliation, and
harassment. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claims for discrimination fail
because Plaintiff was not subjected to any adverse employment actions, and
because Plaintiff lacks evidence that her alleged harasser, Sheila Bryant,
targeted her for any protected characteristic. (Motion at pp. 4–5.) Defendant
continues that Plaintiff cannot establish a harassment claim because Bryant did
not harass her based on a protected characteristic, and further that the
alleged harassment was not severe or pervasive. (Motion at pp. 6–7.)
Defendant’s argument against Plaintiff’s retaliation claims mimic its argument
on the discrimination claims, in that it argues that Plaintiff was not subject
to an adverse employment action, or for any impermissible reason. (Motion at
pp. 8–9.) Finally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot establish a claim for
failure to prevent discrimination or harassment because Plaintiff’s harassment
complaints were addressed by the transfer of Bryant to another facility.
(Motion at pp. 9–10.)
 
To establish a
discrimination claim under FEHA, an employee must prove the following elements:
“(1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the
position he sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3)
he suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or
denial of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests
discriminatory motive.” (Dinslage v. City
and County of San Francisco (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 368, 378.) If the employer
offers evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action, “the
plaintiff bears the burden of proving the employer's proffered reason was
pretextual.” (Brundage v. Hahn (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 228,
236.)
 
In order to establish a prima facie case of retaliation
under this section, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected
activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment
action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the
employer's action.” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 216, 244, internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
Defendant has
failed to satisfy its initial burden in moving for summary adjudication on
Plaintiff’s discrimination or retaliation claims. Although Defendant argues
that Plaintiff has not undergone any adverse employment actions, it in fact
acknowledges that she has. Defendant argues that she applied to one promotion
but never took the prerequisite test, and did not appear for an interview
prerequisite to one of her transfer applications. (Motion at p. 5.) But
Defendant acknowledges that Plaintiff made two other transfer applications
which were denied. (Motion at p. 5.) Defendant argues in cursory fashion that a
failure to transfer cannot constitute an adverse employment action, but the
argument is unsupported. (Motion at p. 5.)
 
Defendant’s
arguments as to the absence of any retaliatory or discriminatory motive is also
unavailing, because Defendant does not present any evidence or argument
regarding the reasons for the adverse employment actions described above.
Defendant rather focuses on the behavior of Sheila Bryant in relation to
Plaintiff and her purported lack of overt statements of bigotry toward women or
Hispanic people. (Motion at pp. 4–5.) 
 
This argument
fails, as Plaintiff presents evidence creating triable issues of fact as to
Bryant’s motives for her alleged harassment. Although Plaintiff did not report
to Bryant, Bryant occupied a superior position as Assistant Director at the
facility at which Plaintiff worked. (Opposition Exh. 7 at pp. 27–29.) Plaintiff
states that although Bryant did not write her evaluations, “she could give me
directions that I had to follow.” (Perez Decl. ¶ 57.) Plaintiff worked with
Bryant every day, and “interact[ed]
with Bryant several times every day, every time [she] had to come up to the
main administrative building.” (Perez Decl. ¶ 48.) Plaintiff describes Bryant’s
demeanor toward her and other Hispanic women employees as “rude, sarcastic,
condescending, and cruel.” (Perez Decl. ¶ 20.) Bryan would “scream, berate, and
bully at an unbearable volume,” speak “sarcastically” and “condescending[ly],”
and curse at Plaintiff, particularly when the director of the facility was
absent. (Perez Decl. ¶¶ 30–35.) Plaintiff states that Bryant treated her with
“extreme disdain and disgust” in “every conversation I had with her.” (Perez
Decl. ¶ 35.) At one point Bryant approached Plaintiff while she was sitting,
and began to yell and shove papers at her, causing Plaintiff to feel such
discomfort that she got to her feet and entered a defensive stance. (Perez
Decl. ¶¶ 37–39.) When Plaintiff complained, Bryant said that “people were too
sensitive” and needed to “toughen up around here.” (Perez Decl. ¶ 43.) 
 
Plaintiff states
that she never observed Bryant treating white people or African-American women
in the manner she treated Plaintiff or other Hispanic women. (Perez Decl. ¶¶
35, 39, 41, 47.) Indeed, other Hispanic women in Plaintiff’s department
reported Bryant’s harassing conduct to her. (Perez Decl. ¶ 46.) These employees
—Grace Landaverde, Lupe Puente, and Jessica Hernandez — have testified in this
action to Bryant’s unprofessional conduct directed to them. (Opposition Exh. 6
at pp. 20–22 [Landaverde]; Exh. 3 at pp. 19–20 [Puente]; Exh. 5 at pp. 17–24
[Hernandez].) Plaintiff observed Bryant speak in friendly terms to
African-American management in positions above hers, but on one instance saw
her scream and yell at a female Hispanic director. (Perez Decl. ¶¶ 59, 75.)
 
The above evidence
creates triable issues of fact as to the discriminatory motive for Bryant’s
behavior. Plaintiff states, based on her everyday interactions with Bryant and
supervision of other employees at the same facility, that Bryant engaged in a
pattern of abrasive behavior directed toward Hispanic women that she did not
direct to other employees. Defendant identifies one African-American male who
was the subject of Bryant’s abrasive behavior, Maurice Allmond. (Motion at p.
5.) Plaintiff acknowledges that Bryant harassed Allmond based on his age,
complaining to her that he was “too fucking old to be working in this dorm,”
and falsely claiming that Allmond could not see or hear. (Perez Decl. ¶ 66.)
Allmond was the subject of a CPOE complaint that Plaintiff filed on his behalf.
(Perez Decl. ¶¶ 67–68.) The existence of an instance of age-related
discrimination does not obviate the existence of potential bias on the basis of
ethnicity or gender. 
 
Additionally, Perez
testifies that Bryant’s conduct against her increased in intensity after she
made complaints about Bryant’s behavior, specifically including Bryant’s
refusal to sign Plaintiff’s reports. (Perez Decl. ¶¶ 43, 69.) 
 
Defendant’s argument that
Plaintiff’s supervisor, Bertha Mendez, promptly acted to separate Bryant and
Plaintiff and direct that they communicate only by email, and one year later
encouraged Bryant to apply for a transfer. (Motion at p. 7.) But as triable
issues exist whether Bryant was a “supervisor” under FEHA, this creates triable
issues as to whether Defendant is liable for harassment. (State Dept. of Health Services v. Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1026, 1042.)
 
The motion is therefore DENIED.
 