 Case Number:  20STCV42444    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants Long
Beach Memorial Medical Center, Memorial Health Services, and Desiree Thomas
‘Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Gergis Ghobrial is GRANTED. Sanctions
are awarded against Plaintiff in the amount of $2,310.
 
Defendants to give notice.
 
I.       MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
A party may make a
motion compelling a witness’s deposition “after service of a deposition notice”
if that witness “fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (a).) The motion must include a meet-and-confer
declaration and show good cause for the discovery sought. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450, subd. (b)(1), (2).)
 
Defendants Long
Beach Memorial Medical Center, Memorial Health Services, and Desiree Thomas
(Defendants) move to compel the deposition of Plaintiff  Gergis Ghobrial (Plaintiff) and for
terminating and other sanctions, based on Plaintiff’s refusal to appear for a
second session of deposition noticed on November 13, 2023, based on Plaintiff’s
desire to impose a number of conditions upon the deposition, already discussed
in this court’s order of February 22, 2024, denying Plaintiff’s motion for a
protective order.
 
Plaintiff repeats in
his tardy opposition the arguments that this court rejected in denying his
motion for a protective order. Although Plaintiff in opposition contends that
after the denial of this motion, he “reached out . . . in an attempt to
schedule the remainder of the deposition” (Ghobrial Decl. ¶ 5), the email that
Plaintiff cites contains no offer of dates, only listing, in a concluding
paragraph to an email about other discovery matters, “[s]etting a date for my
deposition” among other matters that Defendants’ prior emails had failed to
discuss. (Ghobrial Decl. Exh. 2.) Plaintiff made no affirmative attempt to moot
the present motion, after this court’s denial of his motion for a protective
order.
 
The motion to compel
deposition is therefore GRANTED. Defendants’ request for terminating, issue,
and evidentiary sanctions is DENIED, as prior monetary sanctions and court
orders have proven effective at securing Plaintiff’s compliance with the
matters ordered, such as Plaintiff’s acknowledged appearance for Defendant’s
IME. (See Stein Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
II.               
SANCTIONS
If a motion to
compel deposition is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . .
 in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
 
Defendants seek
$5,686.00 in sanctions, representing 12.5 hours of attorney work at $450 per
hour, plus a $60 filing fee. (Mino Decl. ¶ 18.)
 
Sanctions are
awarded against Plaintiff in the amount of $2,310.