 Case Number:  21STCV33121    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Gardens Crematory’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.                  
Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
“A party shall file
a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint. Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
428.50(a)–(b).) A cross-complaint filed outside either of the aforementioned
times requires leave of court, which may be granted “in the interest of justice
at any time during the court of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).)
 
A party
who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this
article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other
cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such
terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file
the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
426.50.) Leave to file a cross-complaint may also be granted “in the interest
of justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
428.50, subd. (c).)
 
Defendant The
Gardens Crematory, Inc. (Gardens) moves for leave to file a cross-complaint
against Defendants Michael Anthony Brass, Families First Funeral Services, and
Shon-tai Burton, as well as third party Snyder’s Care Center, for indemnity,
contribution, apportionment, and declaratory relief. (Motion at p. 2; Exh. A.)
Gardens argues that in the course of discovery it has learned that Defendant
Brass and third-party Snyder had mishandled the remains at issue from September
through December 2020, as revealed during Brass’ deposition in October 2023,
and Snyder’s declaration submitted  in
December 2023. (Coleman Decl. ¶¶ 6, 8.) Gardens delayed filing this
cross-complaint due to a scheduled mediation on November 17, 2023, at which the
parties failed to reach a settlement. (Coleman Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
Gardens has shown
good cause for seeking leave to file a cross-complaint and reasonable
promptness in doing so. No party has opposed the motion.
 
The motion is
therefore GRANTED.