..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the Tentative Ruling:

```yaml
Case Number: 22STCV32402
Plaintiff's Name: Danielle Diab, Harley Lally, Devin Davis
Defendant's Name: Adaptive Realty Inc., Avenue 55 Ventures, LLC
People: Danielle Diab, Harley Lally, Devin Davis, Karin Neuman, Laura Ramanei, Claire Johnson
Company Names: Adaptive Realty Inc., Avenue 55 Ventures, LLC
Places: 201 N. Avenue 55, Units 201 and 202
Dates: January 2022, March 28, 2022, April 28, 2022, May 2, 2022, May 4, 2022, May 5, 2022, October 4, 2022
Events: Window leaks, construction of outside areas, harassment and threats
Money: Not mentioned
Intentions: The Court's intention is to determine whether the Defendants' motion for summary judgment is granted or denied
Facts: The Court finds that the Defendants have not met their burden to show that there is no triable issue of material fact on the anti-tenant harassment claim
Disputes: The dispute is between the Plaintiffs and Defendants regarding the validity of the settlement agreements and the anti-tenant harassment claims
Acts: The Acts are the execution of the settlement agreements and the alleged harassment and threats by the Defendants
Agreements: The settlement agreements executed by the Plaintiffs in May 2022
Laws: Civil Code, Business & Professions Code, Los Angeles Municipal Code
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendants
Significant Statements:
* The Court DENIES the Defendants' motion for summary judgment.
* The Court DENIES the Defendants' motion for summary adjudication.
* The Court finds that the Defendants have not shown that there is a lack of triable issue of material fact on the anti-tenant harassment claim.
```

Here is a summary of the Tentative Ruling in English:

The Court has denied the Defendants' motion for summary judgment and motion for summary adjudication. The Court found that the Defendants have not met their burden to show that there is no triable issue of material fact on the anti-tenant harassment claim. The Court also found that the Defendants have not identified the specific issues on which they seek summary adjudication in the notice of motion. The Court therefore denies the motion for summary adjudication of issues. The Court's decision is based on the evidence and inferences reasonably drawn therefrom, and the Court views the evidence in the light most favorable to the opposing party.
