 Case Number:  23STCV27503    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIO VASQUEZ GALLEGOS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
MRS. GOOCH’S NATURAL FOOD MARKETS,
  INC. d/b/a WHOLE FOODS MARKET,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV27503
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 6, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Defendant Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food Markets, Inc. d/b/a
Whole Foods Market (“Defendant”) moves to strike the prayer for punitive
damages and related allegations in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by
Plaintiff Mario Vasquez Gallegos (“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND.
 
 
Background
 
This action concerns Plaintiff’s employment relationship
with Defendant. The following facts are taken from the allegations in the FAC.
 
Defendant hired Plaintiff as a cook on September 21, 2012.
 
On June 26, 2020, Plaintiff tested positive for Covid-19.
Around June 28, 2020, Plaintiff’s health deteriorated because his oxygen levels
decreased, and Plaintiff was admitted to the hospital and placed on a
ventilator. Plaintiff’s breathing was impaired by Covid-19. Plaintiff was
discharged from the hospital on August 27, 2020. 
 
Plaintiff’s doctor instructed Plaintiff to undergo therapy
to regain Plaintiff’s ability to breathe and walk and placed on medical leave
until December 28, 2020. Plaintiff and his sister informed Defendant of these
developments.
 
On November 9, 2020, while Plaintiff was still on medical
leave and undergoing therapy, Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s employment.
 
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendant on November 9,
2023, alleging, among other things, wrongful termination in violation of public
policy.
 
Defendant demurred to the Complaint on December 28, 2023 and
concurrently filed a motion to strike. Plaintiff filed oppositions to each, and
Defendant replied to each opposition.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of
the FAC as moot because the FAC is already in the Court record and thus subject
to the Court’s consideration.
 
Legal Standard
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Discussion
 
Motion to Strike
 
Punitive damages are appropriate when a defendant acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent.
Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable
conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious
disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)
“Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,
rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)

 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion
to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Ibid.)
“In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.”
(Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are
insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud
or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
 
“An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Brett Golod and Stephanie Doe
knew about Plaintiff’s leave, age, and disability status, and terminated him on
those bases. Plaintiff alleges that Golod and Doe were managers because they
regularly made and implemented policy decisions for the Defendants including
decisions to terminate employees.
 
First, Plaintiff’s allegations that Golod and Doe improperly
terminated him because of his protected statuses allege his causes of action,
but do not allege malice, oppression, or fraud on top of that. (Turman
v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64
[mere allegations of discriminatory termination, without more, do not state a
basis for punitive damages].)
 
Second, Plaintiff’s allegations that Doe and Golod were
managers are inadequate. The type of policymaking authority necessary to
establish managerial status refers to “formal policies that affect a
substantial portion of the company and that are the type likely to come to the
attention of corporate leadership. It is this sort of broad authority that
justifies punishing an entire company for an otherwise isolated act of
oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th
686, 715.) The only job duties or responsibilities that Plaintiff alleges to
establish that Doe or Golon were managers are their repeated participation in
termination decisions. Termination decisions do not rise to the level of
importance set by Roby.
 
Plaintiff requests leave to amend, but does not indicate
what amendments he could make to cure these defects. The Court is inclined to
decline leave to amend, but will consider argument from Plaintiff on what
amendments Plaintiff intends to make and why they would cure the defects.
 
The Court grants the motion to strike without leave to
amend.