  Case Number:  19STCV41315    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, May 9, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   19STCV41315
CASE NAME:                        Sean Michaels, et al. v. Christopher M. Stevens, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Christopher M.
Stevens and the Law Office of Christopher M. Stevens
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Sean Michaels and PB
Consulting, LLC
TRIAL DATE:                        17 September 2024
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike FAC
OPPOSITION:                        26 April 2024
REPLY:                                  2
May 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Stevens Defendants’ demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend. The motion to strike is denied as moot. Plaintiffs are
granted 30 days leave to amend. Defendants to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On
November 15, 2019, Sean Michaels (“Michaels”) and PB Consulting, LLC
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Christopher M. Stevens;
the Law Office of Christopher M. Stevens (collectively “Stevens”); LKP Global
Law (“LKP”) and Does 1 to 10.) 
 
The
Complaint alleges a single cause of action for Professional Negligence.
According to the Complaint, in 2015 Michaels retained LKP and later, Stevens,
to represent him in a dispute against his business partner Daniel Cooper
(“Cooper”) regarding the business entity Reliant Life Shares, LLC (“Reliant”)
in an action entitled Reliant Life Shares, LLC v. Daniel B. Cooper, et al.
(LASC Case No. BC604858) (the “Underlying Action”).
 
On
April 16, 2021, this court granted a stay of this action pending completion of
the appeal of the Underlying Action. On April 4, 2023, the Second District issued a published
opinion, Reliant Life Shares, LLC v. Cooper (2023) 90
Cal.App.5th 14. 
 
On
December 27, 2023, Defendant LKP filed a Motion for Judgment of Pleadings
(MJOP) in which Defendants argued Plaintiffs were collaterally estopped from
bringing this action against LKP. Plaintiffs opposed the Motion. On January 25,
2024, the court granted the MJOP with leave to amend. 
 
On
February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging a single cause of action for professional negligence. The
Stevens Defendants now demurrer and move to strike the FAC. Plaintiff opposes
the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
Demurrer
with a motion to strike fAC[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Request for Judicial Notice
 
The
Steven Defendants request judicial notice of the following in support of the
Demurrer to the FAC: 
 
1)    
Exhibit
A: This Court's Minute Order dated January 25, 2024,
and accompanying Tentative Ruling adopted as the final Order on defendant LKP's
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.
 
2)    
Exhibit
B: Defendants' and Cross-Complainant's Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law dated September 6, 2019, in Reliant Life Shares,
LLC v. Daniel B. Cooper, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
BC604858 (the "Underlying Action"), excluding the Exhibits thereto. 
 
3)    
Exhibit C: The Substitutions of Attorney in the Underlying Action dated
September 12, 2019, for Sean Michaels and PB Consulting, LLC. 
 
Stevens Defendants’
request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
The
Steven Defendants request judicial notice of the following in support of their
Motion to Strike the FAC: 
 
1)    
The initial Complaint in
this action filed on November 15, 2019, a true and correct copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit A.
 
2)    
The Court's Minute Order
dated January 25, 2024, and accompanying Tentative Ruling adopted as the final
Order, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B
 
3)    
The First Amended Complaint
filed on February 26, 2024, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto
as Exhibit C. 
 
4)    
Defendants' and
Cross-Complainants Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law dated September 6, 2019,
in Reliant Life Shares, LLC v. Daniel B. Cooper, et al., Los Angeles
Superior Court Case No. BC604858 (the "Underlying Action"), excluding
the Exhibits thereto, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit
D.
 
5)    
The Substitutions of
Attorney in the Underlying Action dated September 12, 2019, for Sean Michaels
and PB Consulting, LLC, true and correct copies of which are attached hereto as
Exhibit E.
Stevens Defendants’
request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
At the January 25,
2024 MJOP hearing, the court agreed that the Plaintiffs were collaterally
estopped from basing their malpractice claim on the findings of alter ego
liability because the appellate court in Reliant
Life Shares, LLC v. Cooper (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 14 affirmed the trial
court in the Underlying Action (i.e., Reliant Life Shares, LLC v. Daniel B.
Cooper, et al. (LASC Case No. BC604858)] and its related cross-complaint),
wherein Plaintiffs were found to have engaged in contemptible conduct by
improperly withholding and diverting money owed to a rightful member of a
limited liability company, Daniel Cooper (“Cooper”).
 
Therefore, because the
trial court and the Court of Appeal in the Underlying Action found that the
Plaintiffs were alter-egos of the parties, the fact that Defendant LKP did not
obtain conflict waivers or develop separate theories of defense for the
Plaintiffs that were separate and apart from the other parties, is insufficient
to establish breach and proximate causation to support a professional
negligence cause of action. Moreover, the Complaint is devoid of facts as to
what negligent acts or omissions LKP failed to do that would have precluded the
finding of alter-ego liability in the underlying action. 
 
The Complaint further fails
to state what specific law and motion LKP failed to bring that would have
reduced or eliminated the claims Cooper brought against the Plaintiffs. The
Complaint fails to state what specific defenses existed that were separate and
apart from the defenses to be used by Reliant and Grady. The Complaint also
fails to state what early resolution LKP failed to seek that was separate and
apart from the resolution that benefitted Reliant and Grady. Lastly, the
Complaint fails to state what efforts Plaintiff Michaels could have taken to
safeguard his personal assets from the imposition of a constructive trust. In
this manner, Plaintiffs’ Complaint is conclusory, and thus deficient because it
is devoid of facts. (See Interior Systems, Inc. v.
Del E. Webb Corp. (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 312,
31 [“These are but legal conclusions which the trial court was authorized to
ignore conclusory allegations without facts to support them are ambiguous and
may be disregarded”].)
 
(1/25/2024 Order.)
                         
The Stevens
Defendants now demur to the FAC on the basis that the FAC remains too
conclusory and fails to state sufficient facts to support a cause of action for
professional negligence against the Stevens Defendants and that Plaintiff is
collaterally barred by re-litigating alter ego issues. 
 
“The
elements of a cause of action in tort for professional negligence are: the duty
of the professional to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other members
of the profession commonly possess and exercise; a breach of that duty; a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.” (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064,
1066–1067.) 
 
Plaintiffs
assert that the allegations against the Stevens Defendants are not on alter-ego
issues but on specific acts and omissions of and by Stevens and his law firm as
set forth in Paragraph 24 of the FAC. (FAC, ¶¶ 24(c), (i)-(n), (p)-(r).) The
specific allegations against the Stevens Defendants are as follows: 
 

Defendants
     Stevens and LKP failed to enforce the December 18, 2017 Settlement
     Agreement which would have resulted in Cooper dismissing certain
     intentional torts against Michaels without Prejudice. (FAC ¶ 24(c),
     (k)(l).) Because Plaintiff did not engage in any further intentional
     torts, Cooper could not have renewed his tort claims against Michaels.
     (FAC ¶ 24(c).) “Thus, had Defendants sought to enforce the settlement
     agreement reached between Michaels and Cooper on December 18, 2017, Cooper
     would be unable to proceed with his intentional tort claims against
     Michaels, which subsequently caused the trial court to issue a judgment of
     alter ego against Plaintiffs.” (FAC ¶ 24(c).)

 

Defendant
     Stevens surprised Plaintiff with his departure from LKP and filed a
     substitution of attorney only one to two weeks in advance of the phase one
     trial, depriving Plaintiff of the opportunity to seek or retain
     independent counsel. (FAC ¶ 24(i)-(j).)

 

“Defendant
     Stevens never prepared Plaintiff for any of my trial testimony or cross
     examination at any time prior to and during phase one of the trial.” (FAC
     24(m).) 

 

“None of the
     defenses presented by Defendant Stevens during phase one of the trial were
     focused on Plaintiff, but instead were all directed at defending RLS in
     connection with RLS’s termination of Daniel Cooper.” (FAC 24(n).)

 

Defendant
     Stevens failed to oppose motions in limine filed by Dan Cooper’s counsel
     in connection with phase two of the trial[.]” (FAC ¶ 24(q).) 

 

“Defendant
     Stevens failed to immediately provide and organized and complete
     litigation file to Plaintiffs new counsel, that Plaintiffs were forced to
     retain, and as of the filing of this action has continued to fail to
     produce necessary and available document vital to Plaintiffs defense of
     phase two of this action.” (FAC ¶ 24(r).

 
“[I]n a legal malpractice action, whether a court
or jury decides the issue of causation ‘does not turn on the identity or
expertise of the trier of fact, but whether the issues are predominately
questions of fact or law.’ ” (Mireskandari v. Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 247, 265 (Mireskandari).)  Plaintiffs assert
that had the Stevens Defendants moved to enforce the December 18, 2017
Settlement Agreement, “Daniel Cooper would be unable to proceed with his
intentional tort claims against Michaels, which subsequently resulted in the
entry of a judgment against Plaintiffs.” (Opp. at pp. 6:27-7:1.) Plaintiffs
want the court to presume that if the intentional torts against Plaintiff
Michaels were dismissed in the Underlying Action pursuant to the settlement
agreement, there would have been no judgment against Plaintiffs. But the court
cannot ignore that Plaintiff Michael’s liability rested on other causes of
action, not just the intentional torts Copper alleged against him. 
 
Phase one of the trial in the Underlying Action focused on the Plaintiffs’
request for declaratory relief as to whether the ouster of Cooper was proper
and Cooper’s claims for accounting and constructive trust. (Reliant Life
Shares, supra, 90 Cal.App.5th at p. 18.) The trial court found that
the ouster of Cooper from the LLC was improper and “ordered an accounting, and ultimately imposed a constructive trust
over certain assets to compensate Cooper for millions of dollars wrongfully
transferred from the LLC to Michaels and Grady.” (Id. at p. 19.) Phase
two of the trial focused on “Cooper's claims against Michaels and
Grady for breach of contract, fraud, breach of the duty of loyalty, aiding and
abetting breaches of common law duty (as to Grady), and fraudulent transfer.” (Ibid.)



Plaintiffs
fail to explain how the dismissal of the constructive trust claim would have
prevented the trial court in the Underlying Action from finding alter ego
liability and precluded judgment against Plaintiffs despite the existence of
other common law claims asserted against Plaintiffs by Cooper. For this reason,
the court agrees that Plaintiff has failed to show that Defendants' failure to
enforce the Settlement Agreement proximately caused Plaintiffs to be damaged.
Plaintiffs need to allege facts that show how the dismissal of the constructive
trust claim from the Underlying Action would have prevented Plaintiffs from
suffering “loss of use of said assets, ongoing attorney fee amounts, exposure
of his personal property[.]” (FAC ¶ 34.) 
 
Second,
the FAC fails to allege facts to show that had the constructive trust claim
against Plaintiff Michaels been dismissed, this would have precluded the trial
court in the Underlying Action from finding alter ego liability as to
Plaintiffs. “An alter ego defendant has no separate primary liability to the
plaintiff. Rather, plaintiff's claim against the alter ego defendant is
identical with that claimed by plaintiff against the already-named defendant.”
(Hennessey's Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co. (1988) 204
Cal.App.3d 1351, 1358.) The FAC fails to allege that if the intentional tort
claims against Plaintiff Michaels had been dismissed, the trial court in the
Underlying Action would not have found alter ego liability. Alter ego is a
procedure that allows the court to disregard the corporate entity and hold the
alter ego individuals liable for the obligations of the corporation where the
corporate form is used to escape personal liability, sanction a fraud, and
promote injustice. (Id. at p. 1359.) Here, the FAC fails to allege facts
to show that Plaintiffs could have avoided the judgment in the underlying
action but for the Defendants conduct. 
 
In other
words, Plaintiffs fail to allege specific facts to show how the other
allegations outlined in Paragraph 24 proximately caused Plaintiffs’ damages.
“Proximate cause involves two elements.” (PPG Industries, Inc. v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 310, 315 [italics original] (PPG Industries).) One element is
“cause in fact,” “sometimes referred to as ‘but for’ causation.” (State Dept. of State Hospitals v. Superior Court (2015)
61 Cal.4th 339, 352 [internal citations and quotations omitted] (State Dept. of State Hospitals).) “An act is a cause
in fact if it is a necessary antecedent of an event.” (PPG Industries,
at p. 315.) 


The second aspect of
proximate cause “ focuses on public policy considerations. Because the
purported [factual] causes of an event may be traced back to the dawn of
humanity, the law has imposed additional ‘limitations on liability other than
simple causality.’ [Citation.] ‘These additional limitations are related not
only to the degree of connection between the conduct and the injury, but also
with public policy.’ [Citation.] Thus, ‘proximate cause ‘is ordinarily
concerned, not with the fact of causation, but with the various considerations
of policy that limit an actor's responsibility for the consequences of his
conduct.’ [Citations]
 
(State Dept. of State Hospitals, at p. 353.) 


The FAC fails to allege specific facts as to how the Stevens
Defendants presenting a substitution of attorney form one to two weeks from
Phase one of the trial in the Underlying Action proximately caused Plaintiffs’
damages. (FAC ¶ 24(i)-(j).) How did Defendant Stevens' failure to prepare
Plaintiff for his testimony or cross-examination proximately cause the
Plaintiffs’ damages? (FAC ¶ 24(m).) What specific defenses focused on Plaintiff
Michaels should Defendant Stevens have advanced that would have prevented the
Plaintiffs’ damages? (FAC ¶ 24(n).) What specific evidence did Defendant
Stevens fail to present that would have prevented the court from finding
alter-ego liability? (FAC ¶ 24(o).) How did Defendant Stevens fail to represent
Plaintiffs’ interest and how did this failure proximately cause Plaintiff’s
damages? (FAC ¶ 24(p).) What specific motions in limine did Defendant Stevens
fail to oppose that would have prevented Plaintiff’s damages? (FAC ¶ 24(q).)
How did Defendant Stevens's failure to “immediately provide
and organized and complete litigation file to Plaintiffs’ new counsel”
proximately cause Plaintiff’s damages? (FAC ¶ 24(r).) 
 
“‘The purpose of the causation
requirement is to safeguard against speculative and conjectural claims and to
ensure that damages awarded for the attorney's malpractice actually have been
caused by the malpractice.’ ” (Mireskandari, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 265.) “ ‘A plaintiff
cannot recover damages based upon speculation or even a mere possibility that
the wrongful conduct of the defendant caused the harm. ’ ” (Ibid.) As
Plaintiff has failed to allege facts that show proximate causation, the court
sustains the Stevens Defendants’ demurrer with leave to amend. 
            
As the
demurrer has been sustained, the motion to strike is denied as moot. 
 
Conclusion
 
Stevens Defendants’ demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend. The motion to strike is denied as moot.
Plaintiffs are granted 30 days leave to amend. 


