 Case Number:  20CHCV00305    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 11-1-23 c/f 7-12-23
Case # 20CHCV00305 
Trial Date: Vacated (formerly set for 7-24-23 c/f 1-17-23.)
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, San Francisco Townhomes
Association
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, Adela Mercado, et al.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Summary Judgment
·        
1st Cause of Action: Negligence
·        
3rd Cause of Action: Negligent
Performance of an Undertaking
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiffs Adela Mercado, et al. are all resident
homeowners with the common areas governed by Defendant Defendant, San Francisco
Townhouse Association (HOA). On an unspecified date prior to January 10, 2019,
Defendant HOA hired Defendant Imperial Roofing, Inc. to conduct certain
unspecified repairs on the roofs of the Plaintiffs’ townhomes. On January 10,
2019, a roofer allegedly started a fire on the roof while conducting repairs,
which led to the arrival of the fire department. The subsequent efforts of the
fire department led to water damage within the units. 
 
Following the submission of water damage claims by
certain Plaintiffs to their insurers, the plaintiffs discovered insufficient
insurance coverage for said property casualty. Plaintiff Adela Mercado
specifically alleges insurance agent Ira Hart, on behalf of Defendant Allstate
Insurance, either recommended insufficient insurance coverage and/or failed to
obtain the requested policy coverage. Plaintiffs Jorge and IIdeliza Ochoa
allege insurance agent Vivian Garcia failed to obtain sufficient coverage with
Defendant Farmers Group, Inc. Plaintiff Francisco Munoz alleges improper
underinsurance with Defendant Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club
via agent David Castaneda. 
 
Plaintiff Hyun Sook Lim, a former owner, joins the action
for losses sustained in the sale of the unit caused by the damage. 
 
On May 18, 2020, Plaintiffs filed a complaint for negligence,
negligent hiring/retention, negligent entrustment, and negligent performance of
an undertaking. On September 16, 2020 and September 18, 2020, Plaintiffs
dismissed Ira Hart, and Kookmin Best Insurance Co., Ltd. On September 21, 2020,
Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint for Negligence, Negligent
Hiring/Retention, and Negligent Performance of an Undertaking. On October 26,
2020, Defendant Allstate Insurance Company answered the first amended
complaint.
 
On March 3, 2021, the court sustained the demurrer to the
first amended complaint. On March 23, 2021, Plaintiffs filed their second
amended complaint for Negligence, Negligent Hiring/Retention, and Negligent
Performance of an Undertaking. On April 26, 2021, Plaintiffs dismissed Ulloa
with prejudice. On May 5, 2021, Imperial Roofing, Inc. answered the second
amended complaint. On July 30, 2021, Fire Insurance Exchange answered the
second amended complaint. 
 
On August 25, 2021, The court ruled on the demurrer of
Automobile Club of Southern California to the second amended complaint as
follows: overruled on the first cause of action for Negligence, and sustained
the demurrer to the third cause of action for Negligent Performance of an
Undertaking without leave to amend. 
 
On November 12, 2021, Plaintiffs dismissed Farmers Group,
Inc. and Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club with prejudice. On
February 8, 2022, Plaintiffs dismissed third cause of action for Negligent
Performance of an Undertaking as to Fire Insurance Exchange (listed as “FIE
ONLY”). On September 21, 2022, the court granted the motion for summary
adjudication as to Allstate Insurance Company on the first and third causes of
action for Negligence and Negligent Performance of an Undertaking.
 
On January 13, 2023, Anchor Prime Builders filed a
cross-complaint for Equitable Indemnity, Contribution, Apportionment of Fault,
and Declaratory Relief. On April 14, 2023, Imperial Roofing, Inc. filed a
notice of automatic stay based on a Chapter 11 Bankruptcy petition filing.
 
On May 1, 2023, the court granted the motion for summary
judgment brought by Fire Insurance Exchange against Plaintiffs Jorge and
Ildeliza Ochoa. On May 9, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed Interinsurance Exchange of
the Automobile Club & Automobile Club of Southern California from the
complaint with prejudice. On June 30, 2023, the court entered judgment in favor
of Fire Insurance Exchange. On August 18, 2023, the court denied Plaintiffs
leave to file a third amended complaint.
 
RULING: Granted.
Request for
Judicial Notice: Granted.
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Eileen Keusseyan: Overruled.
 
Defendant San
Francisco Townhomes Association (HOA) moves for summary judgment against
plaintiffs, Adela Mercado, Francisco Munoz, Hyun Lim, Jorge Ochoa, and Ildeliza
Ochoa. HOA moves for summary judgment on grounds of no breach of any duty in
that HOA owed no duty of care to supervise the roof repairs. 
 
At the time of
the original hearing, Plaintiffs submitted both an opposition, and an
alternative request for a continuance in order to conduct further discovery
should the court be inclined to grant the motion for summary judgment. The
court declined to address the merits of the motion and instead continued the
hearing in order to allow further discovery. The court set a new hearing date
with any revised opposition and reply due per statutory deadlines. The court
docket shows no new supplemental opposition from Plaintiffs. Defendant’s
supplemental reply confirms the lack of any supplemental opposition. The court
therefore considers the prior opposition, reply, evidentiary objections, and
supplemental reply. 
 
Plaintiffs in
opposition relies on a claim of a breach of a special duty of care arising from
the CC&Rs. Defendant in both replies maintains the “material facts remain
undisputed,” thereby supporting summary judgment on the lack of a basis of duty
as a matter of law. Defendant also challenges any showing of causation. 
 
The pleadings frame
the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which the
motion must respond. (Citation.)” 
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)  
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v.
Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation
omitted).)
 
The second amended complaint relies on a theory of
negligence based on the negligent hiring and supervision of the roofing
company, Imperial Roofing, Inc. by San Francisco HOA. [Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶¶
27-28, 33-35, 44-47.] HOA relies on a lack of any basis of duty based on the no
evidence of a hired roofing contractor by the HOA at the time of the fire. HOA
denies ever hiring or supervising Imperial Roofing, Inc. [Declaration of
Geronimo Perez, Evidence in Support, Ex. 2: Responses to Form Interrogatories
from Adela Mercado, numbers 15.1, 50.1-50.6; Ex. 3: Responses to Special
Interrogatories of Adela Mercado, numbers 1, 3-6, 20-22, 25; Ex. 4: Responses
to Imperial Roofing Form Interrogatories, number 15.1 ; Ex. 5: Responses to
Imperial Roofing Request for Admissions, numbers 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 15,
& 16; Ex. 6: Responses to Imperial Roofing Special Interrogatories, numbers
5-8.] Plaintiff Mercado and Defendant Allen Ulloa admit to a lack of knowledge
of who was responsible for any work done by Imperial Roofing, Inc. [Perez
Decl., Evidence in Support, Ex. 7: Responses of Adela Mercado to HOA Form
Interrogatories (set two), number 17.1; Ex. 8: Supplemental Responses to
Request for Admissions, numbers 7-9.] HOA also denies any damage to the unit of
Mercado as a result of the condition of the roof prior to the fire based on the
testimony of Mercado. [Perez Decl., Evidence in Support, Ex. 9: Deposition of
Adela Mercado, 227:4-12.]
 
Given the presented basis of the negligence claims in the
operative complaint, the court accepts the evidence as establishing a lack of
any duty of care to supervise the roofers or negligent hiring of any roofers,
including Imperial Roofing, Inc., in that HOA entered into no contract with any
roofer. The court also finds no basis of causation in that Mercado admits to no
damages from leakage prior to the alleged Imperial Roofing, Inc. caused fire.
 
Plaintiffs in opposition present a summary of the law
regarding condominium associations, and presents an argument for a basis of
claimed duties of maintenance and repair under the governing CC&Rs. The
opposition depends entirely and exclusively on an argument for the existence of
a special duty of care imposed by the existence of the condominium association
itself and governing CC&Rs. The argument essentially states that the
presence of Imperial Roofing, Inc. on the roof constitutes an absolute supervision
required moment, regardless of whether HOA was actually or constructively
aware. Support for the argument exclusively depends on the declaration of
attorney Eileen Keusseyan, which includes a copy of the operative complaint, a
copy of the CC&Rs, and the deposition of Adela Mercado. The Mercado
deposition only offers observation regarding efforts to seek roof repair, but
otherwise offers no denial of the deposition testimony and discovery responses.
[Ex. B: Mercado Depo., 167:6-168:5.] Neither party offers any evidence
regarding responsibility for the presence of Imperial Roofing, Inc. on the roof
and conducting repairs (e.g. which homeowner was likely responsible for the
hiring without established HOA consent).
 
HOA in reply reiterates the lack of undisputed facts. HOA
denies owing any duty for non-hired, non-supervised workers. HOA also
reiterates the lack of any evidence in support of the causation claim. HOA
disregards the special duty argument and instead characterizes it as an issue
of the Davis-Sterling Act. The supplemental reply contends it remains entitled
to summary judgment based on the lack of any new evidence, and otherwise lack
of evidence establishing a basis of duty or causation. 
 
“A defendant may owe an affirmative duty to protect another
from the conduct of third parties if he or she has a ‘special relationship’
with the other person. (Citations.) Courts have found such a special
relationship in cases involving the relationship between business proprietors
such as shopping centers, restaurants, and bars, and their tenants, patrons, or
invitees. Accordingly, in Ann M., we recognized as ‘well established’ the
proposition that a proprietors “general duty of maintenance, which is owed to
tenants and patrons, ... include[s] the duty to take reasonable steps to secure
common areas against foreseeable criminal acts of third parties that are likely
to occur in the absence of such precautionary measures.” (Delgado v. Trax
Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 235–236.) “[T]he Association is, for
all practical purposes, the Project's ‘landlord’” in its duty to manage the
common areas under its supervision. (Frances T. v. Village Green Owners
Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 499-500.) 
 
The court accepts the responsibility of the HOA to manage
the common areas and the existence of the CC&Rs. Nevertheless, to establish
triable issues of material fact regarding the existence of a special duty of
care, Plaintiffs depend on a finding that the duty to maintain the premises
required immediate awareness, vigilant supervision of any would be trespassers,
including an errant roofer, performing repairs without approval from the HOA. The
operative complaint itself in fact only depends on a claim of negligent hiring
and supervision, and otherwise lacks any claim for a failure to discover the
roofers presence in the first place and accordingly direct them off the
premises. As addressed in the standard, “‘[t]he complaint serves to delimit the
scope of the issues before the court on a motion for summary judgment
[citation], and a party cannot successfully resist summary judgment on a theory
not pleaded.’” (Bosetti v. United States Life Ins. Co. in City of New York
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1208, 1225.) 
 
Even considering the argument for the existence of a
special duty, however, the court finds no actual legal argument or evidence
establishing the basis of care to watch for unknown roofers (or even an
uninvited trespasser) from coming onto the common area roof for performance of
unauthorized work without prior knowledge of the governing entity charged with
the duty of supervision. (Rodriguez
v. Inglewood Unified School Dist. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 707, 712.) Nothing in the opposition
indicates any form of prior notice of an unknown roofer starting work. The mere
existence of a complaint in no way equates to a concern for unknown contractor
work. 
 
The court
therefore finds no basis for the existence of a duty to prevent the roofers
from entering the common areas due to a foreseeable action of a fellow
homeowner hiring a contractor without notice or consent. The court finds no
basis for any breach of duty in that Plaintiffs fail to establish any breach of
diligence in failing to detect and remove the roofers before the allegedly
negligent repairs were undertaken. The court again finds no triable issues of
material fact on the issue of causation in that Mercado concedes to the lack of
any roof leaks prior to the Imperial Roofing, Inc. actions. 
 
Given HOA shifts the burden and Plaintiffs lack an
articulated basis for the claimed relief, or legal and factual support for any
and all of the arguments in opposition, the court finds no triable issues of
material fact. The motion for summary judgment is granted.
 
HOA is ordered to submit a judgment. The trial date remains
vacated. 
 
Moving Defendant HOA to give
notice.
 