 Case Number:  23CHCV00946    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
11-1-23 
Case
#23CHCV00946
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
QUASH
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Bradley Spencer, et al. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Jay Cook-Wong, et al. 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Quash Deposition Subpoena
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiffs
Jay and Danny Cook-Wong co-founded defendant Same Love Surrogacy, LLC and
currently own a 49% interest in the business entity. Defendant Bradley Spencer
also co-founded Same Love Surrogacy and owns a 51% interest. Plaintiff Chien
Fang Wang provides unspecified employment services “primarily” from the Peoples
Republic of China. Plaintiffs allege Spencer manages business operations,
including “supervisor” of all individual plaintiffs.
 
All
parties work remotely or not in any indicated central space. Plaintiffs allege
Spencer in the position as majority shareholder and company director both
improperly manages human resources issues, and engaged in a pattern and
practice of “sexual assault and sexual harassment” against both the Cook-Wang
plaintiffs in their individual residences and/or shared hotel rooms during
business travels. Plaintiffs additionally allege Spencer withheld shareholder
distributions in retaliation and through control of the company. 
 
On
April 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their complaint for Sexual Battery, Assault,
Sexual Harassment, Workplace Harassment, Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, Retaliation, Conversion, Trespass, and Invasion of Privacy. On April
10, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint for Sexual Battery,
Assault, Work Place Harassment, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Retaliation,
Conversion, Trespass, Invasion of Privacy, and Non-Payment of Wages. Same Love
Surrogacy, LLC is the only named defendant in the Retaliation cause of action.
Spencer is the only named defendant in the Sexual Battery, Assault, Sexual
Harassment, Workplace Harassment, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
and Trespass causes of action.
 
On
August 14, 2023, the court denied the motion to compel arbitration. On August
29, 2023, defendants answered. Defendant Same Love Surrogacy, LLC also filed cross-complaint
against Jay and Danny Cook-Wong, and new party All Love Surrogacy, LLC for
Violation of California Comprehensive Computer Data Access and Fraud Act (Penal
Code section 502), Violation of Penal Code section 496, Misappropriation of
Trade Secrets, Breach of Duty of Loyalty, Violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200, Conversion, Intentional Interference with Prospective
Business Advantage, Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations, and
Breach of Contract.
 
RULING: Denied.
Defendants Bradley Spencer and
Same Love Surrogacy, LLC move to quash or limit production of a subpoena served
on Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. seeking Same Love Surrogacy, LLC business records,
including communications and executed forms. Defendants contend the subpoena
seeking business records in no way relates to the underlying employment,
invasion of privacy, and emotional distress claims. Defendants also maintain
the subpoena threatens the corporate entity right of privacy, as well as third
parties.
 
Plaintiffs in opposition maintain
their right to inspect banking records as 49% owner members of the corporate
entity. Plaintiffs contend the demand arises from the harassment and
discrimination claims in that Spencer ordered Plaintiffs removed/excluded from
the accounts as part of the course of conduct at issue, and continues to
withhold distributions.
 
Defendants in reply maintains the
subpoena seeks “irrelevant” employment claim information, and constitutes a
“thinly veiled” effort to evade the limited discovery protocols for a case
subject to arbitration (pending motion to compel arbitration filed on October
20, 2023 and set for hearing on March 13, 2023). Defendants next describe
Plaintiffs’ conduct as “inconsistent” with prior positions regarding the claims
of both wrongful employment practices and ownership interests.
 
“If a subpoena requires the ... production of [records] …
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), … may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  directing compliance with it upon those terms
or conditions as the court shall declare...” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd.
(a).) 
 
The court first addresses the arguments in reply regarding
the arbitration. Defendants filed the instant motion to quash on June 20, 2023.
Prior to the instant motion, however, on May 18, 2023, Defendants filed motion
compel arbitration, which was denied by this court on August 14, 2023.
Following the October 19, 2023, filed opposition, Defendants filed a second
motion to compel arbitration on October 20, 2023, and now seek to bootstrap an
argument contending a collateral effort to establish waiver of the right to
seek arbitration via completed discovery. Given the order denying the first
motion to compel arbitration, and the second motion to compel arbitration filed
after the opposition to the instant motion, the court finds any argument asserting
improper conduct lacking in support for purposes of the instant motion. The
court also declines to consider such arguments in the not yet heard second
motion to compel regarding potential limits on discovery during an arbitration
and potential waiver.
 
As for the notice on the subpoena, the objection regarding
the lack of notice to the “custodian of records” while technically correct in
no way supports a finding that Wells Fargo Bank remains unable to comply with
the subpoena terms. The objection remains for Wells Fargo to raise, if it is
unable to comply with the request for production of its own records due to a
distinction between the corporate entity and a separately designated custodian
outside the control of Wells Fargo. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (c); Evid.
Code, § 1561; Cooley v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1045.)
 
On the scope of production, the court references the prior
order acknowledging the arguments against arbitration. “While the context of
the parties’ relationship apparently arises from both a prior personal
relationship and the business investment/corporate entity formation, nothing in
the motion establishes a sufficient nexus between with the sexual battery,
assault, and intentional infliction of emotional distress, trespass, and
invasion of privacy causes of action with the terms of the arbitration clause
regarding ‘performance or enforcement of this Agreement or the Certificate of
Formation…’ The causes of action for sexual battery, assault, and intentional
infliction of emotional distress appear imbued with sexual conduct that lacks
any apparent connection with company business. The trespass and invasion of
privacy also appear to involve personal matters rather than corporate
operations. The court therefore finds the language regarding the alleged
sexually infused claims, and attendant invasion of privacy allegations, in no
way relate to company functions, and instead involve personal disputes between
the individuals.” 
 
Plaintiffs recognize their prior argument submitted to
withstand the motion to compel arbitration, and narrowly base their claim for
production through characterization of the sixth cause of action for
retaliation as now intertwined with their equitable ownership in the corporate
entity, even if previously representing the majority of the subject action
lacked any nexus to formation or performance of the corporate entity operations
agreement. The first of the two sections identified as paragraph “55” in the
complaint states: “Plaintiffs engaged in protected activity by urging SLS to
promptly and appropriately investigate and address the complaining employee’s
allegations. In retaliation, they were accused of conspiring with that employee
to harm SLS. Worse, SLS withheld the fourth quarter distribution due at the end
of December 2022 and the first quarter distribution due at the end of March
2023. SLS knew that those distributions were Plaintiffs’ only source of income
and that they were their only form of payment for the daily work Plaintiffs
performed for the Company for six months.” The court in fact addressed the
potential of compelling arbitration based on the retaliation claim, but
ultimately denied the motion to compel arbitration due to concerns over
piecemeal arbitration given the vast majority of claims outside the scope of
the agreement. Thus, the court finds no inconsistency between the arbitration
order and consideration of the subject subpoena relative to the issue of
withheld equity payments by the majority shareholder.
 
A shareholder remains entitled to inspect corporate records.
(Corp. Code, § 1601.) The statute itself lacks
specific address of external bank records. Defendants present no authority in
the motion or reply establishing corporate bank records constitute an item
extrinsic from the term. Court authority allows for discovery reasonably
related to conducting discovery into underlying claims. (Schnabel v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 717.) Financial information constitutes a relevant basis
of inquiry.
 
The categories themselves limit
the inquiries to a period of January 1, 2023, to August 1, 2023, and limit the
inquiry to communications regarding corporate business. While open ended
discovery can constitute a basis for limitations in discovery, the court finds
a specific basis for the discovery without facially presenting as overly
open ended in scope or time. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224–225.) The court finds no support for
overbroad discovery based on eight (8) months of records produced by a third
party banking entity. (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431 [“When
discovery requests are grossly overbroad on their face, and hence do not appear
reasonably related to a legitimate discovery need, a reasonable inference can
be drawn of an intent to harass and improperly burden”].) Repeated
arguments characterizing the discovery as employment related will not cure the
lack of challenge to the right of an equitable shareholder to conduct discovery
into corporate records.
 
On the privacy objection, a corporate defendant is not an
individual entitled to invoke the constitutional right to privacy. (SCC
Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015)
243 Cal.App.4th 741, 755.) Lesser privacy rights apply to corporate entities,
which depends “on the circumstances.” (Ameri-Medical Corp. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1260, 1288.) A corporation exercises no reasonable expectation of
privacy, but “the nature of the interest sought to be protected will
determine the question whether under given facts the corporation per se has
a protectible privacy interest.” (Ibid.)
The court finds no basis for privacy given the alleged withholding of equitable
shares and unchallenged entitlement to examine the records.
 
As for third
parties, it’s not clear how third parties are impacted. “Every copy of
the subpoena duces tecum and affidavit, if any, served on a consumer or his or
her attorney in accordance with subdivision (b) shall be accompanied by a
notice, in a typeface designed to call attention to the notice, indicating that
(1) records about the consumer are being sought from the witness named on the
subpoena; (2) if the consumer objects to the witness furnishing the records to
the party seeking the records, the consumer must file papers with the court or
serve a written objection as provided in subdivision (g) prior to the date
specified for production on the subpoena; and (3) if the party who is seeking
the records will not agree in writing to cancel or limit the subpoena, an
attorney should be consulted about the consumer's interest in protecting his or
her rights of privacy. If a notice of taking of deposition is also served, that
other notice may be set forth in a single document with the notice required by
this subdivision.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (e).) Bank records
constitute a “personal record” and therefore require statutory notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (a)(1).)
 
Plaintiffs deny seeking any information regarding third
parties, including employees. Given the acknowledgment of third party and
employee privacy rights, and the agreement to limit the subpoena to corporate
records only, the court need not consider compelling said third party
information. 
 
Nevertheless, in preparing the records production the
parties are reminded that neither party may waive third party privacy rights. The
court therefore orders the parties to craft a solution protecting the
confidential information, if third party information remains part of the
disclosed records. The parties may enter into a protective order to redact
information, or may create a third party notification system allowing for an
opt out of the disclosure of any identifying information, if the records cannot
be parsed. (Pioneer Electronics (USA),
Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 40
Cal.4th at p. 370; Los Angeles Gay &
Lesbian Center v. Superior Court (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 288, 307, 311; Belaire-West Landscape, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.,
supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at pp.
561-562.) If the parties are unable to determine a solution for notice and opt
out, the court can order the appointment of a discovery referee for the limited
purpose of examining the information and reviewing the results. 
 
The motion is therefore denied. The court also denies the
request for sanctions by Defendants. Plaintiffs otherwise indicate no request
for sanctions.
 
Case Management Conference and (second) Motion to Compel
Arbitration set for March 13, 2024.
 
Moving parties to give notice.
 