 Case Number:  24STCV02854    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Eboni Haynes


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV02854




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Christopher R. Phelps, et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 26, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
(2) Demurrers to Complaint and Motions
to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Christopher R. Phelps,
Salt’s Cure, LLC, Highland Equities, LLC and Shahryar Ravanshena
Responding Party: Plaintiff Eboni Haynes
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS DEMURRERS ARE OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTIONS TO STRIKE ARE GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO FILE AND SERVE A FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND
SERVE RESPONSES WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff Eboni
Haynes sued against Defendants Christopher R. Phelps, Salt’s Cure, LLC,
Highland Equities, LLC, and Shahryar Ravanshena, asserting causes of action for
(1) negligence; (2) gross negligence; and (3) premises liability. Plaintiff
alleges she was dining at Defendants’ restaurant, Salt’s Cure, when she was
struck by an unsecured, heavy wooden beam.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrers to
Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants demur to the complaint on the ground that it fails to state
sufficient facts, contains duplicative causes of action, and fails to join
necessary parties. 
 
To plead a cause of action for negligence, one must allege (1) a legal
duty owed to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and
(4) damage to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.) “In order to state a cause of action for
negligence, the complaint must allege facts sufficient to show a legal duty on
the part of the defendant to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the
breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Bellah v.
Greenson (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 614, 619.) 
In California, negligence may be pleaded in general terms. (Landeros
v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 407-408.)
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants, the owners and operators of the Salt’s
Cure restaurant and premises, owed Plaintiff a duty as a business invitee to
maintain the premises in safe condition, Defendants breached that duty by
allowing an unsecured heavy beam to rest on the premises near customers, and
this breach caused Plaintiff severe personal injury. This is sufficient to
allege causes of action for negligence, gross negligence, and premises
liability. 
 
The Court declines to sustain the demurrer based on the argument that
the claims are duplicative. Plaintiff may allege different theories of
liability under the same facts. Similarly, the Court will not sustain the
demurrer for failure to join the person who knocked the beam over. Plaintiff
has alleged facts showing Defendants’ placement of the beam and failure to
inspect the premises were negligent acts in themselves.
 
Defendants’ demurrers to the complaint are OVERRULED.
 
 
B. Motions to
Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or
improper matter asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Punitive damages are available in noncontract cases where the defendant
is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civil Code § 3294(a).) 
Conclusory allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  (See, e.g., Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 590, 620.)  However, “the stricken language must be read
not in isolation, but in the context of the facts alleged in the rest of
petitioner's complaint.”  (Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal. App. 3d 1, 6.)
 
Defendants move to strike the claims
for punitive damages on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to allege malice,
oppression, or fraud with the requisite specificity. The Court agrees. Though
the general allegations of the complaint are sufficient for negligence claims, specific
facts are necessary to support punitive damages. That Defendants negligently
left an unsecured beam on the premises and failed to inspect the premises does
not in itself show malice, oppression, or fraud. 
 
The motions to strike are GRANTED.
 