  Case Number:  21STCV28051    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Karina Lepe Tenorio,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV28051




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Joya Food Enterprises, Inc., et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 26, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Vacate Arbitration and
Reinstate Action
Moving Party: Plaintiff Karina Lepe Tenorio
Responding Party: Defendants Joya Food Enterprises,
Inc., et al.
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES
IS GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $4,633.15.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
CCP 1281.98(a) provides, “In an employment or
consumer arbitration that requires, either expressly or through application of
state or federal law or the rules of the arbitration provider, that the
drafting party pay certain fees and costs during the pendency of an arbitration
proceeding, if the fees or costs required to continue the arbitration
proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date, the drafting party
is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in default of the
arbitration, and waives its right to compel the employee or consumer to proceed
with that arbitration as a result of the material breach.” Subsection (b)(1)
allows the non-drafting party the option of withdrawing the dispute from
arbitration and proceeding in Court in the event the drafting party violates
subsection (a). 
 
 
Plaintiff moves to vacate the parties’
arbitration proceeding on the ground that Defendants have failed to timely pay an
arbitration invoice. There is no dispute that Defendants did not pay the JAMS
March 18, 2024 invoice within 30 days of receipt. 
The issue in this motion is whether the CAA or
FAA applies and whether CCP § 1281.98 is preempted by the FAA. There is a split
in authority regarding preemption. In Gallo v. Wood Ranch USA, Inc.
(2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 621, the Court of Appeal found that the FAA does not preempt
sections 1281.97, et seq. because the statutes are merely a means of
facilitating arbitration, and function as procedural rules that do not prohibit
or discourage arbitration or the formation of arbitration agreements. (Id.
at 641-643.) The agreement in Gallo incorporated the CAA. In Espinoza
v. Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 761, the Second District again
found no preemption, following the reasoning in Gallo.
More recently, the Court in Hernandez v.
Sohnen Enterprises, Inc. (2024) 321 Cal.Rptr.3d 283, found that the subject
statutes are preempted by the FAA because they violate the “equal-treatment
principle” stating, “We conclude, consistent with the federal district court in
Belyea v. GreenSky, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2022) 637 F.Supp.3d 745, 756, that
section 1281.97 violates the equal-treatment principle because it mandates
findings of material breach and waiver for late payment that do not apply
generally to all contracts or even to all arbitrations. Under California
contract law, defenses to enforcement of a contract are generally questions for
the trier of fact and subject to doctrines such as substantial compliance, but
section 1281.97 imposes a stricter requirement, mandating a finding of material
breach and waiver as a matter of law in consumer and employment arbitration
contracts, and making it harder to enforce arbitration agreements in those
matters.” (Id. at 300.)
Here, the agreement provides, “Except as
provided in this Agreement, the Federal Arbitration Act shall govern the
interpretation, enforcement and all proceedings pursuant to this agreement. To
the extent the Federal Arbitration Act is inapplicable, then the California
Arbitration Act [citation] shall apply.” 
The Court will apply the holdings of Gallo
and Espinoza. The CAA is preempted by the FAA when it outright prohibits
or discourages arbitration. The statutes requiring timely payment in
employer/employee arbitration disputes do not prohibit or discourage
arbitration. They place reasonable procedural rules on arbitration to protect
the rights of the employee. The agreement here also specifically applies the
CAA should the FAA be found “inapplicable.” 
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees is GRANTED in the amount of $4,633.15.