 Case Number:  23STCV08462    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Chad Darling,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV08462




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Arc Point Law and Mark Piesner, 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 26, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Strike Answer to
Cross-Complaint
Moving Party: Cross-Complainants Arc Point Law and
Mark Piesner
Responding Party: Cross-Defendant Chad Darling
 
T/R:     CROSS-COMPLAINANTS' MOTION IS GRANTED
IN PART. 
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE A
VERIFIED FIRST AMENDED ANSWER TO THE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHIN 30
DAYS OF NOTICE OFRULING.
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers
and opposition.
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or
improper matter asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Cross-Complainants move to strike
Cross-Defendant's entire answer to the first amended cross-complaint on the
ground that it is unverified, and certain other allegations on the ground that
they are irrelevant, false, or improper. In opposition, Cross-Defendant asserts
the motion was untimely filed and lacks legal or evidentiary support. 
 
The Court agrees that the motion lacks
legal or evidentiary support for its arguments regarding specific allegations.
Cross-Complainants broadly claim that certain allegations should be stricken
because they contradict “verifiable evidence,” and others must be stricken
because they lack sufficient facts. Cross-Complainants do not provide any of
the purported verifiable evidence, let alone request judicial notice of such
evidence. Regarding the sufficiency of facts, answers may be plead generally. 
 
As the FACC is verified, the answer to
the FACC must also be verified under CCP § 446. The Court grants the motion as
to this issue and will allow Cross-Defendant to file a first amended answer
with verification. The Court declines to deny the motion on timeliness grounds
as Cross-Defendant was able to file a substantive opposition to the motion. 
 
The motion to strike is GRANTED in
part. 


 