 Case Number:  21STCV12646    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           4/29/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       21STCV12646 ENGRACIA LOERA vs PALM GARDEN
APARTMENTS
Motion:                     MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY
Moving Party:           Defendants Pama Management
and Pama Property Management
Responding Party:    Plaintiff
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY IS DENIED
 
PLAINTIFF’S REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Legal Standard
 
Except as otherwise provided, “any party shall be entitled as a
matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day,
and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day,
before the date initially set for trial of the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2024.020(a).)  “[A] continuance or postponement of the trial date does
not operate to reopen discovery proceedings” unless a motion to reopen
discovery is filed and granted pursuant to CCP section 2024.050.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.020(b); Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta
Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568.)  CCP
section 2024.050 provides that “[o]n motion of any party, the court may grant
leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).)
 
“The purpose of imposing a time limit on discovery is to expedite
and facilitate trial preparation and to prevent delay.¿ Without a cutoff date, the
parties could tie up each other and the trial court in discovery and discovery
disputes right up to the eve of trial or beyond. Furthermore, . . . to be
effective the cutoff date must be firm or some litigants will manipulate the
proceedings to avoid the cut-off date.”¿ (Beverly Hosp. v. Superior
Court¿(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1289,
1295.) 
The reopening of discovery is a matter that is committed to the trial court’s sound discretion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a), (b).)¿ In exercising that discretion,
the trial court considers “any
matter relevant to the leave requested,” including:
 
(1). The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
 
(2)
The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
 
(3)
Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion
will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise
interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.
 
(4)
The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the
date presently set, for the trial of the action.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(b).)
 
Analysis
 
On April 2, 2021,
Plaintiff filed the present complaint, alleging that Defendants Pama Management
and Pama Property Management own and maintain Palm Garden Apartments, where
Plaintiff resides as a lessee. In April 2019, Defendants hired contractors to
install new flooring in Plaintiff’s apartment bathroom. On April 5, 2019, one
of the contractors removed the old flooring. The following day, Plaintiff
alleges that her bare foot got stuck on exposed glue on the bathroom floor,
causing her to fall and knock her head on the side of the bathtub.
Defendants filed their
answer on November 24, 2021. The trial was initially set for September 30,
2022, but was continued multiple times to January 18, 2024, with a discovery
cutoff set for December 19, 2023. The trial date was subsequently continued
twice, with the current date now set for April 29, 2024. However, the court did
not reopen the December 19, 2023 discovery deadline.
Defendants now seek to
reopen discovery and potentially continue the trial. The present motion is
denied because Defendants were not diligent in conducting their discovery. They
waited until the discovery deadline to notice the independent medical examination
(IME) and site inspection. Despite filing their answer in November 2021,
Defendants made no attempts to obtain the necessary discovery for nearly two
years and provided no justification for this delay. The facts giving rise to
the IME and site inspection were not recently discovered but have been present
since the filing of the complaint.
The trial is currently
set for April 29, 2024, the same day this motion is heard. Reopening discovery
would necessitate another continuance of the trial, which has already been
rescheduled five times from its initial date in September 2022. This case, already
three years old, provided ample time for all parties to conduct discovery had
they acted diligently. Further, the parties have been actively preparing for
the trial scheduled for the date of the present motion. Reopening discovery or
granting a continuance of the trial on the eve of the trial would significantly
prejudice Plaintiff, who has been diligently preparing for trial. Such a
last-minute change would disrupt the Plaintiff's legal strategies, complicate
the schedules of witnesses, and necessitate additional expenditure of resources
and time from both the Parties and the Court. Thus, the present motion is
DENIED.
The court also DENIES
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions as Defendants acted with substantial
justification. Although the court previously denied Defendants' motions to
compel IME and site visit, the denials were based on the closure of discovery,
not on the merits of the motions themselves. It is reasonable for Defendants to
bring forth the present motion before potentially renewing its motions to
compel.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.