 Case Number:  22STCV11569    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE S. ARIAN DEPARTMENT 27 TENTATIVE RULING ¿ Hearing Date:  4/29/2024 at 1:30 p.m. Case No./Name: 22STCV11569 LAWRENCE CHAO vs JU FAT LLC Motion: MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR SANCTIONS Moving Party: Plaintiff Responding Party:  Unopposed Notice:    Sufficient ¿¿¿ Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED.  On April 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed this premises liability lawsuit. On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff served a deposition subpoena for the production of business records on Martinez Pumping Service Inc., requiring the production of documents by December 29, 2023. Martinez Pumping Service Inc. failed to produce any documents by the specified date. On February 5, 2024, Defendant filed the original motion to compel, but it was on procedural grounds. Defendant has now fixed the procedural flaw and filed a renewed motion, moving the Court to compel the Deponent’s compliance with the subpoena. No opposition was filed. The subpoena, notice of the motion, and motion to compel were personally and properly served in accordance with Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.220(c) and Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346. The documents requested were to be produced by December 29, 2023, and the original motion was filed on February 6, 2024, within the 60-day time limit of CCP § 2025.480. The motion is timely filed.  Plaintiff also met the meet and confer requirement under CCP § 2020.510, where Plaintiff’s attempts to get the deponent to comply or respond were ignored. The Court finds good cause as the records requested may relate to the pumping services that Martinez Pumping Service Inc. provided to Defendant, which pertains to the alleged incident where Plaintiff slipped on oil and grease. Furthermore, no parties filed an objection contesting the scope and relevance of the subpoena. Thus, the present motion to compel is GRANTED and Martinez Pumping Service Inc., is hereby ORDERED to comply with Plaintiff’s subpoena and produce the requested documents within 20 days of today.  Martinez Pumping Service Inc. did not respond to the subpoena nor to Plaintiff's communications, necessitating Plaintiff to incur attorney's fees by filing the present motion. Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $1560.00, which the Court finds reasonable. Martinez Pumping Service Inc. is ORDERED to pay sanctions of $1560.00 to Plaintiff within 20 days of today’s date.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿  If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 