 Case Number:  22STCV03035    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           4/29/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       22STCV03035 MILTON GUINSES vs CITY OF LOS
ANGELES
Motion:                    MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Moving Party:           Defendant City of Los Angeles
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard 
 
Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿ The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors
in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the
trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any
party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (See generally CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
 
Factual Background and Analysis 
¿ 
 
On January 25, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the present personal injury case, alleging a slip and fall
incident at Los Angeles International Airport on June 15, 2021. The trial is
currently scheduled for June 11, 2024. Defendant has requested the Court to
continue the trial date and all related deadlines to August 9, 2024. No
opposition has been filed to this request.
 
Defendant alleges that
Plaintiff has withheld information regarding previous health providers for
injuries attributed to the incident. However, Defendant has not detailed which
specific information was provided and which was omitted. For the information not
provided, Defendant has not clarified which specific injury it pertains to, the
severity of that injury, and the relevance or importance of this information to
the case. Defendant has not provided the Court with affirmative proof of
prejudice. Defendant further alleges that it was compelled to find alternative
means to identify Plaintiff’s pre-incident health care providers but has not
provided specifics regarding when this search began, the methods employed, the
results obtained, or why more time is necessary to continue this search and
what additional information it hopes to uncover. Consequently, Defendant has
failed to demonstrate sufficient diligence in its efforts.  Thus, the Court is not persuaded that a
continuance is warranted on the basis of withheld information, 
 
However, Defendant has
indicated that the parties have a mediation scheduled for May 17, 2024. Should the
mediation not result in a settlement, Defendant indicates the Parties needed
additional time for trial preparation.  The
Court finds Defendant’s request for additional time for mediation and trial
preparation thereafter reasonable. Thus, the Court will grant a continuance of
6 weeks from the current trial date for mediation and post-mediation settlement
talk and trial preparation. Defendant has not made an affirmative showing why
it needs additional time for fact discovery. Thus, fact discovery and fact
discovery related deadlines will not follow the new trial date.
 
The new Trial
Date is set for July __, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status
Conference is continued to July__, 2024, at 10:00
a.m. Fact discovery and fact discovery related deadline does not follow the new
trial date. Expert discovery follows the new trial date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 