 Case Number:  22STCV08491    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           4/29/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       22STCV08491 DORA JIMENEZ, et al. vs ROSE
CREMATION SERVICES, et al.
Motion:                    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS COMPLAINT
Moving Party:           Defendant Macera Crematory (Macera)
Responding Party:    Defendants Alta Los Angeles Hospitals and Los Angeles Community Hospital (Hospital)
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS COMPLAINT IS GRANTED.
 
As judicial policy
generally supports the resolution of all disputed matters between parties,
leave to amend or leave to cross-complain is typically granted liberally. (See Kolani
v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402, 412.) The Court may, however, deny such
leave if there is demonstrated prejudice to the opposing party, such as trial
delays, loss of critical evidence, or increased preparation costs. (Id.)
On March 9, 2022,
Plaintiffs filed a Complaint against three Defendants involved in the handling
of the remains of Pedro Reyes (“decedent” or “Reyes”) after his death: ALTA Los
Angeles Community Hospital (“Hospital"), Rose Cremation Services
("Rose"), and Macera Crematory (“Macera”). On December 22, 2023,
Macera filed a motion for summary judgment, which the Court denied. Macera now moves
the Court for leave to file a cross-complaint against Defendant Hospital for
equitable indemnity, equitable contribution, and declaratory relief. In
opposition, Defendant Hospital argues that Macera was aware of the facts
supporting the cross-complaint but waited until after its motion for summary
judgment was denied to file the motion to amend and claims prejudice as the
trial is set for June 3, 2024, only one month away.
Macera argues that it
filed the present motion now, just a month before the trial date, because its
new expert witness opined that the ice placed by the Hospital around the decedent’s
body created moisture and condensation, thereby accelerating the rate of
decomposition. Further, it contends that it believed it had a good chance to succeed
in its MSJ, so there was no reason to amend prior to the MSJ.
While the Court is not fully
persuaded by Macera’s argument regarding its expert witness, it nonetheless will
grant leave to file a cross-complaint given the liberal policy supporting such
leave.  With regard to the expert, in
December 2023, Macera’s original expert witness, Shawna Rodabaugh, after
reviewing the Hospital's PMK deposition and discovery responses, had already
opined that the Hospital mishandled the corpse, leading to its accelerated
decomposition. This was Macera’s main argument in its motion for summary
judgment, asserting that the Hospital's mishandling of the corpse involved
storing the body in ice bags rather than in a refrigerator. The conclusion
reached by Macera’s two expert witnesses was fundamentally the same. 
        Rather than file its motion for leave when its first expert reached
her opinion in December 2023, Macera instead chose to wait until the court
denied its motion for summary judgment.  That
decision appears reasonable.  In light of
this state’s policy of liberally allowing leave to file a cross-complaint, the Court
does not find the delay between the December 2023 expert opinion and now to be
so excessive and prejudicial as to warrant denial of leave. Accordingly, Macera’s
motion for leave is granted.  It must
file any cross-complaint within 5 court days. 
        The Court recognizes that Defendant Hospital may need
additional time to address the new cross-complaint, so it orders the parties to
meet and confer regarding a new trial date and, if possible, stipulate to a new
trial date.  If no such stipulation can
be reached, Hospital may file an ex parte application seeking to continue
the trial. 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 