 Case Number:  22STCV10494    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           4/29/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       22STCV10494 TPG (CERRITOS) ACQUISITION vs
LEO'S TRUCK SERVICE INC.
Motion:                    Application for Order for Appearance and
Examination
Judgment Creditor:  Plaintiff
Judgment Debtor:    Defendant Leo’s Truck Services Inc.
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    APPLICATION FOR ORDER FOR APPEARANCE AND
EXAMINATION IS GRANTED
 
Background
 
On February 15, 2023, the Court issued Default
Judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants Leo’s Truck Services Inc.
and Felipe Gonzalez in the amount of $497,001.84.
 
On February 28, 2024, Plaintiff TPG (Cerritos)
Acquisition, LLC filed its Application and Order for Appearance and Examination
— Enforcement of Judgment against Defendant Leo’s Truck Services Inc (Judgment
Debtor).
 
No opposition or other response has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
“The judgment creditor may apply to the proper
court for an order requiring the judgment debtor to appear before the court, or
before a referee appointed by the court, at a time and place specified in the
order, to furnish information to aid in enforcement of the money judgment.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd. (a).)
 
“If the judgment creditor has not caused the
judgment debtor to be examined under this section during the preceding 120
days, the court shall make the order upon ex parte application of the judgment
creditor.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd. (b).)
 
“If the judgment creditor has caused the
judgment debtor to be examined under this section during the preceding 120
days, the court shall make the order if the judgment creditor by affidavit or
otherwise shows good cause for the order. The application shall be made on
noticed motion if the court so directs or a court rule so requires. Otherwise,
it may be made ex parte.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd. (c).)
 
“The judgment creditor shall personally serve
a copy of the order on the judgment debtor not less than 10 days before the
date set for the examination. Service shall be made in the manner specified in
Section 415.10. Service of the order creates a lien on the personal property of
the judgment debtor for a period of one year from the date of the order unless
extended or sooner terminated by the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd.
(d).) 
 
“The order shall contain the following
statement in 14-point boldface type if printed or in capital letters if typed:
‘NOTICE TO JUDGMENT DEBTOR. If you fail to appear at the time and place
specified in this order, you may be subject to arrest and punishment for
contempt of court and the court may make an order requiring you to pay the
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the judgment creditor in this
proceeding.’” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd. (e).)
 
Analysis
 
Judgment Creditor applies for an order for Judgment Debtor to
appear for examination. (Application, Items 1.a., 4, 5.a.) The Application form
used is Judicial Council Form AT-138/EJ-125, and it includes the
statutorily-required notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd. (e).) Judgment Creditor has a
judgment against Judgment Debtor, and Judgment Creditor has not applied to have
Judgment Debtor appear within the last 120 days. (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110,
subds. (a), (b).)
 
The Court GRANTS Judgment Creditor’s Application and Order
for Appearance and Examination — Enforcement of Judgment against Judgment
Debtor.
 
Judgment Creditor shall file proof of service no less than 48
hours in advance of the next hearing.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.