  Case Number:  23TRCV00966    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
KEEP
  AMERICA SAFE AND BEAUTIFUL, INC.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00966




 
vs.


 


 
[TENTATIVE]
  RULING
 




 
DELTA
  GALIL USA, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 1, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Galil USA, Inc.
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Keep America Safe and
Beautiful, Inc.
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set One)
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motions are DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On June 28, 2023, plaintiff Keep
America Safe and Beautiful, Inc. filed a complaint against Delta Galil USA,
Inc. for civil penalties and injunctive relief for violation of Proposition 65.

On July 27, 2023, the court
overruled defendant’s demurrer.
On February 5, 2024, defendant
filed a substitution of attorney.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:   (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories. . . .”
CCP §2030.220 states:  “(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.  (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  (c) If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP
§2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP §2031.220. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Delta Galil USA, Inc. requests that the Court compel plaintiff to provide
further responses and to produce responsive documents to its initial form and
special interrogatories and request for production of documents. 
            The
complaint alleges that it is brought by plaintiff in the public interest of the
People of the State of California to enforce their right to be informed of the
presence of chemicals listed by the State of California, pursuant to the Safe
Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986, codified at Health &
Safety Code §25249.6, et al. (“Proposition 65”), including diisononyl phthalate
(DINP).  Complaint, ¶1.  Plaintiff seeks to remedy defendant’s failure
to warn citizens of California, in violation of Proposition 65 about the
presence of DINP (“Listed Chemical”) in defendant’s Splendid x Rachel Miriam
R&R Gift Set offered for sale throughout California (“Products”).  Id., ¶2. 
Defendant’s Products contain the Listed Chemical and consumers of
Products in California are exposed to the Listed Chemical through dermal
exposure and ingestion of the Products. 
Id., ¶3.  Plaintiff attaches a
copy of the 60-Day Notice, dated January 4, 2023, which plaintiff alleges it
sent to defendant, California’s Attorney General, every District Attorney in
the state, and to the City Attorneys of every California city with a population
greater than 775,000.  Plaintiff alleges
that attached to the 60-Day Notices were Certificates of Merit attesting to the
reasonable and meritorious basis for this action, Certificates of Service
attesting to service of the letters on each entity, and a description of
Proposition 65 prepared by the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard
Assessment.  Further, factual information
sufficient to establish the basis of the Certificates of Merit were enclosed
with the 60-Day Notices sent to California’s Attorney General.  Id., ¶5. 
After receiving the claims in the 60-Day Notice, the public enforcement
agencies identified in paragraph 5 have failed to commence and diligently
prosecute a cause of action against defendant under Proposition 65.  Id., ¶6. 

            Defendant
explains that it served written discovery requests on plaintiff on October 6,
2023.  On November 8, 2023, plaintiff
served responses, consisting mostly of objections.  On February 16, 2024, defense counsel sent a
meet and confer letter to plaintiff’s counsel as to the deficiencies,
requesting a response by February 23, 2023. 
On February 22, 2023, defense counsel responded that plaintiff intended
to supplement its discovery responses by March 13, 2023.
            Defendant
asserts that plaintiff failed to serve supplemental discovery responses by
March 13, 2024 and defendant served its motions by March 25, 2024.
            In
opposition, plaintiff contends that it has served supplemental discovery
responses.  Plaintiff also asserts that
defendant’s motions are premature because they were required to do an IDC.  Plaintiff further contends that it had agreed
to extend defendant’s motion cutoff date to April 22, 2024, but yet defendant
“rushed” to file the motions.
            In
reply, defendant contends that it was not required to do an IDC before filing
the motions and that plaintiff’s “supplemental” responses were the same as the
original responses.
            The
Court rules as follows:  The motions were
untimely filed, and thus, the Court does not have jurisdiction to rule on
them.  Plaintiff’s responses were served
on November 8, 2023 by email and mail.  Thus,
defendant was required to file and serve its motions within 45 days plus two
court days (see CCP §1010.6(a)(3)(B) for electronic service), which was by
December 27, 2023, or five court days, which was by January 2, 2024,
considering the holidays.  Defendant has
not shown any written agreement to an extension to file the motions.  It appears that the first correspondence to
meet and confer was dated February 16, 2024, which was after the deadline to
file the motions.
            The
motions are thus DENIED.
 
ORDER
            The
motions are DENIED.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.