 Case Number:  23TRCV01837    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MICHAEL
  WARD, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01837




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF TORRANCE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 1, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Michael Ward
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
for Leave to Amend Pleading
            The court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to file the (corrected)
SAC within five days.
BACKGROUND
            On June 7, 2023, plaintiff Michael
Ward filed a complaint against City of Torrance and Eino Jussila Pentti for
motor vehicle negligence.  It is missing
the cause of action attachment to the form complaint.
            On September 12, 2023, plaintiff
filed a FAC alleging an incident that occurred on June 9, 2022 at Torrance
Blvd. and Madrid Ave.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
 “This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.”  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion
to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Even if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting
it may be a good reason for denial.  In
most cases, the factors for timeliness are: 
(1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal. App. 3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 471, 486-488.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
requests leave to file a Second Amended Complaint.  
Plaintiff
explains that after defendants were served, defense counsel sent a meet and
confer letter.  Plaintiff asserts that
the “issues of concern” “were resolved except for one issue requiring an
amendment of the pleading” and plaintiff filed a FAC.  Plaintiff contends that the FAC has a file
stamp in the top right hand corner and thus, plaintiff asserts, defendant would
not file a responsive pleading because of the file stamp.  Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to file another
amended pleading but the clerk’s office rejected it.
Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to file a declaration in accordance with CRC Rule 3.1324.  In any event, the court notes that the complaint was filed on June 7, 2023 but was missing
the attachment for a cause of action for motor vehicle negligence.  Plaintiff then filed a FAC on September 12,
2023, but it contains the same file stamp dated June 7, 2023 (and along the
side a file stamp for September 12).
The court thus finds that filing a
SAC without the file stamp dated June 7, 2023 in the top right hand corner is
warranted and that plaintiff has shown good cause based on the court’s review
of the complaint and FAC.
“Leave to amend is in general
required to be liberally granted.”  Kolani
v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal. App. 4th 402, 412 (citation omitted).
The court notes though that the
proposed SAC is defective.  See paras.
3.a. and 3.b. (City of Torrance is not a plaintiff) and MV-2.b. and e. (boxes
are not checked).  Also, the “Attachment
to” should state Second Amended (and not First Amended) and contain the correct
date at bottom of page 3 of 3 of counsel’s signature.
The motion is thus GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to file a (corrected)
SAC within five days.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to file a (corrected)
SAC within five days.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.