 Case Number:  23TRCV02688    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
GARY
  R. HERRON, II, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02688




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 1, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Gary R. Herron, II
Responding Party:                  Defendants Hyatt Corporation,
Prism Hospitality, LP, and SWC CA LAX, LLC
Motion
for Leave to File an Amendment to the Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART. 
The motion is GRANTED as to filing an amended complaint as to the
proposed second and third causes of action and DENIED as to adding the proposed
fourth cause of action against Hyatt Corporation.  Plaintiff is ordered to file a First Amended
Complaint within ten days.
BACKGROUND
            On August 16, 2023, plaintiff Gary
R. Herron, II filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles and Hyatt
Corporation, asserting a cause of action for premises liability against each
defendants based on a trip and fall on a raised sidewalk on March 17, 2023.
            On October 4, 2023, plaintiff filed
an amendment to complaint designating Prism Hospitality, L.P. as Doe 1.
            On October 24, 2023, defendant City
of Los Angeles filed a cross-complaint.
            On November 28, 2023, plaintiff
filed an amendment designating SWC CA LAX LLC as Doe 2.
            On February 1, 2024, Hyatt
Corporation, SWC CA LAX, and Prism Hospitality, LP filed a cross-complaint
against City of Los Angeles for indemnification, contribution, and declaratory
relief.
            On March 12, 2023, the court sustained
defendants Hyatt, SWC CA LAX, and Prism Hospitality’s demurrer to the first and
second causes of action with thirty days leave to amend and deemed the motion
to strike as moot.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
 “This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.”  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion
to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Even if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting
it may be a good reason for denial.  In
most cases, the factors for timeliness are: 
(1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal. App. 3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 471, 486-488.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Herron requests leave to file a First Amended Complaint alleging a second cause
of action for negligence against SWC CA LAX LLC, a third cause of action for
negligence against Prism Hospitality, L.P., and a fourth cause of action for
negligence against Hyatt Corporation “for remuneration, licensed, and
authorized SWC CA LAX LLC to use the name Hyatt Regency on the hotel.”  
Plaintiff
asserts that while walking on a public sidewalk adjacent to the hotel named
Hyatt Regency located at 6225 Century Boulevard, Los Angeles, he tripped and
fell over a raised section of the sidewalk. 

            The
court notes that it had sustained with thirty days leave to amend the cause of
action for premises liability against moving defendants, finding that the
allegations were insufficient. 
Defendants Prism (Doe 1) and SWC (Doe 2) had been added after the
complaint was filed and there were no allegations as to them.  The allegations were also insufficient as to
Hyatt.  The first cause of action is as
to the City of Los Angeles, which has answered.
            Plaintiff’s
counsel states in his declaration that prior to filing the complaint, counsel
did not know that Hyatt Corporation did not own the hotel named Hyatt Regency
or the property on which it is located. 
Counsel did not know that Prism Hospitality was the management company
of the hotel and the property or that SWC CA LAX LLC was the owner of the hotel
and the property.  Jack Kaufman
decl.  Plaintiff contends that he could
reasonably assume that Hyatt Corporation would exercise due care in managing
and assuring the safety of the sidewalk adjacent to the hotel, citing to
Evidence Code §623, which provides that whenever a party has, by its conduct
led another to believe that a particular thing is true, it is not permitted to
contradict it in litigation.  Plaintiff
also asserts that he has “now discovered that the raised section of the
sidewalk over which plaintiff tripped and fell was caused by the roots from
bushes and trees adjacent to the sidewalk” and that the bushes and trees are
“on the property belonging to the owner of the hotel.”  
            In
opposition, defendants argue that plaintiff’s proposed second, third, and
fourth causes of action amount to a “sham pleading” because plaintiff alleges a
new theory of recovery based on negligence. 
Defendants also contend that plaintiff “omits facts regarding Hyatt
Franchising L.L.C.’s known relationship to the subject property and its actual
name.”  Defendants further argue that
plaintiff’s proposed amendments do not state a cause of action against Hyatt
Franchising because plaintiff has no facts to suggest defendant created or had
control over the nuisance.
            In
reply, plaintiff asserts that it is seeking leave to amend via a motion in lieu
of amending the complaint, and that he seeks to avoid further use of a judicial
council form.  Plaintiff’s counsel states
in his declaration that an attorney for the City of Los Angeles informed him
that the raised section of the public sidewalk over which plaintiff tripped and
fell was caused by the roots of trees and bushes on the property of the hotel
adjacent to the sidewalk.  Counsel also
states that he was not aware of the name Hyatt Franchising when the motion was
filed, and that “[i]f the instant motion is granted, Hyatt will demurrer to the
fourth cause of action, and the court will rule on this issue.”  Plaintiff also argues that it has not engaged
in sham pleading; he has not disingenuously omitted facts or added inconsistent
facts.
            The
Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that plaintiff
complied with CRC Rule 3.1324.  Further, “[l]eave to amend is in general
required to be liberally granted.”  Kolani
v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal. App. 4th 402, 412 (citation omitted).  Plaintiff had previously been given leave to
amend to allege facts against Prism and SWC
CA LAX LLC as they had been identified after the complaint was filed.  As is procedurally proper, plaintiff sought
leave to add causes of action based on negligence rather than amend only the
second cause of action for premises liability. 
Alleging a different theory under negligence is not a sham pleading.  Also, as to whether plaintiff provides facts
to support the proposed causes of action, at the pleading stage plaintiff is
only required to allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts.  
As to the
proposed fourth cause of action, though, an amendment would be futile as there
does not appear to be any basis for liability against Hyatt Corporation (or
Hyatt Franchising), including a duty based on licensing and authorizing the
owner to use the name Hyatt Regency. 
Further, plaintiff acknowledges that he has not found specific authority
in support of liability against Hyatt, and as argued by defendants, plaintiff’s
justification citing to Evidence Code §623 is “confusing and obscure.”
Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART.  The motion is GRANTED as to filing an amended
complaint as to the proposed second and third causes of action and DENIED as to
adding the proposed fourth cause of action against Hyatt Corporation.
ORDER
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART. 
The motion is GRANTED as to filing an amended complaint as to the
proposed second and third causes of action and DENIED as to adding the proposed
fourth cause of action against Hyatt Corporation.
Plaintiff is ordered to file a First
Amended Complaint within ten days. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.