 Case Number:  23STCV10128    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
BOGHOS TOVMASSIAN, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
HIPPO INSURANCE
  SERVICES, et al., 
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  23STCV10128
  Hearing Date:  October 23, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant hippo insurance services’
  demurrer to complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 5, 2023, Plaintiffs Boghos
Tovmassian and Marguerite Tovmassian filed this action against Defendants Hippo
Insurance Services, Spinnaker Insurance Company, and Patrick Hix, alleging (1)
breach of insurance contract, (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, and (3) elder abuse. 
            According to the complaint, Plaintiffs
own a home located in Tujunga, California. (Compl. ¶ 1.) The home was insured
by a homeowners insurance policy issued by Defendant Hippo Insurance Services,
which is owned and underwritten by Defendant Spinnaker Insurance Company. (Ibid.)
In December 2021, the home suffered wind and water intrusion, leading
Plaintiffs to make a claim. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
failed to conduct a full and fair investigation, which resulted in an
insufficient payout. (Id., ¶ 3.)
            On September 18, 2023, Defendant
Hippo Insurance Services filed the instant demurrer to the complaint.
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on October 9, 2023. Defendant filed its reply
on October 16, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In
a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
(SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on
the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
pleading, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th
at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike,
the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to
strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court notes
that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Santos
Decl.) 
DISCUSSION
I. Breach of
Contract
            a. The Complaint Sufficiently Alleges
the Legal Effect of the Contract
To establish
breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract existed, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) A breach of contract can be
alleged by simply “plead[ing] the legal effect of the contract rather than its
precise language.” (Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) Notably, a “plaintiff's failure either to attach or to
set out verbatim the terms of the contract [is] not fatal to his breach of contract cause of action” because in haec
verba is only “one available method of pleading the contract,” not “the exclusive means
of pleading a contract.” (Ibid.) 
Defendant’s
insistence that Plaintiffs must attach the contract or plead its terms verbatim
is unsupported by Defendant’s cited caselaw. For example, Holly Sugar Corp.
v. Johnson (1941) 18 Cal.2d 218, 225 describes how to plead a contract in
haec verba as an alternative to pleading “its legal effect.” This means
that pleading the legal effect of the contract is an acceptable method in addition
to in haec verba. Similarly, Twaite v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1989)
216 Cal.App.3d 239, 252 states that contract terms may be pled “either in
haec verba or according to legal effect.” 
Here, the
allegations in the complaint sufficiently set forth the legal effect of the
contract, i.e., that the contract is an insurance policy that requires a
payout for home damage, including water or wind intrusion. Defendants allegedly
breached this contract by failing to pay the full amount that Plaintiffs were
entitled to under the policy. This places Defendant on sufficient notice of the
nature of the claim. Therefore, the complaint adequately alleges breach of
contract.
b.
The Complaint Sufficiently Alleges that Defendant is a Party to the Contract 
Defendant argues
that it cannot be liable on the breach of contract claim because it is not a party
to the contract. Defendant contends that its co-defendant, Spinnaker, issued
the policy instead. Defendant attempts to prove this through the declaration of
Steve Wilson. However, the Court does not consider extrinsic evidence on a
demurrer. (SKF Farms, supra, 153 Cal.App.3d at
p. 905.) A demurrer is only concerned
with the allegations in the complaint. (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiffs have alleged
that the property was “insured by a homeowners insurance policy issued by
Defendant Hippo Insurance Services.” (Compl. ¶ 1.) This must be taken as true. 
Defendant cites
nonbinding federal law for the proposition that it is entitled to introduce
documents upon which the complaint relies in order to show that the documents
do not support Plaintiffs’ claim. (Dem. 12:8-28.) A demurrer under California
law is distinct from a motion to dismiss under federal law. California law is
clear that extrinsic evidence may not be considered on a demurrer, and there is
no exception for contract claims. Defendant is not entitled to introduce
extrinsic evidence of the purported contract just because Plaintiffs did not attach
the contract to their complaint. As discussed above, attaching the contract is
not required.  
II. Good Faith and
Fair Dealing
“The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists merely to prevent one
contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s right to receive
the benefits of the agreement actually made.” (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349-50.) “When the insurer engages in unreasonable
conduct in connection with an insured’s insurance claim, the insurer is said to
have tortiously breached the implied covenant.” (Century Surety Co. v. Polisso
(2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 922, 948.) 
Defendant argues that it could not have denied
policy benefits in bad faith if it was not even a party to the contract.
However, as discussed above, the complaint sufficiently alleges that Defendant
is a party to the contract. The complaint otherwise sufficiently alleges that
Defendant engaged in bad faith by failing to perform a fair investigation, including
relying on obviously inaccurate expert reports and ignoring evidence supporting
the claim. (Compl. ¶ 24.) Therefore, the complaint sufficiently alleges a
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
III.
Elder Abuse
“Financial
abuse” of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any
of the following: takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud, or both. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30.) 
Defendant again
argues that this claim fails because there is no contract between Plaintiffs
and Defendant. Since this argument is unavailing, the elder abuse claim
survives. Plaintiffs have adequately alleged that Defendant retained money (the
policy benefits) that Plaintiffs were entitled to, whilst knowing that doing so
would harm Plaintiffs. (Compl. ¶ 36.) 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant
Hippo Insurance Services’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
 