  Case Number:  20STCV02115    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
JOSE DE ANDA,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, 
                        Defendant. 


 
  Case No.:  20STCV02115
  Hearing Date:  October 23, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff Jose De Anda initiated
this employment discrimination action on January 16, 2020, asserting causes of
action under FEHA for (1) failure to accommodate, (2) failure to engage in an
interactive process, and (3) retaliation. Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint on September 18, 2020, asserting the same three causes of action. On
January 13, 2021, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to all three causes
of action in the FAC without leave to amend and thereafter entered judgment
accordingly. Plaintiff appealed.
            On April 7, 2023, the Court of
Appeal issued an opinion affirming this Court’s order as to the first and
second causes of action and reversed the order as to the third cause of action.
The Court of Appeal acknowledged that the FAC as written exposed a statute of
limitations issue as to the retaliation claim but held that Plaintiff had
sufficiently articulated a potential cure through amendment. Specifically, the
Court of Appeal agreed with Plaintiff that he could allege facts to support
equitable tolling. The Court of Appeal declined to opine on whether Plaintiff had
alleged sufficient facts to support a prima facie claim of retaliation. 
            On July 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint, asserting a single cause of action for retaliation,
the sole surviving claim. Plaintiff alleges that he was subjected to retaliation
for reporting a racist remark made by his supervisor towards another coworker
and for reporting a threat that the supervisor made against Plaintiff himself.
(SAC ¶¶ 19-22.) The supervisor’s remarks and Plaintiff’s reporting occurred in
April 2014, and the retaliation occurred over the following four months. (Ibid.)
The retaliation consisted of unusual scrutiny, excessive workloads, unwarranted
negative feedback, pretextual investigation and surveillance, public criticism,
intimidation, failure to accommodate disability, and refusal to engage in an
interactive process. (Id., ¶ 66.) 
            On September 20, 2023, Defendant
filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike as to Plaintiff’s SAC.
Plaintiff filed his opposition on October 10, 2023. Defendant filed its reply
on October 16, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court
notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Jones
Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
            a. Statute of Limitations
            As discussed in this Court’s prior
demurrer ruling and in the Court of Appeal opinion, the applicable statute of
limitations is one year. Plaintiff admittedly did not file a DFEH complaint
until February 2018, four years after the alleged retaliation. (SAC ¶ 9.) On
its own, this would establish as a matter of law that the claim is time-barred.

            However, “[e]quitable
tolling is a judicially created doctrine that, where applicable, will ‘suspend
or extend a statute of limitations as necessary to ensure fundamental
practicality and fairness.’” (Long v. Forty Niners Football Co., LLC
(2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 550, 554-55.) The equitable tolling doctrine “applies ‘[w]hen
an injured person has several legal remedies and, reasonably and in good faith,
pursues one.’” (McDonald v. Antelope Valley Community College Dist.
(2008) 45 Cal.4th 88, 100.) “Where exhaustion of an administrative remedy is
mandatory prior to filing suit, equitable tolling is automatic.” (Id. at
p. 101.) Equitable tolling may extend to voluntary pursuits of other remedies,
such as when “the employee and employer pursue resolution of any grievance
through an internal administrative procedure.” (Id. at p. 108.) 
When a plaintiff pursues internal
administrative resolution of a grievance as to one claim, the defendant’s
investigation of that claim will put it in a position to fairly defend against
a second claim so long as the two claims are based on essentially the same set
of facts. (Collier v. City of Pasadena (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 917, 925.)
In such a circumstance, the defendant is adequately protected from stale claims
and deteriorated evidence so as to permit equitable tolling. (Ibid.) A
plaintiff seeking the benefits of equitable tolling must show three elements:
(1) timely notice, (2) lack of prejudice to the defendant, and (3) reasonable
and good faith conduct on the part of the plaintiff. (Long, supra, 33
Cal.App.5th at p. 555.)   
Here, for Plaintiff to rely on other
proceedings to toll the statute of limitations on his FEHA retaliation claim,
the claims in the prior proceedings must have been similar enough to
retaliation such that Defendant can fairly defend against the retaliation claim
in this action. Plaintiff alleges that he participated in Defendant’s internal
process to obtain a different position to escape the purported retaliation.
(SAC ¶ 13.) Plaintiff also filed a worker’s compensation claim stemming from medical
issues aggravated by the alleged retaliation. (Ibid.) As part of the
worker’s compensation claim, Plaintiff’s physician recommended a change to a
different department, presumably to get away from the retaliating supervisor. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that his worker’s compensation claim and internal grievances
were nearly identical to his DFEH claim. (Id., ¶ 17.)
When the allegations are read in context
and interpreted liberally, they support a reasonable inference that Defendant’s
investigation of the prior claims would have implicated evidence relevant to
the retaliation claim. (See Collier, supra, 142 Cal.App.3d at p. 925 [“The
critical question is whether notice of the first claim affords the defendant an
opportunity to identify the sources of evidence which might be needed to defend
against the second claim”].) “[T]he two ‘causes of action’ need not be absolutely
identical.” (Ibid.) Additionally, DFEH misinformed Plaintiff that his complaint
would be amended to include a retaliation claim. (SAC ¶¶ 10-11.) The Court of
Appeal held that Plaintiff could allege equitable tolling by providing facts
regarding the worker’s compensation claim and internal remedies pursued with
DWP, as well as allegations regarding DFEH misleading Plaintiff. (Appeal
Opinion, p. 18.) Plaintiff provides these facts in the SAC. 
The Court of Appeal held that “these
allegations, coupled with specific allegations concerning the racist remark De
Anda reported to DWP, could conceivably cure the defect.” (Appeal Opinion, p.
18.) Defendant argues that the allegations are not coupled with “specific
allegations” regarding the racist remark. The allegations regarding the racist
remark are sufficiently specific for pleading purposes. (SAC ¶ 19.) The precise
nature of the remark can be addressed in discovery. Lastly, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged his reasonable and good faith conduct for pleading purposes. (SAC ¶
13.) Therefore, the complaint adequately pleads equitable tolling. Whether equitable
tolling actually applies is a factual issue. (See Thomas v.
Gilliland (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 427, 434 [“Equitable tolling is a fact intensive issue and it is
determined based upon evidence”].) 
b. Prima Facie Case
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff fails
to allege facts supporting the elements of a prima facie case of retaliation.
Specifically, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged an adverse
employment action. An adverse employment action is any “course or pattern of
conduct that, taken as a whole, materially and adversely affected the terms,
and conditions of a plaintiff’s employment.” (Holmes v. Petrovich
Development Co., LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1063.) The allegations
discussed above sufficiently support a reasonable inference that Plaintiff
suffered an adverse employment action. (See, e.g., SAC ¶¶ 22-31, 66.)
Plaintiff alleges that his supervisor’s actions “demoralized and distracted
[him] to the point that he could no longer focus on his work duties.” (Id.,
¶ 34.) These are “facts which evidence both a substantial and detrimental
effect on her employment.” (See Thomas v. Department of Corrections
(2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 507, 512.) 
II.
Motion to Strike
            Defendant moves to strike
allegations from the SAC that it contends relate solely to the dismissed causes
of action. However, the allegations are relevant as background information regarding
the events leading up to the purported retaliation. The paragraphs at issue
also contain facts directly pertinent to the retaliation itself, such as
whether Plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action. The challenged
allegations, when read in context, describe a “course or pattern of conduct”
that materially affected the terms of Plaintiff’s employment. (See Holmes,
supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at p. 1063.) Plaintiff’s position and qualifications
are also relevant. Additionally, facts about Plaintiff’s participation in
internal procedures are relevant to Plaintiff’s equitable tolling theory, as
discussed above. (See Appeal Opinion, p. 18 [facts relevant to equitable
tolling include the fact that Plaintiff “worked within DWP’s internal
administrative process to locate a reasonable accommodation”].) 
            These allegations do not revive old
claims, as Defendant contends, because it is undisputed that the failure to accommodate
and failure to engage claims have been dismissed. Defendant is not liable for
those claims as a matter of law. But allegations can be relevant to multiple
causes of action. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.     