  Case Number:  21STCV44756    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Jane Doe,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV44756




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
County of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
May 2, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents;
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission;
Motion to
Compel Compliance with Court Order;
Motion for
Protective Order
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RPDS IS GRANTED IN PART.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RFAS IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH A COURT ORDER IS GRANTED. THE REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER IS DENIED.
 
THE PARTIES ARE
ORDERED TO SERVE FURTHER RESPONSE TO THE SUBJECT DISCOVERY WITHIN 10 DAYS OF
NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, oppositions, and replies.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On June 6, 2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe filed the operative first amended
complaint against Defendant County of Los Angeles, asserting claims for
injunctive relief and possession of personal property. Plaintiff alleges Defendant
wrongfully confiscated Plaintiff’s phone data.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
 
The moving party on a motion to compel
further responses to requests for production of documents (“RPDs”) must submit
“specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.”  (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).)  If the moving party has
shown good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections.  (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.)
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to RPDs, set six, nos. 20-25. These requests seek documents
supporting Defendant’s responses to FI nos. 15.1 and 17.1 and documents “evidencing or reflecting LASD’s policy to retain evidence gathered by
investigation into rapes in the event the investigation must be reopened in the
future.” Defendants listed the documents supporting their responses to FI nos. 15.1 and 17.1 and objected to
the requests regarding evidence retention on the grounds that they are vague
and ambiguous. 
 
As Defendants have identified the
documents supporting its responses to FI nos. 15.1 and 17.1, further response
to RPDs nos. 20 and 21 is not necessary. But further response is necessary for
RPDs nos. 22-25. These requests seek documents showing Defendants evidence
retention policies for unsolved sexual assaults. These requests are not vague
or ambiguous and they seek relevant and discoverable information. If no such
documents exist, Defendant may so state in response.
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to requests for production is GRANTED in part. 
 
B. Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Admission
 
On receipt of a response to requests
for admission (“RFAs”) the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that an objection to an RFA is
without merit or too general. (CCP § 2033.290(a)(2).)  
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to RFAs nos. 154-155, 168-169, 171-172. These request that Defendant
admit or deny whether certain LASD manual policies apply to sexual assault
cases and to admit or deny whether irrelevant evidence may be sealed and to
identify the evidence on the Plaintiff’s phone that was relevant to the
underlying sexual assault. Defendant objected to these RFAs on the ground that they
require expert opinion and require Defendant to search through the phone
records that Plaintiff asserts are confidential. 
 
The Court finds further response necessary. These RFAs seek relevant and
discoverable information. It is unclear why Defendant believes an expert is
necessary to respond to these RFAs. Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to RFAs is GRANTED.
 
C. Defendant's Motion to Compel
Compliance with Court Order and for Discovery Sanctions
 
It is a misuse of the discovery process
to fail “to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” (CCP §
2023.010(d)) or to disobey “a court order to provide discovery.”  (CCP § 2023.010(g).)  Under CCP § 2023.030, courts have the
authority to issue monetary sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, or terminating
sanctions after giving parties proper notice and the opportunity to be heard.
 
In determining whether sanctions should
be imposed, courts consider the totality of the circumstances, including the
“conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment
to the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to
obtain the discovery.”  (Lang v.
Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.)   “The penalty should be appropriate to the
dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.”  (Wilson v. Jefferson (1985) 163 Cal.
App. 3d 952, 959.)
 
Defendants move to compel Plaintiff’s
compliance with the Court’s January 11, 2024 order granting Defendants’ motion
to compel further responses to FIs and for issue, evidence, and monetary
sanctions. Defendants assert Plaintiff has refused to provide information
regarding her employment history and has refused to provide a complete response
to FI no. 17.1, citing documents in the “public court record” as support for
her responses to RFAs. These seek discoverable information. 
 
The Court will order Plaintiff to
respond to FIs nos. 2.6 and 17.1 in compliance with the Court’s January 11,
2024 order. The Court declines to award sanctions against Plaintiff at this
time, as Plaintiff provided some response to these requests. Plaintiff has not
willfully disobeyed a court order. 
 
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED in part.
 
D. Plaintiff’s Motion for Protective
Order
 
“The court, for good cause shown, may make
any order that justice requires to protect any party or other person from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (CCP § 2031.060(b).)
Plaintiff moves for a protective order
stating Plaintiff need not provide further responses to FIs 2.6 and 17.1.
Plaintiff asserts her employment history is irrelevant and that her response to
FI no. 17.1 is sufficient. These requests seek basic information about
Plaintiff and her contentions in this suit. Plaintiff must respond to these
requests.
Plaintiff’s motion for protective order is
DENIED.
 