  Case Number:  22STCV30056    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, February 6, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV30056
CASE NAME:                        David M.
Throgmorton v. Jack Tellez III, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Jack Tellez III aka Jack Tellez
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff David M. Throgmorton
TRIAL DATE:                         6 February 2024
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Third Amended Complaint 
OPPOSITION:                        23 January 2024
REPLY:                                  30
January 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant Tellez’s demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend as to the first, second, third, fourth, and seventh causes of action and
sustained with leave to amend under the fifth and sixth cause of action only. The
Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave to amend. Defendant Tellez is to give
notice.  

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This
action arises in connection with the sale, financing, and leasing of Defendant
Throgmorton’s Frame Clinics, Inc. (“Frame Clinics”), a business entity
operating in California. David M. Throgmorton (“Plaintiff”) entered into an
agreement with Jack Tellez III (“Defendant” or “Tellez”) for the purchase of
the Frame Clinics business on September 1, 2021 (“Purchase Agreement”). On
September 1, 2021, Plaintiff and Defendant also entered into a Promissory Note
(“Promissory Note”) regarding the purchase of the business, and a commercial
leasing agreement (“Lease”) regarding the premises located at 2414 Connor
Avenue, Commerce, CA 90040 (“Premises”). The complaint alleges Defendants Frame
Clinics and Tellez abandoned the Premises on August 31, 2022, with an unpaid
rent balance and monies owed pursuant to the agreements between the parties.  
 
On
December 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC
alleges the causes of action as follows: (1) breach of contract (Lease); (2)
breach of contract (Promissory Note); (3) breach of contract (Purchase
Agreement); (4) fraud in the inducement; (5) conversion; (6) violation of Penal
Code § 496; (7) restitution of benefits unjustly received/retained; (8) unfair
business practices (Business & Professions Code §17200). Defendant
demurred to the entirety of the FAC. The Defendant also moved to strike
portions of the FAC. The Court sustained with leave to amend the
FAC.  
 
On
April 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). The SAC
alleges the causes of action as follows: (1) breach of contract (Lease); (2)
conversion/embezzlement; (3) fraud in the inducement; (4) financial elder
abuse; (5) restitution of benefits unjustly received/retained; (6) unfair
business practices (Business & Professions Code §17200). On July 24,
2023, the Defendant’s demurrer to the SAC was again sustained with leave to
amend. 
 
On
September 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint
(“TAC”), alleging seven causes of action for (1) breach of contract – count 1
(Purchas Agreement); (2) breach of contract count 2 (Promissory Note – Personal
Guaranty); (3) breach of contract - count 3 (Promissory Note-Securing the
Purchase Price ); (4) breach of contract count 4 (Lease); (5)
conversion/embezzlement; (6) financial elder abuse; and (7) business practices
(Business & Professions Code §17200). 
 
Defendant Tellez now
demurs to the entirety of the TAC and to strike portions of the TAC. The
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer. The matter is now before the court. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿To test the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all
material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
Defendant Tellez
demurs to the first through fourth causes of action for breach of contract on
the basis that the TAC fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause
of action and demurs to the fifth through seventh causes of action on the bases
that TAC fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and
is uncertain. (CCP § 430.10(e).) 
 
This is the
Plaintiff’s third attempt to amend the pleadings to state viable causes of
action in light of the demurrers granted in favor of Defendant Tellez on March
16, 2023, and July 24, 2023. 
 
A.        Breach of Contract Claims - Purchase
Agreement, Promissory Note, and Lease
            
On July 24, 2023, the
court stated that it agreed with Defendant Tellez that “the Promissory Note is
not a standalone document, but an Extension of the Purchase Agreement.” (Order 07/24/23.)
Support for this conclusion was found in the fact that the purchase price in
Paragraph 7 of the Purchase Agreement and the Promissory Note are for the same
amount, $350,000.00. (TAC Ex. A, B.) Defendant, Tellez asserts that the TAC
treats the Purchase Agreement and the Promissory Note as separate documents,
instead of the Promissory Note being part of the Purchase Agreement. (Opp. at
pp. 6:24-7:5.)
 
“If facts appearing in the exhibits
[attached to the pleadings,] contradict those alleged, the facts in the
exhibits take precedence.” (Holland v. Morse Diesel
Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.) This applies
contracts terms attached to a complaint. “But where a plaintiff himself sets
forth the contract in the terms in which it is written, and then proceeds by
averment to put a false construction upon the terms, the allegations, as
repugnant to the terms, should be regarded as surplusage, to be struck out on
motion.” (Stoddard v. Treadwell (1864) 26 Cal. 294, 302.) The
terms that appear in the Purchase Agreement, Promissory Note, and Lease
Agreement take precedence over any contrary allegation in the TAC. 
 
The relevant terms of
the Purchase Agreement states: 
 
This Purchase of
Business Agreement is made and entered into this 1st of July, 2021, between
David M. Throgmorton and Jack Tellez III. In consideration of the provisions
contained in this Agreement the Parties agree as follows: 
 
Parties
1. Seller is the sole owner of all
issued and outstanding shares of Throgmortons’ Frame Clinics Inc., located at
2414 Connor Avenue, Commerce, CA 90040, which is licensed as and carries out
business as an Auto Body Repair and Paint shop. Seller desires to sell the
business and shares to Purchaser. Purchaser agrees to buy the business and
shares. 
 
[ . . . ]
 
Payment
7. A deposit of $50,000 will be payable
by the Purchaser on or before July 1, 2021. The balance of $350,000 will be
paid by execution of a promissory note in the amount of $350,000.00 in the form
attached or accompanying this Agreement. 
 
[ . . . ]
 
Purchase’s Representation and
Warranties
14. Purchaser
represents and warrants to Seller the following:  
[ . . .]
h. Purchaser shall
have no personal liability for the monetary payments set forth in this
Agreement; any such obligations shall be, after the closing date, Throgmorton’s
Frame Clinics, Inc.’s sole obligations. 
 
[ . . . ]
 
General Provisions
41. The terms of this
contract supersede any oral representations or understandings. This agreement
can only be modified by a writing executed by both parties. 
 
On the same date,
September 1, 2021, that the parties executed the Purchase Agreement, the
parties also executed the Promissory Note. (TAC Ex. B.) The promissory note
lists “Borrower” as Defendant Tellez and “Lender” as Plaintiff, with the
principal amount being $350,000.00, as asserted in Paragraph 7 of the Purchase
Agreement. “Several
contracts relating to the same matters, between the same parties, and made as
parts of substantially one transaction, are to be taken together.” (Civ. Code,
§ 1642.) The court again finds that the Promissory Note is not a standalone agreement
but is part of the Purchase Agreement. (TAC Ex. A, ¶ 7.) 
 
The TAC alleges that for Plaintiff to accept payments towards
the purchase price of the business, Defendant Tellez “was
required to personally guarantee payment, in the event that the corporate
entity that he was buying, THROGMORTON CORP. was unable to pay.” (TAC ¶ 33.)
The TAC alleges that it was for this reason that there is no reference to the
corporate entity in the Promissory Note. However, the court finds that there is
no ambiguity in the Promissory Note because Defendant Tellez assumes no
personal liability under the terms of the Promissory Note. 
 
Paragraph 2 of the Promissory
Note states:
 
If the Borrower defaults in the performance of any
obligation under this Promissory Note, the lender may declare the unpaid
payment(s) due and payable, and shall bear interest thereon at the rate of 10%
per year. In addition, in the case of default by Borrower, the Borrower shall
be liable for all costs and legal fees of Lender with regard to such default
and litigation. 
 
(TAC, Ex. B, ¶ 2.) 
 
Paragraph 3 of the Promissory
Note states:
 
This Promissory Note is given to secure
payment of the purchase price of the following security: tools and equipment
located at 2414 Conner Avenue, Commerce, CA 90040. 
 
(TAC, Ex. B, ¶ 3.) 
Paragraph 4 of the
Promissory Notes states in the relevant party
 
In the case of default by Borrower
Lender shall be limited to repossession of the Security and liquid assets of
the business located at 2414 Conner Avenue, Commerce, AC 90040, and Lender
shall not be able to place a lien on or execute any personal assets of
Borrower. 
 
(TAC Ex. B, ¶ 4
[italics added].) 
 
“‘[L]anguage in a contract must be
interpreted as a whole, and in the circumstances of the case, and cannot be
found to be ambiguous in the abstract. [Citation.] Courts
will not strain to create an ambiguity where none exists.’ [Citations].” (S.B.C.C., Inc. v.
St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 383, 389.)
Taking the Purchase Agreement and Promissory Note together, the court finds
there is no ambiguity regarding the fact that Defendant Tellez was not to be
held personally liable for any defaults under the Purchase Agreement or
Promissory Note. Any obligations under the Purchase Agreement are Throgmorton’s
Frame Clinic, Inc.’s alone, and in case of breach of the Promissory Note,
Plaintiff is only entitled to repossession of the Security and liquid assets of
the business. (TAC Ex. A, ¶ 14(h), Ex. B, ¶ 4.) The fact that Defendant Tellez
was not to be held personally liable and there is a prohibition on seeking a
lien or execution of any personal assets belonging to Defendant Tellez, is an
express term the parties appeared to have agreed to and serves to clarify that
Defendant Tellez shall bear no personal liability. 
 
The Purchase
Agreement is fully integrated, and the court finds that no ambiguity exists,
and that parol evidence is not admissible to create ambiguity. (CCP § 1856.)
Accordingly, under the express and clear terms of the Purchase Agreement and
the Promissory Note, Defendant Tellez cannot be held personally liable for any
breach of these agreements. 
 
Similarly, in the
Lease Agreement, the parties again agreed that Defendant Tellez should not be
held personally liable for any breach under the Lease. 
 
Paragraph 1 of the
Lease states: 
 
1. Landlord is the sole owner of the
real property known as Throgmorton's Frame Clinics, Inc., located at 2414
Conner Avenue, Commerce, CA 90040. Landlord desires to sell the business to
Jack Tellez III, and to lease the real estate to Tenant, who will be the new
owner and operator of Throgmorton’s Frame Clinics, Inc., as owned by Jack
Tellez, III. The financial obligations in this lease shall be obligations of
Throgmorton’s Frame Clinics, Inc., and not personal obligations of Jack Tellez
II.
 
(TAC Ex. C, ¶ 1
[italics added].)
 
Plaintiff maintains
that Defendant Tellez can be held personally liable as the alter ego of
Defendant Throgmorton’s Frame Clinics, Inc. (TAC ¶¶ 10 – 30.) 
 
“ ‘A claim against a defendant, based on
the alter ego
theory, is not itself a claim for substantive relief, e.g., breach of contract or to set aside a fraudulent
conveyance, but rather, procedural, i.e., to
disregard the corporate entity as a distinct defendant and to hold the alter ego
individuals liable on the obligations of the
corporation where the corporate form is being used by the individuals to escape
personal liability,
sanction a fraud, or promote injustice.’ [Citations]” (Shaoxing County Huayue Import & Export v. Bhaumik (2011)
191 Cal.App.4th 1189, 1198.) “In applying the alter ego doctrine, the issue is not whether the
corporation is the alter ego of its shareholders for all purposes,
or whether the corporation was organized for the purpose of defrauding the
plaintiff, but rather, whether justice and equity are best accomplished in a
particular case, and fraud defeated, by disregarding the separate nature of the
corporate form as to the claims in that case.” (Ibid.)
 
The court finds that because
Plaintiff and Defendants contracted for the express provision that Defendant
Tellez would not be held personally liable for any breaches under the
agreement, Plaintiff cannot allege an “inequitable result from
treatment of the corporation as the sole actor.” (Leek v. Cooper
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) In other words, Plaintiff cannot complain
that it would be an injustice to only have Defendant Throgmorton’s Frame
Clinic, Inc. answer for the breaches under the Purchase Agreement, the
Promissory Note, and the Lease Agreement when Plaintiff agreed to this exact
provision. Plaintiff fails to point to specific language in agreements that
would show contrary intent, or that creates ambiguity as to the intent of the
parties regarding said provision. More importantly, the Plaintiff fails to cite
case law permitting piercing the corporate veil to reach an individual
defendant for breach of contract when the contract at issue, negotiated and
agreed to by both parties, expressly provided that the individual defendant
would not be held personally liable for any breaches of the corporate entity.
To permit the corporate veil to be pierced and impose personal liability on
Defendant Tellez, would be to enforce a contract provision neither party agreed
to, which would have the effect of rewriting the terms of the agreements,
something the court cannot do. (See Arriagarazo v. BMW of North
America, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 742, 748; see also Mills v. Vista Pools, Inc. (1960) 184 Cal.App.2d
668, 673 [“Neither can the trial court rewrite or provide new terms for a contract which is plain and unambiguous on
its face”].) 
 
Based on the above, the demurrer to the
first through fourth causes of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
 
            B.        Fifth Cause of Action – Conversion/Embezzlement
 
To plead a cause of action for
conversion, one must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to
possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property
inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “Money may be the
subject of conversion if the claim involves a specific, identifiable sum . . .
.” (WelcoElectronics, Inc. v. Mora(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 209.) In
1927, the Legislature consolidated the separate common law crimes of larceny,
embezzlement, and theft by false pretense in Penal Code section 484,
subdivision (a).” (Bell v. Feibush (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1041, 1048,
see also Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333,
350.) 
 
Defendant Tellez alleges that
the fifth cause of action is uncertain because Plaintiff combines two possible
theories of recovery under one single cause of action. In California, the
complaint must contain a “statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language.” (Civ. Proc. §, 425.10.) A complaint
will be upheld if it provides the defendants with “notice of the issues
sufficient to enable preparation of a defense.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-550.) 
 
Paragraph 48
subdivisions (a) to (v) list the “Secured Items” secured by the Promissory
Note. (TAC ¶ 48.) The security items belong to Plaintiff and Defendant Tellez
“did not have the right to take, secrete, appropriate, obtain,
retain, sell, trade, barter, and/or remove any such Secured Items from the
Premise; and if f TELLEZ did cause any of such Secured Items to be
removed from the Premises then TELLEZ would be subjected to personal liability
for the secured Principal Amount of $350,000, minus any installment payments
made, under the Promissory Note.” (TAC ¶ 49 [italics added].) On information
and belief, Plaintiff believed Defendant Tellez did take, secrete, appropriate,
obtain, retain, sold, traded, bartered, and/or removed such liquidated assets
that were secured by the Promissory Note. (TAC ¶¶ 49, 75, 78.) The TAC alleges
that Defendant Tellez took the Secured items for his own personal gain in violation
of Penal Code sections 503, 504a, 507, et seq. As such, Defendants are liable
under Penal Code section 496(c). 
 
The court finds that
Plaintiff may be able to properly pled a cause of action for conversion and liability
under Civ. Code section 3336 and embezzlement under Penal Code sections 503,
504a, and 507. However, conversion and embezzlement are to separate causes of
action that must be separately pled, as a claim for conversion asserts that a plaintiff
has the right of possession while embezzlement of goods involves the absconding
of items already in in the defendant’s possession because they have been
entrusted to the defendant.  
 
However, the court
finds that Plaintiff has failed to state facts to show that the Secured Items
have “been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion[.]” (Pen.
Code. § 496.) Plaintiff fails to show that embezzlement or conversion are
punishable under Penal Code section 496. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
Plaintiff is to plead each cause of action for conversion and embezzlement
separately. 
 
C.        Sixth Cause of Action for Edler Abuse in
Violation of Welf. & Inst. Code 
§ 15610.30
 
Welf. & Inst.
Code § 15610.30 states:  
 
Financial abuse” of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a
person or entity does any of the following: 
(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real
or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud, or both. 
(2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining,
or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a
wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both. 
(3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or
assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue influence [.]
 
“[U]nder subdivision (b) of 15610.30,
wrongful conduct occurs only when the party who violates the contract actually
knows that it is engaging in a harmful breach, or reasonably should be aware of
the harmful breach.” (Paslay v. State Farm General Ins. Co.
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 639, 658 (Paslay).)
 
Plaintiff alleges
that the sixth cause of action is sufficiently pled because he alleges that
Plaintiff “had the right of possession” and “despite such knowledge, [Defendant
Tellez] intentionally deprived [Plaintiff] of his ability to regain
possession.” (TAC ¶¶ 88090.) Defendant Tellez took “the Secured Items for a
wrongful use or with the intent to defraud, or both with the knowledge that
such conduct would likely be harmful” to the Plaintiff. (TAC ¶ 88.) “Plaintiff
is informed and believes and based thereon alleges that, despite such
knowledge, TELLEZ intentionally deprived DAVID of his ability to regain
possession of such Secured Items, and instead benefitted himself by secretly,
wrongfully and fraudulently, taking possession of the Secured Items, removing
them from the Premises and using and/or selling such Secured Items to
third-party(ies) while falsely presenting himself to others an owner with the
right to sell the Secured Items.” (TAC ¶ 98.)
 
“[A] party may engage in elder abuse by
misappropriating funds to which an elder is entitled under a contract.” (Paslay, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at p.
656.) “[T]o establish a ‘wrongful use’ of property to which an elder has a
contract right, the elder must demonstrate a breach of the contract or other
improper conduct.” (Id. at p. 657.) The court finds that Plaintiff may
plead a cause of action based on Defendant Tellez's failure to maintain the
Secured Items. The TAC states that Defendant Tellez had knowledge that he did
not own the Secured Items and had no right to sell them or remove them and that
Plaintiff had the right of possession to the Secured Items. (TAC ¶¶ 77, 87,
89.) Moreover, at this stage in the pleadings, Plaintiff is not required to
prove that Defendant Tellez acted with malice, oppression, or fraud, in
converting or embezzling the Secured Items, it is sufficient that Plaintiff
alleges that such conduct was done with the “intent to defraud” or for
“wrongful use.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30.)
 
However, “[i]n order to obtain the Act's
heightened remedies, a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially equivalent to
conduct that would support recovery of punitive damages.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th
771, 789.) The assertion that “Defendants
are guilty of oppression, fraud, and/or malice” is conclusory and fails to
allege specific facts to show that Defendant Tellez is guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice to support a claim for punitive damages. 
 
Based on the above, the demurrer to the
sixth cause of action is overruled. 
 
            D.        Seventh Cause of Action – Unfair
Competition Law
 
Business and Professions Code § 17200
(“UCL”) prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice.” (see Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605,
610.) To plead this statutory claim, the pleadings must state with reasonable
particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation. (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) “An
unlawful business practice or act is an act or practice, committed pursuant to
business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.” (Klein v. Earth
Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) “A business practice is unfair
within the meaning of the UCL if it violates established public policy or if it
is immoral, unethical, oppressive or unscrupulous and causes injury to
consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc.
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.) Lastly, a fraudulent business practice
claim under section 17200 “is not based upon proof of the common law tort of
deceit or deception, but is instead premised on whether the public is likely to
be deceived.” (Pastoria v. Nationwide Ins. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1499.) 
 
The court finds that Plaintiff’s seventh
cause of action is conclusory and fails to assert sufficient facts as to
whether the cause of action is pled under the unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent
business prong of the UCL. (See TAC ¶¶ 98, 99.) In a private unfair competition
law action, the remedies are “‘generally limited to injunctive relief and
restitution.’” (Kasky v.
Nike, Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 939, 950, 119; see Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17203.) Plaintiff fails to allege the what the unfair competition
is and/or that he had an ownership interest in the monies he was deprived of,
and what the amount is sufficient to support a finding that Plaintiff is
entitled to restitution under the UCL. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that the while
Defendant Tellez, operated Throgmorton’s Frame Clinic, Inc., “TELLEZ used the
corporate entity and the goodwill of the corporate name (which used to be
operated by DAVID) TELLEZ, to commit fraud by obtaining goods on credit from
third-party vendors without any intention of paying for them, due to his
personal knowledge that THROGMORTON CORP. was undercapitalized and unable to
pay.” (TAC ¶ 16.) However, Plaintiff fails to show that he has a security
interest in the credit obtained by third-party vendors. 
 
As the allegation that “TELLEZ also
intentionally and fraudulently absconded with the Secured Items (as defined
below) so as to deprive DAVID’s ability to benefit from such Secured Items
after regaining possession of the Premises,” Plaintiff fails to allege if said
conduct constituted an unfair, unlawful or fraudulent business practice.
Similarly, the allegation that “TELLEZ also manipulated and/or diverted income
and liquid assets generated by THROGMORTON CORP. to his own personal use, so as
to deprive creditors, such as [Plaintiff], from enforcing collection of
existing debts against the company,” also fails to specify if the conduct is an
unfair, unlawful or fraudulent business practice. (TAC ¶ 18.) 
 
Based on the above, the court finds that
Plaintiff’s UCL claim remains conclusory and is not pled with the requisite
specificity. In the ruling to the demurrers to the First Amended Complaint and
the Second Amended Complaint, the court stated that Plaintiff’s incorporated
allegations made in other claims only to support the UCL claim and that UCL is
not pled with the requisite particularity. (See Ruling of 03/16/23 and
07/24/23.) Despite two prior demurs to the UCL claim and two opportunities to
amend the UCL cause of action, Plaintiff failed to successfully amend the
seventh cause of action. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained without leave
to amend. 
 
III.      Motion to Strike
 
As Defendant Tellez’s demurrer to the TAC
is sustained, the motion to strike is now moot.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Tellez’s demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend as to the first, second, third, fourth, and seventh causes of action and
sustained with leave to amend under the fifth and sixth cause of action only. The
Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave to amend. Defendant Tellez is to give
notice.  


