  Case Number:  21STCV08355    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Lift StayKhachik Jangozian v. 99 Cents Only Stores, LLCCase No.: 21STCV08355Moving Party: Plaintiff Khachik JangozianResponding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis is a trip-and-fall case arising from a November 25, 2019 incident in which Plaintiff alleges he tripped while on the premises of Defendant 99 Cents Only Stores, LLC (“Defendant”). (Declaration of Nicholas P. Kohan (“Kohan Decl.”), ¶ 2.) Plaintiff filed his complaint against Defendant on March 3, 2021, alleging causes of action in negligence and premises liability. (Id. at ¶ 3; Exhibit A.) Defendant subsequently filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on April 8, 2024 (Id. ¶ 4; Exhibit B), which Plaintiff was served notice of four days after, on April 12, 2024. (Id. ¶ 5; Exhibit C.) The bankruptcy petition provided that the instant lawsuit was stayed pursuant to 11 U.S.C. § 362. On October 30, 2024, Plaintiff executed a stipulation with Defendant’s general liability insurance carrier, Safety National Corporation, for limited relief regarding the bankruptcy court’s automatic stay. (Id. ¶ 6; Exhibit D.) The parties’ stipulation permits Plaintiff to continue prosecuting the instant civil action against Defendant as a nominal defendant only and execute, levy and collect upon any judgment rendered against Defendant’s insurer and other “non-debtor” parties and sources in the state court action. The bankruptcy court ordered the stipulation be entered and the stay be opened to the extent to allow the instant case to continue in accordance with the parties’ stipulation. (Id. ¶ 7; see also, Exhibit E.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff argues the Court here should grant the instant motion because Section 362 relief was ordered. (Motion to Lift Stay, p. 4.)OPPOSITIONNo opposition has been filed to this motion.ANALYSISTitle 11, Section 362(a)(3) of the United States Code imposes an automatic stay on all state and federal proceedings outside the bankruptcy court against the debtor and the debtor's property upon the filing of a bankruptcy proceeding. The automatic stay is self-executing, and effective at the time the bankruptcy petition is filed. Section 362(a)(3) of automatically stays any act to obtain possession of property of the estate, property from the estate, or to exercise control over property of the estate. Under Section 362(d) of the United States Code, a court is required to grant relief from an automatic stay for cause on request of a party in interest and after notice and a hearing. In this case, the Federal Bankruptcy Court found good cause for lifting the stay because Defendant has available insurance as well as Plaintiff’s expressed intent to seek recovery solely from those insurance funds. (Kohan Decl. ¶ 6; Exhibit D.) Because Plaintiff is permitted to proceed with his state cause of action, the Court finds lifting the stay in this case is appropriate. RULINGPlaintiff’s motion to lift stay is GRANTED. 