 Case Number:  21STCV28723    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Leave to AmendAtakan Akoglu, An Individual v. Universal Music Group, Inc., A Delaware Corporation, et al.Motion: Leave to AmendMoving Party: Plaintiff Atakan AkogluResponding Party: Defendants UMG Recordings, Inc. (“UMG”); Def Jam Recordings (“Def Jam”)Tentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis case arises out of a two-vehicle collision wherein Plaintiff was operating a vehicle that was struck by a motor vehicle driven by Defendant Hassan Rage (“Rage”). Plaintiff’s complaint in the present action alleged a single cause of action for negligence against Rage, Universal Music Group, Inc. (“Universal”), and Does 1 through 50. Plaintiff alleged that at the time of the accident, Rage was an “employee” of Universal acting within the “course and scope of his employment” with Universal, and that Universal is vicariously liable for his conduct. (Complaint, ¶¶2, 5.) Plaintiff also included a generic allegation that each Defendant was “the agent, servant, partner and/or employee of the remaining Defendants….” (Complaint, ¶14.) On December 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed Amendments to the Complaint, identifying Def Jam as Doe No. 1, and UMG as Doe No. 2. (De Metruis Decl., ¶2.) Based on the allegations of the complaint, on May 16, 2024, Universal, Def Jam and UMG each filed motions for summary judgment. (De Metruis Decl., ¶4.) Prior to the hearing on Defendants’ motions, on November 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed the present motion seeking leave to amend his complaint to amend the language to reflect that Rage was acting as an agent of Defendants UMG and Def Jam as opposed to an employee. (Motion, 3:8-11.)On November 22, 2024, this Court granted Universal’s motion for summary judgment, but denied Def Jam and UMG’s respective motions on the basis that Def Jam and UMG had not met their burden to make a prima facie showing that no agency relationship existed with Rage at the time of the accident, and even if they had, that Plaintiff raised a triable issue of material fact as to whether an agency relationship existed. (De Metruis Decl., ¶5; Exhibit 1.) At oral argument, defense counsel argued that the specific allegations of the complaint alleged only an “employment” relationship, and pointed to Plaintiff’s filing of the present motion seeking leave to amend to add allegations of an agency relationship in support of that argument. However, the Court rejected this argument and found that the general allegations in the complaint that “each of the Defendants named herein, including each DOE Defendant, was the agent, servant, partner and/or employee of the remaining Defendants” sufficiently alleged the existence of an agency relationship. (De Metruis Decl., ¶6.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff brings this motion to amend the language to reflect that Rage was acting as an agent of UMG and Def Jam rather than as an employee. (Motion, p. 3.) Plaintiff asserts any prejudice to Defendants here is de minimus, as Plaintiff is merely clarifying the relationship between Rage and UMG and Def Jam, and that it will have virtually no effect on Defendants. (Id. at 4.)OPPOSITIONDefendants argue Plaintiff’s motion is moot, as the Court has already found that the allegations in Plaintiff’s original complaint are sufficient to allege an agency relationship. (Opposition, p. 4.) Additionally, Defendants argue Plaintiff failed to meet his burden of submitting a declaration setting for why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why the request to amend was not made earlier. (Opposition, p. 5) Defendants request that if Plaintiff’s motion is granted, they be afforded the opportunity to challenge the new allegations in the amended complaint by way of summary judgment, and the trial in this matter be accordingly continued to allow Defendants to bring motions doing so. (Id.)REPLYPlaintiff argues granting the instant motion is proper because the current complaint contains factual inaccuracies, and amending the complaint will bring the facts in line with those the parties currently understand to exist. Plaintiff additionally argues the motion is procedurally proper because the submitted declaration is sufficient to show the purpose and effect of the proposed amendments, why they are necessary and proper, when facts were discovered, and the reasons the request for amendment was not made earlier. Plaintiff further asserts there is no showing of prejudice to Defendants, and offers to remove Universal from the amended complaint, attaching a revised version. (Reply, p. 2-3.)ANALYSISCode of Civil Procedure § 473(a)(1) states: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”    Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, the courts have held that “there is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296–297; see also Ventura v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].) “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 543.) The Court finds that the motion is not moot insofar as it amends the complaint to reflect the current facts and allegations relevant to the case. Plaintiff’s amended complaint (Reply, Exhibit D) thus corrects outdated information in the original complaint and proffers a complaint reflective of the developments in this case. There is a right to amend “to correct inadvertent misstatements of facts or erroneous allegations of terms.” (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.) The Court thus concludes the motion is not moot.Additionally, Plaintiff’s provided declaration is sufficient to justify granting the instant motion under California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b), which requires any motion for leave to be accompanied by a declaration setting out why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why the request was not made sooner. Here, Plaintiff provides the Declaration of Daniel Cox, which sufficiently shows the purpose and effect of the proposed amendments, why they are necessary and proper, when facts were discovered, and the reasons the request for amendment was not made earlier.Granting the motion does not prejudice Defendants. (See Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Defendants argue they will be prejudiced because they will not have an opportunity to bring motions for summary judgement is unpersuasive, as Plaintiff’s amendment conforms to the facts already argued in Defendants’ prior motions for summary judgement in November 2024.  To the extent that novel arguments might be advanced in a new summary judgment motion, the Court will consider a trial continuance to allow the motion to be heard based on good cause shown.  RULINGPlaintiff’s motion for leave to amend is GRANTED.  The amended complaint is deemed filed and served on this date.  Plaintiff is ordered to file a “stand alone” copy of the amended complaint for the Court’s file.