  Case Number:  23CHCV03461    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 5/31/24
Case #23CHCV03461
 
DEMURRER &
MOTION TO STRIKE TO THE ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer & Motion to Strike filed on 1/29/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Restore Tactics, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Ruben Nunez
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the 1st – 4th causes
of action:
            1.  Breach of Contract
            2.  Negligence
            3.  Fraud
            4.  Disgorgement Pursuant to Business &
Professions Code 7031
            5.  Complaint Against Contractor’s Bond
 
RELIEF REQUESTED IN MOTION TO STRIKE: An order
striking portions of the complaint relating to
exemplary damages, punitive damages, attorney fees and expert fees.

 
RULING: The demurrer is overruled, in part, and
sustained with 30 days leave to amend, in part. 
To the extent the motion to strike is not rendered moot by the ruling on
the demurrer, it is granted, in part with 30 days leave to amend, and denied,
in part.        
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of contracts for work to be
performed on Plaintiff Ruben Nunez’s (Plaintiff) home by Defendant Restore
Tactics, Inc. (RTI).  Plaintiff contends
that the work was not properly performed. 
Therefore, on 11/13/23, Plaintiff filed this action against RTI, James
Sotelo Duran, Okalani Manu Taufahema and Henry Renteria for: (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Negligence, (3) Fraud and (4) Disgorgement Pursuant to Business
& Professions Code 7031.
 
After meet and confer efforts failed to resolve the
issues defendants have with the complaint, on 1/29/24, RTI filed and served the
instant demurrer to the entire complaint and motion to strike which seeks to
strike portions of the complaint relating to exemplary damages, punitive
damages, attorney fees and expert fees. 
(See Velissaropoulos Decl.). 
Due to the late filing and service of oppositions and lack of replies
thereto, the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike was continued to
5/31/24.  (See 4/15/24 Minute
Order).  On 5/22/24, RTI filed and served
replies to the oppositions.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
RTI’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) is granted.
 
Alter Ego Liability Against the Individual Defendants
 
The individual defendants are not moving parties on this
demurrer.  (See Demurrer, p.1:11-12,
p.1:1-2).  Therefore, the argument that
the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th causes of
action fail to allege sufficient facts to support alter ego liability against
the individual defendants is not properly before the Court on this demurrer which
is brought solely by RTI.
 
1st cause of action – Breach of Contract
 
The elements of a breach of contract cause of action are:
(1) a contract between plaintiff and defendant, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) breach by defendant, (4) plaintiff suffered
damages as a result of the breach.  See
CACI 300, 303.  
 
With regard to the first and second elements of the cause
of action, Plaintiff has alleged that he and all of the defendants entered into
multiple contracts, Defendants, plural, began performing under the agreements
and Plaintiff performed all conditions precedent required under such contracts .  (See Complaint ¶¶12-15, 30-32, 34).  However, Plaintiff then alleges “the
Defendant  [singular] breached the
agreement [singular]… .”  (See
Complaint ¶¶36-37).  Based on the foregoing,
it is not clear which contract, or contracts, form the basis/es of the breach
of contract claim and/or which terms of such contract, or contracts, Plaintiff
contends RTI, specifically, breached.
 
3rd cause of action – Fraud
 
The elements of a fraud cause of action are: (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity or lack of reasonable ground for
belief in the truth of the representation, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance by the plaintiff, and (5) resulting damage.  Stansfield (1990) 220 CA3d 59, 72-73.  Additionally, each element of a fraud cause
of action must be pled with  specificity
including facts which show how, when, where, to whom and by what means the
representations were made.  Stansfield,
supra at 73; Lazar (1996) 12 C4th 631, 645.  Further, when fraud is alleged against a
corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the misrepresentations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote and when the representation was made.  West (2013) 214 CA4th 780, 793.  
 
Here, Plaintiff fails to include the required specific
factual allegations.  Rather, Plaintiff
refers to “Defendants,” collectively, without specifying which individual
allegedly made what misrepresentation, how, when, where and/or that
individual’s authority to speak on behalf of RTI.  (See Complaint ¶¶18-23, 48-49).
 
4th cause of action – Disgorgement of
Compensation Pursuant to Business & Professions Code 7031
 
Business & Professions Code 7031(b) provides: “[e]xcept
as provided in subdivision (e), a person who utilizes the services of an
unlicensed contractor may bring an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction in this state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed
contractor for performance of any act or contract.     
 
Business & Professions Code 7031(e) provides: 
 
“The judicial doctrine of substantial
compliance shall not apply under this section where the person who engaged in
the business or acted in the capacity of a contractor has never been a duly
licensed contractor in this state. However, notwithstanding subdivision
(b) of Section 143, the court may determine that there has been substantial
compliance with licensure requirements under this section if it is shown at an
evidentiary hearing that the person who engaged in the business or acted in the
capacity of a contractor (1) had been duly licensed as a contractor in this
state prior to the performance of the act or contract, (2) acted reasonably and
in good faith to maintain proper licensure, and (3) acted promptly and in good
faith to remedy the failure to comply with the licensure requirements upon
learning of the failure.”
 
Business & Professions Code 7125.2 provides, in part,
that “[t]he failure of a licensee to obtain or maintain workers’ compensation
insurance coverage, if required under this chapter, shall result in the
automatic suspension of the license by operation of law in accordance with the
provisions of this section… .” 
 
Plaintiff has alleged that RTI failed to maintain worker’s
compensation insurance as required. 
(Complaint ¶57).  Based on the
allegations in the complaint and the facts of which judicial notice has been
taken, it cannot be determined as a matter of law whether or not RTI’s license
was suspended as a matter of law due to a failure to have worker’s compensation
insurance.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer to the 1st,
2nd, 3rd and 4th causes of action on the
ground that these causes of action fail to state sufficient facts to support a
finding of alter ego liability against the individual defendants is overruled.  However, the demurrer as to the 1st
and 3rd causes of action is sustained with leave to amend for the
other reasons set forth above. 
Similarly, for the reasons set forth above, the demurrer to the 4th
cause of action is overruled.  The
argument regarding alter ego liability is the only basis for the demurrer to
the 2nd cause of action. 
Therefore, the demurrer to the 2nd cause of action is also
overruled.  
 
RTI has failed to set forth a sufficient basis to strike
individual words and phrases regarding intentional conduct from the
complaint.  Therefore, the request to
strike the word “intended” from paragraph 10 in the complaint, the word
“intentionally” from paragraph 22 in the complaint and the phrase “never
intended” from paragraph 23 of the complaint is denied.  
 
The request to strike allegations regarding punitive
damages in paragraph 55 which is in the 3rd cause of action is moot
due to the ruling on the demurrer.  To
the extent the prayer for punitive damages in paragraph 4 of the prayer is not
also moot, it is granted, with leave to amend. 

 
The request to strike the prayer for attorney fees and
expert fees contained in paragraph 6 of the prayer for relief is also granted
with leave to amend as the basis for either request cannot be determined from
the allegations in the complaint (i.e., which contract provides the basis for
the attorney fee request; on what basis are expert fees claimed).
 
Due to the liberal policy of allowing leave to amend and
because this is only the original complaint, Plaintiff is given the opportunity
to try to cure the defects in his pleading. 
A First Amended Complaint is due to be filed and served within 30
days.   
 
 
 
 
 
 