 Case Number:  21STCV24604    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  C SOLARES v. CITY OF
NORWALK 
CASE NO.:  21STCV24604
HEARING:  11/14/24
 
#9
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON
COMPANY’s Motion to Strike Portions of Defendant/Cross-Complainant CITY OF
NORWALK’s Cross Complaint is DENIED 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
No Reply filed as of November 12, 2024. Due by November 6,
2024. 
 
This motor vehicle personal injury action was filed by
Plaintiff CARINA SOLARES (“Plaintiff Solares”) against Defendants SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY (“SCE”); HERMAN WEISSKER POWER (“HWP”); the CITY OF
NORWALK (“CITY”) and other defendants on July 2, 2021. Plaintiff Solares
settled with all Defendants and agreed to dismiss her Complaint against all
Defendants, including SCE and it’s subcontractor HWP, as well as the City.
However, indemnity Cross-Complaints, including the City’s Cross-Complaint (filed
November 3, 2021) against SCE, which is at issue in this Motion, was excluded
from the settlement. 
 
Moving Party SCE now moves to dismiss the second and fourth
causes of action as moot, because the City contributed nothing to fund the
settlement with the Plaintiff and suffered no indemnifiable damages. Additionally,
SCE moves to strike the City’s first and third causes action for breach of
contract (duty to indemnify) and declaratory relief (duty to indemnify) causes
of action against SCE because the City’s effort to relieve itself of liability
through an indemnity provision in a construction contract runs afoul of Cal.
Civ. Code §2782(b)(2). 
 
In Opposition, the City argues that Cal. Civ. Code §2782(b)
does not apply, and/or that exceptions to Section 2782 are applicable. 
 
A motion to strike lies either when (1) there is “irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading”; or (2) to strike any pleading or
part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule or order of court.” (CCP §436.)
 
The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice. (CCP §437.)
 
“Except as provided in Sections
2782.1, 2782.2, and 2782.5, provisions, clauses, covenants, or agreements
contained in, collateral to, or affecting any construction contract with a
public agency entered into on or after January 1, 2013 that purport to impose
on any contractor, subcontractor, or supplier of goods or services, or relieve
the public agency from, liability for the active negligence of the public
agency are void and unenforceable.”  
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED.
Both parties raise factual and evidentiary considerations improperly decided
via Motion to Strike. Specifically, the Court finds that whether exceptions to
Cal. Civ. Code §2782(b)(2) apply is a factual inquiry that cannot be determined
on the face of the Cross-Complaint. 