  Case Number:  23STCP01313    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
SEAN RENAUD,  


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCV01313




vs.
 
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES,
 


 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT
  OF MANDATE OR OTHER EXTRAORDINARY RELIEF AND DAMAGES
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Sean Renaud petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondent County of Los
Angeles to set aside its three-day suspension of petitioner and remove the
discipline from petitioner’s personnel file. Petitioner also seeks an award of
$10,000 pursuant to Labor Code § 96(b)(3). 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
Petitioner
Sean Renaud was a Training Captain who attended a recruit banquet for the Los Angeles
County Fire Department (“Department”) on September 23, 2021. (AR 24, 27.) Petitioner
attended the banquet while on vacation. (AR 27-28.) Senior Training Captain
Sara Rathbun also attended the banquet. (AR 24.) 
 
Following
the banquet, at the hotel where the recruits were staying, a guest called the
police to complain about noise. (AR 24, 27-28.) One of the hotel guests, Ms.
Sabeti, stated that she was preparing to go to sleep, and there was a group in
the parking lot screaming and falling as they went up the stairs. (AR 17.)  She claims she opened her door and said: “Hey,
do you guys mind being quiet, you know, it’s late.” (AR 17.) 
 
An
argument ensued, and Ms. Sabeti alleges that one of the group, allegedly Carlos
Bernal, called her a “stupid white bitch” or a “dumb white bitch.” (AR 17, 38.)
Ms. Sabeti also claims that Bernal lunged at her. (AR 17, 37.) Bernal denied he
did either, even though he admitted raising his voice. (AR 16-17.) 
 
Ms.
Sabeti called the Pasadena Police Department, which responded. (AR 18-19.) The
Pasadena Police Department interviewed various recruits. Renaud was the only
training captain present at the time the police were at the hotel. (AR 12 [Fire
Fighter De La Rosa], 31.) 
 
Renaud
arrived after the police were on the scene and conducting interviews. (AR 28.) Outside
of the hotel, petitioner heard from some of the recruits that one of the
recruits had knocked on a room door, having caused a guest in the next room to
wake up. (AR 27.) According to petitioner, a police officer told everyone that
they were not getting into trouble and told the recruits it was time to go home.
(AR 28.) Petitioner saw the guest who made the complaint and, when later
interviewed, said she did not look upset (AR 28.) Petitioner was at the hotel
for five to ten minutes. (AR 28.) Petitioner later told Senior Training Captain
Rathbun that the noise complaint was a case of mistaken identity, that the
recruits were not in trouble, and nothing had gone wrong. (AR 24.)
 
On
September 29, 2021, the Acting Deputy Chief of the Training and Emergency
Services Bureau authorized an administrative investigation concerning petitioner’s
purported failure to supervise trainees on September 23, 2021. (AR 2.) On
December 10, 2021, petitioner was notified that he was the subject of a
Department investigation. (AR 2.) 
 
During the investigative interview, in response to
the allegation that he failed to supervise the recruit class, petitioner stated that Rathbun asked him to go to the hotel and find
out what happened, which he did. (AR 29.) Petitioner reported the incident to Rathbun,
telling her that everyone was going to bed, the incident was concluded, no one was
arrested, and no charges were filed. (AR 29.) Petitioner produced phone
records of a three-minute call to Rathbun at 1:23 a.m. on September 24, 2021.
(AR 30; AR 111.) 
 
When Rathbun was interviewed, she stated Renaud
repeated to her that some of the recruits told him that there was just a
misunderstanding, no one was in trouble, and there was nothing to report. (AR
25.) She added that it was her job to report any violations of the Standards of
Behavior and that, because she was not aware of any violations, there was
nothing to report. (AR 27.) Rathbun also affirmed that, as Senior Training
Captain, she was in charge of coordinating the curriculum and the recruit
schedule, but she was not the supervisor of the other training captains. (AR
25.) Battalion Chief Derrick Chapman was the supervisor of all training
captains, including petitioner and Rathbun. (AR 25.) 
 
On
May 8, 2022, petitioner was notified of the Department’s intent to suspend him
for three days. (AR 69.) On August 19, 2022, petitioner was served with a
Notice of Suspension dated August 10, 2022. (AR 46.) The suspension was based
on petitioner’s “failure to make proper notifications to [his] chain of command
regarding an incident involving Recruit Class 163 and law enforcement.” (AR
69.) 
 
            The Department asserted that
petitioner violated the following Standards of Behavior:
 
1.
Abide by and conform to the County’s and Department’s rules, regulations, policies,
and procedures. (AR 125 [Standard of Behavior A(1)]; AR 47 [letter of suspension].)
 
2.
Perform all assigned duties and responsibilities, specifically: “Exercise good
judgment.” (AR 125 [Standard of Behavior A (3)(b)]; AR 47 [letter of suspension].)
 
3.
Pursuant to reporting requirements, report to their immediate supervisor any
unusual occurrence, or other matter that may adversely affect the operation of
the Department, or any violation of County or Department rules, regulations,
policies, and procedures. (AR 125 [Standard of Behavior A(6)]; AR 47 [letter of
suspension].)
 
The above-mentioned standards apply to employees
“carrying out their “official duties and responsibilities.” (AR 125.) The
purpose of the Standards of Behavior is to “set forth the behavior norms that
the Los Angeles County Fire Department (Department) expects from all
employees.” (AR 123.) All employees are responsible for reading the Standards
of Behavior and for adhering to them. (AR 123.)
 
On September 8, 2022, petitioner filed a letter of
appeal to the Director of Personnel, which is functionally the Department of
Human Resources (“DHR”). (AR 54-74.) Petitioner, through counsel, argued that the
recruit training manual required that he report the incident to the Senior
Training Captain, which was Rathbun. (AR 55.) The referenced training manual
states, in relevant part:
 
The Training Captain who observed the
infraction/violation shall determine if a Report…is required. If a Report is
determined necessary, it shall be completed, signed by the Training Captain,
and submitted to the Senior Training Captain as soon as possible. 
 
(AR 143.) On September 7, 2022, Battalion Chief
Chapman wrote a memorandum to Director Mike Cash of Local 1014, which stated: “Under
the Department Recruit Training Manual that governs the reporting obligations ,
a Training Captain who becomes aware of a potential incident is required to
report that incident to their Senior Training Captain.” (AR 148.) Battalion
Chief Chapman indicated his understanding that petitioner reported the noise
complaint to Rathbun. (AR 148.) 


On November 2, 2022, DHR denied the appeal on the following
grounds:
 
·        
The investigation concluded that while Sean Renaud
was a Fire Captain and serving as a Training Captain for Recruit Class 163, he
failed to exercise sound judgment when he did not report his knowledge of law
enforcement involvement in an incident to his chain of command pertaining to
Recruit Class 163.
 
·        
The Department determined he was at an off-duty
event with Fire Department personnel and became aware of a potential situation
involving law enforcement. Instead of contacting his chain of command to inform
them of potential situations, he chose to notify his colleague, Fire Captain
Sara Rathbun, who was not in his chain of command. As stated in your appeal,
Mr. Renaud’s direct chain of command was Battalion Chief Chapman.
 
(AR 151-52.)
 
II.      Procedural
History
 
            On
January 20, 2023, petitioner filed a Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate or Other
Extraordinary Relief and Damages. On February 8, 2023, respondent County of Los
Angeles, Los Angeles County Fire Department filed a Return and Answer. 
 
            On
December 29, 2023, petitioner filed an opening brief. On January 30, 2024,
respondent filed an opposition. On February 13, 2024, petitioner filed a reply.
The Court has received a hard copy of the administrative record.
 
            On
February 29, 2023, the Court continued the hearing on the petition and ordered
supplemental briefing regarding whether the petition should be reviewed under
traditional or administrative mandamus and whether petitioner was carrying out his
official duties and responsibilities with respect to the subject incident, to
which the Department’s Standards of Behavior would apply. On April 12, 2024, both
parties filed supplemental briefs. 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
          In their supplemental briefs, filed April 12, 2024, both parties agree
that the instant petition should be reviewed under CCP § 1085.[1]

 
CCP
§ 1085(a) provides: “A writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which
the party is unlawfully precluded by that inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person.”
 
“There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of a traditional writ of
mandate: (1) a clear, present and usually ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty.” (California Assn. for Health
Services at Home v. State Dept. of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where…the claim is that an
agency has failed to act as required by law.” (Id. at 705.)
 
“When
a party seeks review of an administrative decision pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085, judicial review is limited to examining the agency
proceedings to ascertain whether the agency's action has been arbitrary,
capricious or lacking entirely in evidentiary support, or whether the agency
failed to follow the proper procedure and give notices required by law. And,
where the case involves the interpretation of a statute or ordinance, our
review of the trial court's decision is de novo.” (Ideal Boat & Camper
Storage v. County of Alameda (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 301, 311, citing Pomona
Police Officers' Assn. v. City of Pomona (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 584.)
In independently reviewing legal questions, “An administrative agency’s
interpretation does not bind judicial review but it is entitled to
consideration and respect.” (Housing Partners I, Inc. v. Duncan (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 1335, 1343.) 
 
An
agency is presumed to have regularly performed its official duties. (Evid. Code
§ 664.) In a CCP § 1085 writ petition, the petitioner generally bears the
burden of proof. (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. State
Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)         
 
IV.     Analysis
 
            Petitioner was suspended for three
days for not having reported that the police had spoken with or was speaking
with members of Recruit Class 163 at the hotel where the recruits were staying,
to his chain of command, i.e., Battalion Chief Chapman. (AR 33, 70.) 
 
            The essential issue in this petition
is whether Standards of Behavior A(1), A(3)(b) and A(6) apply to the subject
incident. The Standards of Behavior “apply to all employees and pertain to both
on- and off-duty conduct.” (AR 123.) However, subdivision A, where the cited
standards are contained, applies to employees carrying out their “official
duties and responsibilities.” (AR 125, cf. AR 129 [setting forth standards
applying to off-duty conduct which “impairs, or potentially impairs, their
performance of Department duties or which brings discredit to the Department”].)

 
            As a preliminary matter, both
parties cite cases involving Government Code § 19572(t) for the
proposition that an employee may be disciplined for off-duty misconduct when
the conduct bears a rational relationship to the employment and can reasonably
result in the impairment of public service. (Stanton v. State Personnel Bd.
(1980) 105 Cal.App.3d 729, 740; Vielehr v. State Personnel Bd. (1973) 32
Cal.App.3d 187, 194; Gray v. State Personnel Bd. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d
1229, 1232; Yancey v. State Personnel Bd. (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 478, 483.)
Government Code § 19572(t) states that “[o]ther failure of good behavior
either during or outside of duty hours, which is of such a nature that it
causes discredit to the appointing authority or the person's employment”
constitutes cause for discipline of an employee. However, Government Code §
19572 applies to state employees, not county employees like petitioner. (See
Deegan v. City of Mountain View (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 37, 49 [noting that
Gov. Code § 19572(t) applies to State civil service employees, not City
workers].) Accordingly, the Court does not apply the “rational relationship” or
“harm to the public service” test under cases involving Government Code §
19572(t) to petitioner’s conduct at issue here.
 
The
Court thus examines whether petitioner was carrying out official duties and
responsibilities at the hotel. Weighing against a finding that petitioner was
carrying out official duties and responsibilities, petitioner was on vacation
on the night in question. (AR 27-28.) In addition, the banquet was also an
off-duty event. (AR 21, 22, 24 [training captains state that the banquet was
off-duty event].)
 
Notwithstanding
the foregoing, petitioner believed it was his responsibility to be at the
banquet for the recruits so he could prepare them to be out in the field. (AR
28.) According to petitioner, the recruits receive their assignments at the
banquet, have many questions, and are eager to obtain information from the
training captains. (AR 28-29.) Training captains other than petitioner attended
the banquet, except those who were on annual vacation. (AR 24.) Further, petitioner
was at the hotel at the request of Senior Training Captain Rathbun, to whom he
reported what happened at the hotel. (AR 29.)  
 
Given
the circumstances under which he attended the banquet and thereafter went to
the hotel at the request of Rathbun, the Court finds that petitioner carried
out official duties and responsibilities. Petitioner attended the banquet in
his capacity as training captain. Recruits sought guidance from petitioner as a
figure of authority during the banquet. Even though the banquet and events
thereafter occurred off-duty, subdivision A is not phrased in terms of on- or
off-duty conduct but rather whether the employee was carrying out official
duties and responsibilities. (Cf. AR 129 [A(20) prohibits illegal use of
drug or controlled substance “whether on- or off-duty].) 
 
            The Court notes that the Recruit
Training Manual provides that the Training Captain who observed any infraction
or violation of Recruit Training Academy Rules, Regulations, Procedures, and
Code of Conduct shall determine if a report is necessary. (AR 143.) If a report
is deemed necessary, the Training Captain shall submit the report to the Senior
Training Captain. (AR 143.) It is undisputed that petitioner reported his
observations of the incident at the hotel to Rathbun, the Senior Trianing
Captain. (AR 29, 148.) Petitioner’s compliance with the Recruit Training
Manual, however, does not obviate his obligation to comply with the Standards
of Behavior. 
 
            For the foregoing reasons, under
Standards of Behavior A(1), A(3)(b), and A(6), petitioner had the obligation to
report to Battalion Chief Chapman, his supervisor, that the police spoke with
or were speaking with recruits at the hotel where the recruits were staying. At
the very least, based on petitioner’s attendance at the banquet in an official
capacity and presence at the hotel at Rathbun’s request, petitioner has not met
his burden to demonstrate that his suspension was the result of arbitrary or
capricious action or action that was lacking entirely in evidentiary support. 
 
V.      Conclusion
 
The petition is DENIED. Pursuant to Local Rule
3.231(n), respondent shall prepare, serve, and ultimately file a proposed
judgment.


