 Case Number:  BC712068    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE
 
Date:               4/23/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           County of Los
Angeles v. Association for Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs et al. (BC712068)
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
The Motion for Leave to Intervene filed by Proposed
Intervenors Oscar Barragan, Brendan Corbett, Bruce Chase, Anthony Geisbauer, Thomas
Giandomenico, John MacDonald, Rick Rector, Steven Ruiz, and Edmundo Torres is DENIED.

 
I.                  
BACKGROUND
Los Angeles County Code section 6.120.020(B)(5) states, in
pertinent part: “Persons employed on the items of Deputy Sheriff (Item No. 2708), Sergeant
(Item No. 2717), or Lieutenant (Item No. 2719), shall be entitled to compensation at a rate four
schedules higher than established for their positions in Section 6.28.140 of this code when they
have successfully completed special training and are assigned on a full-time, permanent basis to
explosives detail duty.”
 
On July 14, 2020, the Court (Hon. Mary H. Strobel) entered
judgment against County of Los Angeles (“County”) and issued a writ of mandate.
The writ commanded County and Esmeralda Ramirez (Assistant Director, Los
Angeles County Sheriffs Department, Personnel Administration Bureau) as
follows:
 
To pay explosive detail pay under Los
Angeles County Code section 6.120.020(B)(5) to all employees who are or were
assigned to explosive breaching duties ("Affected Employees"),
including but not limited to Seth Belville, Kenneth Brown, Joshua Corrales,
Richard Diliberti, Darrell Edwards, Ervin Francois, Gonzalo Galvez, Patrick
Golden, Kevin Hilgendorf, Dan Leon, Stephen Longan, Carlos Lopez, Don McNamara,
Jesse Melgoza, John Montenegro, Ricardo Munoz, Michael Pokorny, Steve Pratt,
Juan Rodriguez, Grant Roth, Edson Salazar, Shan Seacord, Ian Stade, Andrew
Toone, Garrick Twedt and James Wheeler, both retroactive from the date each
Affected Employee was eligible for that compensation together with interest at
the legal rate thereon, and prospectively. The County shall calculate the
appropriate amount of back pay for each of the Affected Employees.
 
Oscar Barragan, Brendan Corbett, Bruce Chase, Anthony
Geisbauer, Thomas Giandomenico, John MacDonald, Rick Rector, Steven Ruiz, and Edmundo
Torres (collectively, “Proposed Intervenors”) seek leave to intervene in the
instant action to enforce the writ, which they contend would entitle them to
back pay.

 
II.               
EVIDENTIARY MATTERS
 
Proposed Intervenors’ requests to take judicial notice of
Exhibits A through D are GRANTED, pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d). 
 
Petitioner and cross-respondent County of Los Angeles, by
and through its Sheriff’s Department’s requests to take judicial notice of
Exhibits 1 and 2 are GRANTED, pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
County’s request to take judicial notice of Exhibits 3
through 5 are GRANTED, but only the
existence of the documents, not the truth of the matters asserted therein. (See
Evid. Code § 452(d); Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548,
1564-69.)
 
III.            
MANDATORY INTERVENTION
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 387(b), a nonparty may
intervene as a matter of right if the nonparty demonstrates: (1) it has an
interest relating to the property or transaction which is the subject of the
action; (2) it is so situated that the disposition of the action may, as a
practical matter, impair or impede its ability to protect that interest; and
(3) its interests are not adequately represented by existing parties. (Siena
Court Homeowners Ass'n v. Green Valley Corp. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1416,
1423-1424.)
 
Proposed Intervenors seek leave to intervene and enforce the
Court’s judgment and writ of mandate. (Notice of Motion at 1:1-7.) The Court
finds that Proposed Intervenors do not have an interest relating to the back
pay ordered by the Court in the writ. On May 10, 2022, in connection with a motion
to enforce the judgment and writ of mandate, Judge Strobel considered “whether
the writ requires County to pay explosives pay to individuals that otherwise
qualify as ‘explosive breachers,’ but who were sergeants or lieutenants when
the cross-petition was filed in August 2018.” (Intervenor RJN Ex. A to Ex. C at
2 [5/10/22 Minute Order].) Having explained that “judgment and writ must be
interpreted in the context of the allegations made in the cross-petition,”
Judge Strobel defined the key question as “whether the cross-petition gave
County sufficient notice that [cross-petitioner] ALADS [Association for Los
Angeles Deputy Sheriffs] sought relief on behalf of deputies that were no
longer non-management employees.” (Id. at 4.) 
 
Judge Strobel found that the cross-petition gave “notice
that ALADS was representing only deputies for whom ALADS is ‘the recognized
employee organization.’” (Id. at 6.) “The cross-petition referred to
ALADS as an organization ‘representing sworn non-management peace officers’ and
it referred to all of the named Affected Employees as ‘Deputies.’” (Id.
at 4.) 
Judge Strobel found that County had notice that ALADS sought
relief on behalf of two officers specifically named in the cross-petition who
recently promoted to sergeant but for whom ALADS filed grievances when they
were deputies. (Id. 5-6.) However, for other individuals, Judge Strobel
found that County did not have reasonable notice that they were represented by
ALADS. (Ibid.) 
 
Proposed Intervenors are captains, commanders, and assistant
sheriffs. (Barragan Decl. ¶ 2; Corbett Decl. ¶ 2; Chase Decl. ¶ 2; Geisbauer
Decl. ¶ 2; Giandomenico Decl. ¶ 2; MacDonald Decl. ¶ 2; Rector Decl. ¶ 2; Ruiz
Decl. ¶ 2; Torres Decl. ¶ 2.) As management-level employees, Proposed
Intervenors belong to the Professional Peace Officers Association (“PPOA”), not
ALADS. (Barragan Decl. ¶ 14 & Ex. F; Corbett Decl. ¶ 11 & Ex. C; Chase
Decl. ¶¶ 8, 10 & Ex. C; Geisbauer Decl. ¶¶ 9, 11 & Exs. D, E;
Giandomenico Decl. ¶¶ 8, 9; MacDonald Decl. ¶¶ 9, 13 & Exs. C, D; Rector
Decl. ¶ 10 & Ex. B; Ruiz Decl. ¶ 10 & Ex. C; Torres Decl. ¶ 10 &
Ex. B.) 
 
Even though Judge Strobel did not expressly mention
captains, commanders, and assistant sheriffs in her minute order, Proposed
Intervenors are still management-level employees who were not represented by
ALADS at the time the cross-petition was filed in August 2018. Proposed
Intervenors were also not named in the cross-petition. (Cross-Pet. ¶ 3.) As
Judge Strobel found: “The wording of paragraph 3 of the cross-petition
reasonably suggested that ALADS brought the petition on behalf of ‘non-management
peace officers,’ and not sergeants or lieutenants for whom PPOA would be ‘the’
recognized employee organization.” (Intervenor RJN Ex. A to Ex. C at 5.)
Proposed Intervenors provide no reason why Judge Strobel’s reasoning does not
also apply to them, as they are similarly not “non-management peace officers” for
whom the PPOA would be the appropriate representative, not ALADS. 
 
Accordingly, based on the reasoning in Judge Strobel’s May
10, 2022 minute order, County did not have sufficient notice that ALADS sought
relief on behalf of Proposed Intervenors. Proposed Intervenors are therefore not
covered by the judgment and writ of mandate. 
They thus have no interest in this litigation for purposes of
intervention.
 
Even if County identified some of Proposed Intervenors in
its return to the writ of mandate (Reply at 9:15-28; Barragan Decl. Exs. C, D)
and even if County issued backpay to others who may not have been entitled to
backpay under the writ of mandate (Reply at 10:1-21), it still remains true that
the judgment and writ of mandate are interpreted in the context of the
cross-petition. This Court cannot expand the judgment and writ of mandate to
benefit individuals who were not included in the cross-petition.
 
For the foregoing reasons, Proposed Intervenors do not have
an interest in enforcing the judgment and writ of mandate. The Court finds that
Proposed Intervenors do not have a mandatory right to intervene in the instant
proceeding.  
 
IV.            
PERMISSIVE INTERVENTION
 
A trial court has broad discretion to permit or deny
intervention. (Lippman v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d
1630, 1633, fn. 2.)  The Court considers
whether the applicant’s interests are already adequately represented in the
action, or whether the intervention will unduly delay or prejudice the rights
of the original parties.  (Hausmann v.
Farmers Ins. Exchange (1963) 213 Cal.App.2d 611, 616.)  When “[p]resented with a motion for
intervention, the court must determine whether the intervenor has established
(1) it has a direct interest in the lawsuit; (2) intervention would not enlarge
the issues raised by the original parties; and (3) the intervenor would not
‘tread on the rights of the original parties to conduct their own lawsuit.’” (Bame
v. City of Del Mar (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1346, 1364.)  “The ‘interest,’ it has been said, must be of
such direct or immediate character that the intervener will either gain or lose
by the direct legal operation and effect of the judgment.” (Hausmann,
213 Cal.App.2d at 614.) 
 
For the reasons stated above, Proposed Intervenors do not
have a direct interest in the lawsuit. ALADS did not file the cross-petition on
behalf of individuals similarly situated to Proposed Intervenors. Consequently,
the Court exercises its discretion to deny intervention.
 
V.               
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is DENIED. 