 Case Number:  23STCV17479    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
DALILA
  CHAVEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
AERO-ELECTRIC
  CONNECTOR, INC., et
  al.
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23STCV17479
 
  Hearing Date:  April 11, 2024 
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
DEFENDANT AERO-ELECTRIC CONNECTOR, INC.’S motion to compel
  arbitration AND STAY ACTION
 
 



 
Procedural
Background
             On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff Dalila Chavez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Aero-Electric Connector,
Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, alleging twelve causes of
action for, among other claims, discrimination, retaliation, and failure to
prevent discrimination and retaliation. The Complaint arises from Plaintiff’s termination
from employment after being placed on medical leave due to her pregnancy. Plaintiff
alleges she was wrongfully terminated, among other claims.   
On October 6, 2023, Defendant filed an
Answer to the Complaint. 
On January 4, 2024, Defendant filed and
served the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action, which is made
on the grounds that Plaintiff entered into a valid and binding arbitration
agreement with Defendant, in which she agreed to submit her covered employment
claims to binding arbitration. 
On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the motion, to which Defendant replied on April 4, 2024.   
Evidentiary
Objections
            On
opposition, Plaintiff filed evidentiary objections to the declaration of Bob Da
Silva (“Da Silva”) submitted in support of the motion.  The Court rules as follows:
1.    
Sustained—hearsay

2.    
Sustained—hearsay

3.    
Sustained—hearsay

4.    
Sustained—hearsay

            Plaintiff
also objects to portions of the declaration of Da Silva submitted in support of
the reply.  The Court rules as follows:
5.    
Sustained—hearsay

6.    
Sustained—hearsay

7.    
Sustained—hearsay
8.    
      Sustained—hearsay          
Given that
theCourt has sustained the evidentiary objectios to Da Silva’s statements in
support of the moving and reply papers, Defendant has not provided any
admissible evidence of the existence of a valid arbitration agreement. Da
Silva’s declaration does not set forth facts showing that the purported
arbitration agreement was made in the ordinary course of business and was made
at or near the time of the act, condition, or event. (Evid. Code § 1271.) Da
Silva’s respective declarations are insufficient to allow the arbitration
agreement to be admitted into evidence under the business records exception.
(Evid. Code § 1271.) However, as will be explained below, Plaintiff has placed
the arbitration agreement before the Court through her own declaration. 
Legal
Standard
California law incorporates many of the
basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a
presumption in favor of arbitrability.  (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under CCP § 1281, a “written agreement to
submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter
arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist
for the revocation of any contract.” 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that:
(a) The right to compel arbitration has
been waived by the petitioner; or
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of
the agreement.
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. . . .”  (CCP §1281.2.)
The right to arbitration depends upon the
existence of a contract as a petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in
equity seeking specific performance of that contract.  (Marcus
& Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 83, 88.)  When presented with
a petition to compel arbitration, the trial court's first task is to determine
whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.  (Id.)  
“Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394 explained:
‘[W]hen a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court
itself must determine whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its
enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.  Because the existence of the agreement is a
statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the
burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.  If the party opposing the petition raises a
defense to enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or
a statutory defense of waiver or revocation (see §1281.2(a), (b))—that party
bears the burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of
the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.’ (Rosenthal, supra, at 413.) 
According to Rosenthal, facts
relevant to enforcement of the arbitration agreement must be determined ‘in the
manner . . . provided by law for the . . . hearing of motions.’ (Rosenthal, supra, at 413, quoting
§1290.2.)  This ‘ordinarily mean[s] the
facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence,
with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion.’ (Rosenthal, supra, at 413–414; . .
.).”  (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
754, 761-62.)
 
Discussion
Existence
of an agreement to arbitrate
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration,
the court must first determine whether the parties agreed to arbitrate the
dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the court
in making this determination.  (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)  “With
respect to the moving party’s burden to provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate,
it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to
the court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152,
1160.)
“[D]efendants
may meet their initial burden to show an agreement to arbitrate by attaching a
copy of the arbitration agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party’s
signature.” (Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060; see also Bannister v. Marinidence Opco,
LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541 [“The party seeking arbitration can meet
its initial burden by attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the respondent's signature.”].)  In assessing whether an agreement to
arbitrate exists, the moving party bears the burden of proving the existence of
a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence.  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.)  
Here, Defendant
has failed to present any admissible evidence as to the existence of a valid
agreement to arbitrate. In support of the motion, Da Silva declares that:  he is currently employed as the Vice President
of Human Resources for Conesys, Inc., which is the parent company to several
subsidiaries including Defendant. (Da Silva Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff was employed
by Defendant as an Assembler from May 10, 2010, through October 1, 2021. (Da
Silva Decl., ¶ 5.) Da Saliva declares that: (i) he has personal knowledge about
the onboarding documents give to new employees; (ii) has access to employee
personnel records; (iii) he has knowledge of the manner in which these records
are kept; and that he reviewed Plaintiff’s file. No facts are stated as to how
he knows the kind of onboarding documents generated or the manner in which they
are kept. Neither does Da Silva state his personal knowledge about whether
Plaintiff signed an arbitration agreement.
In connection
with the opposition, Plaintiff attaches a copy of the Arbitration Agreement to
her declaration and states that when she signed the Arbitration Agreement on
March 10, 2010, she did not completely understand the content of the
Arbitration Agreement. (Chavez Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6; Exh. A.) Plaintiff states that
she did not have the opportunity to review the Arbitration Agreement with a
lawyer or a Spanish translator before accepting employment at Defendant.
(Chavez Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff is not a native English speaker, and she speaks,
writes, and reads Spanish. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff states that she
signed the Arbitration Agreement without the appropriate advice and without
information about the meaning of the agreement terms. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff states that she never agreed to arbitrate claims against Defendant.
(Chavez Decl., ¶ 8.) 
On reply,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff does not dispute that she signed the
Arbitration Agreement and provides the Court with a copy of the Arbitration
Agreement, which implicitly authenticates the agreement. (Reply at p. 2:5-7.) The
Court agrees. Plaintiff admits she signed the agreement and attests that it is
attached to her Declaration thereby correcting Defendant's failure to
authenticate the document. The Court finds that there is an agreement to
arbitrate between the parties. 
Defendant’s Failure to Sign the Arbitration
Agreement 
Plaintiff
contends that the Arbitration Agreement is invalid because Defendant failed to
sign the agreement. The lack of Defendant’s signature on the Arbitration
Agreement is not fatal to the validity of the agreement. “[T]he writing memorializing
an arbitration agreement need not be signed by both parties in order to be
upheld as a binding arbitration agreement.” (Serafin v. Balco Properties
Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176.) “Just as with any written
agreement signed by one party, an arbitration agreement can be specifically
enforced against the signing party regardless of whether the party seeking enforcement
has also signed.” (Id. at p. 177.) 
            As
such, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s contention that the Arbitration Agreement
is invalid due to the lack of Defendant’s signature on the agreement. By invoking
the arbitration process and filing the instant motion to compel arbitration,
Defendant has shown its intent to be bound by the Arbitration Agreement despite
the lack of its signature on the agreement. (See Serafin v. Balco Properties
Ltd., LLC, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176-77 [finding that
arbitration agreement which was not signed by defendant employer was not
invalid because defendant employer evinced its intent to be bound by such an
agreement through invoking the arbitration process and filing a motion to
compel arbitration].) 
                        The Court finds that Plaintiff’s reliance on Flores v. Nature’s Best
Distribution, LLC (2016) 7 Cal.App.5th 1, is inapposite. That case involved
an arbitration agreement where the terms “employee” and “company” were not
defined in the body of the arbitration agreement at issue. (Flores v.
Nature’s Best Distribution, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th 1, 9.) Here,
however, the Arbitration Agreement identifies and defines the parties. (Chavez
Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. A.)       
Mutual Assent
            Plaintiff
contends that consent formation is lacking due to the lack of mutual assent as
she does not read English and was not able to comprehend the agreement when it
was presented to her.  One who lacks an understanding
of English should have a contract “read or explained to [her].” (Ramos v.
Westlake Services LLC (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 674, 687, citations omitted.)
“California law . . . requires that the plaintiff, in failing to acquaint
himself or herself with the contents of a written agreement before signing it, has
not have acted in an objectively unreasonable manner.” (Rosenthal v.
Great Western Fin. Securities Corp., supra, 14 Cal.4th 394, 423.) 
To establish a
valid contract there must be: (1) parties capable of contracting; (2) their
consent; (3) a lawful object; and (4) sufficient cause or consideration. (Civ.
Code § 1550.) “The party seeking to enforce an arbitration provision . . . must
establish the provision it seeks to enforce is the same provision to which the
parties agreed.”  (Avery v. Integrated
Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 67.) “Consent is not
mutual, unless the parties all agree upon the same thing in the same sense.” (Ibid.)
“If there is no evidence establishing a manifestation of assent to the same
thing by both parties, then there is no mutual consent to a contract and no
contract formation.” (Ibid., citations omitted.)  
            Here,
the Court finds that mutual assent is present. Exhibit B, which is attached to
Chavez’s declaration in opposition to the motion (Chavez Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. B),
is a New Employee Orientation Checklist (the “Checklist”). Plaintiff signed the
Checklist and such document states that Plaintiff was informed about the
Arbitration Agreement and had all her questions answered to her satisfaction
pertaining to the Arbitration Agreement. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. B.) By
signing the Checklist, Plaintiff indicated that she understood the Arbitration
Agreement. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. B.) It was Plaintiff’s responsibility to
ask questions about matters she did not understand in the boarding documents
and having failed to do so is fatal to her argument that she did not consent to
arbitration due to lack of mutual respect assent.   
            The Court will also briefly address
Plaintiff’s argument that the Arbitration Agreement is void due to the presence
of economic duress. Economic duress is applicable where a wrongful act is done
that “is sufficiently coercive to cause a reasonably prudent person faced with
no reasonable alternative to succumb to the perpetrator’s pressure.” (Rich
& Whillock, Inc. v. Ashton Development, Inc. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
1154, 1158.) However, an
arbitration agreement offered on a “take it or leave it basis” does not render
the agreement unenforceable. (See Legaltree v. Luce, Forward Hamilton & Scripps (1999) Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127.
            When a party pleads economic duress, that party must have had
no ‘reasonable alternative’ to the action it now seeks to avoid (generally,
agreeing to a contract). If a reasonable alternative was available, and there
hence was no compelling necessity to submit to the coercive demands, economic
duress cannot be established.” (CrossTalk Productions, Inc. v.
Jacobson (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 644.)  Plaintiff has not established that she had no
reasonable alternative but to take the job or that she could not find
employment elsewhere. Nor has Plaintiff stated she would not have signed the
Agreement had she known what rights she was giving up in exchange for
employment. Thus, Plaintiff’s assertion that she felt economically pressured to
sign the Agreement is insufficient to render the agreement void as procedurally
unconscionable. Plaintiff has not articulated facts that show Defendant took
action to prevent Plaintiff from fully reading and understanding the Agreement,
from asking for the Agreement in Spanish or an interpreter, from asking that
the Agreement be explained to him. 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff’s declaration in opposition to the motion does not establish
that she was under duress at the time she signed the agreement to arbitrate. Her
declaration is devoid of any facts that any specific actions of Defendant were
coercive such as to cause her to succumb to pressure exerted by Defendant. 
Applicability of the Federal Arbitration Act
            “A
party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden of showing FAA
preemption.” (Lane v. Francis Capital
Mgmt. LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 684.) California law provides that
parties may expressly designate that any arbitration proceeding should move
forward under the FAA's procedural provisions rather than under state
procedural law.[1]  (Cronus
Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 376, 394).  
            Here,
the Arbitration Agreement does not specifically invoke the FAA nor does
Defendant present evidence that the Arbitration Agreement has a substantial
relationship with interstate commerce. 
Accordingly, the FAA is inapplicable, and the California Arbitration Act
applies.
Covered
Claims
The Arbitration Agreement covers “[a]ny
controversy, dispute, or claim . . . whatsoever between Dalila Chavez
(“EMPLOYEE”) on the one hand, and Aero-Electric, Inc. (“COMPANY”) . . . on the
other hand.” (Chavez Decl., Exh. A.) The Complaint arises from Plaintiff’s
employment with Defendant. Therefore, Arbitration Agreement clearly covers the
instant action.
Unconscionability
“California courts analyze
unconscionability as having a procedural and a substantive element.”  (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services,
Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1329.) “[B]oth elements must be present before a
contract or contract provision is rendered unenforceable on grounds of
unconscionability.”  (Id.) The
doctrine of unconscionability refers to “an absence of meaningful choice on the
part of one of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably
favorable to the other party.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013)
57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133.) It consists of procedural and substantive components,
“the former focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power,
the latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.” (Ibid.) Although both
components of unconscionability must be present to invalidate an arbitration
agreement, they need not be present to the same degree. (Armendariz v. Found
Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) “Essentially a
sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural
process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the
greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.
[Citations.] In other words, the more substantively unconscionable the contract
term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to
the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.)
“The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving
unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev.
(US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.)
“‘Procedural unconscionability’ concerns
the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the
parties at that time.  It focuses on the factors of oppression and
surprise. The oppression component arises from an inequality of bargaining
power of the parties to the contract and an absence of real negotiation or a
meaningful choice on the part of the weaker party. The component of surprise
arises when the challenged terms are ‘hidden in a prolix printed form drafted
by the party seeking to enforce them.’” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281, citations omitted.)        
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are “so one sided as to
“’shock the conscience.’” (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc.
(1999) 70 Cal. App.4th 1329, 1330.)  The
California Supreme Court in Armendariz set forth five minimum
requirements in requiring that arbitration agreements in the employer-employee
context must provide for: (1) neutral arbitrators; (2) more than minimal
discovery; (3) a written award; (4) all types of relief that would otherwise be
available in court; and (5) no additional costs for the employee beyond what
the employee would incur if he or she were bringing the claim in court.  (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 702, 712-713.)  
Procedural Unconscionability
            The Court finds that the Arbitration
Agreement is not procedurally unconscionable. As discussed above, Plaintiff
declares that she was required to sign the Arbitration Agreement as part of her
employment. A “take it or leave it” approach does not render an agreement
unconscionable. Plaintiff had a reasonable alternative – she could have
declined to sign it and sought employment elsewhere. Arbitration agreements are
commonplace in employment settings, and these are not found unconscionable
simply because they are presented as a condition of employment. 
No facts are presented supporting a
finding of  “oppression or surprise.”  The Arbitration Agreement is a separate
standalone document, one which Plaintiff indicated that she understood. (Chavez
Decl.; Exh. B.) There is no indication from Plaintiff’s declaration that the
Arbitration Agreement was “buried . . . in a complex printed form” making it
impossible for her to discern it. (McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003)
109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87.) 
            For
the reasons stated, Court finds that the Arbitration Agreement is not procedurally
unconscionable. 
            Substantive Unconscionability 
            The Arbitration Agreement provides
that “[t]he chosen arbitration administrator shall give each party a list of
names drawn from its panel of employment arbitrators.” (Chavez Decl., Exh. A.)
The Arbitration Agreement states that “[t]the parties shall be entitled to conduct
reasonable discovery, including conducting depositions and requesting
documents. The arbitrator shall have the authority to resolve discovery
disputes, including but not limited to what constitutes reasonable discovery.”
(Id.) A written award is required pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement.
(Id.) The costs and fees for arbitration must be paid by Defendant. (Id.)
Further, the Arbitration Agreement states that “[e]ach party shall bear its or
his own attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in connection with arbitration
except for any attorneys’ fees or costs which are awarded by the Arbitrator
pursuant to a statute or contract which provides for recovery of such fees
and/or costs from the other party.” (Id.)  The arbitration is to take place “in
accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Procedures of the American
Arbitration Association or other similar organization.” (Id.) 
            The Court rejects Plaintiff’s
contention that the Arbitration Agreement unduly limits the remedies available
to Plaintiff or is substantively unconscionable as it provides more than
minimal discovery, provides for neutral arbitrators, and a written award.  In addition, the agreement does not impose
any additional costs beyond that which would be incurred had the action been
brought in court, and does not prohibit Plaintiff from obtaining any type of
relief. The Arbitration Agreement is not substantively unconscionable and meets
the requirements set forth in Fitz v. NCR Corp., supra, 118
Cal.App.4th 702, 712-713. Nothing about the Arbitration Agreement is so
one-sided that it shocks the conscience. 
            In sum, the Court finds that the
Arbitration Agreement is not procedurally or substantively unconscionable. As
such, the Court finds that Plaintiff can be compelled to arbitration pursuant
to the Arbitration Agreement. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant
Aero-Electric Connector, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Litigation is GRANTED.  
The case is
stayed pending arbitration pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.4.  A status conference on the progress
of the arbitration is set on January 29, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. The Court expects
the parties to move expeditiously to a completion of the arbitration.
Moving party is
ordered to provide notice and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED: April 11, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


