 Case Number:  23PSCV01581    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
samuel
  castorena,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
QUINN COMPANY; KUBOTA CORPORATION;
  KUBOTA NORTH AMERICA CORPORATION; KUBOTA TRACTOR CORPORATION; KUBOTA
  MANUFACTURING OF AMERICA CORPORATION, et al.
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23PSCV01581
 
  Hearing Date:  April 11, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Defendant quinn company’s motion to
  strike portions of the FIRST AMENDED complaint
 
 



 
Procedural Background
            On May 25, 2023, Plaintiff Samuel Castorena
(“Plaintiff”) filed the instant products liability action against Defendants
Quinn Company (“Quinn”), Kubota Corporation, Kubota Northa America Corporation,
Kubota Tractor Corporation, and Kubota Manufacturing of America Corporation
(collectively “Defendants”).  The
complaint asserts four causes of action for (1) Strict Products Liability, (2) Negligence,
(3) Breach of Express Warranty of Merchantability, and (4) Breach of Implied
Warranty of Merchantability.  
            On
August 3, 2023, the Court deemed the instant action related to the Lead Action entitled,
Norguard
Insurance Company v. Kubota Tractor Corporation, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
23STCV09968.  (Minute Order 8/3/23.)  Accordingly, the instant action was
reassigned to the instant department.
            On
September 26, 2023, the Court granted Defendant Quinn’s motion to strike
portions of the Complaint. 
            On
October 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint against
Defendants alleging the same causes of action. 
            On
November 21, 2023, Defendant Quinn filed the instant motion to strike portions
of the FAC. The motion is unopposed. 
Allegations
of the Operative Complaint 
            The complaint alleges that:
            “On May 31, 2021, [Plaintiff] was
driving a KUBOTA RTV utility vehicle (the ‘SUBJECT VEHICLE’), at the QUINN
COMPANY business property located at 10006 Rose Hills Road, City of Industry,
State of California, when the left rear wheel and tire of the SUBJECT VEHICLE
broke off from the axle, causing PLAINTIFF to lose control of the SUBJECT
VEHICLE, which jerked back and forth, nearly flipping over, before PLAINTIFF
was able to bring it to a stop.” (FAC, ¶13.) The Subject Vehicle was purchased
by Quin from Defendants Kubota Corporation, Kubota Northa America Corporation, Kubota Tractor
Corporation, and Kubota Manufacturing of America Corporation.  (Id. at ¶¶7-10, 14.)  
            As a result of this incident,
Plaintiff “sustained various injuries, including injuries and symptoms to his
cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, bilateral upper extremities
including shoulders, elbows, wrists, and hands, bilateral lower extremities
(right greater than left), chest, and ribs.” 
(Id. at ¶15.)  “At all
times herein mentioned, QUINN, KUBOTA, and DOES 1 through 100 were engaged in
the business of designing, developing, repairing, manufacturing, distributing,
fabricating, assembling, testing, engineering, inspecting, leasing, selling,
buying, advertising, marketing, warranting, maintaining, repairing, controlling
and modifying the SUBJECT VEHICLE and other similar utility vehicles. QUINN,
KUBOTA, and DOES 1 through 100 market, distribute, sell, modify and repair
their vehicles, including the SUBJECT VEHICLE, within the County of Los
Angeles, State of California.”  (Id.
at ¶16.)
Legal
Standard
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer
(i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.).  (See
CCP §§ 435-437.)  A party may file a
motion to strike in whole or in part within the time allowed to respond to a
pleading, however, if a party serves and files a motion to strike without
demurring to the complaint, the time to answer is extended.  (CCP §§ 435(b)(1), 435(c).)
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  (CCP §
436.)  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleadings or by way of judicial notice.  (CCP § 437.)
Meet
and Confer Requirement 
Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5,
subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike pursuant
to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer¿in person or by
telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion
to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” The
parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5(a)(2).)  The moving party must also file and serve a declaration
detailing the meet and confer efforts.  (Id.¿at (a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must
meet and confer again before a motion to strike may be filed to the amended
pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)  
Defendant Quinn has sufficiently met and
conferred.  (Kwong Decl., ¶4, Exh. A.)
 
Discussion
            Defendant Quinn moves to strike the
allegations and prayer for punitive damages from the FAC.
California Civil Code section 3294
authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Id. at (c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id. at (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Id. at (c)(3).) Punitive damages thus
require more than the mere commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895.) 
Moreover, a demand
for punitive damages for the commission of any tort requires more than the mere
conclusory allegations of “oppression, fraud, and malice.”  (Civ. Code § 3294; see Perkins v. Superior
Court (1981) 117 Cal. App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
Rather, “[t]here must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such
as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of Defendant, or
such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interest of others that its
conduct may be called willful or wanton.” (Taylor, supra, 24 Cal.3d at
pp.894-895.)
As to oppression,
no despicable conduct warranting punitive damages has been alleged.  (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(2); Lackner v. North
(2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210 [“The adjective ‘despicable’ connotes conduct
that is ‘“... so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome
that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”’”].)  
As to malice,
Plaintiff does not allege Quinn intentionally sought to harm Plaintiff.  (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(1).)  Rather, the claim is based on
negligence.   “[R]ecklessness alone is insufficient to
sustain an award of punitive damages because “ ‘[t]he central spirit of the
exemplary damage statute, the demand for evil motive, is violated by an award
founded upon recklessness alone.’ ” [Citation.]”  
However, a
conscious disregard of the safety of others may constitute malice within the
meaning of section 3294 of the Civil Code. 
(Taylor, supra, 24 Cal.3d at p.895.)  “In order to justify an award of punitive
damages on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was
aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he
willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.”  (Ibid.) 
The FAC alleges that
Plaintiff is informed and believes that Defendant knew of the malfunction
because they were informed of it on numerous occasions, failed to address it,
and concealed it. (FAC, ¶¶11, 29, 38, 45, and 48.) As with the Complaint, this
allegation is insufficient as it is made on information and belief and fails to
provide any factual basis to support this belief.  (See Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 550; [A “[p]laintiff may allege on information and belief any
matters that are not within his personal knowledge, if he has information
leading him to believe that the allegations are true.”].)  Moreover, mere conclusions of malice,
oppression, or fraud are insufficient as facts must be alleged to support a
prayer for punitive damages.  (Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.) 
As to the allegation that Defendant concealed
the malfunction, Plaintiff has not alleged fraud with specificity as required
to state a claim of fraud as “[f]raud allegations ‘involve a serious attack on
character’ and therefore are pleaded with specificity.  [Citation.] 
General and conclusory allegations are insufficient.  [Citation.] 
The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts which
‘‘‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.’’’  [Citation.]”  (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
The Court notes that Plaintiff has not opposed
the motion.
Accordingly, as no facts have been alleged to
support the prayer for punitive damages, Defendant Quinn’s unopposed motion to
strike is GRANTED.
Leave to Amend
Leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Goodman v. Kennedy, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p.348; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)  
As Plaintiff has not
opposed the motion, Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that amendment can
cure the defects.
Conclusion and ORDER
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant Quinn Company’s motion to strike
the prayer for punitive damages and surrounding allegations in the FAC is
GRANTED without leave to amend.
            Moving
Party is to
provide notice of this order and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED: April 11, 2024                                             ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court