  Case Number:  22STCV17034    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Socorro Jacobo Sandoval,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV17034




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Atlantic Solutions Group, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 22, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Atlantic Solutions Group,
Inc., Adam Kidan, Denise Gonzalez and Ivette Nieves
Responding Party: Plaintiff Socorro Jacobo Sandoval
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED IN
PART.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On May 23, 2022, Plaintiff Socorro
Jacobo Sandoval sued Defendants Atlantic Solutions Group, Inc. et. al.,
alleging twenty causes of action for FEHA violations and wrongful termination.
Plaintiff alleges she was terminated because of her gender, because she needed
lactation accommodations, and because she contracted COVID-19 at the workplace.
 
The Court sustained Defendants’
demurrer to the complaint and Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint on
February 16, 2023, asserting nine causes of action for FEHA violations,
wrongful termination, whistleblower retaliation and UCL violations.
 
On September 28, 2023, the Court sustained
the demurrer to the FAC. Plaintiff filed the SAC on October 27, 2023, asserting
eight causes of action for FEHA violations, wrongful termination, and
whistleblower retaliation.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First Cause of Action for “Unlawful
Employment Action” Based on Sex in Violation of FEHA
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of
action on the ground that it is uncertain and was added to the SAC without
leave. Defendants assert Plaintiff did not allege sex discrimination or
harassment previously. The Court declines to sustain the demurrer on this
basis. The previous iterations of the complaint did mention discrimination and
harassment based on sex. Here, Plaintiff alleges she experienced adverse
employment actions, such as reassignment, changes in job duties, and failure to
accommodate Plaintiff’s lactation needs, due to her pregnancy. This is
sufficient to allege discrimination and harassment based on sex.
 
The demurrer to the first cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
B. Second Cause of Action for
Disability Discrimination
 
Government Code § 12940 provides that
it is unlawful for an employer to refuse to hire or employ a person; to
discharge a person from employment; or to discriminate against the person in
compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment on the basis
of physical disability and medical condition. (Gov. Code § 12940(a).)
 
Defendants demur to the second cause of
action for disability discrimination on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to
allege a disability and previously alleged that Defendants accommodated her
disability. Plaintiff alleges she was disabled by her pregnancy and by
contracting COVID-19 while pregnant. Plaintiff also alleges Defendants
perceived Plaintiff as being disabled. Plaintiff alleges Defendants discriminated
against her by reassigning her and terminating her employment. This is
sufficient to allege disability discrimination.
 
The demurrer to the second cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
C. Sixth and Eighth Causes of Action
for Retaliation 
 
To establish retaliation under FEHA, a
plaintiff must show that “(1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2)
the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.”
(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)
 
Defendants demur to the causes of
action for retaliation on the ground Plaintiff has filed to allege protected
activity. Plaintiff alleges she complained about the alleged acts of
discrimination. This is sufficient to allege protected activity.
 
The demurrer to the sixth and eighth
causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
D. Remaining Causes of Action
 
Defendants assert the remaining claims
for failure to accommodate, failure to prevent, and wrongful termination fail
because Plaintiff has not stated claims for discrimination. As discussed,
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged discrimination.
 
E. Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or
improper matter asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Defendants move to strike the first
cause of action, the requests for attorney’s fees and punitive damages, and the
causes of action for retaliation as against the individual defendants. The
Court declines to strike the first cause of action as previous iterations of
complaints contain mentions of sex discrimination. Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged discrimination based on her pregnancy. This supports attorney’s fees
and punitive damages. The Court agrees, however, that individual defendants may
not be liable for retaliation.
 
The motion to strike is GRANTED as to
the claims for retaliation against the individual defendants only.
