 Case Number:  24TRCV02568    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s Complaint and Motion to Strike   Moving  Party: Defendant Jae  Ho Yoon          Responding Party: Plaintiff JY and JA Investment,  LLC   RULING   The court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. The court SUSTAINS the  demurrer with leave to amend.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff JY and JA Investment, LLC (“Plaintiff”)  filed a complaint against Defendant Jae Ho Yoon (“Defendant”) alleging causes  of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Fraud;  and (4) Professional Negligence.   On September 23, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion. Plaintiff  filed an opposition on November 6, 2024. Defendant filed a reply on November  13, 2024.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   From  August 27, 2014 to April 5 2022, Plaintiff employed Defendant, a certified  public accountant (“CPA”) to prepare its business taxes. (Complaint, ¶ 6.)   On April  30, 2021, the parties entered into an agreement whereby Defendant was to  prepare Plaintiff’s application for the SBA Restaurant Revitalization Fund and  submit the application on May 3, 2021, right when the SBA award portal opened.  (Complaint, ¶ 7.) Defendant told Plaintiff that the application was submitted  on the agreed upon date, and Plaintiff tendered $800.00 to Defendant as  payment. (Complaint, ¶¶ 11-12.)   Plaintiff  alleges that Defendant created an email account on behalf of Plaintiff to  submit the application, but Plaintiff does not have access to it. (Complaint, ¶  13.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant fraudulently concealed and  misrepresented the fact that he had not submitted the application on May 3,  2021. (Complaint, ¶¶ 14-16.) Plaintiff did not become suspicious until February  6, 2024, after Plaintiff demanded a receipt to prove submission, and Defendant  refused to provide it. (Complaint, ¶ 17.)   Defendant  now demurs to all four causes of action for failure to state sufficient facts. Defendant  also seeks to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.   LEGAL STANDARD             A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state  facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the  complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of  Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be  sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot  reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be  admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury  v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)    When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true.  (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A  demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic  matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the  pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)  153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is  whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.  747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or  conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of  America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)    Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be  alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.  California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading  subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)    DISCUSSION               Moving Party’s Argument   Defendant argues that Plaintiff has merely recited the elements of each  cause of action without providing factual allegations in support. Further, the  professional negligence and breach of fiduciary claims are duplicative. As  Plaintiff fails to plead fraud with particularity, its request for punitive  damages must be stricken.   Opposing Party’s Argument   Plaintiff contends that it has pleaded sufficient facts. Any uncertainty  or ambiguity can be resolved through discovery.   Reply Argument   Plaintiff improperly raises new allegations that are not present in the  complaint, and Plaintiff relies on uncited cases that hold no precedential  value.   Merits of the Motion   A.  Meet and Confer   Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and  confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who  filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of  determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended  pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) A motion to strike also requires a meet and  confer process, which is procedurally identical to the meet and confer process  prior to filing a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)   Defense counsel declares that the parties met telephonically to discuss  issues with the complaint but were unable to reach an agreement. The court  finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirements.   B.  First Cause of Action for  Breach of Contract   To state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able  to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or  excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting  damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51  Cal.4th 811, 821.)    If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written  contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a  copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.”  (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)  In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the  contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective  Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,  198-199.)    As Defendant notes, a demurrer is properly sustained if “[i]n an action  founded upon a contact, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the  contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. §  430.10, subd. (g); Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985)  166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458-459.) Here, Plaintiff merely alleges that the parties  entered into a contract without indicating whether the agreement is oral or  written.   The failure to provide the definite terms of the contract and its form is  also significant here where Plaintiff also asserts that the failure to comply  with the contract terms is a breach of fiduciary duty and alleged to be a  source of professional negligence.   Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is  SUSTAINED.   C.  Second Cause of Action for  Breach of Fiduciary Duty   “The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the  existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)   To plead a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must  allege facts showing the existence of a fiduciary duty owed to that plaintiff,  a breach of that duty and resulting damage. (Pellegrini v. Weiss (2008)  165 Cal.App.4th 515, 524.) A fiduciary duty is founded upon a special  relationship imposed by law or under circumstances in which “confidence is  reposed by persons in the integrity of others” who voluntarily accept the  confidence. (Tri-Growth Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf, Burdman, Duignan  & Eisenberg (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1139, 1150; see CACI 4100, et  seq.)   Defendant demurs to this cause of action on the grounds that it is  duplicative of the professional negligence claim and Plaintiff has not alleged  sufficient facts. Specifically, Plaintiff fails to allege that Defendant’s  conduct is the “but for” cause of Plaintiff’s injury. Further, Plaintiff fails  to allege what damages it actually suffered. Plaintiff argues in opposition  that, at this stage of the proceedings, it does not need to describe its  damages with more particularity. Further, professional negligence and breach of  fiduciary duty are separate torts with different standards of care. Defendant  argues in reply that Plaintiff’s cited cases are not instructive. Moreover, the  underlying conduct for this cause of action is the exact same conduct  underlying the professional negligence claim.   Plaintiff correctly notes that professional negligence and breach of  fiduciary duty are two distinct causes of action. (Stanley v. Richmond  (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1070, 1086.) However, as Defendant notes, California  courts typically uphold them as separate causes of action when they are based  on distinct allegations. (See Charnay v. Cobert, (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th  170, 176-177; Stanley v. Richmond, (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1070, 1087-1092.)     Here, Plaintiff alleges that the same conduct underlies each cause of  action: Defendant’s failure to submit the application on the agreed upon date.  Thus, the court finds that they are duplicative.   Further, Plaintiff fails to plead facts showing damage. As discussed  below, a bare statement that one suffered damage is a conclusion of law, not a  factual allegation.   Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action is  SUSTAINED.   D.  Third Cause of Action for  Fraudulent Misrepresentation   “The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,  concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)  intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The  facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically  as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the  pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)  12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the  plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false  representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said  or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto.  Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)    Defendant demurs to this cause of action on the basis that Plaintiff  fails to plead fraud with particularity and makes only conclusory allegations.  Plaintiff argues that it is allowed flexibility in its pleading where the facts  related to Defendant’s state of mind are not readily accessible to Plaintiff.   The court agrees that Plaintiff has failed to plead sufficient facts to state  a fraudulent misrepresentation claim. First, Plaintiff fails to plead  justifiable reliance. Plaintiff does not describe any actions it took or  refrained from taking due to Defendant’s alleged misrepresentation. Plaintiff  merely alleges that “Defendant’s actions were deceptive, intending to mislead  Plaintiff into thinking the application was submitted on May 3, 2021, when it  was not.” (Complaint, ¶ 35.) Plaintiff does not allege that it relied on this  misrepresentation to its detriment. Further, Plaintiff makes only a conclusory  allegation that it suffered damages. As discussed below, a statement that one  suffered damage, without supporting factual allegations, is not sufficient to  survive a demurrer.   Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is  SUSTAINED.   E.  Fourth Cause of Action for  Professional Negligence   “The elements of a cause of action for professional negligence are (1)  the existence of the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and  diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)  breach of that duty; (3) a causal connection between the negligent conduct and  the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the  professional negligence.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman, supra,  51 Cal.4th 811 at p. 821.)    Defendant demurs to this cause of action because Plaintiff fails to make  any factual allegation of damage. Instead, Plaintiff makes only conclusory  allegations that it suffered damages because of Defendant’s actions. Plaintiff  argues in its opposition that a loss of opportunity is a recoverable injury.  Defendant argues in reply that an allegation raised only in an opposition  cannot survive a demurrer. The allegation must appear in the face of the  complaint.   In the context of professional negligence, “’[t]he mere breach of a  professional duty, causing only nominal harm, speculative harm, or the threat  of future harm – not yet realized – does not suffice to create a cause of  action for negligence.’” (International Engine Parts, Inc. v. Feddersen  & Co. (1995) 9 Cal.4th 606, 614.) Further, “[a]llegations of damages  without allegations of fact to support them are but conclusions of law, which  are not admitted by demurrer.” (Zumbrun v. University of Southern California  (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 1, 12.)   Here, the complaint merely states that Plaintiff suffered damages to be  proven at trial. Plaintiff does not provide supporting factual allegations to show  how Defendant’s purported failure to submit the application caused injury.  Thus, Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of  action for professional negligence.   Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is  SUSTAINED.   F.  Motion to Strike   The court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon  terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter  inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may  also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity  with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ.  Proc., §436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the  face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   Defendant seeks to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.  Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action for fraudulent  misrepresentation. Thus, Plaintiff has not alleged any conduct justifying the  award of punitive damages.   Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED.   G.  Leave to Amend   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of  successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349  [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any  reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden  is on the complainant to show the court that a pleading can be amended  successfully. (Ibid.)    Plaintiff, in opposition, mentions that it suffered damages because it  lost the opportunity to secure SBA funds. Thus, the court finds that there is  some possibility of successful amendment.   Accordingly, leave to amend is GRANTED.   CONCLUSION              Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety  and the motion to strike is GRANTED. Leave to amend is GRANTED.   Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.