  Case Number:  24TRCV01757    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  P Motion  to Compel Binding Arbitration   Moving  Parties: Defendant  Tesla Motors, Inc.                       Responding Party: Plaintiff Taiwo Alabi   RULING   Having  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, the motion to compel  binding arbitration is GRANTED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff Taiwo Alabi (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint  against Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1-10, inclusive alleging five  causes of action for violations of Statutory Obligations under the Song-Beverly  Consumer Warranty Act Civ. Code sections 1790-1795.8.   On July 5, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion. On November 6, 2024,  Plaintiff filed an opposition. Defendant filed a reply on November 13, 2024.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   On September  19, 2023, Plaintiff purchased a Tesla Model Y (the “Vehicle”) manufactured by  Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 5.)   Plaintiff  received an express written warranty which stated that if a defect developed  during the warranty period, Plaintiff could deliver the Vehicle to a repair  shop to make repairs. (Complaint, ¶ 9.)   During the  warranty period, several defects developed. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) However,  Defendant failed to repair the Vehicle after several attempts. (Complaint, ¶ 14.)              LEGAL STANDARD             Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding  that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2)  said agreement covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’  dispute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) California law favors enforcement of  valid arbitration agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare  Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) A party petitioning to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)          The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies to any contract evidencing a  transaction involving interstate commerce which contains an arbitration clause.  (Wolls v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) Section 2 of  the FAA provides that arbitration provisions shall be enforced, save upon  grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Ibid.)  A state court may refuse to enforce an arbitration clause on the basis of  generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or  unconscionability. (Ibid.) A state court, however, may not defeat an  arbitration clause by applying state laws applicable only to arbitration  provisions. (Ibid.)     For the FAA to apply, a contract must involve interstate commerce. (Ibid.)  When it applies, the FAA preempts any state law rule that stands as an obstacle  to the accomplishment of the FAA’s objectives. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc.  (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.) A party asserting FAA preemption bears the  burden to present evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration  provision affects interstate commerce, and the failure to do so renders the FAA  inapplicable. (Ibid.) Evidence must be presented, in the form of  declarations or other evidence, that establishes that the contract affects  interstate commerce.  (Ibid.) “[S]ince arbitration is a matter of  contract, the FAA also applies if it is so stated in the agreement.” (Davis  v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 963.)              “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the  existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party  thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the  petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines  that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines  that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or  (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc.  § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).) Thus, in assessing a motion to compel arbitration,  the moving party “bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid  arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing  the [motion] bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any  fact necessary to its defense.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.  (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284, citation omitted.)         “If a court of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a  controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending  before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is  pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the  action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order  to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 1281.4.)   DISCUSSION               Request for Judicial Notice   Defendant requests judicial notice of the complaint filed by Plaintiff.  The court may take notice of its own file, pursuant to Evid. Code section 452,  subd. (d).    Defendant’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.   Moving Party’s Argument   Defendant argues that Plaintiff consented to the terms of an online Motor  Vehicle Order Agreement (“Order Agreement”) and a Retail Installment Sales  Contract (“Sale Contract”), both of which including arbitration provisions.  Both the FAA and California law require Plaintiff to arbitrate this dispute.   Opposing Party’s Argument   The Order Agreement has an opt-out clause, and it is the controlling  document. Further, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration clauses are  unconscionable and unenforceable.   Reply Argument   The arbitration agreement should be enforced under the terms of the Order  Agreement, as it is not unconscionable. Further, Plaintiff’s discussions of a  manufacturer’s ability to enforce an arbitration provision with a third-party  buyer is irrelevant as Defendant deals with the customer directly, not through  dealerships.    Merits of the Motion   A.  Existence of an Arbitration  Agreement   In support of the motion, Defendant submits the Declaration of Raymond  Kim (“Kim”). Kim declares that when Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle, he signed two  agreements containing arbitration provisions. (Kim Decl., Exh. 1 and 2.) The  Order Agreement contains an arbitration provision on page 3, which provides  Plaintiff with the opportunity to opt out, but Plaintiff did not exercise that  option. (Kim Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff also signed the Sale Contract, which has an  arbitration on page 5. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 8, 12.)   The Order Agreement’s Arbitration provision provides that the parties  agree that if a dispute arises between the parties and it is not resolved  within 60 days, the parties agree to an arbitration administered by the  American Arbitration Association. Any fees incurred are to be paid by Tesla  Motors, Inc. (Kim Decl., ¶ 6.) The Sale Contract’s arbitration provision  provides that any dispute arising from the sale and purchase of the Vehicle;  Plaintiff’s credit application; or the condition of the Vehicle is to be  resolved in binding arbitration. (Kim Decl., ¶ 12.) The provision also states  that the arbitration agreement is governed by the FAA.   The court notes that the Order Agreement only shows that Plaintiff was  the customer and does not contain his signature. The Sale Contract, however,  does show that it was signed by the Plaintiff. The court cannot bind the  Plaintiff to an arbitration provision that he did not sign. Accordingly, the  court will determine whether the parties have entered a binding arbitration  agreement under the Sale Contract alone.    The court finds that with the Sale Contract, Defendant has met its burden  of proving that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties. Thus, the burden  shifts to Plaintiff to establish any facts necessary to show that the agreement  should not be enforced.   B.  Are the Express Warranties  Separate from the Order Agreement and Sales Contract   Plaintiff argues that Defendant cannot enforce the arbitration  provisions, as this conflict arises out of a warranty, which is separate from  the two agreements. Plaintiff cites to various cases in support, but as  Defendant notes, these cases deal with a manufacturer trying to enforce an  arbitration agreement between the purchaser and dealer. Defendant sells its  cars directly to customers, and any agreements are signed directly between  Defendant and the buyer.   Accordingly, the cases cited by Plaintiff are not persuasive or  instructive in the instant matter.   C.  Grounds for Compelling  Arbitration   The court finds that the language of the Sale Contract’s arbitration  provision covers this dispute, as it arises from the condition of the vehicle. Plaintiff  argues that it is procedurally unconscionable to compel arbitration because the  Order Agreement was presented on a take-it-or-leave it basis, and Plaintiff had  no opportunity to renegotiate the terms as it was a form contract. Plaintiff  also asserts that the Order Agreement is substantively unconscionable because  it requires the parties to exclusively submit to arbitration through the  American Arbitration Association (the “AAA”).    In opposition, Defendant argues that the Order Agreement contained an  opt-out provision, which Plaintiff did not exercise. Further, California Courts  have held that form contracts are not inherently procedurally unconscionable,  absent evidence that the plaintiff was unable to obtain a car elsewhere. (Sanchez  v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 931.) Here, Plaintiff  is unable to present evidence that he would have been unable to obtain a  comparable car that was not subject to such an arbitration clause. The Order  Agreement also lacks substantive unconscionability because its terms provide  for a selection of a neutral arbitrator through the AAA. California courts have  already held that such a provision is not substantively unconscionable. (Chavarria  v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (9th Cir. 2013) 733 F.3d 916, 923.)   First, the court notes that both parties address the Order Agreement  rather than the controlling Sale Contract. However, the two contain similar  arbitration provisions, with the main difference being the lack of an opt-out  clause in the Sale Agreement. Thus, the parties’ arguments largely stand, and  the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden of showing that it would  be unconscionable to enforce the arbitration clause found in the Sale  Agreement.   Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel binding  arbitration.   D.  Stay of Proceedings   Code Civ. Proc. section 1281.4 provides that if the court has  ordered the arbitration of a controversy, it “shall, upon motion of a party to  such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration  is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as  the court specifies.”  Pursuant to Section 1281.4, therefore, the Court  stays this action pending conclusion of the arbitration proceedings.    CONCLUSION              Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel binding arbitration  is GRANTED. The court STAYS this action pending conclusion of the arbitration  process.   Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.