 Case Number:  21STCV30610    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  72 SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ORION PRECIOUS METALS, INC. dba ORION METAL
  EXCHANGE,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
HALT GOLD GROUP, LLC dba PATRIOT GOLD GROUP, LLC, et
  al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  21STCV30610
 
 
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 3, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  1



 
 
Plaintiff Orion Precious Metals, Inc. dba Orion Metal
Exchange (“Plaintiff” or “Orion”) filed a motion for an order (1) compelling
Defendant Halt Gold Group, LLC dba Patriot Gold Group (“Defendant” or “PGG”) to
respond to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (Set One) in a legally compliant
manner; and (2) that Defendant pay a monetary sanction to Plaintiff in the sum
of $2,100.00 for the reasonable expense and attorney’s fees incurred with the
Motion. 
 
The Court GRANTS the Motion and the Court orders Defendant
to provide Code-compliant responses within 20 days of the date of this order.
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions and awards
Plaintiff reasonable monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of
$1,050.00. Monetary sanctions are to be paid by Defendant to Plaintiff’s
counsel within 20 days of the date of this order.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) on November 23, 2021 alleging causes of action for: (1) false
advertising under California Business and Professions Code, Section 17500; (2)
unfair competition pursuant to California Business and Professions Code,
Section 17200; (3) intentional interference with contractual relations; and (4)
intentional interference with prospective economic relations.
 
          On September
5, 2023, Plaintiff filed the current motion in order to compel Defendant to
provide straightforward, Code-compliant responses to five of Plaintiff’s first
set of Special Interrogatories.
 
          Plaintiff
contends Defendant responded evasively to its first interrogatory set of March
8, 2023. Within that set, Interrogatory Nos. 10-14 “concerned whether
[Defendant] communicated with and ultimately did business with” certain of
Plaintiff’s customers, “and if so when and for how much.” (Mot., 3:24-26.)
Defendant provided verified responses to those interrogatories. But subsequent
document production contradicts Defendant’s responses to Interrogatory Nos.
10-12. And Defendant’ responses to Nos. 13 and 14 direct Plaintiff to refer to
documents that either have not been produced or have been produced but redacted
beyond usefulness.
 
          Defendant
argues, first, that Plaintiffs did not request the information it says it did.
Plaintiff requested information about 65 specifically identified individuals.
The responses Plaintiff seeks to compel relate to individuals not included on
that list. Alternatively, Defendant asserts its responses can be incorrect
without being “evasive and incomplete”, and the proper remedy is a supplemental
response rather than a court order.
 
          Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.300, a court may order a party to serve a further
response to interrogatories when the court finds (1) an answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) an exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate; or (3) an objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.  
 
Under Civil Procedure Code 2030.22(a) and (b), a
responding party’s answer to interrogatories must be “as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits. If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be
answered to the extent possible.” It is improper for an answer to only respond
to a portion of the information sought, particularly when an interrogatory is
specific and explicit. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771,
783.)  
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s responses here
are evasive and incomplete because they are inconsistent at a number of points
with documents it produced after responding to Plaintiff’s special
interrogatories. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant referred to documents
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.220 when the documents are excessively
redacted.
 
Interrogatory No. 10 asked whether Defendant had
done business with any of sixty-six (66) “Potential Orion Customers”, including
a “Bob Hunley.” Defendant answered “no,” but document requests uncovered
transactions with a “Robert Hunley” and “Joan Hunley.” Defendant argues that
references to “the Hunleys” or “Robert Hunley” or “Joan Hunley” are not
references to the “Bob Hunley” in the interrogatories. This is unproductive
hair-splitting and evasion. The Court considers the names Robert and Bob
equivalent. And if Defendant engaged in transactions involving Bob or Robert
Hunley’s community property, or if Defendant engaged in transactions with any
agent for Bob or Robert, then it arguably also engaged in transactions with Bob
or Robert. The Court considers information about transactions with “potential
customers’ ” spouses is responsive to Orion’s requests. The Code errs on the
side of disclosure.
 
Interrogatory No. 11 asked for specific dollar amounts
of transactions. The numbers included in the interrogatories did not match
later-produced documents that PGG provided to Orion. PGG claims the answers are
simply “incorrect.” But there is no authority for PGG’s distinction between
“incorrect” and “evasive or incomplete” responses. If the responses are wrong,
they are at best incomplete, and Orion is entitled to a complete response. An interrogatory
response that contains an obvious error which could be easily corrected should
be corrected.  The same reasoning applies
to Interrogatory No. 12.  
 
The substance of
Interrogatory No. 13 was addressed in the Court’s September 21, 2023 ruling on Orion’s
motion for further production of documents. Either PGG complied with the
Court’s order to produce sufficient documentation, or it did not; if it did
not, it must fully answer Interrogatory No. 13 rather than referring to
excessively redacted documents. The same reasoning applies to Interrogatory No.
14.
 
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process
is failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes
making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a
motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a monetary sanction
against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney
advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a). A court has
discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771.) Orion is entitled to sanctions.
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel Adam P. Zaffos declares that: (1) his hourly rate is $350.00 per hour;
(2) counsel Sasha Brower’s (“Brower”) hourly rate in this matter is $350.00 per
hour; (3) they each have over 20 years of litigation experience and these rates
are customary for attorneys of similar experience in the Los Angeles legal
community; (4) he has spent over 1 hour reviewing and revising the papers; (5)
Brower spent over 5 hours drafting the motion to compel, separate statement and
supporting papers; and (6) because Defendant has, without substantial
justification, failed to produce all responsive documents in accordance with
its statement of compliance, Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $2,100.00. (Zaffos Decl., ¶ 21.)
 
The Court agrees
that discovery sanctions are appropriate but concludes that the correct amount
of the sanctions is $1,050.00, which represents 3 hours of work hours.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion in its entirety. Defendant is ordered to provide complete,
non-evasive responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (Set One) Nos. 10
through 14 within twenty (20) days of this order.
 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions and awards Plaintiff reasonable
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,050.00. Monetary sanctions are to be
paid by Defendant to Plaintiff within 20 days of the date of this order.