 Case Number:  22STCV14060    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WM SUNSET & VINE, LLC,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
GOSH
  ENTERPRISES, INC., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  22STCV14060
 
 
RULING ON MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 3, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  8



 
 
          Plaintiff WM
Sunset & Vine, LLC (“WM” or “Plaintiff”) sued defendant Gosh Enterprises,
Inc. (“Gosh” or “Defendant”) on April 28, 2022, alleging a single cause of
action for breach of contract.
 
          Gosh and
another party, BBB Operating CA-1, LLC (“BBB”), cross-complained against WM on
May 1, 2023 for breaches of implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing
appearing in BBB’s lease contract and Gosh’s guaranty, respectively.
 
          WM now moves
for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication as to the third
through twenty-fourth and twenty-sixth through thirty-third affirmative
defenses that Gosh asserted in its answer.
 
          The court
GRANTS summary adjudication as to all the affirmative defenses indicated,
except the twentieth (20th) for unclean hands, as to which summary adjudication
is DENIED.
 
Background
 
          WM
owns a commercial space at 6333 Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood, CA (“the
Premises”). (UMF 1.) In January 2013, it leased the Premises to an entity
called Shophouse LLC. (UMF 2.) Shophouse assigned the lease to
cross-complainant BBB in June 2017 with WM’s consent. (UMF 3-4.) Gosh and WM
executed a written guaranty wherein Gosh guaranteed the full, timely, and
complete payment of all sums owed to WM by BBB under the lease. (UMF 4; Compl.,
Ex. 1.)
 
          BBB
stopped paying rent on April 1, 2020. (UMF 5.) WM sued in April 2022. WM takes
the position that damages continue to accrue daily; that as of June 1, 2022,
BBB owed it $648,533.00; and that Gosh is liable for BBB’s debt. (Adam Decl., ¶
9, Ex. 4.)
          
          Gosh
answered WM’s complaint on June 1, 2022. The answer generally denies the
allegations in the complaint and enumerates thirty-four (34) affirmative
defenses. WM moves for summary judgment or in the alternative summary
adjudication of each separate affirmative defense.
 
          Gosh
concedes WM’s argument on the majority of its defenses. In its opposition, it
argues it has established triable issues of facts regarding only four: (1) breach
of contract; (2) unclean hands; (3) failure to mitigate; and (4) “offset or
setoff”.
 
                    Legal
Standard
 
The function
of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to enable summary dismissal
without the need for trial where an opposing party cannot show evidentiary
support for a pleading or claim. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Ritchfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Courts analyze motions for summary judgment in
three steps: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294.) Summary judgment is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of
the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly,
no triable issues of fact exist, and the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (c); Villa v. McFarren (1995)
35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)
Objections to Evidence
 
The Court overrules Objection No. 1, which seeks to exclude one
hundred (100) of Gosh’s material facts, in their entirety, based on WM’s general
accusation that they mischaracterize the evidence because they do not support
Gosh’s defenses. The Court declines to parse WM’s overbroad objection or adopt
Plaintiff’s reasoning.
 
Plaintiff directs the rest of its objections to facts in
Defendant’s separate statement, rather than underlying evidence, and argues
various “contention[s] [are] not supported by the citation to the evidence.” 
 
For example, Plaintiff’s Objection No. 6 is directed toward
“Fact 206” and argues the fact – not the evidence – is “[1] Irrelevant, [2]
does not support Guarantor’s claim and [3] lacks personal knowledge. ... This
contention is ... merely the opinion of, and argument by, Guarantor’s counsel.”

 
Plaintiff’s second objection is invalid. If Defendant failed
to establish a given fact, that is a problem of proof, not admissibility. The
court evaluates Defendants’ supporting evidence against Plaintiff’s
objections. 
 
As for the first and third objections, they are rendered
meaningless because Plaintiff has effectively directed all of its objections to
all of the underlying evidence. So, for instance, in Objection 6, it has made (1)
a relevance objection to Defendant’s Exhibit 29, a document that is directly
relevant to the terms of the lease; and (2) a personal knowledge objection to a
portion of Wendy Adam’s deposition where she testifies to words she personally
spoke. 
 
As with Objection No. 1, the Court will not parse
Plaintiff’s misdirected objections for it. All of Plaintiff’s objections follow
the same pattern: they are mounted collectively at various portions of
Defendant’s evidence and attack the weight of the evidence rather than its
admissibility.
 
Plaintiff’s objections are OVERRULED in their entirety. 
 
          Discussion
 
1. Eleventh Affirmative Defense: “Breach of Contract”
 
Gosh’s eleventh affirmative
defense reads as follows:
 
“The Complaint is barred, in whole or in part,
because Landlord failed to comply with the terms of the guaranty and the lease
and Landlord’s claimed damages must be offset by the amount of damages caused
by Landlord’s own failure to comply with the guaranty and the lease.”
 
(Ans., 6:22-26.)
 
          Gosh has
swept a few concepts together into a single defense. It may be arguing that WM
has failed to establish the second element of its cause of action (performance
or excuse). Or it might be arguing suggesting that breach of contract is,
itself, an affirmative defense to breach of contract. Either way, the same
factual analysis is required.  If “breach
of contract” has been asserted as an affirmative defense, then WM has to show
there is no merit to Gosh’s claim that WM breached. If, on the other hand, Gosh
is denying that WM fully performed as required for its cause of action, then WM
has the burden to conclusively establish that it did. Either way, WM must first
carry its burden to establish it performed and did not breach, and in
opposition Gosh must raise a triable issue that it did not, or it did,
respectively.
 
The only material facts WM asserts in its Separate Statement
are (1) that “the Guarantor complained that the Landlord refused to ‘work’ with
the Tenant and ‘negotiate [the] lease ... ’ ” (UMF 146), and that “[a]ccording
to the Guarantor, had the Landlord met with the Tenant, the Tenant would have
agreed to pay some amount of rent.” (UMF 147.) Gosh disputes neither of these
facts.
 
Gosh, in its opposition, presents many facts to indicate WM
acted in bad faith. For instance, it advances a portion of the deposition of Wendy
A. Adam, representative for WM, who agrees she knew, long before BBB defaulted,
that the restaurant wanted to get out of its lease. (Def. Ex. C, pp. 36-37.) Adam
also testified that WM also received letters of intent (LOIs) from several
other prospective restaurant tenants in the interim who sought to take over BBB’s
space. (Id., at p. 39 and p. 69, Exs. 19 and 25.) And Gosh alleges several
prospective tenants offered more rent than BBB was supposed to be paying under
its lease; WM disagrees but offers no evidence to negate Gosh’s claim.
 
Purely as a factual matter, WM did not carry its burden to
negate Gosh’s assertion that it acted in bad faith, and even if it did, Gosh
certainly raised a triable issue. 
 
But WM rests its argument on the law, not the facts.
According to WM’s position, even if the Court accepts Gosh’s account, WM did
not violate any term of its lease with BBB, express or implied. The Court
agrees.
 
a.
WM did not breach the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
“Every
contract contains an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing providing
that no party to the contract will do anything that would deprive another party
of the benefits of the contract. ... The implied covenant protects the
reasonable expectations of the contracting parties based on their mutual
promises. ... The scope of conduct prohibited by the implied covenant depends
on the purposes and express terms of the contract. ... .” (Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885, citations omitted (Digerati).)
 
          WM did
nothing to deprive BBB of the benefit of the contract. It provided BBB with the
space it agreed to provide, throughout the contract’s life. The purpose of the
contract was for BBB to possess the Premises so it could use it as a
restaurant. WM did nothing to prevent BBB from doing that; Gosh’s only
allegation is that WM did not work cooperatively to help BBB terminate the
contract. The contract’s purpose is not to terminate itself.
 
          The only
lease term that might have created an obligation for WM to work with BBB appears
in paragraph 19.2 of the lease. (Adams Decl., Ex. 1, p. 36.) Paragraph 19.2
requires WM not to unreasonably withhold consent to any assignment that BBB
should propose. But that obligation only arises once BBB submits specific,
detailed paperwork. If BBB did not satisfy this logistical obligation, WM’s
obligation was not triggered.
 
          It does not
appear Gosh produced any facts in discovery, and it never claims in its
material facts, that it submitted the paperwork required by paragraph 19.2. In
fact, Gosh itself asserts that “no subtenant would work directly with [BBB]
because of the limited remaining term on the Lease ... .” (UMF 246.) There is
no triable issue as to whether BBB complied with the condition in paragraph
19.2.
 
          Gosh relies
heavily on Locke v. Warner Bros., Inc. (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 354 (Locke).
Locke affirms that a party may breach the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing where it “categorically refuses to work with” its counterpart,
regardless of the terms of the lease.
 
          But the
parties in Locke disputed their obligations under a vague, subjective contract
to “develop” motion pictures. The contract left substantial room for good-faith
discretion that does not exist in a standard commercial lease contract like the
one here. The Locke court’s explanation of its reasoning does not work
in Gosh’s favor:
 
“
‘ “[W]here a contract confers on one party a discretionary power affecting the
rights of the other, a duty is imposed to exercise that discretion in good
faith and in accordance with fair dealing.” [Citations.]’ ... It is settled
that in ‘ “every contract there is an implied covenant that neither party shall
do anything which will have the effect of destroying or injuring the right of
the other party to receive the fruits of the contract....” ’ ... Therefore,
when it is a condition of an obligor's duty that he or she be subjectively
satisfied with respect to the obligee's performance, the subjective standard of
honest satisfaction is applicable. ‘Where the contract involves matters of
fancy, taste or judgment, the promisor is the sole judge of his satisfaction.
... .’ ” 
 
(Locke, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at pp. 363-364,
citations omitted.)
 
          The crucial
distinction between Locke and the instant case is that the contract in Locke
directly vested the defendant with discretionary power that it arguably
exercised in bad faith. WM here had discretionary power only once BBB satisfied
the precedent condition in paragraph 19.2. 
 
Indeed, clarifying the implied covenant, Locke quotes
Carma Developers (Cal.), Inc. v. Marathon Development California, Inc.
(1992) 2 Ca.4th 342, 374, which reads, in relevant part: “[A]s a general
matter, implied terms should never be read to vary express terms. [Citations.]
‘... This is in accord with the general principle that, in interpreting a
contract “an implication ... should not be made when the contrary is indicated
in clear and express words.” ’ ” (Ellipses added.) The language of paragraph
19.2 makes clear that WM assumed no obligation unless and until BBB satisfied
its own logistical obligations.
 
          Per Digerati,
the implied covenant of good faith might assist Gosh if WM had thwarted BBB’s
ability to receive the benefits of the contract; but Gosh does not establish it
did. Per Locke, the covenant might assist if WM had exercised discretion
in bad faith; but BBB did not do what it needed to do to impose that power or
duty on WM.
 
          WM is
entitled to summary adjudication on the matter of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing.
 
          b. WM did
not breach any written term of the lease.
 
          Paragraph
19.2 of the lease, discussed above, is the only portion of the lease that
creates any obligation for WM to consent to assignment. But, as discussed at
length above, WM’s obligation only arose if BBB first satisfied the
prerequisite conditions in that paragraph. WM points out Gosh has produced no
facts in discovery suggesting it satisfied those conditions, which shows that
it has not and cannot raise a triable issue. Gosh did not respond with any
evidence suggesting BBB submitted the paperwork required in paragraph 19.2.  This also makes the case different from Kendall
v. Ernest Pestana, Inc. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 488, where the tenant made a
specific proposal to assign the lease to particular parties with a stronger
financial statement and greater net worth than the current lessee.  
 
Gosh has also suggested WM breached the lease by failing to
provide security services, but WM has decisively shown otherwise. WM refers to
Paragraph 34.27 of the Lease, which states that it had no obligation to provide
guard services or other security measures to BBB. (UMF 145.) Gosh agreed. (Ibid.)
WM had no duty to provide security services; whether or not it did so, it did
not breach the parties’ lease.
 
WM is entitled to summary adjudication on the entirety of
the eleventh affirmative defense.
 
2. Twentieth Affirmative Defense: Unclean Hands
 
          Gosh’s
accusations of bad faith are relevant, however, in the context of its unclean
hands defense. Gosh does not need to point to any particular breach – of
written term, or implied covenant, or otherwise – to establish an unclean hands
defense. “Any conduct that violates conscience, or good faith, or other
equitable standards of conduct is sufficient cause to invoke the doctrine.” (Kendall-Jackson
Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 970, 978 (Kendall-Jackson).)
And whether the doctrine applies is a question of fact. (CrossTalk
Productions, Inc. v. Jacobson (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 639.)
 
          Gosh accuses
WM of acting unfairly. WM knew of BBB’s desire to move out of Premises even
before the COVID pandemic set in. It received a number of offers from other
reliable subtenants who might be able to move into space, but it refused those
offers. 
 
          It is WM’s
initial burden, as the moving party, to negate Gosh’s defense. But it only
offers general, conclusory facts. None of them contradict Gosh’s argument that
it acted unfairly, beyond the point where a court might find WM is barred from
recovering on the lease.
 
The Court notes in particular the deposition of Wendy Adam,
where she acknowledged that “any subtenancy would most likely have required
[WM’s] involvement and cooperation ... .” (Adam Dep., 49:9-54:25; 134:18-135:5.)
This testimony does not create a condition of the lease where none occurred, or
vest WM with special discretion such that it breached the terms of the lease.
It also does not establish an obligation to mitigate damages, as discussed
further below. But if, as Gosh tells it, BBB could not obtain a
subtenant without WM’s cooperation – a contention that WM does not deny, much
less negate – and WM knew, and refused to cooperate, even though it could have
completely avoided damages by leasing to a new tenant, then WM might be barred
from recovery even though it neither violated the lease nor was obligated to
mitigate.
 
          WM has not
carried its initial burden to negate Gosh’s unclean hands defense. The court
denies summary adjudication.
 
3. Twenty-Third Affirmative Defense: Failure to Mitigate
 
          WM has
conclusively established it had no duty to mitigate its damages by renting to a
new tenant. Paragraph 24.1(a) of the lease states that “[u]pon the occurrence
of a default by Tenant ..., Landlord may exercise all of its remedies as may be
permitted by law or equity, including ... the remedy provided by Section 1951.4
of the Civil Code ... .”
 
          Section
1951.4 of the Civil Code “permits ... parties contractually to shift to the
lessee the duty of mitigation ... .” (Carma Developers (Cal.), Inc., supra,
2 Cal.4th 342 at p. 365.) At subdivision (b), the section reads:
 
“Even
though a lessee of real property has breached the lease and abandoned the
property, the lease continues in effect for so long as the lessor does not
terminate [it], and the lessor may enforce all the lessor's rights and remedies
under the lease, including the right to recover the rent as it becomes due ... ,
if ...: (2) The lease permits the lessee to sublet the property, assign the
lessee's interest in the lease, or both, subject to express standards or
conditions, provided the standards and conditions are reasonable ... .”
 
          As noted above, paragraph 19.2
permitted BBB to assign the lease subject to express logistical conditions.
Those conditions are reasonable, as required by subdivision (b)(2). If BBB made
such an application, WM could not unreasonably refuse it. Thus, according to
Civil Code section 1951.4, WM was entitled to recover rent as it comes due even
if BBB vacated the premises.
 
          By presenting the terms of the lease
as evidence, WM has negated Gosh’s defense as an initial matter. Gosh failed to
raise a triable issue to rebut WM’s contention – specifically, by showing that BBB
in fact made an application to assign in the form required by paragraph 19.2.
 
          Gosh argues that “while the duty to
mitigate damages under the lease may have been transferred from Landlord to
Tenant, the duty to mitigate damages under the Guaranty remained with the
Landlord.” (Opp., 18:16-18.) It cites no authority for this proposition, and
the proposition is illogical. WM rightly points out that the first paragraph of
the Guaranty provides the agreement shall be subject to “all terms, covenant,
and conditions set forth in [BBB’s] Lease, without deduction, offset, or excuse
of any nature.” (Reply, 7:21-23; Compl., Ex. 1.) The purpose of the Guaranty
was to secure all of the Tenant’s obligations, including the risk it assumed
under Civil Code section 1951.4.
 
          The court GRANTS WM summary judgment
as to Gosh’s twenty-third affirmative defense for failure to mitigate its
damages.
 
4.       Twenty-Fourth
Affirmative Defense: Offset / Setoff
 
          In its
twenty-fourth affirmative defense, Gosh argues “Defendant is entitled to an
offset or setoff against any and all damages recoverable by Landlord as a result
of Landlord’s overcharging Tenant for rent and other charges under the lease
between the parties.” (Ans., 9:13-16.)
 
          WM draws
attention to Gosh’s discovery responses, in which it never – in their initial
or supplemental responses – presented any evidence supporting its contention
that WM overcharged it rent. This complete lack of evidence shows Gosh does not
possess, and is not reasonably likely to uncover, evidence supporting this
defense. WM having negated Gosh’s defense, it falls to Gosh to raise a triable
issue. Gosh did not.
 
          The court
GRANTS WM summary judgment as to Gosh’s twenty-fourth affirmative defense of
“offset / setoff.”
 
5.       Gosh Abandoned
the Remainder of Its Affirmative Defenses, including those based on COVID-19.
 
          Gosh does not
dispute that it failed to identify any facts in discovery that support any of
its other affirmative defenses. (UMF 151, 155, 159, 163, 167, 171, 175, 179, 195,
199, 203, 207, 211, 219, 223, 227.)
 
          The court
GRANTS WM summary adjudication as to all affirmative defenses that are subject
to WM’s motion and not already discussed.
 
Conclusion
 
          The court
GRANTS summary adjudication to Plaintiff as to all affirmative defenses subject
to Plaintiff’s motion, except for the twentieth (20th) for unclean hands, as to
which summary adjudication is DENIED.