 Case Number:  22STCV25247    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DAVID TRUONG,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
MINH HANG THI NGUYEN, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  22STCV25247
 
 
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 3, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  5



 
 
          Plaintiff
David Truong (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling Defendant Minh Hang
Thi Nguyen (“Defendant”) to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Request
for Production of Documents (Set One), which he propounded on April 27, 2023.
 
          Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED in its entirety.
 
          The court
imposes sanctions on Defendant in the amount of $2,497.50.
 
Background
 
On August 4, 2022, Plaintiff sued
Defendant and eleven other entities and individuals for breach of fiduciary
duty, fraud (in three iterations), conversion, quiet title, unfair business
practices, partition by sale, and an accounting.  
 
Defendant made her first general
appearance via demurrer on March 30, 2023. On April 27, 2023, Plaintiff served
her with three sets of discovery (Tahim Decl., ¶ 2.); Plaintiff directs the
instant motion only to his Requests for Production of Documents (Set One). 
 
After some delay, Defendant
responded to Plaintiff’s discovery on June 16, 2023. (Id., ¶ 4.) She produced
no documents. (Ibid.) Instead, to each of Plaintiff’s forty-three (43)
requests, Defendant responded either that she “does not have any documents
responsive” or that she “will request a copy [...] and will provide once
received.” (Id., Ex. C.)
 
Counsel met and conferred, and
Plaintiff gave Defendant until August 14, 2023 to supplement her
responses.  (Id., ¶¶ 5-6 and Exs.
D-E.) The parties also mutually agreed that Plaintiff’s deadline to file a
motion to compel would extend to August 29, 2023. (Id., ¶ 6 and Ex. E.)
 
Plaintiff filed the current motion
on August 29, 2023. 
 
Defendant filed no opposition. All
of the foregoing facts are uncontroverted.
 
Legal Standard
 
When a responding party serves insufficient responses to
requests for production of documents, the propounding party may move the court
for an order compelling full responses that comply with the Civil Discovery
Act. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a) [grounds include (1) incomplete
statement of compliance, (2) inadequate, incomplete, or evasive statement representation
of inability to comply, or (3) meritless or over-general objections].)
 
The propounding party’s motion must be brought within forty-five
(45) days after the most recent supplemental (insufficient) response, or the
parties can mutually agree on a later deadline. (Id., subd. (c).) The
motion must be accompanied by a declaration attesting to the parties’ efforts
to meet and confer prior to seeking court relief. (Id., subd. (b)(2).)
And “[t]he motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying
the discovery sought by the demand.” (Id., subd. (b)(1).)
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction against a party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses,
unless it finds the one subject to sanction acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances make imposition of sanctions unjust. (Id.,
subd. (h).)
 
Further undesignated statutory references are to the Code of
Civil Procedure.
 
Meet and Confer
 
          Plaintiff submits
the declaration of his counsel, in which attests she met and conferred with
defendant’s counsel regarding the subject of the instant motion. (Tahim Decl.,
¶¶ 4-6.) Defendant does not contradict counsel’s account. Section 2031.310,
subdivision (b)(2) is satisfied.
 
          Discussion
 
Defendant’s responses do not
comply with the Civil Discovery Act.
 
          A
party may respond to production of documents in one of three ways:
 
First, she may produce documents,
along with a statement indicating she has complied with the document request,
in whole or in part, and all documents in her custody and control and not
subject to objection are being produced. (§ 2031.210, subd. (a)(1)).
 
Alternatively, if she possesses
responsive documents but refuses to produce them, she may make any valid
objections. (Id., subd. (a)(3).)
 
          Or,
as relevant here, if the responding party attests she is unable to
comply, then she must state under penalty of perjury (1) that she reasonably searched
for and diligently inquired after the documents; (2) that the documents (i)
never existed, (ii) have been destroyed, (iii) have been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or (iv) that she never possessed, or no longer possesses, the documents;
and (3) the names and addresses of anyone believed to possess the documents. (Id.,
subd. (a)(2).)
 
          Each
of defendant’s responses amounts to statement of noncompliance under section
2031.230. None contains the information required. Defendant only offers a
general statement at the beginning of her discovery that “[i]f ... any document
has not been produced, it’s because [she] lacks the ability to comply[, and
she] affirms that she has conduct a diligent search and reasonable inquiry ...
.” (Tahim Decl., Ex. C, p. 2.)
 
          As
an initial matter, general objections that purport to apply to all discovery
responses do not comply with the Civil Discovery Act at all. The Act requires
that “[e]ach statement of compliance, each representation [of inability to
comply], and each objection in the response[s] shall bear the same number and
be in the same sequence as the corresponding item or category in the demand ...
.” (§ 2031.210, subd. (c).) But even if the Court recognizes Plaintiff’s
general responses as applying to all requests, none of them contains the information
required by subdivisions (a)(1) and (a)(2) of section 2031.210.
 
Plaintiff has good cause to seek
the compliant responses to which he is entitled.
 
Plaintiff has good cause to seek
Code-compliant responses to discovery. Plaintiff is legally entitled to such
responses. Without them, he cannot meaningfully prepare his case.
 
/ / /
Plaintiff is entitled to
sanctions.
 
          The
Court must impose monetary sanctions against the non-prevailing party unless
the party shows substantial justification or other injustice. Defendant has
filed no opposition; she made no such showing. Plaintiff is entitled to
sanctions.
 
          Counsel
inconsistently attests to a $375 hourly rate, but bases her arithmetic on a
$400 hourly rate. (Tahim Decl., ¶ 9.) The Court will use the $375 rate that
counsel states she charges.  
 
          Counsel
attests to 6.5 hours spent meeting and conferring over discovery and preparing
and filing the instant motion. (Ibid.) Her testimony regarding time
spent for reply papers and appearance is internally inconsistent; she refers to
“one and a half hours (3.5 [sic] hours)” spent and bases her arithmetic
on the larger number. (Ibid.) The Court disregards her 1.5 and 3.5 hour
claim. 6.5 hours in total is reasonable for meeting and conferring, preparing
and filing the motion, and appearing at the hearing. No reply was filed, so no
further work was necessary. The $60 in fees is not subject to dispute.
 
          The
Court imposes sanctions on Defendant in the amount of $2,497.50 ($375 x 6.5
hours + $60 fees).
 
          Conclusion
 
          The Court grants Plaintiff’s motion in
its entirety. Defendant is ordered to provide Plaintiff with Code-compliant
responses to all Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents (Set One)
within twenty (20) days of this order. 
 
The court orders
Defendant to pay sanctions in the amount of $2,497.50 to Plaintiff’s counsel
within twenty (20) days of this order. 
Plaintiff to give notice.