  Case Number:  23TRCP00347    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                                   Thursday, December 14, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                                              Calendar No. 15  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Mortgage Lender Services, Inc. v.
3816 W. 180th Street Torrance CA 90504 23TRCP00347
1.     
Mortgage Lender Services, Inc.’s Motion
to Deposit Surplus Funds and to Discharge Petitioner  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
      Mortgage
Lender Services, Inc.’s Motion to Deposit Surplus Funds and to Discharge
Petitioner is granted.
 
      Background 
 
      Petitioner
filed its petition on August 29, 2023. Petitioner alleges the following facts.
Petitioner Mortgage Lender Services, Inc. is the Trustee under a Deed of Trust
executed by Nicholas Andrew Alipaz and Tomoko Orui Alipaz, husband and wife, as
joint tenants as Trustor. The Deed of Trust was secured by real property which
was sold by non-judicial foreclosure sale on June 9, 2022. The sale resulted in
the receipt of funds that exceeded the amount due and owing under the Deed of
Trust. Mortgage Lender Services, Inc. was unable to determine how the surplus
funds should be distributed and seeks to deposit the funds with the clerk
pursuant to Civil Code section 2924j, subdivision (c). 
 
      Petition
to Deposit Surplus Funds 
 
When proceeds remain after a
trustee’s sale, the trustee is required to send written notice to those
persons, with recorded interests in the property, who would have been entitled
to receive a copy of the notice of default pursuant to Civ. Code § 2924b(b)(c).  Civ. Code § 2924j(a).  
 
The notice must inform each such
person that there has been a trustee’s sale, that he or she may have a claim to
all or a portion of the remaining proceeds, and that he or she may contact the
trustee.  Civ. Code § 2924j(a).  The trustee must exercise due diligence in
determining the priority of written claims received from those persons to whom
the notice was sent.  If there is no
dispute as to the priority of written claims to the surplus proceeds, the
trustee shall pay the proceeds within 30 days after conclusion of the above
notice period.  But if the trustee has
failed to determine the priority of the claims within 90 days following the 30
day notice period, within 10 days thereafter, the trustee must either deposit
the funds with the court clerk or file an interpleader action.  Civ. Code § 2924j(b).  If the trustee decides to deposit the funds
with the court clerk, the trustee must send written notice to all interested
persons, as defined, informing them of the intent to deposit the funds and that
their claims must be filed within 30
days from the date of the notice. 
The trustee also files a declaration of the unresolved claims.  Civ. Code § 2924j(c)-(d).
 
Here, Petitioner has met all the
statutory requirements to obtain an order to deposit the surplus funds.  The clerk shall receive the sum of $295,377.34
payable to the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles, and shall
deposit said amount into the Court’s trust account less any applicable
fee.  Petitioner is discharged of any
further responsibility for disbursement of sale proceeds. 
 
The hearing date for any Claim to
Surplus Funds is set for ____________, which is a date within 90 days of the
date that the funds are deposited with the Court. “The clerk shall serve
written notice of the hearing by first-class mail on all claimants identified
in the trustee's declaration at the addresses specified therein.” Civ. Code, §
2924j(d).
 
Petitioner is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.