  Case Number:  22TRCV00829    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
ATLANTIC
  SPECIALTY INSURANCE COMPANY, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00829




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BENNIE
  NORMAN ADAMS, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         November 2,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Atlantic Specialty Insurance Co. 
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
for Order for Amendment to Complaint to Correct Plaintiff’s Name
 
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
BACKGROUND
            On September 15, 2022, plaintiff
Atlantic Specialty Insurance Company a/s/o One Beacon An Intact Company filed a
complaint against Bennie Norman Adams, aka Bennie Adams and Jared Evan Hill for
subrogation.  Plaintiff alleges that
defendant Hill lost control of defendant Adams’ vehicle, which caused it and
the insured vehicle to be totaled.
            On January 26, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff’s motion to correct the filing date of the complaint to
September 2, 2022.
            On July 11, 2023, the court denied
without prejudice plaintiff’s proposed amendment to complaint, stating noticed
motion and points and authorities required and to explain substantial
difference in the names.
            On July 31, 2023, at the CMC,
plaintiff was instructed to file further declarations or file a noticed motion
to amend/change plaintiff’s name.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
 “This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.”  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion
to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Even if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting
it may be a good reason for denial.  In
most cases, the factors for timeliness are: 
(1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal. App. 3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 471, 486-488.
CCP §116.560 states:  “(a) Whenever a claim that is filed against a
person operating or doing business under a fictitious business name relates to
the defendant s business, the court shall inquire at the time of the hearing
into the defendant s correct legal name and the name or names under which the
defendant does business.  If the correct
legal name of the defendant, or the name actually used by the defendant, is
other than the name stated on the claim, the court shall amend the claim to
state the correct legal name of the defendant, and the name or names actually
used by the defendant.
(b) The plaintiff may request the
court at any time, whether before or after judgment, to amend the plaintiff s
claim or judgment to include both the correct legal name and the name or names
actually used by the defendant. Upon a showing of good cause, the court shall
amend the claim or judgment to state the correct legal name of the defendant,
and the name or names actually used by the defendant. . . .”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Atlantic Specialty Insurance Company a/s/o One Beacon An Intact Company requests
leave to amend plaintiff’s name to OBI National Insurance Company a/s/o Ben
Larbi and Company LLC, pursuant to CCP §116.560 and CCP §473(a)(1).
            As
plaintiff acknowledges, CCP §116.560 applies to the correction of a defendant’s
name.  The court declines to apply the
same statute to correcting a plaintiff’s name.
Plaintiff asserts that it has come
to the attention of plaintiff’s counsel that plaintiff should be reflected as
“OBI National Insurance Company a/s/o Ben Larbi and Company LLC” because the
currently named plaintiff Atlantic Specialty Insurance Company is a subrogee of
One Beacon An Intact Company (OBI National Insurance Company).  “OBI” is an acronym for One Beacon An Intact
Company.  OBI National Insurance Company
is the underwriting company, “so that is the correct party to be listed as
Plaintiff.”  The subrogor is the insured,
Ben Larbi and Company LLC.  OBI National
Insurance Company issued an insurance policy to Ben Larbi and Company LLC.  Pursuant to the terms of the policy,
plaintiff was obligated to indemnify the insured Ben Larbi and Company for
damages incurred to the insured’s vehicle. 
See counsel Alexander Hettena decl.; Terrill Willis decl.
Although under CCP §473(a), in
furtherance of justice, the court may allow plaintiff to correct a mistake in
the name of plaintiff, this section is not applicable because plaintiff is
attempting to substitute in a different plaintiff.  
Thus, the motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
Plaintiff is to give notice of the
ruling.