 Case Number:  23TRCV02697    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
JG
  BUILDERS, INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02697




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
KIMBERLY
  CATES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         November 2,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Kimberly Cates and Nancy Dodd
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff JG Builders, Inc.
Demurrer
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer to the complaint is SUSTAINED
WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
            On August 17, 2023, plaintiff JG
Builders, Inc., dba Ecosmart Builders filed a complaint against Kimberly Cates
and Nancy Dodd for breach of contract.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendants Kimberly Cates and Nancy
Dodd demur to the complaint on the grounds that plaintiff does not have legal
capacity to sue, and the allegations are insufficient to constitute a breach of
contract.
The complaint alleges that on
December 4, 2021, plaintiff and defendants executed a written contract wherein
plaintiff was to construct an Accessory Dwelling Unit (“ADU”) on defendants’
property located at 624 W. Acacia Ave., El Segundo.  Plaintiff agreed to provide all services,
materials, and labor for the conversion of defendant’s in to an ADU pursuant to
a Term Sheet.  Complaint, ¶10, Exh.
1.  Plaintiff was to be paid by
defendants pursuant to a schedule of progress payment per certain
“Milestones.”  Id., ¶11.  On December 17, 2021, defendants submitted
payment by way of defendant Cates’ check in the sum of $10,000 for the initial
deposit.  Id., ¶12.  In March 2022, after requesting specific
design changes, defendants approved the ADU’s materials that would be
used.  On March 3, 2022, defendants
approved and executed a “Product Presentation,” which specified the appliances
and products that would be used in the construction of the ADU.  Id., ¶13. 
On June 16, 2022, pursuant to the December 4, 2021 written contract,
plaintiff completed Milestone 2 by obtaining the necessary permits from the
City of El Segundo.  At this time,
defendants’ payment for Milestone 2 came due. 
Defendants did not submit payment for Milestone 2 until July 18,
2022.  This was in breach of the December
4, 2021 contract.  Id., ¶14.  On July 17, 2022, defendants gave plaintiff
access to defendants’ property and plaintiff began construction at defendants’
property.  Id., ¶15.  On July 25, 2022, plaintiff notified
defendants that during the demolition process certain issues were
discovered.  To remedy the two issues,
plaintiff and defendants agreed to the additional costs.  Id., ¶16. 
Defendants submitted checks totaling $54,040 for Milestone 3.  Id., ¶17. 
On January 10, 2023, defendants took issue with the kitchen cabinets,
bookshelf and materials that were going to be used within the ADU.  Defendants took issue with quality of
materials they never saw.  Id., ¶18.  On March 1, 2023, defendants sent notice that
they were terminating their agreement with plaintiff and would not allow
plaintiff to complete the work. Plaintiff stopped work per defendants’
demand.  Id., ¶19.  On March 31, 2023, defendants requested that
plaintiff transfer the plans and permits for the ADU to Cates.  Plaintiff complied with defendants’ demand.  Id., ¶20. 
The written contact contemplated a total sum of $170,210 plus $1710 in
permits fees to be paid by defendants to plaintiff.  Id., ¶21. 
To date, defendants have paid a total of $103,750.  Id., ¶22. 
Defendants breached the December 1, 2021 agreement by failing to submit
timely payment, forbid plaintiff to complete the kitchen, forbid plaintiff to
complete the bookshelf, and unnecessarily placed a stop work order on the
entire project.  Id., ¶23.  Defendants breached the contract by failing
to pay the unpaid principal balance of $68,170 despite plaintiff’s demand.  Id., ¶25.
Defendants argue that plaintiff JG
Builders fails to allege that it is a licensed general contractor, in that Bus.
& Prof. Code §7031(a) requires a contractor’s license to maintain an action
for compensation for services for which a contractor’s license is necessary.
Defendants also argue that
plaintiff JG Builders is not a party to the contract and therefore it cannot
pursue a breach of contract cause of action. 
Defendants point out that JG Builders is not mentioned anywhere in the
agreement.  Further, defendants contend
that based on the certified records of the California Secretary of State, JG
Builders is a corporation registered by Jose Guadalupe Ramirez as CEO and that
its principal place of business is located at 4418 La Madera Ave., El
Monte.  Request for Judicial Notice, Exh.
A.  The Cal. Secretary of State records
as to EcoSmart Builders, LLC indicates that it is a separate legal entity with
its principal place of business located at 5000 Parkway, Calabasas, Suite 114.  EcoSmart Builders, LLC’s corporate filing
shows that the manager and CEO is Farzad Zamani.  RJN, Exh. B.
The General Service Agreement attached
to the complaint as Exh. 1 is between “Client” Kimberly Cates and Nancy Dodd
and “Contractor” EcoSmart Builders, at 5000 Parkway, Calabasas, Unit 114,
CSLB#: 1049536.  “All checks shall be
made payable to ‘EcoSmart Builders.” 
Agreement, 5.d.  As to “Warranty
Service:  For service claims, please
submit written requests addressed to EcoSmart Builders” at 5000 Parkway,
Calabasas.  Id., 11.b.  It was signed by Freddie Zamani for “Contractor
- EcoSmart Builders.”  The address on the
“Notice of Right to Cancellation” is 5000 Parkway, Unit 114, Calabasas.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that it has the legal capacity to sue because it has a contractor’s license
that was stated on the General Service Agreement as no. 1049536.  Plaintiff also asserts that it is a party to
the contract because it registered the fictitious business name or dba as
EcoSmart Builders, and that “EcoSmart Builders, LLC” does not appear in the
contract.  Plaintiff disputes that
EcoSmart Builders, LLC is the party to the contract, but rather it is JG
Builders dba EcoSmart Builders.  Further,
plaintiff contends, the CEO Jose Ramirez of JG Builders was not required to
sign the contract and that it could designate other individuals to execute
contracts and is not required to use its address.
In reply, defendants reiterate
their arguments and contend that JG Builder’s corporate documents (see RJN) do
not mention EcoSmart Builders.  Further,
defendants argue, JG Builders cannot sue under the name EcoSmart Builders “just
because JG Builders contractor’s license” is on the contract and the use of the
contractor’s license on the contract does not make JG Builders a party to the
contract.  Defendants argue that JG
Builders is “illegally renting out its contractor’s license” to EcoSmart
Builders, LLC, citing to Opp v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co.
(2007) 154 Cal. App. 4th 71, 76.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient that plaintiff JG Builders is a party to the
contract.  The “Contractor” is identified
as EcoSmart Builders at the principal place of business for EcoSmart Builders,
LLC and the contract was executed by the manager and CEO of EcoSmart Builders,
as indicated in the corporate filings. 
There is no mention of JG Builders.  In Opp, supra, the court stated that
permitting “a jury to conclude appellant was a party to the contract because
his individual contractor’s license number was used repeatedly in the
documents,” that “[s]uch a rule would violate at least three aspects of public
policy.  First, of course, it would
render ineffective the contractor’s license requirement and encourage fraud if
insertion of the license number of one who is not the contractor permitted a
suit that otherwise was barred by section 7031. 
Second, . . . it would be tantamount to permitting an individual to
adopt a prohibited fictious business and then to sue on a contract, when such
suit would be barred for any other unregistered business.  Finally, parties who determine to avail
themselves of the right to do business by means of the establishment of a
corporate entity must assume the burdens thereof as well as the privileges.”
(Citations and internal quotations omitted).
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.