 Case Number:  23TRCV00137    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
BRANDON
  REYNOLDS, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00137




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ZARNA
  SURTI, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         November 2,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Zarna Surti and Tarun Surti
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Cashmine Crawford
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Specially Prepared Interrogatories (Set One)
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Demand for Inspection and Production of Documents (Set
One)
 
            The court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
RULING
            The motions are GRANTED.  
Plaintiff Cashmine Crawford is
ordered to respond without objections to defendants’ Form
Interrogatories-General, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 60
days.
Plaintiff Cashmine Crawford is ordered
(1) to serve on defendants a verified response without objections to defendants’
Demand for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One, and (2) to produce
all documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which
are responsive to defendants’ demand, within 60 days. 
The court orders that plaintiff
Crawford pay to defendants $500 in sanctions in total for all three motions,
within 60 days.
BACKGROUND
On January 17, 2023, plaintiffs
Brandon Reynolds and Cashmine Crawford filed a  complaint against Zarna Surti and Tarun Surti
for negligence and motor vehicle negligence based on an incident that occurred
on January 16, 2021 in Inglewood. 
Trial is set for October 23, 2024.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Interrogatories 
            If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.  
            Request for Production of
Documents 
            Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  So, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, 8:1487.  
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Zarna Surti and Tarun Surti request that the court compel plaintiff Cashmine
Crawford to respond to their initial form and special interrogatories and demand
for inspection and production of documents.
            Defendants
asserts that on June 16, 2023, they propounded discovery requests on plaintiff
Crawford.  Plaintiff did not
respond.  On July 21, 2023, defense
counsel sent a meet and confer letter and provided an extension to respond,
without objections, to July 28, 2023.  To
date, defense counsel has not received responses.
            In
opposition, plaintiff’s counsel requests that the court continue the hearing as
he is attempting to be relieved and he has been unable to contact
plaintiff.  He states in his declaration
that after he received the discovery requests, his office has actively tried to
communicate with plaintiff regarding defendants’ discovery for several months.  Counsel states that he was assigned to assist
on the current matter on July 11, 2023, and “attempted to call and liaise with
defense counsel.”  Counsel states that he
attempted to call the number on file for plaintiff on numerous dates but was
unable to reach her.  On October 27,
2023, he ordered a skip trace to find plaintiff Crawford’s current address.  Vicken Antounian decl.
            The
court finds that the discovery requests were properly served, and that
plaintiff failed to serve responses.  The
motions are thus GRANTED.
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendants
request $1141 in sanctions in total for all three motions against plaintiff
Crawford and her attorney of record.  In
opposition, plaintiff’s counsel argues that sanctions are not warranted against
counsel because he “has tried in a reasonably and good faith manner to resolve
this discovery dispute without court intervention.”  The court finds that $500 ($160/hr. x 2 hrs.,
$180 in filing fees) is a reasonable amount to be awarded against plaintiff only
in total for all three motions.
Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.