 Case Number:  22TRCV01198    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
DOUGLAS
  PAUL SALAZAR, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01198




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DENISE
  SMITH,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         November 2,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiffs Douglas Paul
Salazar and Paul Salazar
Responding Party:                  None
Motion
to Vacate Dismissal
 
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED. The court
sets a CMC and OSC re failure to file proof of service/status of default or
responsive pleading for __________________.
BACKGROUND
On November 10, 2022, plaintiffs
Douglas Paul Salazar and Paul Salazar filed a complaint against Denise Smith
for motor vehicle negligence and negligence based on an incident that occurred
on August 6, 2021.
On March 21, 2023, plaintiffs filed
a notice of conditional settlement.
On April 28, 2023, at the OSC re
dismissal, the OSC was discharged.  The
court scheduled a CMC and an OSC re failure to file proof of service/status of
default or responsive pleading for August 3, 2023.
On August 3, 2023, there were no
appearances, and the case was dismissed without prejudice, noting that
plaintiffs had filed a notice of settlement.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §473(b) states, in relevant
part:  “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a . . .
dismissal . . . taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the . . . dismissal . . . . was
taken. . . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. . . .” 
DISCUSSION

            Pursuant to CCP §473(b), plaintiffs request
that the court vacate the dismissal entered on August 3, 2023 as a result of
counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect.
            Counsel states in this declaration
that around March or April 2023, the firm’s prelitigation team suspected that
one of their assistants was not calendaring hearings and deadlines for cases
that counsel had initiated litigation but were still in the early stages and
settlement appeared promising.  This case
was among the cases in counsel’s internal audit.  In around mid-August, while he reviewed and
audited this matter, he noticed the August 3, 2023 minute order dismissing the
case.  He also realized that he
mistakenly filed a notice of settlement of the entire case when defendant had
settled with one plaintiff (Douglas Paul Salazar) but that the other plaintiff
(Paul Salazar) was not yet done treating for his injuries and therefore not
ready to settle.  See Mario Caesar
Valladares decl.   
            The court finds that relief from
dismissal is mandatory based on plaintiffs’ counsel’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, and/or excusable neglect.
            The motion is GRANTED.
            Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of ruling.