 Case Number:  23SMCV01693    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Webb v. Pepperdine
University, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01693
MOTION:                  Motion
for a Protective Order
HEARING DATE:   12/19/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
The court may make any other order
as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.  (CCP § 1987.1(a).) 
   
As a general rule, all unprivileged
information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action is
discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(CCP § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704,
711.) Information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in
evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff moves for a protective
order protecting Plaintiff from “discovery related to Plaintiff’s email and
Defendant’s alleged trade secrets until Defendant pleads a counterclaim related
to trade secret and provides a trade secret statement.” (Notice.) Specifically,
Plaintiff requests a “protective order staying any discovery propounded upon
Plaintiff, related to trade secret misappropriation or reasonably related to
trade secret misappropriation, until Defendant amends their pleading to add a
trade secret counterclaim and identify any trade secret with ‘reasonable
particularity.’” (Mot. p. 2.) As ruled in prior discovery motions, the Court
concurs that Defendant cannot, at this time, conduct “trade secret” discovery
without pleading such a claim, since discovery on such matters would not be
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence related
to Plaintiff’s claims or Defendant’s defenses thereto. That said, the Court is
not inclined to grant Plaintiff’s proposed open-ended discovery order staying
“any discovery” related to trade secrets or preemptively forbidding any
discovery related to Plaintiff’s “email.” Email discovery could be related to
other issues in this case. As such, the proposed order would inappropriately
curtail Defendant’s discovery rights. The Court will simply judge the discovery
issues on a case-by-case basis. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.
The Court will not issue discretionary sanctions. 