  Case Number:  22BBCV00619    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURTNORTH CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANKDEPARTMENT ATENTATIVE RULINGJULY 5, 2024MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONLos Angeles Superior Court Case # 22BBCV00619MP: Abimelec Burgos (Plaintiff)RP: General Motors, LLC (Defendant)NOTICE:The Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter. The Court is guided by California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested. Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue. The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no argument is received.Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.ALLEGATIONS:Abimelec Burgos (Plaintiff) brings action against General Motors, LLC (GM) for GM’s alleged violation of the Song Beverly Act. The Complaint alleges five causes of action for (1) violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d), (2) violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(b), (3) violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(a)(3), (4) breach of express written warranty, and (5) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability.Before the Court is motion by Plaintiff to compel the deposition of GM’s Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) as to a variety of categories. Plaintiff argues that despite noticing the deposition and attempting to meet and confer, GM has not produced its PMK. GM opposes, arguing that they timely objected to a number of Plaintiff’s deposition categories.Plaintiff objects to the Declaration of Ryan Kay. The objections are sustained as to 1 and 4 are sustained. Objections 2 and 3 are overruled.ANALYSIS:I. LEGAL STANDARDIf, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under C.C.P. § 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under C.C.P. § 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically storedinformation, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (C.C.P.§ 2025.450(a).)If the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent. (C.C.P.§ 2025.230.)The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (C.C.P.§ 2025.450(b)(1).)The motion shall also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (C.C.P.§ 2025.450(b)(2).)II. MERITSTimeline of DiscoveryOn February 12, 2024, Plaintiff served upon GM a deposition notice for its PMK to take place on February, 26, 2024. (Manno Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 1.) On February 20, 2024, GM served its objections to the deposition notice. (Manno Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. 2.) GM objected on grounds that the deposition was unilaterally noticed, along with a variety of other objections to the requested categories for the deposition. (Id.) The Court notes that, outside of the objection based on unavailability, none of these objections pertain to an error or irregularity in the deposition notice itself.Plaintiff’s counsel thereafter sent a series of emails requesting GM provide alternative dates for the deposition in light of their objection of unavailability. (Manno Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. 4.) Plaintiff states that GM did not reply to any of these meet and confer correspondences. (Manno Decl. ¶ 11.) GM’s counsel acknowledges these emails were received, but their declaration is silent as to any response. (Kay Decl. ¶ 4.) GM’s only statement regarding the meet and confer is to argue that Plaintiff’s meet and confer letters did not address their objections to the deposition categories. (Id.) GM does explain why their counsel did not relay this concern to Plaintiff’s counsel.DiscussionPlaintiff's motion is based on C.C.P. § 2025.450, which provides in relevant part: "If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without having served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document …, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document…." (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).) Although C.C.P. § 2025.410(b) provides that any deposition taken after the timely service of a valid objection cannotbe used against the objecting party if the party did not attend the deposition, such objections relate to an error or irregularity in a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section 2025.210). (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)Here, the objections raised by GM did not pertain to any irregularity or error in the deposition notice, so there is no reason to believe that GM's service of objections alone would have prevented Plaintiff from moving forward with the deposition. GM's objections were not based on any grounds provided under Article 2, Chapter 9 of the Civil Discovery Act. Nor did GM seek an order quashing the deposition subpoena or seeking a protective order on the basis of these objections. (C.C.P. § 2025.410(c) ["In addition to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice"].)Despite the objections asserted by GM, and its posture on producing a PMK only as to selective categories, it is still bound by the requirement of the Discovery Act to designate and produce at the deposition "those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent." (C.C.P. § 2025.230.) To the extent that GM finds certain categories objectionable on the grounds of relevance, it is entitled to object to those questions at the deposition. After the deposition, Plaintiff may move to compel further deposition of GM’s PMK as to any categories on which the parties are unable to reach agreement. (C.C.P. § 2025.480.)As concerns the good cause required by C.C.P. § 2025.450(b), the Court finds Plaintiff has made the required showing. GM argues that Plaintiff has not demonstrated good cause because their deposition subpoena requests information which is irrelevant to the Subject Vehicle and pertains to other vehicles of the same make and model. (See Manno Decl. Exh. A.) Evidence regarding other vehicles with similar defects as Plaintiff’s could potentially be admissible at trial in a lemon law action. (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154; see also Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 971.) Since Plaintiff has limited the request to braking systems, it is not unreasonable to believe that Defendant uses the same braking system, or system parts on other vehicles of the same year, make and model as the subject vehicle. Plaintiff has sufficiently established that information relating to vehicles of the same year, make, and model is directly relevant to his claims for violation of the Song Beverly Act.A motion under C.C.P. § 2025.450 must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating that the moving party has made a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion, or, if the motion is based on the deponent's failure to attend the deposition and to produce documents, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the moving party has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (C.C.P. §§ 2025.450(b)(2), 2016.040.) Here the Court is satisfied that Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer regarding the deposition of GM’s PMK in good faith and received no response.In short, the Court finds that Plaintiff appropriately noticed the deposition of GM’s PMK and no valid objections under C.C.P. § 2025.410 were served. The Court finds that Plaintiff appropriately attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff as to alternative deposition dates, but that attempt fell upon deaf ears. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.Sanctions“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(g)(1).)Here, the Court finds GM was without substantial justification in opposing the motion. GM’s objections were clearly not within the bounds of C.C.P. § 2025.410 such that they could have reasonably expected to avoid the granting of this motion. Further, GM made no attempt to respond to Plaintiff’s informal meet and confer efforts such that this motion could have been avoided. Regardless, Plaintiff provides no declaration attesting to counsel’s rates or the hours expended in bringing this motion. As such, the Court is without guidance in determining reasonableness and declines to grant sanctions.Notice of Upcoming Trial Date:The Court notes that answer to the complaint was filed September 30, 2022, and the Court has issued three Trial Preparation Orders (October 19, 2023 and December 28, 2023 and February 9, 2024). The Court also previously continued the trial by stipulation on December 28, 2023, giving the parties an additional eight months to prepare for trial, the request being simply being until June 2024 (120 days past the February 9, 2024 Motion to Compel). Despite the stipulated continuance and new trial dates set, it was not until 6 weeks later, February 12, 2024 that an Amended Notice of Deposition was served.---RULING:In the event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records.ORDERAbimelec Burgos’ Motion to Compel Deposition came on regularly for hearing on July 5, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:THE MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS GRANTED.THE PARTIES SHALL CONDUCT THE DEPOSITION OF GM’S PMK WITHIN 15 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.IT IS SO ORDERED.DATE: July 5, 2024 _______________________________F.M. TAVELMAN, JudgeSuperior Court of California