 Case Number:  23BBCV02240    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURTNORTH CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANKDEPARTMENT ATENTATIVE RULINGJULY 5, 2024DEMURRER & MOTION TO STRIKELos Angeles Superior Court Case # 23BBCV02240MP: HML Investments and Yanni Raz (Defendants)RP: Ann Shabtay (Plaintiff)NOTICE:The Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter. The Court is guided by California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested. Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue. The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no argument is received.Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.ALLEGATIONS:Ann Shabtay, as trustee of the Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust (Plaintiff) brings this action for quiet title on the property commonly known as 4833 Morella Avenue, Valley Village, California 91607 (the Property). Plaintiff alleges the title to the Property was improperly used by her son, Eran Shabtay, who has no ownership interest in that property, to secure several loans. Eran Shabtay subsequently defaulted on one such loan and the lenders issued a notice of non-judicial foreclosure.Plaintiff initially asserted claims for (1) Quiet Title, (2) Cancellation of Instruments, and (3) Declaratory/Injunctive Relief. The only named Defendants in Plaintiff’s initial claim were JR Jainclan Foundation & Total Lender Solutions, Inc.Plaintiff has since amended her complaint. The First Amended Complaint (FAC) names the following as Defendants:· JR Jainclan Foundation (Jainclan)· Total Lender Solutions, Inc. (Total Lender)· Eran Shabtay, individually and as Successor Trustee of the Ann Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildrens Trust dated May 1994 (sued as DOE 1) (Eran)· Red Dragon Investments (Red Dragon)· Amit Dhir, Trustee of The Amit Dhir and Sonia Chopra Dhir Living Trust,· Sonia Chopra Dhir, Trustee of The Amit Dhir and Sonia Chopra Dhir Living Trust,· Vikas Dhir, Trustee of The Vikas and Rachna Dhir Family Trust,· Rachna Dhir, Trustee of The Vikas and Rachna Dhir Family Trust,· FCI Lender Services, Inc. (FCI)· California TD Specialists (TD)· Shaurya Ray Jain· HML Investments (HML)· Yanni Raz (Raz)· Daniel TepperThe FAC now asserts claims for (1) Quiet Title (against all Defendants), (2) Cancellation of Instruments (against all Defendants), (3) Declaratory/Injunctive relief (against all Defendants), (4) Fraud and Deceit (as to Eran, HML Investments, Yanni Raz, Daniel Tepper, and Jainclan), (5) Elder Abuse (as to HML Investments, Yanni Raz, Daniel Tepper, and Jainclan), (6) Racketeering, (as to HML Investments, Yanni Raz, Daniel Tepper, Jainclan, and Red Dragon), and (7) and Unfair Business Practices (against all Defendants).HML and Raz (Moving Defendants) now demurrer to each cause of action on grounds that each contain insufficient factual allegations. Moving Defendants also demurrer on grounds of uncertainty and misjoinder of the parties. Moving Defendants also move to strike Plaintiff’s request for treble damages (Prayer ¶ 9), punitive damages (Prayer ¶ 10), and “attorney’s fees” (Prayer ¶ 14.) Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and motion to strike and Moving Defendants reply.ANALYSIS:I. LEGAL STANDARDSDemurrerThe grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice. (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)Motion to StrikeMotions to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.)The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)To succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 1217, 1228-1229.)II. MERITSMeet and ConferC.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) require that the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met. (Noudel Decl. ¶¶ 7-9.)Facts Alleged as to Moving DefendantsIn evaluating the various arguments made by the parties, the Court finds its useful to identify the allegations which are specifically levelled at Moving Defendants (as opposed to all Defendants). These are reproduced in relevant part below:· Plaintiff has come to learn that starting in 2019, her son Defendant Eran Shabtay (“Eran”) executed a number Grant Deeds and Deeds of Trust purporting to encumber the Property as security for a loans he obtained that were arranged by Defendants HML Investments, Yanni Raz and Daniel Tepper (the “Loan Brokers”). (FAC ¶ 20.)· Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that the Loan Brokers and possibly other Defendants, were aware of the fact that Plaintiff as Trustee for the Children’s Trust was the title holder of the Property. However, Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that the Loan Brokers convinced and conspired with Eran to create and execute Grant Deeds and Deeds of Trust improperly and fraudulently using the Property as security for loans that the Loan Broker’s arranged for him. Specially, Eran, acting in concert with the Loan Brokers and at their direction, purported to convey title to the Property to an alleged trust titled “The Ann Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildren’s Trust Dated May 1994". (FAC ¶ 24.)· Plaintiff is further informed and believes that JR Jainclan with the assistance of the Loan Brokers purposefully structured the loans and liens against the Property in order to acquire the Property and the equity therein by foreclosure. (FAC ¶ 30.)· Defendants contrived and caused for Eran to falsely execute the Fraudulent Deeds so that they could profit by virtue of the loans purportedly secured by the fraudulent Deeds of Trust. Among other things, Defendants structured the loans purportedly secured by the Property so that JR Jainclan could obtain title to the Property through a foreclosure and steal the equity in the Property. (FAC ¶ 45.)First COA – Quiet Title – Sustained With Without Leave to AmendA complaint for quiet title must be verified and include: (1) the subject property's description; (2) plaintiff's title as to which a determination is sought and the basis of the title; (3) adverse claims to plaintiff's title against which a determination is sought; (4) the date as of which the determination is sought (if other than the date the complaint is filed, a statement of reasons why that date is sought); and (5) a prayer for the determination of plaintiff's title against the adverse claims. (C.C.P. § 761.020; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 802.)The Court first addresses Moving Defendants’ argument that the first cause of action contains insufficient factual allegations. Moving Defendants argue that the FAC only alleges their role in brokering the allegedly fraudulent loans and contains no factual allegations supporting that Moving Defendants’ have any adverse claim to the property. The Court finds this argument persuasive.Reviewing the allegations made with respect to Moving Defendants, the Court agrees they only contain statements regarding the brokering of the loan. There are no statements in the FAC alleging that Moving Defendants possess any interest in the property whatsoever. Further, the Court notes that each of the allegedly fraudulent loan documents are attached to the FAC. A review of these documents reveals that Moving Defendants are not a named beneficiary to any of the transactions. The Court provides a brief summary of each document below:· Exhibit C is a Trust Transfer Grant Deed that purports to transfer the property from Plaintiff to E. Ron Shabtay as trustee for the Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust· Exhibit D is a Trust Transfer Grant Deed that purports to transfer the property from Eran Shabtay as trustee for the Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust to Ann Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildren’s Trust· Exhibit E is a Deed of Trust that purports to transfer a divided interest in the property from Eran Shabtay to the Amit Dhir and Sonia Chopra Dhir Living Trust, the Vikas and Rachna Dhir Family Trust, and Shaurya Ray Jain. It appears the deed was issued as security for a loan from the aforementioned parties. The deed explicitly establishes that the “Lender” is the beneficiary under the Security Agreement.· Exhibit F is a Deed of Trust that purports to transfer an interest in the property from Eran Shabtay to JR Jainclan Foundation. It appears the deed was issued as security for a loan fromJR Jainclan. The deed explicitly establishes that the “Lender” is the beneficiary under the Security Agreement.· Exhibit G is a Deed of Trust that purports to transfer an interest in the property from Eran Shabtay to JR Jainclan Foundation. It appears the deed was issued as security for a loan from JR Jainclan.· Exhibit H is a Trust Transfer Grant Deed that purports to transfer the property from Plaintiff as trustee of the Ann Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildren’s Trust to Yerev Breskin, David E. Buch Alter Esq., and Noa Breskin Esq. as trustees of the Ann Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildren’s Trust.As can be seen, none of the above instruments name Moving Defendants as having an interest in the property. While Plaintiff alleges that Moving Defendants played a part in bringing these deeds to fruition, such allegations are not akin to facts showing Moving Defendants have an adverse interest in the property.The Court finds Plaintiff’s argument that discovery is needed to determine Moving Defendants’ interest in the loan unpersuasive. The Court is unsure as to how discovery would reveal any adverse claim to the property by the Moving Defendants. Plaintiff cites to no authority, nor is the Court aware of any, that a loan broker’s interest in getting their investors paid is equivalent to a legal interest in the property which is the subject of the loan. Even assuming Plaintiff’s allegations about the scheme to deprive her of her home are correct, such a scheme does not create an interest in the property for those who brokered the loan.The Court cannot foresee any likely basis that the complaint can be amended to include a loan broker to this cause of action. Accordingly, the demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. As the Court sustains the demurrer on grounds of insufficient factual allegations, it need not address Moving Defendants’ arguments as to uncertainty or misjoinder.Second COA – Cancellation of Instruments – Sustained with Without Leave to AmendAn "instrument" is a "written paper signed by a person or persons transferring the title to, or giving a lien on real property, or giving a right to a debt or duty." (Gov. Code § 27279.) Civil Code § 3412 states that "a written instrument, in respect to which there is a reasonable apprehension that if left outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon his application, be so adjudged, and ordered to be delivered up or canceled." (Bank of America v. Greenbach (1950) 98 Cal.App.2d 220, 238; Civ. Code, § 3412.) Cancellation is essentially a request for rescission that places the parties where they were before the instrument was made. (Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. v. Pyle (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 513, 523.)Moving Defendants’ arguments in demurring to this cause of action largely mirror those made to the first cause of action. Moving Defendants argue that because they are not named anywhere in the attached deeds, they have no interest in the cancellation of those same deeds. The Court agrees. While Plaintiff has certainly alleged the existence of the deeds which she requests to be cancelled, the FAC contains no facts which would necessitate Moving Defendants be named in this cause of action. Plaintiff appears to concede this point, as this cause of action is unaddressed in theiropposition. A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 8.54(c).)Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. As the Court sustains the demurrer on grounds of insufficient factual allegations, it need not address Moving Defendants’ arguments as to uncertainty or misjoinder.Third COA – Declaratory and Injunctive Relief – Sustained Without Leave to Amend“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, [quotation marks and brackets omitted].) An action for declaratory relief requires that the plaintiff seeking the relief allege the existence of an actual, present controversy. (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 80.) This requirement cannot be met in such a bootstrapping manner. (Id.) In other words, Plaintiff cannot point to the current law suit as the basis for injunctive relief.Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s action for declaratory relief requests only a determination of the controversy which is the subject of the instant lawsuit. Plaintiff does not allege any controversy which needs determination that is not already encompassed in her cause of action for Quiet Title. This cause of action is also unaddressed in Plaintiff’s opposition. To the extent that Plaintiff believes a separate controversy exists between herself and Moving Defendants, she has pleaded no facts in support and presented no argument in response to this demurrer.Further, the Court finds that this claim for declaratory relief is one which must be dismissed as it only requests determination of a past controversy. In Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC the Court of Appeals created a conceptual framework classifying declaratory relief into three types for the purpose of determining whether the trial court erred by dismissing a declaratory relief cause of action. In a “Type 1” declaratory relief cause of action, the complaint alleges only a past breach of contract, a breach of contract remedy is available, and declaratory relief is unnecessary to guide future conduct. (Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 365 & 366-368.) The court must dismiss the Type 1 type of declaratory relief claims. (Id.) Here, Plaintiff asks the Court to determine the validity of the allegedly fraudulent deeds. The fraudulent nature of the deeds in inherently the subject of a past controversy which is encompassed by Plaintiff’s other causes of action.Accordingly, the demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. As the Court sustains the demurrer on grounds of insufficient factual allegations, it need not address Moving Defendants’ arguments as to uncertainty or misjoinder.Fourth COA – Fraud – Sustained With Leave to Amend“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily beinvoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made. (Id.)To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)The Court finds that Plaintiff has pleaded the fraud cause of action against Moving Defendants without sufficiently particular facts. The only allegations as to the fraud committed by Moving Defendants is as follows:Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that the Loan Brokers and possibly other Defendants, were aware of the fact that Plaintiff as Trustee for the Children’s Trust was the title holder of the Property. However, Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that the Loan Brokers convinced and conspired with Eran to create and execute Grant Deeds and Deeds of Trust improperly and fraudulently using the Property as security for loans that the Loan Broker’s arranged for him. Specially, Eran, acting in concert with the Loan Brokers and at their direction, purported to convey title to the Property to an alleged trust titled “The Ann Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildren’s Trust Dated May 1994". (FAC ¶ 24.)The Court finds these allegations are too vague to sustain a fraud cause of action. First, Moving Defendant HML Investments is a corporation. To allege fraud against HML Investments, Plaintiff must specifically allege which agent of the corporation made the misrepresentation upon which the cause of action relies. Here, Plaintiff alleges only that the “Loan Brokers and possible other Defendants” were aware that Plaintiff was the trustee in possession of the property. This allegation is insufficiently detailed.Second, Plaintiff’s allegations lack sufficient information concerning what fraudulent acts were committed. Plaintiff’s allegations against the “Loan Brokers” appear to implicate (1) HML Investments, (2) Yanni Raz, and (3) Daniel Tepper. The FAC does not allege the individual actions of any of these Defendants. Plaintiff simply alleges that all three Defendants directed Eran to fraudulently transfer the property. The FAC does not aver to the nature of that direction or the role that any of the Moving Defendants played in doing so. While Plaintiff is not required to plead every exacting detail of the alleged fraud, she must allege enough to allow Moving Defendants to defend the action. Plaintiff’s blanket allegations that all Moving Defendants directed Eran to transfer the property is insufficient for this purpose.Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. As the Court sustains the demurrer on grounds of insufficient factual allegations, it need not address Moving Defendants’ arguments as to uncertainty or misjoinder.Fifth COA - Elder Abuse – Sustained With Leave to Amend“[F]inancial abuse of an elder . . . occurs when a person or entity does the following:”(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.(2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.(3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30(a).)Pleading a claim for elder abuse requires specific facts of intentional or, at a minimum, reckless conduct. (See Worsham v. O'Connor Hospital (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331, 338.) To state the statutory cause of action for Financial Elder Abuse, Plaintiff must plead specific facts. (See Covenant Care v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.)A loan broker can be liable for elder abuse similar to a financial institution. Courts have held that a bank may be liable as an aider and abettor of a tort if the bank, in providing ordinary services, actually knew those transactions were assisting the customer in committing a specific tort. (See Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 745.) As such, it stands to reason that other parties that assist in financial transactions, such as loan brokers, could be held liable for financial elder abuse if they knew the transfer was intended to defraud.The above being established, the Court finds the FAC is insufficiently detailed as to the facts surrounding the fraud. Plaintiff must allege the specific actions by specific individuals which constituted fraud and she has not done so here. Given that Plaintiff’s Financial Elder Abuse claim is premised on the alleged fraud by Moving Defendants, a failure to sufficiently allege that fraud justifies sustaining the demurrer to this cause of action.Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. As the Court sustains the demurrer on grounds of insufficient factual allegations, it need not address Moving Defendants’ arguments as to uncertainty or misjoinder.Sixth COA – Racketeering – Sustained With Leave to AmendTo plead a cause of action for racketeering under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating “(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity." (Charles J. Vacanti, M.D., Inc. v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (2001) 24 Cal. 4th 800, 826). "Racketeering activity" is any act indictable under several provisions of U.S.C. Title 18, such as mail fraud and wire fraud. (18 U.S.C. § 1961.)An associated-in-fact enterprise requires allegations that the defendants acted with a common purpose distinct from its alleged members' own affairs, operated with an ongoing structure or organization, existed long enough to accomplish its purposes and functioned as a continuing unit. (Agric. Water v. Occidental Oil & Gas Corp. (E.D. Cal. 2017) 235 F. Supp.3d 1132, 1173-1174.) Conclusory allegations of "secret meetings" or allegations that each defendant "participated in the operation and management of a RICO enterprise" do not suffice. (Id. at 1175.)Here the Court finds that Plaintiff has insufficiently pled a violation of the RICO Act. Plaintiff’s allegations as to the occurrence of an enterprise dealing in interstate commerce are as follows:Defendants’ concerted and conspiratorial[sic] efforts to profit from fraudulent and predatory lending practices constitutes an enterprise formed for the purpose of engaging in such acts for their own profit. Defendants’ enterprise involves entities from multiple states including persons and entities not named in this action. Defendants’ enterprise therefore involves interstate commerce and the transfer of assets and funds between states. (FAC ¶ 57.)In the Courts view, these allegations do not constitute facts supporting a claim for RICO violation. First, Plaintiff lumps all 14 Defendants together in these allegations, without describing the individual rolls or any actions committed which establish an enterprise. Second, Plaintiff pleads no facts which implicate interstate transfer outside the conclusory statement that “Defendants’ enterprise involves entities from multiple states”. Third, Plaintiff has not alleged any specific statutory violation upon which her RICO claim can be based. A claim under RICO requires the identification of a violation defined under 18 U.S.C. § 1961 and Plaintiff fails to plead any such violation in her FAC.Accordingly, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. As the Court sustains the demurrer on grounds of insufficient factual allegations, it need not address Moving Defendants’ arguments as to uncertainty or misjoinder.Seventh COA – Unfair Business Practices – Sustained With Leave to AmendTo set forth a claim for a violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, Plaintiff must establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action for unfair competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)“A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these statutes must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) A demurrer is properly sustained where a complaint identifies no particular section of the statutory scheme which was violated and fails to describe with any reasonable particularity the facts supporting a violation. (Id.)The Court finds that Plaintiff’s cause of action for Unfair Business Practices lacks the requisite factual pleadings. Plaintiff’s FAC contains no aversion as to a specific section of the Business & Professions Code which was violated by Moving Defendants. To the extent that Plaintiff maintains that this violation is based on fraud, the Court has explained at length that the FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to support her claims of fraud by Moving Defendants.Accordingly, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. As the Court sustains the demurrer on grounds of insufficient factual allegations, it need not address Moving Defendants’ arguments as to uncertainty or misjoinder.Motion to StrikeMoving Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s request for treble damages (Prayer ¶ 9), punitive damages (Prayer ¶ 10), and “attorney’s fees” (Prayer ¶ 14.) As the Court has sustained demurrer to the causes of action which relate to these claimed damages with leave to amend, the Court finds the motion to strike is MOOT.---RULING:In the event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records.ORDERHML Investments and Yanni Raz’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on July 5, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:THE DEMURRER TO THE FOURTH, FIFTH, SIXTH, AND SEVENTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT.THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE, ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE FOR FAILURE TO FILE PROOF OF SERVICE AND ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: DETERMINATION OF PROPERLY NAMED DOE DEFENDANT ARE ALL CONTINUED TO AUGUST 30, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT HML TO GIVE NOTICE.IT IS SO ORDERED.DATE: July 5, 2024 _______________________________F.M. TAVELMAN, JudgeSuperior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los Angeles