 Case Number:  23BBCV02786    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURTNORTH CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANKDEPARTMENT ARULING AFTER HEARINGJUNE 28, 2024APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF POSSESSIONLos Angeles Superior Court Case # 23BBCV02786MP: Centra Funding, LLC (Plaintiff)RP: NoneALLEGATIONS:Centra Funding, LLC (Plaintiff) brings this action against Anko Services and Andrii Benko (Defendants) in connection with an Equipment Finance Agreement. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants leased a “UTP 160-P3 160kW/200kVA Super Silent Generator” (the generator) from them and subsequently defaulted on payments.On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Complaint stating five causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Guaranty, (3) Recovery of Personal Property, (4) Conversion, and (5) Common Count (Money Lent).Before the Court is an Application made by Plaintiff for a Writ of Possession. Plaintiff seeks to recover the Generator so that it may recoup funds toward the defaulted agreement. Defendants have filed no opposition to the motion.On June 28, 2024, this matter came on for hearing. The Court heard argument from Plaintiff as to the service of this motion. Having determined that service of this motion was properly made, the Court took the matter under submission and now issues this revised ruling:ANALYSIS:I. LEGAL STANDARDC.C.P. § 512.010 requires that the application for writ of possession be executed under oath and include affidavits showing the following:(1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.(2) A showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.(3) A particular description of the property and a statement of its value.(4) A statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located there.(5) A statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.C.C.P. § 512.030 provides that before the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the defendant must be served with:(1) a copy of the summons and complaint;(2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and(3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof.C.C.P. § 512.060 permits the Court to issue a writ of possession when the Court finds the following:(1) the plaintiff has established the probable validity of the plaintiff's claim to possession of the property; and(2) the undertaking requirements of C.C.P. § 515.010 are satisfied.C.C.P. § 515.010 provides: “The undertaking shall be in an amount not less than twice the value of¿the¿defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount.”“Before issuance of a writ of attachment … the plaintiff shall file an undertaking to pay the defendant any amount the defendant may recover for any wrongful attachment by the plaintiff in the action.” (C.C.P. § 489.210.) But when a defendant does not have any interest in the property, C.C.P. § 515.010(b) permits the Court to waive the requirement of the plaintiff's undertaking and set an undertaking for the defendant to keep possession or regain possession.II. MERITSPlaintiff submits proof of service of this motion on Anko Services, via the California Secretary of State as previously permitted by the Court. This proof of service was mistakenly not filed until just before the hearing on this motion, thus prompting the Court to take the matter under submission. On May 24, 2024, Anko was served with the Notice of the Writ of Possession Hearing, alongside a number of other case documents. Having reviewed the proof of service the Court is satisfied Plaintiff has fulfilled its statutory obligation.Plaintiff also provides the declaration of John Boettigheimer, its Chief Executive Officer, to establish the facts relevant to the writ application. Plaintiff has demonstrated an entitlement to possession of the property claimed due to Defendant’s default under a written Equipment Finance Agreement and the probable validity of Plaintiff's claims for breach of contract. (BoettigheimerDecl. ¶¶ 2-5.) The evidence demonstrates the existence of the Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant. (Boettigheimer Decl. ¶ 2, See also Compl. Exh. A.) Additionally, Plaintiff has shown it is the legal owner of the generator. (Boettigheimer Decl. Exh. 3.)Plaintiff attests it has performed all the conditions, covenants, and promises required under the terms of the Agreement and Defendant defaulted in the terms, conditions, and covenants of the Agreement by failing to make payment. (Boettigheimer Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Plaintiff demanded Defendant return the generator, however Defendant refused. (Boettigheimer Decl. Exhs. 1-2.) Plaintiff believes the generator is in the control and possession of Defendant at 5519 Washington Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 90016. (Boettigheimer Decl. ¶ 8.)Plaintiff has also provided a particular description of the property and the value of the property. (Boettigheimer Decl. ¶¶ 2, 9.) Plaintiff has provided that the generator has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff. (Boettigheimer. ¶ 10.)Plaintiff has met its burden in demonstrating their entitlement to a writ of possession. As a result, Plaintiff must file an undertaking “in an amount not less than twice the value of the defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount” unless the court finds the defendant has no interest in the property. (C.C.P. §§ 515.010(a) & (b).) “The value of the defendant's interest in the property is determined by the market value of the property less the amount due and owing on any conditional sales contract or security agreement and all liens and encumbrances on the property, and any other factors necessary to determine the defendant's interest in the property.” (Id.)The approximate wholesale value of the generator is $62,500. (Boettigheimer Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff contends Defendant owes $93,756.50. (Boettigheimer Decl. Exh. 1.) Since Defendant owes more than the market value of the generator, they have no interest pursuant to C.C.P. § 515.010. The Court thus waives the requirement to file an undertaking for Defendant’s interest.In the event that a defendant has no interest in the property, C.C.P. § 515.010(b) requires the Court include in the writ the amount of defendant’s undertaking sufficient to satisfy C.C.P. § 515.020(b). C.C.P. § 515.020(b) permits the Court to determine the amount to be posted for re-delivery when defendant is found to have no interest in the property. Here, the Court finds a re-delivery bond of $75,000 to be reasonable. This takes into consideration the value of he generator and additional depreciation which may occur prior to resolution of the case.---RULING:In the event a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records.ORDERCentra Funding, LLC’s Application for Writ of Possession came on regularly for hearing on June 28, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court took the matter under submission and now rules as follows:PLAINTIFF’S APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION IS GRANTED.THE COURT FINDS THAT DEFENDANT HAS NO FINANCIAL INTEREST IN THE EQUIPMENT AND PLAINTIFF NEED NOT POST A BOND PER CCP 515.010.THE COURT SETS A RE-DELIVERY BOND FOR THE DEFENDANT IN THE AMOUNT OF $75,000.PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.IT IS SO ORDERED.DATE: June 28, 2024 _______________________________F.M. TAVELMAN, JudgeSuperior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los Angeles