 Case Number:  23BBCV00124    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURTNORTH CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANKDEPARTMENT ATENTATIVE RULINGJULY 5, 2024DEMURRER & MOTION TO STRIKELos Angeles Superior Court Case # 23BBCV00124MP: 428 E. Santa Anita Homeowners Association (Defendant)RP: Melise Vartanians (Plaintiff)NOTICE:The Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter. The Court is guided by California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested. Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue. The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no argument is received.Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.ALLEGATIONS:Melise Vartanians (Plaintiff) brings this action against Rafik Bazikian (Bazikian), 428 E. Santa Anita Homeowners Association (HOA), Artur Nersisyan (Nersisyan), and Nora Ivanyan (Ivanyan). Plaintiff alleges that she was attacked by a dog owned by Nersisyan, which resided at property owned by Rafik Bazikian. Plaintiff also alleges HOA negligently maintained the premises such that a dog with dangerous propensities was allowed to reside there.Plaintiff’s Complaint contains causes of action for (1) General Negligence, (2) Premises Liability, and (3) Strict Liability as stated against all Defendants.HOA now demurs to each cause of action as containing insufficient factual allegations. HOA also moves to strike portions of the FAC which request punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes the motion and HOA replies.ANALYSIS:I. LEGAL STANDARDSDemurrerThe grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice. (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)Motion to StrikeMotions to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.)The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)To succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 1217, 1228-1229.)II. MERITSMeet and ConferC.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) require that the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met. (Byrne Decl. ¶ 4.)General FactsPlaintiff alleges that, on September 25, 2023, she was the victim of an attack by a dog owned by Nersisyan. (FAC ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that she was walking on Colgin Court, which appears to be a public street in Burbank, when the dog rushed out of the building located at 428 E. Santa Anita Ave. (FAC ¶¶ 13-14.) Plaintiff alleges it was Ivanyan who opened the door to the property to allow the dog out. (FAC ¶ 14.) Plaintiff states that the dog attacked her for around two minutes until some unidentified person was able to gain control of the dog. (FAC ¶ 15.)Plaintiff alleges that the unit in which the dog lived at 428 E. Santa Anita Ave. is owned and maintained by Defendant Bazikian. (FAC ¶ 8.) Plaintiff further alleges that HOA is the homeowners association for 428 E. Santa Anita Ave. and has a representative that resides at the property. (FAC ¶ 6.)1st COA – Strict Liability Civil Code § 3342(a) – Sustained Without Leave to AmendCivil Code § 3342(a) provides that, “The owner of any dog is liable for the damages suffered by any person who is bitten by the dog while in a public place or lawfully in a private place, including the property of the owners of the dog, regardless of the former viciousness of the dog or the owner’s knowledge of such viciousness. …” Civil Code § 3342(a), allows one to recover without having to show fault. “Subdivision (a) of section 3342 has been recognized as imposing a duty of care on every dog owner to prevent his or her dog from biting persons in a public place or lawfully in a private place. (Davis v. Gaschler (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1392, 1399.)Here Plaintiff alleges that the dog was owned by Nersisyan. (FAC ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s FAC contains no allegations that HOA was the owner of the dog such that Civil Code § 3342(a) would apply. It appears that Plaintiff agrees the statute is inapplicable as, as she provides no argument with respect to this cause of action in her opposing papers. Given that the FAC clearly alleges that Defendant Nersisyan, and not HOA, is the owner of the dog, the Court finds the FAC insufficiently states a cause of action for strict liability. Further, given the FAC has already pled ownership of the dog by Nersisyan, the Court finds this deficiency cannot reasonably be cured on amendment.Accordingly, HOA’s demurrer to the first cause of action for strict liability is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.2nd COA – Negligence – Sustained With Leave to AmendIn order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)HOA argues that Plaintiff has pled insufficient facts which would establish a duty they owed to Plaintiff. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that she has pled sufficient facts and that requiring any further factual pleadings would be akin to a motion for summary judgment rather than a demurrer. The Court finds Plaintiff’s argument unpersuasive. While Plaintiff is correct that the Court must assume the facts pled to be correct on demurrer, it does not follow that Plaintiff’s conclusory allegations are sufficient to allege HOA owed her a duty to protect her from the dog on a public street.A landlord owes no duty of care to protect a tenant or others from a tenant’s dangerous dog unless the landlord has actual knowledge of the dog’s dangerous propensities and the right to remove the dog. (Uccello v. Laudenslayer (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 504, 507.) In reaching this holding, the Uccello court reasoned that “Because the harboring of pets is such an important part of our way of life and because the exclusive possession of rented premises normally is vested in the tenant, we believe that actual knowledge and not mere constructive knowledge is required.” (Id. at 514.)An HOA may be treated as a landlord for purposes of determining tort liability. An HOA "may be held to a landlord's standard of care as to residents' safety in the common areas." (Lamden v. La Jolla Shores Clubdominium Homeowners Assn. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 249, 261.) "[T]he Association is, for all practical purposes, the Project's 'landlord.' And traditional tort principles impose on landlords, no less than on homeowner associations that function as a landlord in maintaining the common areas of a large condominium complex, a duty to exercise due care for the residents' safety in those areas under their control." (Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 499.)Here, Plaintiff’s FAC contains no factual allegations concerning HOA’s knowledge of the dog or its dangerous propensities. The only allegation to this effect in the FAC is the following from paragraph 21:The outrageous conduct of 428 E. SANTA ANITA HOA in permitting the dog to reside in the building while knowing that the dog was aggressive, had dangerous propensities, and posed a serious risk of harm to persons including Plaintiff, was done with malice and with a willful and conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights and knowing that the dog’s presence created a severe risk of injuring Plaintiff and others and did in fact cause severe injuries to PlaintiffOrdinarily, negligence may be alleged in general terms, without specific facts showing how the injury occurred, but there are “limits to the generality with which a plaintiff is permitted to state his cause of action, and … the plaintiff must indicate the acts or omissions which are said to have been negligently performed. He may not recover upon the bare statement that the defendant's negligence has caused him injury.” [citation omitted]. Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal. App. 4th 518, 527.Plaintiff alleges no facts establishing that HOA was aware of the dog, instead she simply concludes that HOA was aware of the dog and allowed it to remain on the premises. This is especially salient because, as established in Uccello, Plaintiff must plead actual knowledge rather than constructive knowledge. It is not enough that Plaintiff allege HOA should have been aware, she must allege facts showing HOA was actually aware. Furthermore, there are no facts alleged as to how the HOA was negligent. The Court can contemplate numerous situations where the Plaintiff could believe the HOA was negligent; however, there is a paucity of facts to support any of those situations leaving the HOA to guess how Plaintiff believes they were negligent.In short, the Court finds there are insufficient factual allegations to establish a cause of action for negligence against HOA. Unlike the first cause of action, the Court finds these deficiencies could be reasonably cured upon amendment.Accordingly, HOA’s demurrer to the second cause of action for negligence is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend.3rd COA – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress – Sustained Without Leave to AmendThe elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED) are (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress, (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress, and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, [citation and ellipses omitted].) For conduct to be outrageous it must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. (Id.)Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff has pleaded insufficient facts as to extreme and outrageous conduct of HOA. Plaintiff’s cause of action for IIED is based on her allegation that HOA permitted the dog to remain in the building even though they knew of the dog’s dangerous propensities. As previously discussed, the Court does not find Plaintiff has pled sufficient facts as to HOA’s knowledge of the dog. As such, it follows that the FAC contains insufficient allegations as to any conduct of HOA which would support an IIED cause of action.Even had Plaintiff pleaded sufficient facts as to HOA’s foreknowledge of the dog, it appears highly unlikely that she could allege HOA’s behavior was directed at her. To support a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, it is not enough that the conduct be intentional and outrageous, rather it must be directed at the plaintiff or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware. (Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 152.) To plead a cause of action for IIED Plaintiff is required to allege that HOA directed its disregard for the violent nature of the dog specifically at her. Given the Plaintiff is not a resident of 428 E. Santa Anita Ave. and was simply walking by the building, the Court cannot see how Plaintiff could allege HOA was aware of her existence and directed its negligence specifically at her.In short, the Court finds insufficient facts are pled as to HOA’s outrageous conduct directed at Plaintiff. Given the relationship between the parties, the Court finds subsequent amendment is not reasonably likely to cure this deficiency.Accordingly, HOA’s demurrer to the third cause of action for IIED is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Motion to Strike – Granted with Leave to AmendIn ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code § 3294. (College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) Per Civil Code § 3294(a), a plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.Here, Plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages revolve around her claim that HOA negligently permitted the dog to remain on the premises. As previously discussed, Plaintiff has pled insufficient facts as to HOA’s prior knowledge such that the demurrer to her negligence cause of action was sustained. Given that the Court provided Plaintiff leave to amend her negligence claim, the motion to strike would appear MOOT.Should Plaintiff choose to retain her claims for punitive damages upon amendment, the Court would address the sufficiency of the pleadings upon any further motion to strike. The Court cautions that such amendment would require specific allegations as to the conduct of the individual HOA leaders. (See Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [“An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees. But the law does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation. Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the officers, directors, or managing agents.].)---RULING:In the event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s records.ORDER428 E. Santa Anita Homeowners Association’s Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on July 5, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.THE DEMURRER TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.THE DEMURRER TO THE THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.THE MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES IS MOOT.UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT HOA TO GIVE NOTICE.IT IS SO ORDERED.DATE: July 5, 2024 _______________________________F.M. Tavelman, JudgeSuperior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los Angeles