 Case Number:  23BBCV00532    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURTNORTH CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANKDEPARTMENT ATENTATIVE RULINGJULY 5, 2024MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTLos Angeles Superior Court Case # 23BBCV00532MP: Jivan Melikian, M.D. (Defendant)RP: NoneNOTICE:The Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter. The Court is guided by California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested. Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue. The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no argument is received.Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.ALLEGATIONS:Rima Shafrazian, Gevik Shafrazian, and Greta Shafrazian, individually and as successor in interest of the estate of Joseph Shafrazian (Decedent) (collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against Natalie Gold, Inc. dba Burbank Tower Pharmacy, WellRx, Inc. dba Wellness Lab, Jivan Melikian, M.D.(Melikian), Artin Aghakhani, R.PH., Karina Nazarian, Linda Nguyen, R.PH., Aram Manoukian, and Arsen Hovanesyan, M.D. (Hovanesyan) (collectively Defendants).Plaintiffs allege that Decedent treated by Adventist Health Glendale (a Defendant that has since been dismissed), Hovanesyan, and Melikian with respect to a cardiac angioplasty in March 2022. Plaintiffs allege that despite Decedent being prescribed the medication Plavix to prevent blood clots after the procedure, Decedent was never given the medication. Plaintiffs allege that Decedents non-receipt of the medication was the result of negligence on behalf of his physicians and Burbank Tower Pharmacy.Plaintiff asserts two causes of action against Melikian for (1) Wrongful Death by Medical Negligence and (2) Survival Action.On May 16, 2023, Natalie Gold, Inc. filed a cross complaint containing causes of action for (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2) Contribution, and (3) Declaratory Relief.Before the Court is a Motion for Summary Judgment brought by Melikian. Plaintiffs do not oppose this motion, nor has an opposition been filed by any other Defendant. This is in contrast to thesummary judgment motion as to Hovanesyan, to which Defendant/Cross Complainant Natalie Gold, Inc. has objected.The Court notes that gailure to file an opposition to the motion indicates the other parties' acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c)ANALYSIS:I. LEGAL STANDARDA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (C.C.P. § 437c(a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord C.C.P. § 437c(p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangsterv. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)II. MERITSIn order to determine whether Melikian has produced unrefuted evidence that he adhered to the standard of care, the Court finds it useful to provide a brief summary of the general facts of the case.On February 2, 2022, Decedent presented to his cardiologist, Hovanesyan, for a history and physical. (Exh. B. pp. 4-6.) Hovanesyan’s history and physical revealed that Decedent suffered from a small to medium anterior perfusion defect consistent with ischemia. (Exh. B. p. 4.) On March 1, 2022, Decedent presented to Adventist Health Glendale wherein Hovanesyan performed a coronary angiography and Melikian performed stent implantation for the procedure. (Exh. B, pp. 203-234.)The Court notes that Plaintiffs’ claims for medical negligence against Melikian are purely in reference to their failure to ensure Decedent’s receipt of Plavix. Plaintiff makes no allegations as to whether Melikian negligently performed the stent implantation. (See FAC ¶ 24 [“Defendants Dr. Hovanesyan and Dr. Melikian and DOES 1 through 10 were responsible for prescribing the Clopidogrel/Plavix, following up, and making sure that Mr. Shafrazian was taking Clopidogrel/Plavix after his procedure.].)On March 1, 2022, Melikian ordered Clopidogrel/Plavix for inpatient treatment. (Exh. B. p. 117.) Records reflect that two inpatient doses of Clopidogrel/Plavix were administered on March 1 and March 2. (Exh. B. pp. 222, 228, 235, & 237.) After the stent procedure, Melikian explained to Decedent the risk of the formation of blood clots. (Exh. C., Melikian Decl. ¶ 3.) Melikian furtherexplained that the prescription of Aspirin and Plavix were intended to prevent the formation of bloodclots and that Decedent would need to take these medications to avoid potential death. (Exh. C, Melikian Decl. ¶ 3.)On March 2, 2022 at 9:00 a.m., Melikian’s inpatient order for Plavix was discontinued. (Exh. B. p. 113.) The records reflect that, on March 2, 2022 at 9:41 a.m., Melikian ordered a prescription for Plavix, Aspirin, and Nitroglycerin on an outpatient basis. (Exh. B. p.118.) This order was subsequently signed by Hovanesyan, who noted that the pharmacy was Burbank Tower Pharmacy. (Exh. B. p. 118.) On March 2, 2022, Burbank Tower Pharmacy received the order for Plavix, Aspirin, and Nitroglycerin. (Exh. C. pp. 12-14.) The Court notes that the Burbank Tower Pharmacy records contain what appears to be a propriety “Patient Profile” and printouts from “SureScripts Electronic Prescription Reports”. (Exh. C.) The SureScript printouts show that Burbank Tower Pharmacy received the prescriptions, as does the Patient Profile. However, the Patient Profile lists the prescriptions for Plavix and Aspirin as “on hold”, in contrast to the Nitroglycerin prescription which was given to Decedent. (Exh. C. p. 11.)On March 2, 2022, Decedent was discharged from Adventist Health Glendale upon Hovanesyan’s orders. (Exh. B. pp. 20, 24.) On March 14, 2022, Decedent suffered a heart attack and died. (Exh. F. p. 5.) An autopsy report revealed that Decedent’s cause of death was a myocardial infarction in the left ventricular free wall. (Exh. F. p. 5.)Medical NegligenceAs concerns the action for Medical Negligence, Melikian argues that summary judgment must be granted because there is no triable issue of fact as to whether his actions adhered to the standard of care in treating Decedent.“The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.)The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony. (Hanson v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601.) When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence. (Munro v. Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984–985 [citations omitted].)Melikian submits the declaration of Subbarao Mylavarapu, M.D., in support of his motion. Mylavarapu states that he is a board-certified cardiologist that has been practicing since the 1980s. (Exh. E, Mylavarapu Decl. ¶ 1.) From 1994 to 2001, Mylavarapu was the Medical Director of the Heart Center in the Department of Cardiology at the Fountain Valley Regional Hospital. (Exh. E, Mylavarapu Decl. ¶ 2.) Mylavarapu bases his declaration on the review of Decedent’s medical records as well as records from Burbank Tower Pharmacy. (Exh. E, Mylavarapu Decl. ¶ 5.)Mylavarapu states that, in his medical opinion, the administration of Plavix during the stent procedure was appropriate, as Plavix is known to prevent the formation of blood clots. (Exh. E ¶ 23.) Mylavarapu further states that Melikian’s ordering of subsequent Plavix doses on an inpatient basis were within the standard of care. (Exh. E., Mylavarapu Decl. ¶ 24.) Mylavarapu continues that the discontinuance of the inpatient Plavix order was appropriate given that Decedent was ordered discharged that same day. (Exh. E, Mylavarapu Decl. ¶ 24.) Mylavarapu states that the outpatient orders for Plavix and Aspirin were within the standard of care, as these medications are appropriate to prevent the formation of blood clots after a stent procedure. (Exh. E., Mylavarapu Decl. ¶ 26.)As concerns Melikian’s discussion with Decedent of the importance of Plavix, Mylavarapu states this was also within the standard of care. Mylavarapu states that Melikian was within the standard of care to discuss the necessity of Plavix with Decedent and explain the grave consequences in failing to take it. (Exh. E, Mylavarapu Decl. ¶ 27.) Mylavarapu further states that the standard of care did not require Melikian to follow-up with the patient after his discharge. (Exh. E., Mylavarapu Decl. ¶ 27.)Lastly, Mylavarapu discusses the orders for Plavix that were received by Burbank Tower Pharmacy. Mylavarapu agrees that it is unclear why the prescriptions were placed on hold by Burbank Tower Pharmacy. (Exh. E, Mylavarapu Decl. ¶ 28.) Regardless, Mylavarapu states that he is satisfied from the review of the records that Melikian played no part in placing the medications on hold. (Exh. E, Mylavarapu Decl. ¶ 28.)The Court is satisfied from the testimony of Mylavarapu that Melikian’s actions are within the applicable standard of care. The Court notes that neither Plaintiff, nor Cross-Complainants, have produced expert testimony in contravention of Mylavarapu’s statements. It follows that Melikian has demonstrated by unrefuted evidence that no triable issue of fact exists as to his breach of the standard of care in prescribing Plavix to Decedent. The holding in Munro makes abundantly clear that summary judgment must therefore be granted in favor of Melikian.Survival Action“A cause of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the decedent's successor in interest, subject to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 7000) of Part 1 of Division 7 of the Probate Code, and an action may be commenced by the decedent's personal representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in interest.” (Civ. Proc. Code § 377.30.) “A survivor claim is also a statutory cause of action; however, unlike a wrongful death claim, the survival statutes do not create a cause of action but merely prevent the abatement of the decedent's cause of action and provide for its enforcement by the decedent's personal representative or successor in interest.” (San Diego Gas & Elec. Co. v. Superior Ct. (2007) 146 Cal. App. 4th 1545, 1553.)Here the Court finds Plaintiffs’ survival action must also fail as they are unable to establish any triable issues of material fact regarding the breach element of the wrongful death cause of action above.Finally, the Court notes that no opposition has been received, and a failure to file an opposition to the motion indicates the other parties' acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c)ConclusionMelikian has adequately demonstrated that his behavior was within the standard of care by virtue of his expert’s testimony. Plaintiffs and Cross-Complainants have produced no evidence to the contrary. As Plaintiffs’ survival action assumes the medical negligence of Melikian, it too presents no triable issue of fact.Accordingly, Melikian’s unopposed motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.---RULING:In the event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records.ORDERJivan Melikian M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment came on regularly for hearing on July 5, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED.UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, MELIKIAN TO GIVE NOTICE.IT IS SO ORDERED.DATE: July 5, 2023 _______________________________F.M. TAVELMAN, JudgeSuperior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los Angeles