 Case Number:  22STCV34488    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for
Leave to Conduct Mental Examination of Plaintiff filed by Defendant Lyft, Inc. 
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background 
On October 27, 2022, Eric Jason Austin (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Amadu Tejan Bah (“Bah”), and
Does 1 to 100, asserting causes of action for general negligence; negligent hiring,
training, retention, and supervision; and motor vehicle negligence arising out
of an automobile accident that occurred on October 14, 2021, at or near the
intersection of Vermont Avenue and 43rd Street in Los Angeles.  Lyft and Bah filed their answers on January
27 and May 1, 2023.
On March 15, 2024, Lyft filed this motion for
leave to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff. Plaintiff filed an
opposition and objection on April 3. Defendant a reply and response to the
objection on April 9.
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion
must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The
court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id., §
2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  
 “An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who
will conduct the examination, where and when it will be conducted, the
conditions, scope and nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and
procedures to be employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests
and procedures’—fully¿and¿in detail—is to list them by
name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249,
260.)¿¿ ¿¿ 
The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Id., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ ¿¿ 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id., § 2032.020, subd.
(a).) A mental examination is appropriate only if the plaintiff alleges
continuing emotional distress. (Doyle v. Super. Ct. ¿(1996) 50
Cal.App.4th¿1878, 1886-1887.) “While a plaintiff may place his mental
state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional distress, the
opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing solely on the
basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”  (Vinson,¿supra,
43 Cal.3d at 840.) By alleging a causal link between the emotional
distress and the defendant's conduct, however, a plaintiff “implicitly claims
it was not caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the
question of alternative sources for the distress.” (Ibid.)  
A court shall not (except under “exceptional
circumstances”) order a mental examination if the plaintiff stipulates (1)
“that no claim is being made for mental and emotional distress over and above
that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed” and (2) “that no
expert testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional distress will be
presented at trial in support of the claim for damages.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.320, subds. (b) & (c).)
Preliminary
Matters
Lyft has
satisfied the meet and confer requirement of section 2032.310, subdivision
(b).  (Sellers Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.)
Plaintiff’s
objection to Exhibit 3 to the Sellers Declaration on the ground that it is a confidential
settlement communication is SUSTAINED.
Discussion
Defendant seeks
leave of court to conduct a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff.  The California Legislature has set forth certain
specific, mandatory requirements for a motion for leave to obtain discovery
through a mental examination, as well as for the conduct of the examination
itself.  In a number of respects, Lyft fails
to satisfy these mandatory requirements.
First, a motion for leave to obtain discovery through a mental
examination must “specify the “time” of the examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd.
(b).)  Lyft, however, does not give
notice regarding the date of the examination, stating only that it should occur
“during the week of April 22, 2024.” 
That is insufficient.
Second, a motion for leave to obtain discovery through a mental
examination must “specify the … manner, conditions, scope, and nature
of the examination,” and any order granting the motion must “specify the … diagnostic
tests and procedures” to be administered (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd.
(b) & § 2032.320, subd. (d).) The court must “describe¿in detail¿…
the diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed.  The way to describe
these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in detail—is to
list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th
249, 260.)¿¿ ¿¿ 
Lyft has not done
so.  Rather, Lyft states that the testing
will “include only standard neuropsychological and psychological testing
procedures” and that “[t]he battery of tests is drawn from the following list
of commonly used and well-accepted cognitive tests.”  Lyft then lists approximately 48 tests by
name.  This is not sufficient.  But the Legislature requires that a party
seeking a court order compelling a mental examination of the opposing party in
civil litigation must identify the tests that will be administered – and not
simply identify a list of 48 excellent, high quality tests that the person
conducting the examination might (or might not) choose from.  (Nor does Lyft provide any explanation of what
these tests are or why they are appropriately administered in this matter to
this Plaintiff to address the mental health issues that (Lyft contends)
Plaintiff has placed in issue.)
Third, Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a), requires that the examinee
must “have the right to record a mental examination by audio technology.”  But Lyft’s proposed examiner, Roger Light,
Ph.D., says that he will not permit the testing portion of the examination to
be recorded.  (Light Decl., ¶¶ 9-18.)  The Court does not doubt that Dr. Light
raises significant concerns, but these concerns regarding the Legislature’s
policy determinations must be addressed to the Legislature itself.  The Legislature has spoken clearly and
expressly on this issue, and the Court has no power to disregard the clear
command of the statute.
For these
procedural reasons, each of which is independently dispositive, Lyft’s motion
is denied without prejudice.  The Court
need not reach, and does not reach, the other issues raised by the parties in
the briefing, including, but not limited to, whether good cause has been shown,
whether Plaintiff has actually made (with sufficient formality) the stipulation
set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (c), and whether
raw testing data must be shared with Plaintiff’s counsel.  (See Randy’s Trucking v. Super. Ct. (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818.)  
Conclusion

The Court DENIES Lyft’s motion for leave to obtain discovery by a mental
examination of Plaintiff on procedural grounds, without prejudice.
Moving
Party is to give notice.