 Case Number:  23STCV05954    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant 
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is granted
in part.
Background
This case arises out of an alleged motor vehicle accident on
July 25, 2021, near the intersection of Vernon Avenue and Vermont Avenue in Los
Angeles, California.
On March 17, 2023, Plaintiff Karina Elizabeth Hernandez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint asserting causes of action for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence against Defendants Lyft, Inc., Crystal
Villalobos, Juan C. Davalos, Guilda Asuncion Davalos, and Does 1 through 100.
The named defendants all filed answers during the period of
May through July 2023.
On May 3, 2023, Defendant Villalobos filed a cross-complaint
against Juan C. Davalos, Guilda Asuncion Davalos, and Roes 1 through 25.  The named cross-defendants filed an answer to
the cross-complaint on June 12, 2023.
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Defendant
Crystal Villalobos (“Defendant”) for May 25. 
(Wong Decl., ¶ 5 & Exh. 1.) 
Defendant objected based on scheduling but refused to provide
alternative dates. (Id., ¶¶ 6-7 & Exhs 2-3.)  Defendant did not appear.  (Id., ¶ 8 & Exh. 4.)
On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff served a First Amended Notice of
Defendant’s deposition for August 18.  (Id.,
¶ 9 & Exh. 5.)  Again Defendant
objected based on scheduling but refused to provide alternative dates. (Id.,
¶¶ 10, 12 & Exhs 6, 8.)  Again Defendant
did not appear.  (Id., ¶ 11 &
Exh. 7.)
Plaintiff filed this motion to compel on September 8,
2023.  Plaintiff also seeks
sanctions.  The hearing was initially set
for November 17, 2023.  Defendant filed
her opposition on November 3, along with her own request for sanctions.  Plaintiff filed her reply on November 9.
The Court, on its own motion, continued the hearing to
December 18.  Subsequently, the parties
stipulated to continue the hearing again, to April 16.
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210
through 2025.280 provide the requirements for (among other things) what must be
included in a deposition notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and
how and when the notice must be served.  
“The service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any
deponent who is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent,
or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection
and copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)
Section 2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a
written objection at least three days before the deposition if the party
contends that a deposition notice does not comply with the provisions of
sections 2025.210 through 2025.280.
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action
or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for¿inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)  Any such motion to compel must show good
cause for the production of documents and, when a deponent has failed to
appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Id., subd. (b).)   
When a motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450,
subd. (g)(1).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include
“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney
has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary
sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Discussion
Plaintiff
has twice noticed Defendant’s deposition. 
(Wong Decl., ¶¶ 5, 9 & Exhs. 1, 5.) 
  Defendant has twice failed to
appear.  (Id., ¶¶ 8, 11 & Exhs. 4, 7.)  Defendant did serve objections, but
the sole objection was based on scheduling, and Defendant never offered or
proposed alternative dates.  (Id., ¶¶ 6-7, 10,
12 & Exhs 2-3, 6, 8.) 
 
On this
record, the Court OVERRULES the objections and GRANTS the motion to compel.
 
Plaintiff also
seeks sanctions.  Sanctions are mandatory
when a motion to compel a deposition is granted “unless the court finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
 
Defendant’s counsel states that, despite diligent efforts, counsel
has lost contact with Defendant and has been unable to communicate with
her.  As a result, counsel states, no
sanctions should be awarded against Defendant or counsel, and that if anyone is
sanctioned it should be Plaintiff’s counsel.
The Court concludes that sanctions should be awarded against
Defendant.  She is a party to pending
litigation and has an obligation to comply with the provisions of the Civil
Discovery Act.  The failure to remain in
contact with her counsel does not excuse her obligations, constitute
substantially justified conduct, or make the imposition of sanctions against
her unjust.
The Court concludes that no sanctions should be awarded
against Defendant’s counsel.  When a
deposition is noticed and a client refuses to communicate with counsel, counsel
is placed in an untenable situation. 
Under these difficult circumstances, the Court finds that the imposition
of sanctions against counsel would be unjust.
No sanctions are awarded against Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s
counsel.
Monetary sanctions for this motion are set in the amount of $885.  The Court has taken into consideration the relatively
straightforward nature of this motion and bases its sanction award on 1.5 hours
of attorney time, multiplied by counsel’s billing rate of $550 per hour, plus
the filing fee of $60.  (See Wong Decl.,
¶ 15.)
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel. 
 
The
Court ORDERS Defendant to appear for deposition and testify on May __, 2024, at
10:00 am, by remote videoconference.
 
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to pay monetary sanctions under the
Civil Discovery Act to Defendant in the amount of $885, within 30 days of notice.  
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions against
Defendant’s counsel.
The Court DENIES Defendant’s request for sanctions.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.