  Case Number:  18STCV05076    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
and Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is
DENIED.
 
Plaintiff
Mardani to provide notice. 
 
I.                  
MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGEMENT
 
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party
will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by
itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed
in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Plaintiffs moving for summary
judgment may meet their initial burden by “prov[ing] each element of the cause
of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) 
Once the plaintiff
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).)  The defendant may not rely
upon the mere allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Plaintiff and Defendant County of Los Angeles (County) in
this consolidated action seeks summary adjudication of its third cause of
action for specific performance against Plaintiffs and Defendants Sina and
Azadeh Mardani. Specifically, County argues that the Mardanis entered into a
contract in December 2013 in settlement of all potential claims with County
related to a sewage overflow on or near their property, in which they agreed,
in exchange for payment from the County, to install a backwater valve on their
private sewer line. County argues that in the years since, the Mardanis have
not installed the valve as required. (Motion at pp. 15–20.)
 
The Mardanis in opposition contend that County has failed to
establish, in the absence of a specific deadline for performance, that they
have failed to comply with the contract within a “reasonable time.” (Opposition
at pp. 11–12.) They further argue that the contractual promise to install a
backwater valve was an independent covenant, supported only by a $500 allowance
included in the agreement, which provided inadequate consideration for the
installation of such a valve, now estimated to cost more than $50,000.00.
(Opposition at pp. 17–18.) They finally argue that County ought to be equitably
estopped from seeking relief under the contract, as the County was aware that
the true cause of the overflow precipitating the 2013 settlement was a defect
in the sewer main line which a backwater valve on the Mardanis’ property could
not mitigate. (Opposition at pp. 19–20.)
 
County has not satisfied its prima facie burden to establish
entitlement to summary adjudication on its specific performance claim because
it has not established — or even attempted to establish — the absence of
triable issue on any element of a claim for specific performance.
 
“A claim for specific performance is an equitable
one.” (Benach v. County of Los Angeles (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 836, 846.)
“To obtain
specific performance
after a breach
of contract, a plaintiff must generally
show: “(1)
the inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2)
an underlying contract that is both reasonable
and supported by adequate consideration; (3) the existence
of a mutuality
of remedies; (4) contractual terms which are
sufficiently definite to enable the court to know
what it is
to enforce; and (5) a substantial
similarity of the requested performance to that promised in the contract.” (Real
Estate Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 463, 472.)
 
County’s
motion mentions none of these requirements. Its argument consists merely of the
points (1) the parties came to an agreement in 2013; (2) that the agreement
required the Mardanis to install a backwater valve, and (3) the Mardanis have
not done so. (Motion at pp. 17–20.) These facts, however, would only establish
a breach of the contract, not that County is entitled to an injunction
directing that the Mardanis install the requested valve. There has been no
showing as to the inadequacy of legal remedies, the reasonableness of the
obligation imposed upon the Mardanis, or the mutuality of remedies.
 
As no
showing has been made that would entitle County to specific performance, the
motion is DENIED.
 