 Case Number:  19STCV24054    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant Coldwell Banker
Residential Brokerage Company and Shayan Ghalari’s Motion to Quash Deposition
Subpoena to AT&T Communications is GRANTED. Sanctions are DENIED.
 
Defendants
to provide notice. 
 
I.                  
      MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (a).) A party may bring a motion under this section.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (b)(1).)
Defendants Coldwell Bank Residential
Brokerage Company and Shayan Ghalari (Defendants) move to quash a subpoena
issued by Plaintiff Cedric Price (Plaintiff) to AT&T Communications,
requesting all cell phone records of Ghalari’s phone number reflecting all
incoming and outgoing calls from December 12, 2018 through May 30, 2019.
(Motion at p. 3.) Defendants argue that the subpoena requests compliance
earlier than the 20 days provided for in Code of Civil Procedure § 2020.410.
(Motion at pp. 3–4.) Defendants also argue that the subpoena sweeps too broadly
by seeking all phone records for the given period, rather than those related to
the transaction at issue. (Motion at p. 4.)
 
Plaintiff in opposition argues that the issue
of the timing of production has been rendered moot by the motion itself, which
has prevented AT&T from producing the records in the relevant time.
(Opposition at p. 4.) But Plaintiff also argues that the subpoena permissibly
seeks all phone records in the relevant period because Ghalari claims to have
spoken with Plaintiff regarding the transaction at issue, yet the redacted
phone records that Ghalari has heretofore produced (and Plaintiff’s own
records) do not reflect such a conversation. (Opposition at p. 5.) 
 
There is
no good cause for the subpoena here. Plaintiff acknowledges that his own phone
records reveal no such call, and the redacted records that Ghalari has produced
also do not reveal such a call. Plaintiff does not explain why Defendants would
have redacted phone records that corroborate their claims. Against this minimal
showing of good cause is weighed the privacy interests of Ghalari and the
individuals with which he corresponded in that time. (See People v. McKunes
(1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 487, 491 [holding that informal request for telephone
records violated a criminal defendant’s right to privacy].) The balance of
privacy in this interest weighs against the relative breadth of discovery that
Plaintiff requests in this subpoena. (Hooser
v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004 [discussing the balancing
of privacy interests against “the right of a civil litigant to discover
relevant facts”].) 
The motion to quash is therefore
GRANTED. 
II.               
SANCTIONS
“Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making an order
pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under Section
1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable
expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable
attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith
or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of
the subpoena was oppressive.”
Defendants seek $1,710.00 in sanctions, representing six
hours of attorney work at $275 per hour, plus a $60 filing fee. (Keathley Decl.
¶ 11.) Sanctions are DENIED. 