 Case Number:  23STCV18376    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  TEXTILE HOUSE, INC.,Plaintiff, vs.PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY, et al.,Defendants.     Case No.:  23STCV18376 Hearing Date:  May 8, 2024      [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATIONDefendants’ motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUND  This is an action for breach of contract, intentional misrepresentation, fraudulent suppression of material fact, constructive fraud, intentional interference with contractual relationship, negligent misrepresentation, negligent interference with economic relationship, unfair competition and business practices, and declaratory relief. Plaintiff Textile House, Inc. alleges that in 2019, unauthorized wireless phone numbers were added to its account, causing Plaintiff to incur fraudulent charges in excess of $10,000. Although Defendants determined these charges were fraudulent and agreed to cancel the charges, Defendants thereafter refused to remove the charges and discontinued Plaintiff’s phone service.PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn August 3, 2023, Plaintiff Textile House filed its Complaint against Defendants Pacific Bell Telephone Company dba AT&T California, AT&T Inc., AT&T Corporation, AT&T Services, Inc., and Carson A. Proctor.On December 19, 2023, Defendants filed their motion to compel arbitration. On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.On March 1, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.On March 8, 2024, the Court permitted the parties to file supplemental briefing for this motion.On March 22, 2024, Defendants filed supplemental briefing.On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief.DISCUSSIONI. MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATIONa. Legal StandardCalifornia law reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. To further that policy, California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967 [citations omitted]; Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) governs a motion to compel arbitration if the parties’ agreement states enforcement of the agreement shall be governed by the FAA.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jamon Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346 [finding the FAA governs a motion to compel arbitration when an agreement provides its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA].)  If the FAA governs the motion, the Court’s inquiry is limited to a determination of (1) whether a valid arbitration agreement exists and (2) whether the arbitration agreement covers the dispute.  (9 U.S.C., § 4;¿Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostics Systems, Inc.¿(9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130;¿Howsam¿v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc.¿(2002) 537 U.S. 79, 84;¿see¿Simula, Inc. v. Autoliv, Inc.¿(9th Cir. 1999) 175 F.3d 716 [if the finding is affirmative on both counts the FAA requires the Court to enforce the arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms].) In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking arbitration has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) The trial court “sits as the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Id.) General principles of contract law govern whether parties have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236; see also Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) Whether there is a written agreement to arbitrate is a matter of contract, and courts must enforce arbitration contracts according to their terms. (Banc of California, National Association v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 357, 366.) A party cannot be required to submit to arbitrate any dispute to which he has not agreed to arbitrate. (Id.) A contract is not formed without mutual assent.  (Civ. Code, §§ 1550, 1565.)  However, “[t]he existence of mutual assent is determined by objective criteria, not by one party’s subjective intent.  The test is whether a reasonable person would, from the conduct of the parties, conclude that there was a mutual agreement.”  (Marin Storage & Trucking, Inc. v. Benco Contracting and Engineering, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1050)   A signature is not required to demonstrate express acceptance of an arbitration agreement. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass’n v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 23.) An arbitration clause within a contract may be binding on a party even if the party never actually read the clause. (24 Hour Fitness, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1199, 1215.) b. Existence of an arbitration agreementAT&T’s Wireless Customer Agreement [March 6, 2014]Defendants contend that when Plaintiff activated two new telephone numbers for wireless services on March 6, 2014, Plaintiff would have “been required to accept AT&T Terms of service.” ((Schuddeboom Decl., ¶7.) Defendants maintain that the Wireless Customer Agreement (Schuddeboom Decl., Exhibit A) which contains an arbitration provision is the agreement that would have been effect on March 6, 2014. Here, Defendants fail to provide evidence that Plaintiff accepted the Wireless Customer Agreement. Defendants’ Associate Director, Andrew Schuddeboom, testifies that customers are required to accept AT&T’s terms of service. (Schuddeboom Decl., ¶5.) In September 2010, Plaintiff began receiving AT&T wireless services. (Id., ¶7.) In March 2014, Plaintiff activated two new telephone numbers and would have been required to accept AT&T’s terms of service. (Id.) Although Schuddeboom’s testimony shows that customers are typically required to accept AT&T’s terms of service, Defendants provide no evidence that Plaintiff ever expressly accepted the Wireless Customer Agreement containing the arbitration agreement and provides no indication of how any customer would have expressly accepted these terms.Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff’s acceptance was implied in fact fails because there is no evidence that Plaintiff ever received the Wireless Customer Agreement. A party’s acceptance of an agreement to arbitrate may also be implied in fact. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass’n v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC, supra., 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) For example, an employee’s continued employment constitutes acceptance of an arbitration agreement proposed by an employer. (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 422.) Here, Plaintiff’s principal, Iraj Okhovat, testifies that when he originally purchased telephone numbers from AT&T in the 1980s, the entire transaction took place over the telephone. (Okhavat Decl., ¶3.) When Okhavat moved the business to a new address, he called AT&T to transfer the numbers to the new address. (Id.,¶7.) Okhavat was never provided with the Wireless Customer Agreement. (Id., ¶8.) Unlike Craig, where a plaintiff continued working for her employer after receiving a memorandum containing the arbitration agreement, there is no evidence here that Plaintiff ever received the Wireless Customer Agreement. Therefore, evidence that Plaintiff continued using AT&T’s services is not sufficient to show that Plaintiff impliedly accepted the arbitration agreement.AT&T’s Internet Terms of Service [November 3, 2018]Defendants next argue that Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate his claims when he continued to use AT&T’s services after receiving notice of the Internet Terms of Service in 2018.The arbitration agreement in the Internet Terms of Service, which Plaintiff received through a link in a 2018 Customer Service Summary, does not cover the subject of this litigation, the addition of allegedly unauthorized wireless phone numbers to Plaintiff’s account. Defendants reference an arbitration agreement included in AT&T’s Internet Terms of Service which was effective at the time Plaintiff purchased internet service from AT&T. (Schuddeboom Decl., ¶¶11-12.) Plaintiff began receiving AT&T Internet services in November 2013. (Id., ¶10.) Plaintiff upgraded its internet service in November 2018 and would have been required to accept AT&T’s terms of service. (Id.) Defendants emailed a Customer Service Summary containing a link to the Terms of Service to Plaintiff at the time of the upgrade. (Id., ¶11.) Here, unlike the Wireless Customer Agreement, Defendants’ evidence shows Plaintiff did receive the Internet Terms of Service and continued to use AT&T internet services. However, the Terms of Service appear in the Customer Service Summary, which states “you agree that any dispute arising under or relating to your agreements or service with AT&T related to U-verse TV or Internet…will be resolved through binding arbitration as fully set forth in the application terms and conditions.” (Schuddeboom Decl., Exh. B, p. 4.) Additionally, the Internet Terms of Service references AT&T’s internet service products in its terms and the document’s title. (Id., Exh. C.) The products and entities covered by the contract’s terms include AT&T Fiber, Internet, and High Speed Internet. (Id., Exh. C, Schedule 1.) The Terms of Service do not appear to encompass AT&T’s phone services because the terms do not contain any terms or provisions about AT&T’s phone service. Additionally, the contract also states mobile broadband internet services are subject to the wireless agreement, meaning services related to phone service, such as mobile internet service, are subject to a different agreement. (Id., Exh. C., pdf p.49.) Thus, the Internet Terms of Service refers consistently to AT&T’s internet services, does not reference phone services, and points out phone services are subject to a different agreement. Therefore, the context in which the arbitration agreement appears shows that the agreement does not encompass disputes related to AT&T’s phone services. Because this litigation involves a dispute over the addition of two phone lines to Plaintiff’s account, this action does not fall within the scope of the arbitration agreement in the Internet Terms of Service.Supplemental BriefingOn March 22, 2024, Defendants submitted supplemental briefing in support of this motion. Defendants first argue that the Internet Terms of Service incorporated an arbitration agreement by directing Plaintiff to a hyperlink to view the full terms which contained the arbitration agreement, which covers more than just the Internet Terms of Service. The arbitration agreement in the full Internet Terms of Service reads as follows:“This agreement to arbitrate is broad, and includes disputes of any type between AT&T (including its subsidiaries, affiliates, agents, predecessors, successors, and assigns) and you (including authorized or unauthorized users/beneficiaries of services or devices) under this or prior agreements. We agree that WE are waiving the right to a trial by jury, to participate in a class action, or to seek remedies beyond the extent necessary to provide individualized relief to, and affecting only, AT&T or You ALone [sic]…Except for matters relating to arbitrability or to the scope of enforceability of the arbitration provision or the interpretation of the limitations on class, representative, private attorney general, and non-individualized relief, all issues are for the arbitrator to decide.” (Schuddeboom Decl., Exh. C, Schedule 6, ¶7.)Defendants argue that the scope of the arbitration agreement is broad and other terms may not be used to limit the terms of the agreement. Defendants cite a footnote in an unpublished case, Zoran Corp. v. DTS, Inc. (N.D. Cal., Jan. 20, 2009, No. C 08-4655 JF (HRL)) 2009 WL 160238, at *4. Zoran cites Pipe Trades Council of Northern Cal., U.A. Local 159 v. Underground Contractors Association of Northern California (1987) 835 F.2d 1275, 1278. Pipe Trades cites Actors' Equity Ass'n v. American Dinner Theatre Institute (1986) 802 F.2d 1038, 1044. Actors’ Equity cites Nolde Bros., Inc. v. Local No. 358, Bakery and Confectionery Workers Union, AFL-CIO (1977) 430 U.S. 243, 255 (Nolde). In Nolde, the Supreme Court held that an “where the dispute is over a provision of the expired agreement, the presumptions favoring arbitrability must be negated expressly or by clear implication.” There, an employer and a labor union disputed whether an agreement to arbitrate terminated with the contract that created it. (Nolde at p.248.) The Supreme Court found that there were strong reasons to conclude that the parties did not intend their arbitration duties to terminate automatically with the contract. (Id. at p. 253.) The parties clearly expressed their preference for arbitral interpretations of their agreement because the parties were confident of a labor arbitrators’ knowledge of the particular labor dispute at hand. (Id.) Additionally, the parties negotiated the agreement based on well-established federal labor law policy favoring arbitration in labor disputes. (Id.) Thus, the parties failure to exclude disputes arising after termination of the agreement did not manifest an intent to have arbitration obligations cease with the agreement. (Id.)Here, there are strong reasons to conclude that the parties did not intend the arbitration agreement in the Internet Terms of Service to include Plaintiff’s phone services. The contract explicitly states that “unless otherwise expressly provided in writing to the contrary, the services covered by the applicable terms include, without limitation, those listed below and are generally provided by the applicable AT&T entities” including AT&T Fiber, Internet, and High Speed Internet, DSL Internet Services, Dial Up Internet Services, internet services provided by local AT&T telephone company franchises, and Fixed Wireless Internet. (Schuddeboom Decl., Exh. C, Schedule 1.) None of these entities or products include telephone services. Additionally, the agreement directs users to a different agreement, the Wireless Customer Agreement, for mobile broadband internet access services. (Id., Exh. C., pdf p.49.) Thus, AT&T’s wireless services, including mobile internet access specifically are governed by a different agreement. Read together, the Internet Terms of Service, by clear implication, limits the agreement to cover entities and products related to AT&T’s internet services, not wireless telephone services. Under the circumstances, the Court cannot conclude that the parties intended the Internet Terms of Service agreement to cover all of Plaintiff’s contracts with Defendants. Defendants allege that the Court did not cite the FAA, which governs the arbitration agreement. However, even under the FAA, the subject of a dispute must fall within the scope of an arbitration agreement. The Court finds the subject dispute does not fall under the disputes covered by the agreement at hand.Defendants cite a number of cases, many of which are unpublished, arguing that the broad language of the arbitration agreement means that the agreement should encompass claims which may arise outside of the agreement. Unpublished opinions must not be cited or relied on by a court or a party in any other action. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115.) The Court will not consider these cases. As will be discussed below, even if these cases could be considered, they do not apply to the facts at hand. As for the published cases Defendants cited, they likewise do not apply to the facts at hand.Defendants first cite AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333. However, Concepcion involved whether the FAA preempted the California judicial rule regarding the unconscionability of class arbitration waivers in consumer contracts. The case is not applicable to the dispute at hand. Defendants next cite Coneff v. AT & T Corp. (2012) 673 F.3d 1155. This case involved whether AT&T’s arbitration agreement was unconscionable, an issue which is not applicable here. Defendants next cite Senkandwa v. Equifax Information Services LLC (C.D. Cal., Apr. 30, 2019, No. 2:18-CV-10455-AB-AS) 2019 WL 13255462, at *3. Senkandwa involved a dispute over a plaintiff’s telephone service with AT&T which fell within the scope of a Residential Service Agreement which the plaintiff signed when she obtained telephone service. (Senkandwa at *3.) The dispute there fell squarely within the scope of that agreement. Defendants next cite Makarowski v. AT & T Mobility, LLC (C.D. Cal., June 18, 2009, No. CV091590GAFCWX) 2009 WL 1765661, at *1. Like Senkandwa, Makarowski involved a dispute over wireless service which was covered by an arbitration provision in an agreement the plaintiff signed when she obtained wireless services. There is no question that the arbitration provisions in Senkandwa and Makarowski applied because the arbitration agreements were included in the same agreements where AT&T agreed to provide wireless services. Finally, Defendants cite Parish v. Fitness International, LLC (C.D. Cal., June 10, 2020, No. SACV20613PSGRAOX) 2020 WL 5371510, at *4. In Parish, a court ruled that an arbitration agreement which covered any dispute between the parties covered disputes which fell outside the overall agreement. However, Parish did not involve other terms which limited the scope of the arbitration agreement. Here, as discussed above, the other terms limit the scope of the arbitration agreement by clear implication.The Court finds that an arbitration agreement encompassing this action does not exist. Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is denied.DATED: May 8, 2024________________________________       Hon. Jill Feeney       Judge of the Superior Court  