 Case Number:  23STCP01671    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  82 MOTION TO AUGMENT ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD
 
Date:               2/29/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           Luther Hung-Ming
Yang v. Steve Gordon, Director of DMV of California (23STCP01671)
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Luther Hung-Ming Yang’s Motion to Correct
Administrative Record is GRANTED. 
 
Petitioner seeks to augment the administrative record with
his counsel’s request to reopen the administrative per se hearing, the
supporting evidence attached thereto, and the Department of Motor Vehicles’
(“DMV”) denial of the request. (McCoy Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. A; Mtn. at 3)
 
CCP § 1094.5(e)
states: “Where the court finds that there is relevant evidence that, in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, could not have been produced or that was
improperly excluded at the hearing before respondent, it may enter judgment as
provided in subdivision (f) remanding the case to be reconsidered in the light
of that evidence; or, in cases in which the court is authorized by law to
exercise its independent judgment on the evidence, the court may admit the
evidence at the hearing on the writ without remanding the case.” “Augmentation of the administrative record is
permitted only within the strict limits set forth in section 1094.5,
subdivision (e)….” (Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center v. Superior Court
(1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 93, 101.) “In the absence of a proper preliminary
foundation showing that one of the exceptions noted in section 1094.5,
subdivision (e) applies, it is error for the court to permit the record to be
augmented.” (Ibid.) 
 
In the request to reopen, petitioner presented the
declarations of Lawrence Braslow, Jr., MD, petitioner’s treating psychiatrist,
and Paul F. Dorin, Ph.D., petitioner’s treating marriage and family therapist.
In a declaration executed on May 12, 2023, Dr. Braslow averred that he had been
treating petitioner since October 21, 2022. (Braslow Decl. ¶ 2, attached to
McCoy Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. A.) Dr. Braslow averred that petitioner was recently
diagnosed with Bipolar I Disorder, characterized by manic episodes. (Braslow
Decl. ¶ 2.) A patient in a manic state can present as highly agitated and
delusional, out of touch with reality, and unable to navigate social situation.
(Braslow Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
On June 8, 2022 – the day before the subject arrest –
petitioner went to the emergency room for treatment for what he thought was a
panic attack. (Braslow Decl. ¶ 4.) Petitioner was diagnosed with an altered
mental state and panic attack. (Braslow Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
Based on petitioner’s diagnosis of bipolar disorder, Dr.
Braslow averred “within a reasonable degree of medical certainty” that
petitioner was suffering from an acute bipolar episode during the emergency
room visit on June 8, 2022, which “likely” continued during his arrest on June
9, 2022. (Braslow Decl. ¶¶ 4, 7.) Dr. Braslow averred that at the time the
officers demanded a chemical test, petitioner “would have been unable to
understand what they were saying about either his implied consent obligations
under the Vehicle Code or the consequences of failing to complete that test.
Thus, he was medically unable to refuse the chemical test.” (Braslow Decl. ¶ 8.)


Dr. Dorin’s declaration, executed on May 11, 2023, is
consistent with Dr. Braslow’s declaration. (Dorin Decl., attached to McCoy
Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. A.) 
 
The declarations of Dr. Braslow and Dr. Dorin are relevant
to the issue of whether petitioner had capacity to refuse a chemical breath or
blood test during his June 9, 2022 arrest for driving a motor vehicle under the
influence of alcohol. “A person who is…in a condition rendering him or her
incapable of refusal is deemed not to have withdrawn his or her consent and a
test or tests may be administered whether or not the person is told that his or
her failure to submit to, or the noncompletion of, the test or tests will
result in the suspension or revocation of his or her privilege to operate a
motor vehicle.” (Veh. Code § 23612(a)(5).) “[A] driver may defend in an
implied-consent hearing by proof of lack of capacity to refuse a test….” (Hughey
v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 752, 755 [analyzing
Vehicle Code § 23157(a)(5), renumbered to § 23612(a)(5)].) “If, in what we
perceive to be an infrequent case, the driver is able to convince a trier of
fact that he or she was incapable of refusing a test for reasons unconnected
with the consumption of alcohol, the statute contemplates a restoration of the
driver’s license…. If the driver presents expert testimony of his incapability
to refuse a test which convinces the trier of fact, this is permitted under
section [23612], subdivision (a)(5).” (Id. at 762.)
 
Respondent argues that the declarations are speculative
because neither Dr. Braslow nor Dr. Dorin were present during petitioner’s
arrest and neither of them examined petitioner shortly after his arrest.
Respondent also argues that neither Dr. Braslow nor Dr. Dorin examined
petitioner during his hospital visit the day before. Even if true, this
argument goes toward the weight of their declarations, not their admissibility.
Based on petitioner’s Bipolar I Disorder diagnosis, of which Drs. Braslow and
Dorin were knowledgeable as petitioner’s treating medical professionals, Drs.
Braslow and Dorin can opine on the effect that petitioner’s condition would
have toward his ability to consent to a chemical test during his arrest. 
 
Respondent also argues that petitioner should have raised
his condition during the March 29, 2023 administrative hearing. However, Dr.
Braslow averred that petitioner could not have raised his diagnosis during the
hearing, because petitioner was only recently diagnosed. (Braslow Decl. ¶¶ 2,
3.) While petitioner was diagnosed with an altered mental state and a panic
attack on June 8, 2022, the day before his arrest (Braslow Decl. ¶ 4), there is
no showing that, during the administrative hearing, petitioner should have
known that an altered mental state and/or panic attack pertained to the defense
of not having had capacity to consent to a chemical test. Accordingly, the
Court finds that, in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, petitioner could not have presented his diagnosis of
Bipolar I Disorder during the administrative hearing. 
 
Lastly, the Court
notes that, in the petition, petitioner alleges he sought to reopen the hearing
based on the evidence of his bipolar disorder in early May 2023. (Pet. ¶ 18.)
Petitioner filed the petition on May 15, 2023, before July 10, 2023, when he actually
requested the reopening of the hearing. (McCoy Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. A.) While
the date of the request to reopen is incorrect in the petition, the
subsequently submitted request should be a part of the administrative record
because it was connected to the proceeding regarding the suspension of
petitioner’s driver’s license. 
 
The motion is GRANTED. The request to reopen the
administrative hearing and the supporting evidence attached thereto, appended to
the declaration of Lee A. McCoy as Exhibit A, is admitted for the purposes of
adjudicating the writ petition during the hearing on April 2, 2024. The
administrative record is not augmented to include the denial of the request to
reopen because there is no documentary evidence of the denial. 