 Case Number:  23STCV07895    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
EPIC FREIGHT
  SOLUTIONS LLC,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
TPG PRESSURE, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23STCV07895
 
  Hearing Date:  April 23, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
DEFENDANT TPG PRESSURE, INC.’S motion TO
  STAY PENDING THE RESOLUTION OF THE PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE FEDERAL MARITIME
  COMMISSION



 
Procedural Background
On April
10, 2023, Plaintiff Epic Freight Solutions LLC (“Epic”) filed the instant action
against Defendant TPG Pressure, Inc. (“TPG”) for breach of contract and common
count – goods and services rendered.  
On June
14, 2023, Defendant TPG filed a Cross-Complaint against Epic and Omni (“Omni”) Logistics,
LLC.
This
case arises from TPG retaining Epic to provide carriage of products from ports
outside the United States to destinations within the United States by ocean
carriage.
On August
23, 2023, Defendant TPG filed the instant motion to stay the proceedings
pending the resolution of the proceedings before the Federal Maritime
Commission. Plaintiff Epic and Omni oppose.
 
Discussion
            TPG moves to stay the action pursuant to CCP §§
128, 187 and 404.5 and CRC Rule 3.515 on the ground the Federal Maritime
Commission (“FMC”) has primary jurisdiction of the matters in dispute and that
a stay of this action pending the resolution of the FMC proceedings is in the
interest of justice and good cause exists. TPG filed the FMC action in 2022
against Omni and Epic alleging that they failed to establish, observe, and
enforce just and reasonable practices relating to receiving, handling, storing,
and delivering the property of TPG, in violation of the Shipping Act of 1984
and failed to issue proper invoices in violation of the Ocean Shipping Reform
Act.
Specifically, TPG argues that the Court should stay proceedings pending
resolution of the FMC action because it will adjudicate the key issue in this
case – whether Cross-Defendants’ charges included on the invoices they claim as
unpaid in this action are illegal. This action should not move forward until
such determination by the FMC takes place since the issue is dispositive to
this action, and the FMC has exclusive jurisdiction to make such a
determination under the Shipping Act and OSRA. The primary jurisdiction
doctrine mandates that the FMC, as the agency with specialized knowledge of the
technical and factual issues at stake, first make its determination as to the
alleged Shipping Act and OSRA violations before this action proceeds.
            Under the doctrine of primary jurisdiction, a court must
abstain from hearing certain administrative-related matters until the
appropriate agency has had a chance to interpret technical and factual issues. (United States v. Western P.
R. Co (1956) 352 U.S. 59,
63-4.) Although developed in federal courts, California has recognized and
applied this doctrine in similar cases. See E. B. Ackerman Importing Co. v. City of Los Angeles (1964) 61 Cal. 2d 595, 599 (reversing and
remanding case under the primary jurisdiction doctrine with instructions to
stay proceedings until the Federal Maritime Commission has made a determination
on matters concerning the Shipping Act); Farmers Ins. Exch. v. Superior Ct. (1992) 2 Cal. 4th 377, 386.) No rigid formula
exists for applying the primary jurisdiction doctrine. (United States v. W. Pac. R.
Co (1956) 352 U.S. 59, 64.)
The “question is whether the reasons for the existence of the doctrine are
present and whether the purposes it serves will be aided by its application in
the particular litigation.” Id. The two main factors considered are (1) whether
permitting the specialized agency to address the case in the first instance
would provide desirable uniformity; and (2) whether “the expert and specialized
knowledge of the agencies involved” is useful to the case. (See Texas & Pacific R. Co.
v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co.
(1907) 204 U.S. 426); Far East Conference v. United States (1952) 342 U.S. 570.)
            Further, when a court has jurisdiction over an action it
also has “all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also given.” (CCP
§ 187.) “[A] stay gives effect to the general rule that the court ordinarily
has inherent power, in its discretion, to stay proceedings when such a stay
will accommodate the ends of justice.” (St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company v.
Amerisourcebergen Corp. (2022)
80 Cal.App.5th 1, 6-7 [internal quotes omitted].) CRC Rule 3.515 authorizes a
court to impose a stay when it will “promote the ends of justice, considering
the imminence of any trial or other proceeding that might materially affect the
status of the action to be stayed, and whether a final judgment in that action
would have a res judicata or collateral estoppel effect with regard to any
common issue of the included actions.” (CRC, Rule 3.515(f).)
            Here, TPG’s Cross-Complaint in the instant action
includes claims of the illegality of certain charges imposed by Cross-Defendants
against TPG and TPG raises this as an affirmative defense as well. It appears
that whether these charges are illegal is more within the expertise of the
Federal Maritime Commission as it relates to this case and will likely be
decided before this Court is able to do so. Importantly, the deadline for the
FMC decision is July 29, 2024, only three months away. (See Reply at p. 4.)
Although trial in this case is set for August 26, 2024, a short stay and
possible trial continuance when the case was filed only one year ago does not
illustrates little, if any, prejudice to Epic and Omni.  
            Accordingly, the Court finds that a stay is appropriate
in this instance and will accommodate the ends of justice. 
Conclusion and ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Defendant TPG’s
Motion to Stay is GRANTED. At the FSC set on August 19, 2024, the parties should
be prepared to inform the Court on the status of the FMC case. 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
DATED:  April 23, 2024                                                         ___________________________
Yolanda Orozco
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court