 Case Number:  22STCV19727    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
NATALIE ANN
  JOHNSON, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
michael delahoussay dba MD CONSULTING; GERARDO
  ALFARO; PEDRO QUIROZ dba QUIROZ CABINETS; et al.
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22STCV19727 (consolidated with 22STSC01394, 22STSC01396)
 
  Hearing Date: April 23, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
cross-defendant natalie ann johnson’s
  demurrer to the FIRST AMENDED cross-complaint



 
Procedural Background
            On June 16, 2022, Plaintiff Natalie
Ann Johnson (“Johnson”) filed the instant breach of construction contract
against Defendants Michael Delahoussaye dba MD Consulting (“Delahoussaye”),
Gerardo Alfaro (“Alfaro”) and Pedro Quiroz dba Quiroz Cabinets (“Quiroz”)
(collectively “Defendants/Cross-Complainants”). 
On September 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants. 
The FAC asserts seven causes of action for (1) Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (2) Breach of Implied Warranty; (3)
Negligence; (4) Violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200;(5)
Disgorgement under Business and Professions Code section 7031; (6) Intentional
Misrepresentation; and (7) Fraudulent/false representation under Business and
Professions Code section 7160.
            On February 3, 2023, the instant
action was consolidated for all purposes with two small claims actions, LASC
Case Nos. 22STSC01394 and 22STSC01396, with the instant action as the lead
action.  (Minute Order 2/3/23.)
            On March 3, 2023, Cross-Complainants
Delahoussaye, Alfaro, and Quiroz filed a Cross-Complaint against Johnson.  
Following
a ruling on demurrer, Cross-Complainants filed a First
Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Promissory
Fraud, (3) Violations of Labor Code §§ 201, 203, (4) Violations of Labor Code §
226, (5) Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, and (6) Quantum
Meruit.  
            On November 17, 2023,
Cross-Defendant Johnson filed the instant demurrer to the FACC. Cross-Complainants
oppose.   
Request for
Judicial Notice
            In conjunction with the moving
papers, Cross-Defendant Johnson requests that the Court take judicial notice
of:
1.    
Complaint in the small claims division
entitled Delahoussaye, et al. v. Johnson, Case No. 22STSC01394
2.    
Complaint in the small claims division
entitled Quiroz  v. Johnson, Case
No. 22STSC01396
3.    
Cross-Complaint in the instant action
4.    
The Contractors State License Board’s
Certificate of Records for Gerardo Alfaro
5.    
The Contractors State License Board’s
Certificate of Records for Pedro Quiroz
6.    
Alfaro’s Response to Form Interrogatories
(Set One)
7.    
Quiroz’s Response to Form Interrogatories
(Set One)
8.    
First Amended Cross-Complaint in the
instant action
9.    
Court’s Minute Order on Johnson’s Demurrer
to Cross-Complaint
As the Court may
take judicial notice of court records and actions of the State, (See Evid.
Code, § 452(c)(d)), Johnson’s unopposed request for judicial notice is GRANTED.  However, the Court does not take judicial
notice of the truth of any assertions within. (See Herrera v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) To the extent that
the responses to the form interrogatories are inconsistent with the
allegations, the Court can take judicial notice of them. As noted in Able v.
Van Der Zee (1967) 256 Cal.App.2d 728, 734: “It is generally not proper for
the court to refer to extrinsic material or facts in ruling on a general
demurrer, for the obvious reason that only the law is presented for the court's
consideration. This rule occasionally, however, has been relaxed in order to
allow the court to take judicial notice of evidentiary matters in its own
records, including affidavits, declarations, and interrogatories or requests
for admissions, which are inconsistent with the allegations in the complaint.” 
Legal Standard
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th
1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968,
994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)  The
demurring party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and
confer efforts.  (Id.¿at
(a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must meet and confer
again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)
Cross-Defendant
Johnson has satisfied the meet and
confer requirement.  (Kupfer Decl. ¶¶3-4.)

Discussion
Contractor’s Licensure
            Cross-Defendant Johnson asserts that the FACC fails to
allege that Cross-Complainants Alfaro and Quiroz were licensed or fall within
an exception of licensure.
            Business and Professions Code “Section 7031 is part of
the Contractors' State License Law (§ 7000 et seq.), and it ‘imposes strict and
harsh penalties for a contractor's failure to maintain proper licensure. Among
other things, the [Contractors' State License Law] states a general rule that,
regardless of the merits of the claim, a contractor may not maintain any action,
legal or equitable, to recover compensation for “the performance of any act or
contract” unless he or she was duly licensed “at all times during the
performance of that act or contract.” (§ 7031, subd. (a).)’
[Citation.]”  (Kim v. TWA
Construction, Inc. 78 Cal.App.5th 808, 823.) “[S]ection 7031 bars all
actions, regardless of the equities and however they are characterized, which
effectively seek ‘compensation’ for illegal unlicensed contract work.
[Citation.] Thus, if the primary ‘relief sought is compensation’ for the
unlicensed work, then ‘section 7031 bars the action.’
[Citation.]”  (Id. at 824.)
Further, pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 7031(b),
“[e]xcept as provided in subdivision (e), a person who utilizes the services of
an unlicensed contractor may bring an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction in this state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed
contractor for performance of any act or contract.”  (Alatriste v. Cesar's Exterior Designs,
Inc. (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 656, 664.) 

            In sum, Business and Professions Code section 7031 acts
as both a shield and a sword preventing any recovery from those who do
unlicensed construction work and “ ‘allow[ing] persons who utilize unlicensed
contractors to recover compensation paid to the contractor for performing
unlicensed work.’ [Citations.]”  (Id.
at p.666.)
            A “ ‘Contractor,’ … is synonymous with ‘builder’ and, …
is any person who undertakes to or offers to undertake to, or purports to have
the capacity to undertake to, or submits a bid to, or does himself or herself or by or
through others, construct, alter,
repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building,
highway, road, parking facility, railroad, excavation or other structure,
project, development or improvement, or to do any part thereof, … ‘Contractor’
includes subcontractor and specialty contractor.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7026.)
            The Contractors Law exempts from the requirement to use
licensed contractors “owner-builders” under certain circumstances. (See Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 7044.) “[U]nder section 7044, a licensing requirement
exemption for owners doing their own work or hiring licensed subcontractors,
etc.” (Ranchwood Communities Limited Partnership v. Jim Beat Construction
Co. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1415.) For example, the Homeowner’s
exemption applies to “(1) An owner who builds or improves a structure on his or
her property, provided that both of the following conditions are met: [¶] (A)
None of the improvements are intended or offered for sale. [¶] (B) The property
owner personally performs all of the work, or any work not performed by the
owner is performed by the owner's employees with wages as their sole
compensation.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
7044(a)(1).) 
The Court previously
stated that facts must be alleged showing that Alfaro and Quiroz were Johnson’s employees for the project on the
Subject Property and that their sole compensation was wages. The Court finds
that Cross-Complainants have now alleged sufficient facts at this pleading
stage. (See FACC, ¶¶10-16.) Thus, the demurrer to the entire FACC on this ground
is OVERRULED.
First Cause of Action: Breach
of Contract
            Cross-Defendant Johnson asserts that the first cause of
action fails because Cross-Complainants fail to allege the contracts’ legal
effect, such as payment terms. 
“The elements of a cause of action for breach
of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance,
(3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.’” (Coles v. Glaser (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th
384, 391 [internal citations omitted].) 
“A written
contract may be pleaded by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a
copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by
reference—or by its legal effect.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc.
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) “In order to plead a contract by its legal
effect, plaintiff must allege the substance of its relevant terms.” (Ibid.)
Cross-Complainants
argue that they allege the contracts’ legal effect. Specifically, they allege
that the FACC specified a written agreement between Ms. Johnson and Mr.
Delahoussaye started in or about March 2021 for consulting services for
approximately eleven months. (See FACC ¶8.) Further, it states that Johnson and
Alfaro entered into a written agreement in or about April 2021 for remodeling
work on the project for approximately six months. (See FACC ¶ 9.) Moreover, the
FACC provides that Johnson and Quiroz entered into a written agreement in or
about June 21, 2021, for the installation of semicustom cabinets on the project
for approximately two months. (See FACC ¶10.)
            The
Court also observes that the FACC sufficiently alleges the relevant payment
terms and breaches thereof in Paragraphs 23-27. 
            Accordingly, the demurrer to the first cause of action is
OVERRULED.
Second Cause of Action:
Promissory Fraud
            Johnson asserts that the second cause of action is
conclusory and is not pled with sufficient specificity. Specifically, Johnson
argues Cross-Complainants have alleged no facts or circumstances suggesting
Johnson’s intent not to perform the alleged promise when it was made. 
“The
elements of promissory fraud . . . are: (1) a promise made regarding a material
fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the existence of the intent
not to perform at the time the promise was made; (3) intent to deceive or
induce the promise to enter into a transaction; (4) reasonable reliance by the
promisee; (5) nonperformance by the party making the promise; and (6) resulting
damage to the promisee.”  (Rossberg v. Bank of America, N.A. (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1498.)  Promissory
fraud as a fraud claim must be alleged with specificity. (Id.)  “Fraud allegations ‘involve a serious attack
on character’ and therefore are pleaded with specificity.  [Citation.] 
General and conclusory allegations are insufficient.  [Citation.] 
The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts which
‘‘‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.’’’  [Citation.]”  (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  
Cross-Complainants allege
that “[i]n March of 2021, in executing the written agreements with
DELAHOUSSAYE, ALFARO, and QUIROZ, NATALIE JOHNSON made promises to each of
Cross-Complainants, both orally, in person at the Subject Property, and in
writing, that she would pay each of them the full amounts owed under their
respective contracts. Specifically, the fraudulent promises made by JOHNSON
were made in person, orally to each of the Cross-Complainants, at the
residential property located at 2307 Virginia Road, Los Angeles, CA 90016 in
March and April of 2021. But for JOHNSON’s verbal statements and execution of
the written agreements, Cross-Complainants would not have entered into any
agreement with JOHNSON. At all times relevant to this cause of action, JOHNSON
made fraudulent promises while she had no intention of fully paying
Cross-Complainants the amounts owed to each of them. In fact, JOHNSON hatched a
scheme, with full knowledge, intent and understanding that her fraudulent
promises would induce CROSS-COMPLAINANTS to undertake the work at the Project,
so that cross-defendant JOHNSON could receive services without having to pay
for them, and with the full knowledge and intention that Cross-Complainants
rely on her oral and written promises to pay. JOHNSON’s fraudulent oral
promises were reduced to writing in the respective agreements that
DELAHOUSSAYE, ALFARO, AND QUIROZ had with her, and each Cross-Complaint’s
action in executing their part of the bargain was premised on the belief that
JOHNSON intended to make good on her promises, when in reality, JOHNSON had no
intention of doing so. Thereafter, each of the Cross-Complainants carried out
the work for which they were engaged via written contract. In this way, each of
the Cross-Complainants reasonably relied on JOHNSON’s promises of payment in
exchange for work. Indeed, JOHNSON carried out her fraud, convinced and induced
the Cross-Complainants to perform the work, and once the work was delivered,”
(FACC, ¶¶34-35.) 
The Court finds these
allegations sufficient to meet the specificity requirement for fraud.
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
Sixth Cause
of Action: Quantum Meruit
            Johnson argues that Delahoussaye’s
count for Quantum Meruit is used as an alternative way of seeking the same
recovery demanded in his cause of action for breach of contract and is based on
the same facts. Because the cause of action for breach of contract is
demurrable, so too is the count for Quantum Meruit.
            As the Court overruled the demurrer
as to the breach of contract action, the Court also OVERRULES the demurrer to
the third cause of action. 
Conclusion and ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendant Natalie
Ann Johnson’s demurrer to the FACC is OVERRULED.
Moving
Party to give notice and file proof of service of such. 
 
DATED:  April 23, 2024                                                       ___________________________
Yolanda Orozco 
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court