  Case Number:  22STCV10077    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
KRISTINA HOLMAN,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
KERLAN-JOBE SURGERY CENTER, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 22STCV10077
 
 Hearing Date: April 23, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
PLAINTIFF Kristina holman’S MOTION TO
  COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION, SET TWO
 
 



 
Background
            On
March 25, 2024, Plaintiff Kristina Holman (“Plaintiff”) filed this operative
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center
LLC; Kerlan-Jobe , LLC; Cedars-Sinai Kerlan Jobe Institute; Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center; Cedars-Sinai Medical Care Foundation; Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic
Clinic, a Medical Group, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”); and DOES 1 through
50, inclusive, asserting eleven causes of action: (1) Retaliation in Violation
of Labor Code §1102.5; (2) Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code §232.5; (3)
Retaliation in Violation of California Business and Professions Code § 510; (4)
Discrimination on the Basis of Age in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940, et.
seq.); (5) Discrimination on the Basis of Disability in Violation of FEHA (Gov.
Code §12940, et. seq.); (6) Failure to Prevent Discrimination on the Basis of
FEHA (Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); (7) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Gov.
Code §12940, et. seq.); (8) Failure to Prevent Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
(Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); (9) Failure to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA
(Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); (10) Failure to Engage in a Good Faith
Interactive Process  in Violation of FEHA
(Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); and (11) Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy.
            On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this instant amended motion to compel further responses to request for
production, set two, against Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC
(“Kerlan-Jobe Surgery”). On April 10, 2024, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery filed its
opposition. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply. 
Allegations of the
Operative Complaint
The SAC alleges that:
Kerlan-Jobe is a network
of Orthopedic surgery centers and clinics founded by Drs. Robert Kerlan and
Frank Jobe, and mainly focused on select sports injuries. (SAC ¶¶ 13-16.)
Plaintiff worked with Dr.
Jobe for about seven (7) years at Centinela Hospital before he recruited her to
join Kerlan-Jobe in 1997. (SAC ¶ 17.) After Dr. Jobe passed away, Kerlan-Jobe
underwent new leadership that increased its case load and expanded its
portfolio of services to include pediatric orthopedics, total hip, and knee
replacement, the spine, etc.  (SAC ¶¶
22-23.)
“Kerlan-Jobe partnered
with Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Department of Orthopedics, to expand and/or
establish a network of surgery centers and clinics launching the Cedars Sinai
Kerlan-Jobe Institute.” (SAC ¶ 24.)
“Kerlan-Jobe prioritized
profit over patient care,” which led to a high volume, fast paced work
environment and resulted in a revolving door of employees and frequent
openings. (SAC ¶¶ 25-26.)
            “Dr. Neal S. ElAttrache took over
Dr. Jobe’s patients” (SAC ¶ 27.) “His surgeries were substantially delayed
because he overbooked himself.” (SAC ¶ 28.) “To mitigate the appearance of long
delays, Dr. ElAttrache regularly brought patients into the operating room and
put them under total, general anesthesia long before the actual surgery began.”
(SAC ¶ 29.) “Dr. ElAttrache would abandon his patients for long periods of time
sometimes upwards to around an hour or so to handle post-operation matters for
other patients and/or his phone calls.” (SAC ¶ 34.) “All the while, his
patients were needlessly exposed to general anesthesia and associated risks,
charged for unnecessary medical care, and remained in the operating room until
Dr. ElAttrache decided to return. ” (SAC ¶ 35.) “This practice delayed the
remaining surgeries scheduled for the day and forced surgery technicians to
work late.” (SAC ¶ 36.) Plaintiff and other staff objected to Dr. ElAttrache’s
practices out of concern for the patients and felt overwhelmed. (SAC ¶ 38.)
            In the summer of 2020, management
began pressuring Plaintiff to resign based on her being fifty (50) years of
age. (SAC ¶¶ 42-43.) “Trudy Wiig, the Administrator of the Surgery Center,
asked Ms. Holman whether she was willing to work part-time because of her age.
The request
was motivated by ageism.  Ms. Wiig said
words to the effect that [Plaintiff]’s name came up during a Board Meeting and
they were concerned that in her old age she would not be able to keep up.” (SAC
¶ 44.) Plaintiff declined, expressing her desire to keep working including
regular overtime. (SAC ¶ 46.)  Trudy then
asked Plaintiff if she would consider accepting a severance package from
Defendants in exchange for early retirement, which Plaintiff also declined.
(SAC ¶¶ 47-48.) “The next day, Kevin Bowdry, the Director of Nursing, asked [Plaintiff]
to consider Ms. Wiig’s offers.  [Plaintiff]
refused.” (SAC ¶ 49.)
            “In the winter of 2020, multiple
employees, including several surgery technicians, were out on leave due to
illness.” (SAC ¶ 51.) This required Plaintiff to cover additional surgeries and
give up her lunch and work without meal and rest breaks. (SAC ¶¶ 54-56.) Around
December of 2020, Plaintiff confronted Mr. Bowdry about the intolerable work
conditions including requiring staff to work through lunch without rest breaks,
not being properly compensated for all hours worked, and Dr. ElAttrache’s
preference for high volume placing patients at risk with their true consent.
(SAC ¶¶ 58-60.) Mr. Bowdry dismissed Plaintiff’s concerns. (SAC ¶ 61.)
            “On May 17, 2021, [Plaintiff]’s
doctor placed her on medical leave so that she could undergo treatment for
rheumatoid arthritis.” (SAC ¶ 62.) On or about August 17, 2021, Plaintiff
exhausted her 12-week CFRA/FMLA leave and required an extension of medical
leave through October 4, 2021 for a total of four months and two weeks of
leave. (SAC ¶¶ 63-64.) Such leave had been provided regularly to Plaintiff in
the past and to younger employees who took even longer leave. (SAC ¶¶ 65-68.)
“[O]n or about October 1, 2021, [Plaintiff]’s doctor notified Kerlan-Jobe that [Plaintiff]
was released to return on October 5, 2021, to her full-time position with no
restrictions.” (SAC ¶ 69.) However, Defendants terminated Plaintiff even though
work was available. (SAC ¶ 70.) Defendants preferred to replace Plaintiff with
a younger employee with less experience than Plaintiff and continued to fill
surgery technician openings with substantially younger employees. (SAC ¶¶
71-74.)
Evidentiary
Objections
Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s
objections to Declaration of Diana Gevorkian are OVERRULED. 
Legal Standard
Requests
for Production of Documents
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.310
provides, in pertinent part, as follows:
(a) On receipt
of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
(1) A
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
(3) An objection
in the response is without merit or too general.
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall
comply with both of the following:
(1) The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
(2) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
Code Complaint Response
A code-compliant response to a
request for production consists of any of the following: (1) a statement that
the party will comply, (2) a representation that the party lacks the ability to
comply, or (3) an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2031.210.)  A statement that the party
will comply must state that the Request for Production (“RPD”) “will be allowed
either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded
category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to
which no objection is being made will be included in the production.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.220.) 
“If only part of an item or category of item in a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is objectionable, the response shall contain a
statement of compliance, or a representation of inability to comply with
respect to the remainder of that item or category.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.240(a).)  If an objection is made the responding party
must “[i]dentify with particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or
electronically stored information falling within any category of item in the
demand to which an objection is being made.” 
(Code Civ. Proc.,  §
2031.240(b)(1).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves
to compel Kerlan-Jobe
Surgery further responses to RPD Nos. 209-234.
Meet and Confer
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section
2031.310(b)(2) a motion to compel further responses to a request for production
“shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(2).)  “A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution
of each issue presented by the motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
Plaintiff has adequately met and
conferred.  (Gevorkian Amd. Decl. ¶¶ 4-9,
Exs. 2-5.) 
At the April 9, 2024 hearing, the Court
ordered that the parties meet and confer in person in connection with the discovery
motions set on April 23, 24 and 30, 2024. The parties report that they have
done so. Plaintiff also reports that as to the April 23 discovery motion, Plaintiff
withdrew nine (9) specific requests. This order was prepared before the Court
became aware of the parties’ conference. As the Court’s tentative is to deny
the motion in its entirety, Plaintiff’s withdrawal of some requests is moot.
RPD Nos. 209-234
“Any and all
operating agreements relating to and/or applicable to KERLAN-JOBE SURGERY
CENTER, LLC including but not limited to any and all operating agreements and
amendments thereto that KERLAN-JOBE SURGERY CENTER, LLC is required to maintain
by  Corp. Code, § 17701.13.” (RPD No.
209.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, relating to, and/or supporting Mr. Tormey’s
claim that “CSMC, the Foundation, ISS ASC Holdings, LLC, and KJOC are separate
and distinct entities from the Surgery Center” in paragraph 13 of his
Declaration in Support of Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s Motion for
Summary Judgement, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against
Plaintiff Kristina Holman.” (RPD No. 219.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing that YOU and CEDARS-SINAI are not an integrated
enterprise.” (RPD No. 224.)
In response to
these requests Nos. 209, 219 and 224, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds identically stating:
“Defendant objects to this request on the ground that it is vague and
ambiguous, including as to "operating agreements and amendments."
Defendant also objects to this request as it is overbroad and compound.  Defendant further objects to this request to
the extent that it seeks documents that are neither relevant to the claims at
issue nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent that it seeks
sensitive, and confidential business, financial or proprietary documents.
Defendant further objects to this request on the grounds that it is
oppressive  and intended to harass,
annoy, and embarrass and cause Defendant undue expense as
Plaintiff refused to grant Defendant its first request for extension of time to
provide a complete, verified response to this request. Defendant also objects
to this request as it calls for documents protected by the attorney-client
privilege and/or attorney work product. Subject to and
without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant will
produce all documents within its possession, custody or control responsive to
this request, which are documents bates stamped KJSC 000856-000931, subject to
protective order.  Discovery and
investigation ongoing.” (Response to RPD Nos. 209, 219, 224.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, supporting, and/or relating to YOUR claim that
“the per diem position offered to Plaintiff, Plaintiff would work approximately
the same hours she worked before her leave of absence, Plaintiff would perform
substantially the same work she performed as a Surgery Technician, and
Plaintiff would be paid the same rate of pay that she earned prior to her leave
of absence” as stated in paragraph 16 of Christopher Tormey’s Declaration in
Support of Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC’s Motion for Summary
Judgement, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against Plaintiff
Kristina Holman including but not limited to all DOCUMENTS evidencing that YOU
had enough work for Plaintiff to enable her to work approximately the same
hours before her leave of absence.” (RPD No. 210.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing that Plaintiff was offered a per diem position
that would have enabled her to work “approximately the same hours she worked
before her leave of absence, Plaintiff would perform substantially the same
work she performed as a Surgery Technician, and Plaintiff would be paid the
same rate of pay that she earned prior to her leave of absence” as stated in
paragraph 16 of Christopher Tormey’s Declaration in Support of Defendant
Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgement, or in the
Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against Plaintiff Kristina Holman.” (RPD No.
211.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing that YOU and CEDARS-SINAI are an integrated
enterprise.” (RPD No. 223.)
In response to
these requests Nos. 210, 211 and 223, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds identically
stating: “Defendant objects to this request on the ground that it is vague and
ambiguous. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent that it
seeks documents that are neither relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant further
objects to this request to the extent that it seeks sensitive, and confidential
business, financial or proprietary documents. Defendant further objects to this
request on the grounds that it is oppressive 
and intended to harass, annoy, and embarrass and cause Defendant undue
expense as Plaintiff refused to grant Defendant its first request for extension
of time to provide a complete, verified response to this request. Defendant
also objects to this request as it calls for documents protected by the
attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product. Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, After a diligent and reasonable inquiry, Defendant is unable to comply
with this request because the requested documents have never existed.  Discovery and investigation is ongoing.”
(Response to RPD No. 210-211, 223.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS to Plaintiff from May 17, 2021 to date including but not
limited to any and all emails, letters, and phone records evidencing any and
all phone calls relating to the per diem position offered to Plaintiff and
offers and/or requests to work per diem.” (RPD No. 212.)
In response to
this request No. 212, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds stating: “Defendant objects
to this request on the ground that it is vague and ambiguous. Defendant further
objects to this request to the extent that it seeks documents that are neither
relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent
that it seeks sensitive, and confidential business, financial or proprietary
documents. Defendant further objects to this request on the grounds that it is
oppressive  and intended to harass,
annoy, and embarrass and cause Defendant undue expense as Plaintiff refused to
grant Defendant its first request for extension of time to provide a complete,
verified response to this request. Defendant also objects to this request as it
calls for documents protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney
work product. Subject to and without waiving the foregoing
objections, Defendant will produce all documents within its
possession, custody or control responsive to this request, which are documents
bates stamped KJSC 000441-000442. Discovery and investigation ongoing.”
(Response to RPD No. 212.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, supporting and/or relating to YOUR claim that
“Based on my review of the records, Plaintiff was also eligible for benefits
upon her return,” as stated in paragraph 16 of Christopher Tormey’s Declaration
in Support of Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC’s Motion for Summary
Judgement, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against Plaintiff
Kristina Holman, including but not limited to the records reviewed as well as
records/DOCUMENTS evidencing the type of benefits available to Plaintiff.” (RPD
No. 213.)
In response to
this request No. 213, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds stating: “Defendant objects
to this request on the ground that it is vague and ambiguous. Defendant further
objects to this request to the extent that it seeks documents that are neither
relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent
that it seeks sensitive, and confidential business, financial or proprietary
documents. Defendant further objects to this request on the grounds that it is
oppressive  and intended to harass,
annoy, and embarrass and cause Defendant undue expense as Plaintiff refused to
grant Defendant its first request for extension of time to provide a complete,
verified response to this request. Defendant also objects to this request as it
calls for documents protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney
work product. Subject to and without waiving the foregoing
objections, Defendant will produce all documents within its possession, custody
or control responsive to this request, which are documents bates stamped KJSC
000441-000426. Discovery and investigation ongoing.” (Response to RPD No. 213.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing that “Natalie Sand . . . requested that TriNet
process Plaintiff’s termination because of Plaintiff’s failure to return from
her leave of absence” as stated in paragraph 13 of Christopher Tormey’s
Declaration in Support of Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC’s Motion
for Summary Judgement, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against
Plaintiff Kristina Holman, including but not limited to Ms. Sand’s
communication to TriNet.” (RPD No. 214.)
In response to
this request No. 214, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds stating: “Defendant objects
to this request on the ground that it is vague and ambiguous. Defendant further
objects to this request to the extent that it seeks documents that are neither
relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent
that it seeks sensitive, and confidential business, financial or proprietary
documents. Defendant further objects to this request on the grounds that it is
oppressive  and intended to harass,
annoy, and embarrass and cause Defendant undue expense as Plaintiff refused to
grant Defendant its first request for extension of time to provide a complete,
verified response to this request. Defendant also objects to this request as it
calls for documents protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney
work product. Subject to and without waiving the foregoing
objections, Defendant will produce all documents within its
possession, custody or control responsive to this request, which are documents
bates stamped KJSC 000187-000188. Discovery and investigation
ongoing.” (Response to RPD No. 214.)
 
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing that “Upon my review of the records, upon
Plaintiff’s return in October of 2021, the only position the Surgery Center had
available was a per diem position” as stated in paragraph 12 of Christopher
Tormey’s Declaration in Support of Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC’s
Motion for Summary Judgement, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
Against Plaintiff Kristina Holman, including but not limited to all records
reviewed by Mr. Tormey.” (RPD No. 215.)
In response to
this request No. 215, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds stating: “Defendant objects
to this request on the ground that it is vague and ambiguous. Defendant further
objects to this request to the extent that it seeks documents that are neither
relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent
that it seeks sensitive, and confidential business, financial or proprietary
documents. Defendant further objects to this request on the grounds that it is
oppressive  and intended to harass,
annoy, and embarrass and cause Defendant undue expense as Plaintiff refused to
grant Defendant its first request for extension of time to provide a complete,
verified response to this request. Defendant also objects to this request as it
calls for documents protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney
work product. Subject to and without waiving the foregoing
objections, Defendant will produce all documents within its
possession, custody or control responsive to this request, which are documents
bates stamped KJSC 000441-000415. Discovery and investigation
ongoing.” (Response to RPD No. 215.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, relating to, and/or supporting Mr. Tormey’s
claim that “At all relevant times as alleged in Plaintiff’s operative
complaint, the Surgery Center was adequately capitalized.” in paragraph 15 of
his Declaration in Support of Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s Motion
for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against
Plaintiff Kristina Holman, including but not limited to the sources of capital
and whether any of the capital was from any ENTITY including any Cedars Sinai
related such as including ISS ASC Holdings, LLC, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center,
Cedars-Sinai Health System, Cedars-Sinai Medical Care Foundation and/or their
representatives or agents.” (RPD No. 216.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, relating to, and/or supporting Mr. Tormey’s
claim that “The Surgery Center also has various insurance coverage for
potential liabilities, including but not limited to, insurance coverage that
covers the claims asserted by Plaintiff in her lawsuit” in paragraph 15 of his
Declaration in Support of Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s Motion for
Summary Judgement, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against
Plaintiff Kristina Holman.” (RPD No. 218.)
In response to
these requests Nos. 216 and 218,  Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds identically
stating: “Defendant objects to this request on the ground that it is vague and
ambiguous. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent that it
seeks documents that are neither relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant further
objects to this request to the extent that it seeks sensitive, and confidential
business, financial or proprietary documents. Defendant further objects to this
request on the grounds that it is oppressive 
and intended to harass, annoy, and embarrass and cause Defendant undue
expense as Plaintiff refused to grant Defendant its first request for extension
of time to provide a complete, verified response to this request. Defendant
also objects to this request as it calls for documents protected by the
attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product. Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant will produce all documents within its possession, custody or
control responsive to this request, which are documents bates stamped KJSC
000728-729. Discovery and investigation ongoing.” (Response to PRD Nos. 216,
218.)
 
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, relating to, and/or supporting Mr. Tormey’s
claim that “The Surgery Center has enough capital to meet its obligations and
discharge any liabilities anticipated to accrue in the ordinary course of
business” in paragraph 15 of his Declaration in Support of Defendant
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s Motion for Summary Judgement, or in the
Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against Plaintiff Kristina Holman, including
but not limited to the sources of capital and whether any of the capital was
from any ENTITY including any CEDARS-SINAI related  ENTITY such as including ISS ASC Holdings,
LLC, Institute of Sports Sciences, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Cedars-Sinai
Health System, Cedars-Sinai Medical Care Foundation and/or their
representatives or agents.” (RPD No. 217.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, relating to, and/or supporting Mr. Tormey’s
claim that “The Surgery Center has its own board of directors and officers and
maintains its own corporate and financial records” in paragraph 12 of his
Declaration in Support of Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s Motion for
Summary Judgement, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against
Plaintiff Kristina Holman.” (RPD No. 220.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, relating to, and/or supporting Mr. Tormey’s
claim that “the Surgery Center pays its own state and federal taxes and
maintains its own bank account and financial accounting” in paragraph 12 of his
Declaration in Support of Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s Motion for
Summary Judgement, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against
Plaintiff Kristina Holman.” (RPD No. 221.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, relating to, and/or supporting Mr. Tormey’s
claim that “The Surgery Center also has its own federal tax identification
number” in paragraph 12 of his Declaration in Support of Defendant Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center’s Motion for Summary Judgement, or in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication Against Plaintiff Kristina Holman.” (RPD No. 222.)
In response to
these requests Nos. 217, 220, 221 and 222,  Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds identically
stating: “Defendant objects to this request on the ground that it is vague and
ambiguous, including as to "operating agreements and amendments."
Defendant also objects to this request as it is overbroad and compound.  Defendant further objects to this request to
the extent that it seeks documents that are neither relevant to the claims at
issue nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent that it seeks
sensitive, and confidential business, financial or proprietary documents.  Defendant further objects to this request on
the grounds that it is oppressive and intended to harass, annoy, and embarrass
and cause Defendant undue expense as Plaintiff refused to grant Defendant its
first request for extension of time to provide a complete, verified response to
this request.  Defendant also objects to
this request as it calls for documents protected by the attorney-client
privilege and/or attorney work product.” (Response to RPD Nos. 217, 220-222.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and Cedars-Sinai Health System regarding any
affiliation with any CEDARS-SINAI entity, including but not limited to any and
all agreements, letters of intent, memorandums of understanding.” (RPD No.
225.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, relating to, and/or supporting the claim that
“By way of written contract, CSMC provides certain accounting, tax, and other
administrative services on behalf of the Surgery Center, including among other
things, accounts payable processing, payment, and mailing; invoice and payment
review; bank account services, general ledger account
reconciliation; financial statement preparation; business operational review;
tax return preparation; K-1 filings; and license filings” as stated in
paragraph 5 of Declaration of Carol Guinane in Support of Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Judgment.” (RPD No. 231.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing, relating to, and/or supporting the claim that
“CSMC is paid by the Surgery Center for these services” as stated in paragraph
5 of Declaration of Carol Guinane in Support of Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment.” (RPD No. 232.)
In response to
these requests Nos. 225, 231 and 232,  Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds stating: “Defendant
objects to this request on the ground that it is vague and ambiguous. Defendant
further objects to this request to the extent that it seeks documents that are
neither relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant further objects to this request
to the extent that it seeks sensitive, and confidential business, financial or
proprietary documents. Defendant further objects to this request on the grounds
that it is oppressive  and intended to
harass, annoy, and embarrass and cause Defendant undue expense as Plaintiff
refused to grant Defendant its first request for extension of time to provide a
complete, verified response to this request. Defendant also objects to this
request as it calls for documents protected by the attorney-client privilege
and/or attorney work product. Subject to and without
waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant will
produce all documents within its possession, custody or control responsive to
this request, which are documents bates stamped KJSC 000932-000937, subject to
protective order.  Discovery and
investigation ongoing.” (Response to RPD Nos. 225, 231-232.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing that Neal S. ElAttrache, MD, is a Member of
Cedars-Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute Board of Directors as stated in his Cedars-Sinai
Kerlan-Jobe Institute profile attached hereto as Exhibit A.” (RPD No. 226.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing all other Members of the Cedars-Sinai Kerlan-Jobe
Institute Board of Directors referenced in Neal S. ElAttrache, MD’s
Cedars-Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute profile attached hereto as Exhibit A.” (RPD
No. 227.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing that Neal S. ElAttrache, MD, is the Co-Chair of
Medical Affairs, Cedars-Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute as stated in his Cedars-Sinai
Kerlan-Jobe Institute profile attached hereto as Exhibit A.” (RPD No. 228.)
“All DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing all
other Charis of Medical Affairs of the Cedars-Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute
referenced in Neal S. ElAttrache, MD’s Cedars-Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute
profile attached hereto as Exhibit A.” (RPD No. 229.)
“All DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS evidencing duties and responsibilities of Cedars-Sinai
Kerlan-Jobe Institute Board of Directors referenced in Neal S. ElAttrache, MD’s
Cedars-Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute profile attached hereto as Exhibit A.” (RPD
No. 230.)
“Any and all
DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and David Wrigley.” (RPD No. 233.)
“All DOCUMENTS
patient forms available on Neal S. ElAttrache, MD’s “C-S Link” referenced on
Cedars-Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute profile attached hereto as Exhibit A.” (RPD
No. 234.)
In response to
these requests Nos. 226-230 and 234, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds identically
stating: “Defendant objects to this request on the ground that it is vague and
ambiguous. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent that it
seeks documents that are neither relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant further
objects to this request to the extent that it seeks sensitive, and confidential
business, financial or proprietary documents. Defendant further objects to this
request on the grounds that it is oppressive 
and intended to harass, annoy, and embarrass and cause Defendant undue
expense as Plaintiff refused to grant Defendant its first request for extension
of time to provide a complete, verified response to this request. Defendant
also objects to this request as it calls for documents protected by the
attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product. Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, after a diligent
search and reasonable inquiry, Defendant is unable to comply with this request
because Defendant does not have any documents in its possession, custody, or
control responsive to this request; documents responsive to this request have
never been in the possession, custody, or control of Defendant; and Defendant
is not aware if any documents responsive to this request have ever existed.
Defendant does not have the name of any natural person or organization that it
knows or believes to have possession, custody, or control documents responsive
to this request. Discovery and investigation ongoing.” (Response to RPD Nos. 226-230,
233-234.)
Objection: Relevance,
Vague, Burdensome, Overbroad, Oppressive
            As to the overbroad objections, “any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matters, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2017.010.)  “[A]n implicit waiver of a party's constitutional
rights encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim
and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.”  (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.)  However, discovery should
not be denied if the information sought has any relevance to the subject
matter. Thus, while relevancy is a possible ground for an objection, it is
difficult to adequately justify it.  (See generally Coy v. Superior Court of
Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 217.)  “These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery, and (contrary to popular
belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases.”  (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1539, 1546 [internal citation omitted].)  
As to burden,
“burden must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work required” and
“to support an objection of oppression there must be some showing either of an
intent to create an unreasonable burden or that the ultimate effect of the
burden is incommensurate with the result sought.”  (West
Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles
County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) 
Moreover, even if [discovery requests] are found to be “burdensome and
oppressive,” the Court should not simply sustain the objection and thereby
excuse any answer. Rather, the Court should limit the question to a reasonable
scope. (Borse v. Superior Court (Southern Pac. Co.) (1970) 7
Cal.App.3d 286, 289.)
RPD Nos. 217,
220, 221, and 222 relate to information about whether Kerlan-Jobe Surgery is a
separate entity. These requests are not limited in scope as they seek all
documents evidencing that Kerlan-Jobe Surgery has its own federal tax
identification number, pays its own taxes, has its own bank account, and has
its own board of directors, officers, managers, capital information, accounting
information. Moreover, these requests are not limited to a specific period of
time. Nonetheless, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery provided no evidence or any indication
in the response or opposition as to the quantum of work that it would take for
Kerlan-Jobe Surgery to respond to these requests. Accordingly, Kerlan-Jobe
Surgery’s objections as to relevance and burden are unsupported and overruled. On
the other hand, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s objections as to being overbroad and
vague are supported and sustained. 
Privacy Objection
The right of privacy in the California Constitution
(art. I, § 1), “protects the individual's reasonable expectation of
privacy against a serious invasion.” 
(Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1250
[italics in original]; See Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 552 [“In Hill, we established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is
serious.  The party seeking information
may raise in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify
feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that
would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing
considerations.”].)
            As the Supreme Court has “previously
observed, the right of privacy extends to sexual relations (Vinson
v. Superior Court, supra, 43 Cal.3d at p. 841, 239) and medical
records (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1, 41.).”  (John B. v.
Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1198.)  Similarly, the constitutional right to
freedom of association requires protection of a person’s membership in
associations, whether they pertain to religious, political, economic, or even
purely social matters.  (Britt v.
Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 852; see also Pacific-Union
Club v. Superior Court (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 60, 71.)  Further, “‘Courts have frequently recognized
that individuals have a substantial interest in the privacy of their home.’
[Citation.]”  (Puerto, supra, 158
Cal.App.4th at p.1252.)  In addition,
there is a clear privacy interest in confidential settlement agreements.  (Hinshaw, Winkler, Draa, Marsh & Still (1996)
51 Cal.App.4th 233, 242 disapproved of on other grounds by Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531 [“confidential settlement agreements are
entitled to privacy protection.”].)  
In establishing a privacy interest “the burden [is]
on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the
seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that showing must weigh
the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies, as Hill requires.”  (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th 531,
557.)  “Only obvious invasions of
interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling
interest.”  (Ibid.)
As discussed
above, RPD Nos. 217, 220, 221, and 222 seek relevant financial information related
to whether Kerlan-Jobe Surgery is a separate entity. However, these requests
are not limited in scope and/or time. Furthermore, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery contends
these documents are not public record such that disclosing them would give its
competitors an unfair advantage. Moreover, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery asserts there
are less intrusive means such as interrogatories or the redacted operating
agreements produced. Plaintiff does not refute this contention. Accordingly,
Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s objections as to privacy interest are supported and
sustained. 
Objection: Compound
With regard to
compound questions, the court finds that this objection is unsupported.  “No request for admission shall contain
subparts, or a compound, conjunctive, or disjunctive question” (CCP § 2033.060(f).)  Since any question using an ‘and’ or ‘or’
could be compound and conjunctive this “‘rule should probably apply only where more than a single subject is covered by
the question.’” (Clement v. Alegre,
(2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 1277, 1291) [quoting Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial, supra, ¶ 8:978.1, p. 8F–21] [emphasis in
original].)  Here, each of the requests
at issue involves a single subject and is thus not a compound question.  Accordingly, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s objection
that the questions are compound is overruled.
Objection: Attorney Client Privilege/Work Product
Privilege
“In general, when a party asserts the attorney-client privilege, that
party has the burden of showing the preliminary facts necessary to support the
privilege.”  (Venture Law Group v.
Superior Court (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 96, 102.)  “The party asserting the privilege need only
present facts which ‘support a prima facie claim of privilege.”  (OXY Resources California LLC v. Superior
Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 874, 894.) 
“After this burden is met, or where there is no dispute concerning the
preliminary facts, the burden shifts to the party opposing the privilege to
show either the claimed privilege does not apply, an exception exists, or there
has been an express or implied waiver.” 
(Venture Law Group, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p.102.) 
Here, both parties attest that a privilege log was provided.
Accordingly, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s objections are sustained. 
Supplemental
Responses are Code-Complaint 
In response to
RPD Nos. 209-216, 218-219, and 223-234, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery produces the
documents in its possession, custody, and control responsive to the requests.
Furthermore, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery indicates after a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry has been made in effort to comply, certain documents
responsive to some requests don’t exist or not in its possession, custody, or
control. (CCP
§ 2031.230.)  Similarly, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responds to some of these requests
indicating it is unable to comply and does not know the name of any natural
person or organization or believes any natural person or organization to have
possession, custody, or control documents responsive to these requests. (CCP
§ 2031.230.)   Accordingly, Kerlan-Jobe
Surgery’s supplemental responses substantively comply with the Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2031.230 requirements and are code-compliant. 
Request for Monetary Sanctions
            “If
a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court
shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
            Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions in the total amount of $7,141.65 at an hourly rate
of $590.00 for (1) 7.0 hours spent researching and reviewing case law, drafting
the Notice  of Motion and Motion,
Separate statement, and accompanying declarations; (2) review of Defendant’s
prior discovery responses and declarations in support of Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Judgment; (3) 7.0 hours amending the Notice of Motion, Memorandum of
Points and Authorities, the declaration, Separate Statement and reviewing additional
exhibits including KJSC’s supplemental responses; (4) anticipates 5.0 hours
reviewing the opposition papers, preparing the reply, and attending the
hearing; and (5) $61.65 filing fee. 
As the motion is
denied and as Plaintiff withdrew some of the requests during the meet and
confer, the Court will not impose monetary sanctions against Defendant
Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC.
Conclusion and ORDER
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff
Kristina Holman’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production,
Set Two, against Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC is DENIED. 
            Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions is also DENIED.
            Moving Party to give notice and file
proof of service of same. 
 
DATED: April 23, 2024
 
                                                                                    ___________________________
                                                                              Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 