  Case Number:  23STCV11602    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.  68 Date:  4-8-24 Case  23STCV11602 Trial  Date: Not Set   QUASH SERVICE   MOVING  PARTY: Specially Appearing Defendant, Caesarstone LTD RESPONDING  PARTY: Plaintiff, Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro    RELIEF  REQUESTED Motion  to Quash Service of the Summons and Complaint   SUMMARY  OF ACTION Wendy  Viridinia Solano-Castro, et al. alleges the wrongful death of Raul Garcia-Leon  caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs contend working  with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis and death of  Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023.   On  May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 582 paragraph complaint for negligence, strict  liability – warning defect, strict liability – design defect, fraudulent  concealment, and breach of implied warranties. The complaint names a multitude  of parties comprised of suppliers, sellers, etc. The case was deemed  non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to Department 68 on June 7, 2023.    On  October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer of MS International, Inc. to  the fourth cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. On November 2, 2023,  Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory relief  and apportionment. On December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a  cross-complaint indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment.   OBJECTION Plaintiffs  object to the Motion to Quash Service of Summons filed by Defendant  Caesarstone, Ltd. on February 5, 2024 because it is improper and untimely.  Nevertheless, the Court will analyze the Motion on its merits.      RULING: Denied. Specially appearing defendant Caesarstone LTD moves to quash  service of the summons and complaint on grounds of lack of general or specific  jurisdiction. Plaintiff in opposition maintains Caesarstone LTD made a general  appearance and therefore waived the right to bring a motion to quash on grounds  of general or specific jurisdiction. Plaintiff alternatively requests an  opportunity to substantively respond to the merits of the jurisdictional  challenges if the court grants relief on the concurrent motion for relief. Specially  appearing defendant Caesarstone LTD in reply argues that Plaintiff’s opposition  is made purely on technical procedural grounds and therefore the motion should  be granted.    “When a defendant moves to quash service  of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial  burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise  of jurisdiction. (Citation.) Once facts showing minimum contacts with  the forum state are established, however, it becomes the defendant's burden to  demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Citation.) When there is conflicting evidence, the trial court's factual  determinations are not disturbed on appeal if supported by substantial  evidence. (Citation.) When no conflict in the evidence exists, however,  the question of jurisdiction is purely one of law and the reviewing  court engages in an independent review of the record.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th  434, 449; Shisler v. Sanfer Sports Cars,  Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 1254, 1258-59.)   “A California court may exercise judicial jurisdiction over  nonresidents on any basis not inconsistent with the United States Constitution  or the California Constitution. (Citations.) The general rule is that the forum  state may not exercise jurisdiction over a nonresident unless his relationship  to the state is such as to make the exercise of such jurisdiction reasonable.  If a nonresident defendant's activities may be described as ‘extensive or  wide-ranging’ (Citation) or ‘substantial ... continuous and systematic’ (Citation),  there is a constitutionally sufficient relationship to warrant jurisdiction for  all causes of action asserted against him. In such circumstances, it is not  necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the  defendant's business relationship to the forum.   “If, however, the defendant's activities in the forum are  not so pervasive as to justify the exercise of general jurisdiction over him,  then jurisdiction depends upon the quality and nature of his activity in  the forum in relation to the particular cause of action. In such a situation,  the cause of action must arise out of an act done or transaction consummated in  the forum, or defendant must perform some other act by which he purposefully  avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities in the forum, thereby  invoking the benefits and protections of its laws. Thus, as the relationship of  the defendant with the state seeking to exercise jurisdiction over him grows  more tenuous, the scope of jurisdiction also retracts, and fairness is assured  by limiting the circumstances under which the plaintiff can compel him to  appear and defend. The crucial inquiry concerns the character of  defendant's activity in the forum, whether the cause of action arises out of or  has a substantial connection with that activity, and upon the balancing of the  convenience of the parties and the interests of the state in assuming  jurisdiction. (Citations.)”   (Cornelison v.  Chaney (1976) 16 Cal.3d 143, 147–148.)   “Personal jurisdiction may be either general or  specific. A nonresident defendant may be subject to  the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts in  the forum state are ‘substantial ... continuous and systematic.’ (Citations.)  …   “If the nonresident defendant does not have substantial and  systematic contacts in the forum sufficient to establish  general jurisdiction, he or she still may be subject to the specific  jurisdiction of the forum, if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or  herself of forum benefits (Citation), and the ‘controversy is related to  or “arises out of” a defendant's contacts with the forum.’ (Citations.) …   “The United States Supreme Court has described the forum  contacts necessary to establish specific jurisdiction as involving variously  a nonresident who has ‘purposefully directed’ his or her activities at forum  residents (Citation), or who has ‘purposefully derived benefit’ from forum  activities (Citation), or ‘“purposefully avail[ed himself or herself] of  the privilege of conducting activities within the forum State, thus invoking  the benefits and protections of its laws.”’ (Citation). The court also has  referred to the requisite forum contact as involving a nonresident defendant  who ‘“deliberately” has engaged in significant activities with a State  [citation] or has created ‘continuing obligations' between himself and residents  of the forum [citation]’ (Citation), concluding that in such cases the  defendant ‘manifestly has availed himself of the privilege of conducting  business [in the forum], and because his activities are shielded by “the  benefits and protections” of the forum's laws it is presumptively not  unreasonable to require him to submit to the burdens of litigation in that  forum as well.’ (Citation.)”   (Vons Companies, Inc.  v. Seabest Foods, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at pp. 445–446; Muckle v. Sup. Ct. (2002) 102  Cal.App.4th 218, 227.)   As addressed in the concurrent motion for relief from the  general appearance, Caesarstone LTD submitted a general appearance in the  action on January 16, 2024, and the court denies relief from this appearance. “A defendant appears in an action when the defendant ...  gives the plaintiff written notice of appearance, or when an attorney gives  notice of appearance for the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1014.) “[A] party  waives any objection to the court's exercise of personal jurisdiction when the  party makes a general appearance in the action.” (Roy v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 337, 341; Dial 800 v. Fesbinder (2004)  118 Cal.App.4th 32, 52.) The motion is therefore denied on this basis.   Moving defendant ordered to file a  responsive pleading within 30 days from the date of this order.   Case Management Conference, and two OSCs re: Sanctions set  for April 15, 2024.   Caesarstone LTD to give notice to all parties. Dept.
68Date:
4-8-24Case
23STCV11602Trial
Date: Not Set WITHDRAW APPEARANCE MOVING
PARTY: Specially Appearing Defendant, Caesarstone LTDRESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro  RELIEF
REQUESTEDMotion
for Order Allowing Withdrawal of Notice of Appearance SUMMARY
OF ACTIONWendy
Viridinia Solano-Castro, et al. alleges the wrongful death of Raul Garcia-Leon
caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs contend working
with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis and death of
Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023. On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 582 paragraph complaint for negligence, strict
liability – warning defect, strict liability – design defect, fraudulent
concealment, and breach of implied warranties. The complaint names a multitude
of parties comprised of suppliers, sellers, etc. The case was deemed
non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to Department 68 on June 7, 2023.  On
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer of MS International, Inc. to
the fourth cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. On November 2, 2023,
Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory relief
and apportionment. On December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a
cross-complaint indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment. EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS Specially
Appearing defendant makes the following objections to plaintiff’s evidence
submitted in opposition to Caesarstone LTD’S Motion to Withdraw Notice of Appearance. Objection
No. 1: Declaration of Raphael Metzger, Exhibit B: purported article titled
“Caesarstone Silicosis Disease Resurgence Among Artificial Stone Workers,” that
was published in the journal Chest
which
mentions the 1997 case of alleged Caesarstone-induced “silicosis who had been
occupationally exposed to Caesarstone, 60% of whom needed lung transplants.”
(Declaration of Raphael Metzger, filed March 15, 2024; p. 3: 10-17 [“Metzger
Decl.”].) Objection
No. 2: Declaration of Raphael Metzger, Exhibit C: purported and alleged
admission of Caesarstone that “In response to questions posed by regulators
investigating the silicosis who had been occupationally exposed to Caesarstone,
60% of whom needed lung transplants. Caesarstone admitted that by 2010 it knew
that people working with the product were getting sick as a result. It also
admitted that it only began putting warning labels on its product after deaths
of Israeli workers from silicosis were aired on Israeli television in 2010.”
(Metzger Decl. 3:18-21.) Objection
No. 3: Declaration of Raphael Metzger, Exhibit D: Allegation that “In 2012
Caesarstone issued a Safety Data Sheet which stated that “this preparation is
not classified as hazardous according to the latest adaption of European Union
Directives 67/548/EEC and 1995/45/EC.” Also, the statement: “This Safety Data
Sheet also said: “General room ventilation is satisfactory under anticipated
use conditions.”…This false statement has caused illness and deaths of
thousands of workers.” (Metzger Decl. 3:22-28). Objection
No. 4: Declaration of Raphael Metzger, Exhibit E: a purported statement from
the European Union Directives, regarding the Exhibit D “admission” of
Caesarstone: ”This was a false statement, because EU Directive 67/548/EEC
classifies as “dangerous” “substances and preparations” those that are “very
toxic,” “which if they are inhaled . . . may involve extremely serious . . .
chronic health risks and even death.” (Metzger Decl. 3: 24-26.) Objection
No. 5: Declaration of Raphael Metzger, Exhibit F to exhibit 1: a purported
Annual Report stating: ”In 2015 Caesarstone filed its Annual Report with the
SEC acknowledging: “We are party to 60 . . . and that Caesarstone USA had been
sued for causing silicosis in a fabricator in the United States as early as
2012.” (Metzger Decl. p. 4: 1-12.) Objection
No. 6: Declaration of Raphael Metzger, Exhibit G to exhibit 1: a purported
article regarding Caesarstone LTD distribution, stating “In 2016 Ublester
Rodriguez sued C & C North America, Inc. (Caesarstone’s domestic
subsidiary) . . . with the State of California. (Metzger Decl. 4: 13-27.) However,
Specially Appearing defendant did not properly format the objections per California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1354. Therefore, the Court will not rule on them.  RULING: Denied.Defendant Caesarstone LTD moves to withdraw its prior
January 16, 2024, appearance in the action on grounds of mistake, inadvertence
and/or excusable neglect. Plaintiff in opposition maintains the motion is
brought in bad faith and warrants sanctions, lacks procedural compliance in
that no responsive documents was presented along with the request, and reiterates
the terms of the extension of time to respond conditioned on the appearance.
Plaintiff also proceeds to list the basis of liability against Caesarstone LTD,
including known harms from the product based on prior medical studies from
Israel and an SEC annual report acknowledging pending lawsuits against the
entity. Plaintiff continues with acknowledgment the existence of Caesarstone
USA in May 2015, and the manufacture of the product in Georgia, with a
marketing facility in Van Nuys, CA, but prior to this period, all products were
imported from Israel through the Port of Long Beach. Defendant states in its
reply, that the withdrawal of notice of appearance is proper where the attorney
was not authorized to file the notice of appearance because the Notice of
Appearance on behalf of Caesarstone LTD was made by mistake and not authorized
by Caesarstone LTD. Further, Caesarstone LTD argues that Plaintiff cannot show
undue prejudice by the granting of this Motion because Plaintiff has not
propounded any discovery to Defendant Caesarstone LTD. Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) provides
in part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief ... shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” The appearance was entered on
January 16, 2024, the and the subject motion filed on February 9, 2024.
[Declaration of Christine Brice, Ex. D.]  Counsel maintains the appearance was entered on the mistaken
belief of approval from the client, when in fact Caesarstone LTD intended to
challenge jurisdiction (see concurrent motion to quash). [Brice Decl, ¶¶ 8-9.] Counsel
represents both Caesarstone LTD, as well as Caesarstone USA, an entity not
challenging jurisdiction.  Plaintiff challenges the pleading requirement for relief in
that the concurrently scheduled motion to quash was filed on February 5, 2024.
The court acknowledges the decoupled timeline, but finds Plaintiff’s
hyper-technical argument elevates form over substance for purposes of
considering the purpose of the substantive relief requested. The court therefore accepts the motion to quash as a
responsive pleading within the meaning of the code. The court appreciates the
circumstances and necessity for relief in order to proceed with the concurrent
motion to quash on the basis of lack of general or special jurisdiction.  It appears from the correspondence that any further
extension to respond by Plaintiff was conditioned on the submission of an
appearance [Brice Decl., ¶ 7 , Ex. C; Declaration of Raphael Metzger, Ex. H-M.]
Counsel apparently conceded to the extension terms regardless of the later
claimed lack of authorization. [Metzger Decl., Ex. N-O.] The requested relief
therefore depends on a finding that Caesarstone LTD would have simply filed its
motion to quash in lieu of a notice of appearance, though no such option was
readily available under the terms of the agreement, and Caesarstone LTD makes
no such argument. Plaintiff’s conditioning of the extension was therefore indisputably
tied to the general appearance. Plaintiff clearly understood the purpose of
compelling the appearance given the extensive history of imported Caesarstone
LTD products before 2015, which overlaps with decedent’s period of exposure.
[Metzger Decl.] In other words, there is no indication that Plaintiff simply
named Caesarstone LTD based on its affiliation with Caeasarstone USA, but
instead seeks to present a claim based on direct liability.  More importantly, Caesarstone LTD was presumably aware of
the prior lawsuits, and only allegedly clarified the scope of permission for
counsel after the deadline lapsed. The court finds no supported basis for a
finding of justifiable, excusable fault for this course of action, and instead
concludes Caesarstone LTD knowingly elected to weigh its options. The delays
were the result of client decision making, not excusable mistake by counsel. (Benedict v. Danner Press (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 923, 929-930; Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225,
1251-1252.) The court, in its discretion finds the conditioned excuse lacking
support. The motion for relief is therefore DENIED. Case Management Conference, and two OSCs re: Sanctions set
for April 15, 2024.

Caesarstone LTD to give notice to all parties. 



















































































































   