  Case Number:  22PSCV00507    Hearing Date:   August 21, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Herbert  Hall, by and through his successor-in-interest, Carol Lucile Hall, et al. v. Sunrise  Senior Living, LLC, et al.  Verified  Application of Robin Khanal to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS the verified application of Robin Khanal to  Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice. The Court will sign the Proposed Order.              Moving Parties are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is an elder abuse case. On May 27, 2022, plaintiffs Herbert  Hall, by and through his successor-in-interest, Carol Lucille Hall, Carol Lucille  Hall, and Deborah Dunn (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against defendants  Sunrise Senior Living, LLC, Sunrise Development, Inc., Sunrise Senior Living  Services, Inc., Welltower Opco Group, LLC, Sunrise Senior Living Management,  Inc., Jennifer Serrano, Veronica Hermosillo, and Does 1 through 250, alleging  causes of action for elder abuse/neglect, negligence, negligent hiring,  supervision & retention, and wrongful death.  On July 16, 2024, Defendants Sunrise Senior Living, LLC, Sunrise  Senior Living Management, Inc., and Welltower Opco Group, LLC (collectively,  Moving Parties) applied for Robin Khanal to appear in this action pro hac vice.  The application is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD               Any attorney licensed to practice  before the bar of any United States court or the highest court in any state,  and who has been retained to appear in a particular cause pending a court of  this State, but who is not a licensee of the California State Bar may apply to  appear pro hac vice in this State by submitting his written application  and mailing notice to all interested parties, as well as notice and a $50.00  application fee to the State Bar  Association in San Francisco.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40, subds. (a),  (c), (e).)¿ An applicant may not reside or work in California, and may not  perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities  here. (Id.,  rule 9.40, subd. (a).)  DISCUSSION  Moving  Parties submitted the verified application of attorney Robin Khanal (Khanal) to  be admitted pro hac vice as counsel for them. Khanal is admitted to practice in  the state of Florida and in three federal district courts in Florida. (Khanal App.,  ¶¶ 5-6.) Khanal is in good standing and is not currently suspended or  disbarred. (Id., ¶ 7.) Khanal is not a resident of California, is not  regularly employed in Californias, and is not regularly engaged in substantial  business, professional, or other activities in California. (Id.,  ¶ 4.) Khanal provided a residential and office  address in Florida as well. (Id., ¶¶ 2-3.) Khanal has not applied to  appear pro hac vice in any other California actions. (Id., ¶ 8.) Erin N.  Tramontano is the California attorney of record, whose contact information has  been provided. (Id., ¶ 9.) The proofs of service also indicate service  by mail on all counsel and on the State Bar of California. (Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 9.40, subd. (c).)  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Khanal’s application.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS the verified application of Robin Khanal to  Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice. The Court will sign the Proposed Order.              Moving Parties are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.