 Case Number:  23PSCV03140    Hearing Date:   August 21, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Manuel
Valdez, et al. v. Chedraui USA, Inc., dba El Super, et al. 
1
– Cross-Defendant Priority Property Group Inc.’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint of
Chedraui USA, Inc. dba El Super; and
2
– Defendant Priority Property Group Inc.’s Demurrer to Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer of Cross-Defendant Priority
Property Group Inc. to the First Cause of Action in the Cross-Complaint of
Chedraui USA, Inc. dba El Super as moot. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the
Second through Fifth Causes of Action with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant Priority Property
Group Inc. to the First and Second Causes of Action of Plaintiffs’ complaint
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Priority Property Group Inc. is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a wrongful death case. On October 10, 2023, plaintiffs
Manuel Valdez, Chelsea Valdez-Gutierrez, Manuel Alexander Valdez, Daisy Valdez,
Yvette Gutierrez Valdez, Maria Gutierrez, Estate of Rosalva Valdez, by and
through its administrator, Manuel Valdez (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this
action against defendants Chedraui USA, Inc., dba El Super, HB Property
Management, Inc., Oscar Gonzalez, George Gonzalez, and Does 1 through 50,
alleging causes of action for wrongful death (negligence) and survival. On
January 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a doe amendment naming Covina Marketplace,
LLC as a defendant. On May 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Doe amendment naming
Priority Property Group, Inc. (Priority) as a defendant. 
On March 1, 2024, Defendant Chedraui USA, Inc., dba El Super (El
Super) filed a cross-complaint against HB Property Management, Inc., Oscar
Gonzalez, George Gonzalez, Covina Marketplace, LLC, and Roes 1 through 20,
alleging causes of action for express indemnity, equitable indemnity,
comparative indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. On May 16, 2024,
El Super filed roe amendments to its cross-complaint, naming The Salomon
Wainberg and Olga Wainberg Family Trust and Olga Wainberg as cross-defendants.
On May 24, 2024, El Super filed a Roe amendment naming Priority Property Group,
Inc. (Priority Property) as a cross-defendant. On July 25, 2024, El Super
dismissed The Salomon Wainberg and Olga Wainberg Family Trust and Olga Wainberg
from its cross-complaint. On July 26, 2024, El Super dismissed its First Cause
of Action for express indemnity without prejudice. 
On May 29, 2024, Defendant Covina Marketplace, LLC (Covina
Marketplace) filed a cross-complaint against El Super and Roes 1 through 20,
alleging causes of action for express written indemnity, full or partial
equitable indemnification, declaratory relief, and indemnity. On July 9, 2024,
Covina Marketplace filed a Roe amendment, naming Oscar Gonzalez and George
Gonzalez as cross-defendants. On August 9, 2024, Covina Marketplace filed the
operative First Amended Cross-Complaint against El Super, Oscar Gonzalez,
George Gonzalez, and Roes 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for express
written indemnity, full or partial equitable indemnification, declaratory
relief, and apportionment. 
On July 1, 2024, Priority demurred to El Super’s cross-complaint. On
July 26, 2024, El Super opposed the motions. On July 29, 2024, Priority
replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
A demurrer is
a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It
raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing
party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., §
422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of
the complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (Id., at pp. 993-994.) 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as
surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]) 
A
demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire pleading, cause of
action, or affirmative defense. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd.
(a); Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong
v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046-1047.) 
Cross-Defendant Priority Property Group Inc.’s Demurrer to
Cross-Complaint of Chedraui USA, Inc. dba El Super 
DISCUSSION – Priority’s
Demurrer to El Super’s Cross-Complaint 
            Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),
Priority was required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) Priority indicates that its counsel spoke with El Super’s counsel before
bringing this demurrer, (Motooka Decl., ¶¶ 4-5), but Priority also indicates in
its reply papers that it did not meet and confer regarding the Second through
Fourth Causes of Action, (Reply, p. 2). Nevertheless, the Court cannot overrule
a demurrer for failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(4).) Accordingly, the Court will still consider the demurrer,
but admonishes Priority to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil
Procedure going forward. 
            First Cause of Action – Express
Indemnity 
            El Super dismissed its First Cause
of Action for express indemnity without prejudice on July 26, 2024. (Request
for Dismissal (7/26/24).) As such, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to this
cause of action as moot. 
            Second Cause of Action – Equitable
Indemnity 
            “[A] party to a joint, or joint and several
obligation, who satisfies more than his share of the claim against all, may
require a proportionate contribution from all the parties joined with him.”
(Civ. Code, § 1432.) To plead a cause of action for
equitable indemnity, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating “’(1) a showing of fault
on the part of the indemnitor
and (2) resulting
damages to the indemnitee
for which the indemnitor is ... equitably responsible.’
[Citation.]” (C.W. Howe Partners Inc. v. Mooradian (2019) 43
Cal.App.5th 688, 700 (C.W.).) “Unlike express indemnity, traditional
equitable indemnity requires no contractual relationship between an indemnitor
and an indemnitee. Such indemnity ‘is premised on a joint legal obligation to
another for damages,’ but it ‘does not invariably follow fault.’ [Citation.] Although
traditional equitable indemnity once operated to shift the entire loss upon the
one bound to indemnify, the doctrine is now subject to allocation of fault
principles and comparative equitable apportionment of loss. [Citations.]” (Prince v. Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th
1151, 1158 (Prince); see C.W., supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at p. 700.) 
            Priority demurs to the Second Cause of Action for
equitable indemnity on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action and
is uncertain. Priority contends that El Super’s cross-complaint fails to set
forth any facts describing the negligence attributable to Priority, and that it
is unclear from the allegations how there is a joint obligation between
Priority and El Super. Priority contends the allegations here are conclusory. 
            In opposition, El Super cites paragraphs 7 through 10
from the cross-complaint, which allege that El Super did not own or control the
location of the subject accident, but alleges that the cross-defendants, including
Priority, did own or control that location, and that the cross-defendants,
including Priority, caused the Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries. El Super contends
these allegations are sufficient. 
            The Court finds Priority’s arguments to be well taken. While
El Super is not required to plead probative or evidentiary facts, it is
required to plead some facts, as opposed to conclusions, establishing the
existence of a joint obligation and provide sufficient notice of Priority’s involvement
and wrongful conduct. Here, the Cross-Complaint fails to allege such facts. El
Super’s conclusory allegations that all of the cross-defendants lumped together
negligently owned, maintained, managed, operated and/or controlled the subject
property is not sufficient. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 8-9.) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer
to the Second Cause of Action in El Super’s cross-complaint with leave to
amend. 
            Third Cause of Action – Comparative
Indemnity 
Equitable indemnity principles govern the allocation
of loss or damages among multiple tortfeasors whose liability for the
underlying injury is joint and several. [Citations.] Such principles are
designed, generally, to do equity among defendants who are legally responsible
for an indivisible injury by providing a basis on which liability for damage
will be borne by each joint tortfeasor “ 'in direct proportion to [its] respective
fault.' ” [Citations.] Under comparative indemnity principles, a full range of
allocations is possible, from no indemnity to complete indemnity for the
amounts paid by the indemnitee. [Citation.] 
(Expressions at Rancho Niguel
Ass'n v. Ahmanson Devs., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1140.) 
            Priority demurs to the Third Cause of Action for
comparative indemnity on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action
and is uncertain. The parties’ arguments here are the same as with respect to
the Second Cause of Action. Accordingly, for the same reasons set forth above,
the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action in El Super’s
cross-complaint with leave to amend. 
            Fourth Cause of Action –
Contribution 
            To
state a claim for contribution, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating a
money judgment entered against joint tortfeasors and payment beyond the
plaintiff’s pro rata share of liability. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 875, subds.
(a), (c); Coca-Cola Bottling Co. v. Lucky
Stores, Inc. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1372,
1378 (Coca-Cola) [“A right of contribution can come into existence only
after rendition of a judgment declaring more than one defendant jointly liable
to the plaintiff. [Citation.]”)

            Priority demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action for
contribution on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action and is
uncertain. The parties’ arguments here are the same as with respect to the
Second and Third Causes of Action, so the Court will not restate them here. 
Moreover, a “right of contribution may be enforced
only after one tortfeasor has, by payment, discharged the joint judgment or has
paid more than his pro rata share thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 875 (c).) A “right
of contribution is strictly limited, coming into existence only after a money
judgment has been rendered jointly against them. (citations). Unless and until
that event occurs, no right exists between joint tortfeasors.” (Buffington
v. Ohmert (1967) 253 Cal.App.2d 254, 255.) Unlike a right to equitable
indemnity, which can be asserted before judgment in the same underlying action,
“[a] right of contribution can come into existence only after rendition of a
judgment declaring more than one defendant jointly liable to the plaintiff.” (Coca
Cola Bottling Co. v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1372, 1378.) Here,
the Court finds no allegations in El Super’s cross-complaint of a judgment
declaring both El Super and Priority jointly liable to Plaintiffs. (See Cross-Compl.,
¶ 29.) Therefore, El Super has failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for contribution against Priority. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer
to the Fourth Cause of Action in El Super’s cross-complaint with leave to
amend. 
            Fifth Cause of Action – Declaratory
Relief 
            To state a claim for declaratory relief,
the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “’(1) a proper subject of declaratory
relief, and (2) an actual controversy
involving justiciable
questions relating
to the rights or obligations
of a party.’
[Citation.]” (Lee v. Silveira (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 527, 546.) “Where
a trial court has concluded the plaintiff did not state sufficient facts to
support a statutory claim and therefore sustained a demurrer as to that claim,
a demurrer is also properly sustained as to a claim for declaratory relief
which is ‘wholly derivative’ of the statutory claim. [Citation.]” (Ball v. FleetBoston Fin. Corp. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
794, 800.) 
            Priority demurs to the Fifth Cause
of Action for declaratory relief on the grounds that it fails to state a cause
of action and is uncertain. Priority contends this cause of action fails
because it is derivative of the First through Fourth Causes of Action. In
opposition, El Super contends this cause of action is properly pleaded based on
its allegations that El Super did not own or control the location of the
accident, but that it was owned or controlled instead by Priority and the other
cross-defendants. 
            The Court finds Priority’s arguments
well taken. El Super’s Fifth Cause of Action for declaratory relief is
predicated entirely upon the preceding causes of action, and contains no other
factual allegations to support it independently of those causes of action. (See
Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 30-32.) El Super’s reliance on the allegations from paragraphs
7 through 10 of the complaint do not help El Super for the same reasons set
forth above. Given the Court sustaining the demurrer to the Second through
Fourth Causes of Action for the reasons stated above, El Super’s Fifth Cause of
Action for declaratory relief also necessarily fails for the same reasons. 
            Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the
demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action in El Super’s cross-complaint with
leave to amend. 
 
Defendant
Priority Property Group Inc.’s Demurrer to Complaint 
On July 31, 2024, Priority demurred to the Plaintiffs’ complaint.
The demurrer is unopposed. 
PRELIMINARY ISSUE – Priority’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint 
            The Court notes that Priority filed its
demurrer on July 31, 2024, which was untimely filed given the August 21, 2024
hearing date. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) The Court exercises its
discretion to still consider the demurrer, but nevertheless admonishes Priority
to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. (Jackson
v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 750 [court retains discretion to
consider untimely filed demurrer].)           
DISCUSSION – Priority’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint 
            Meet and Confer 
            Per Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Priority was required to meet
and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference before bringing this
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds Priority’s
efforts to meet and confer for this demurrer insufficient, as there is no
indication of having attempted to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference, only via email. (Motooka Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Nevertheless, the
Court may not overrule a demurrer for failure to adequately meet and confer.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still consider
Priority’s demurrer, but admonishes Priority to comply with the requirements of
the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. 
            First Cause of Action – Wrongful
Death 
            To
state a cause of action for wrongful death, the plaintiff must allege facts
demonstrating a wrongful act or neglect on the part of one or more persons that
caused the death of another person. (Musgrove
v. Silver (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 694, 705.) 
            Priority demurs to the First Cause of Action for wrongful
death on the grounds that it fails to state a claim and is uncertain. Priority
contends the complaint alleges no facts describing what the unsafe and dangerous
condition was, or any facts to support a causal connection between the alleged
negligent driving and any duty or act on the part of Priority to prevent such
negligent driving. Priority also contends that Plaintiffs are the husband,
daughters, son, and mother of decedent Rosalva Valdez (Decedent), and that
Priority owed no duty to warn or correct any alleged dangerous condition
because Plaintiffs were not present at the subject property when the fatal
accident occurred. Priority contends that if any duty was owed, it was to Decedent. 
            The Court agrees with Priority that
the complaint fails to allege facts describing what the unsafe and dangerous
condition was or any facts connecting the alleged negligent driving to any duty
Priority owed to Plaintiffs or the Decedent or any facts demonstrating any
wrongful conduct by Priority that caused the Decedent’s death. (Compl., ¶ 18.) The
complaint is otherwise devoid of allegations demonstrating Priority owed a duty
to Plaintiffs or the Decedent. The Court further construes Plaintiff’s lack of
opposition as a tacit admission that Priority’s arguments are meritorious. (Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the
Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial
Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived
when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to
authority. [Citation.]”]) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer
to the First Cause of Action in Plaintiffs’ complaint with leave to amend.           
Second Cause
of Action – Survival 
Unlike a cause of action for wrongful death, a
survivor cause of action is not a new cause of action that vests in the heirs
on the death of the decedent. It is instead a separate and distinct cause of
action which belonged to the decedent before death but, by statute, survives
that event. (Grant
v. McAuliffe, supra, 41 Cal.2d at p. 864, 264 P.2d 944.) The
survival statutes do not create a cause of action. Rather, “[t]hey merely
prevent the abatement of the cause of action of the injured person, and provide
for its enforcement by or against the personal representative of the deceased.”
(Ibid.) 
A cause of action that survives the death of a person
passes to the decedent's successor in interest and is enforceable by the
“decedent's personal representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in
interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) In the typical survivor action, the
damages recoverable by a personal representative or successor in interest on a
decedent's cause of action are limited by statute to “the loss or damage that
the decedent sustained or incurred before death, including any penalties or
punitive or exemplary damages that the decedent would have been entitled to
recover had the decedent lived, and do not include damages for pain, suffering, or
disfigurement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.34, italics added.) 
(Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Ctr. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1264-1265 (Quiroz),
italics in original.) 
            Priority
demurs to the Second Cause of Action for survival on the grounds that it fails
to state a claim and is uncertain. Priority’s arguments here are the same as
those above with respect to the First Cause of Action, so the Court will not
restate them here. The Court finds the same issues apply here, namely that the
complaint does not allege facts describing what the unsafe and dangerous
condition at the subject property was, or what Priority did or did not do which
lead to the allegedly unsafe and dangerous condition. (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
The
Court further construes Plaintiffs’ lack of opposition to this demurrer as a
tacit admission that Priority’s arguments are meritorious. (Sexton
v. Superior Court, supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at p. 1410; C. Opposing the
Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial
Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at p. 1215.) 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action in Plaintiffs’
complaint with leave to amend.  
CONCLUSION 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer of Cross-Defendant Priority
Property Group Inc. to the First Cause of Action in the Cross-Complaint of
Chedraui USA, Inc. dba El Super as moot. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the
Second through Fifth Causes of Action with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant Priority Property
Group Inc. to the First and Second Causes of Action of Plaintiffs’ complaint
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Priority Property Group Inc. is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.