  Case Number:  19GDCV00389    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JAMES P. MURPHY CONSTRUCTION, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
T.B.
   PENICK & SONS, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 19GDCV00389
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   10, 2024



 
Kurt M.
 Zitzer (“Applicant”) seeks admission to appear as counsel pro hac vice to represent Paseo
 Pasadena Hotel Investment LLC (“Paseo”) in this action along with John C.
 Hendricks an active member of the State Bar of California.
(Declaration of Kurt M. Zitzer (“Zitzer Decl.”))  Applicant is a resident of Arizona
and is a member in good standing of the Arizona and
 Illinois State Bars. Applicant is not a resident of California and
does not regularly engage in business in California. Applicant has not applied to
appear pro hac vice in California
State Court in the past two years.
The application complies with the
requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40, including serving notice
and required fees on the State Bar of California, as evidenced by a notice
filed on August 26, 2024. Accordingly, the unopposed application is GRANTED. It
is ordered that Kurt M. Zitzer be admitted to appear as counsel pro hac vice for the purpose of
representing Paseo in this action. Applicant shall be subject to
all applicable rules of this Court.
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 10th
day of September 2024
 




 


     




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 