 Case Number:  23AHCV00284    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARTI
   MACKEY, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
BRECKENRIDGE
   PROPERTY FUND 2016, LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00284
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT/CROSS-DEFENDANT BRECKENRIDGE PROPERTY FUND 2016,
   LLC’S DEMURRER TO DEIRDRA DUNCAN’S CROSS-COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

May
   6, 2024 

 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On February 8, 2023, Marti Mackey
(“Mackey”) filed this complaint against Breckenridge Property Fund 2016, LLC (“Breckenridge”),
alleging a cause of action for adverse possession for the property located at
540 North Marengo Avenue, #3, Pasadena, California 91101 (“Property”). 
On September 15, 2023,
Deirdra Duncan (“Duncan”), as the agent of Legacy Trust of the Estate of Robert
May, filed a cross-complaint claiming sole interest in the Property, asserting
that Mackey was in proper possession of the Property, and accusing Breckenridge
of trespassing. 
On December 29, 2023,
Breckenridge filed this demurrer to the cross-complaint. The demurrer is based
on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and that it is uncertain. 
No opposition has been
filed. 
II.         
DISCUSSION
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for
uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the
defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)
Breckenridge argues that the
cross-complaint is unintelligible and that Duncan fails to articulate any factual
allegations identifying Breckenridge’s purported wrongdoing. The Court agrees.
It is unclear what theory of liability Duncan is asserting against Breckenridge
and which facts Duncan is relying on to substantiate those theories. Furthermore,
to the extent that Duncan is attempting to assert a claim for possession on
Mackey’s behalf, Duncan does not identify any standing she has to do so. 
III.       
CONCLUSION
Duncan did not oppose the demurrer and
show that there was a reasonable probability for successful amendment. Accordingly,
Breckenridge’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 6th
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 