  Case Number:  23AHCP00478    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SEAN E. ROGERS, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
PASACA
   CAPITAL, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCP00478
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE TO COMPEL CORPORATION
   TO PERMIT INSPECTION OF CORPORATE RECORDS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 6,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On November 13, 2023, Sean E. Rogers (“Petitioner”)
filed this petition for a writ of mandate ordering respondent Pasaca Capital,
Inc. (“Pasaca”) and its controlling stockholder, respondent Charles Huang
(“Huang”) to allow the inspection and copying of Pasaca’s corporate records. 
On January 9, 2024, Pasaca and Huang
(collectively, “Respondents”) filed a response. The response and supporting
papers were ordered sealed by the Honorable Margaret L. Oldendorf on February
2, 2024, and unredacted copies were filed on February 26, 2024. 
On February 27, 2024, Petitioner filed
a reply brief under seal. No public copy with the appropriate redactions have
been filed. Petitioner is ordered to do so within 5 days of the date of this
hearing. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Corporations Code section 1601 provides
in relevant part: “The accounting books,¿records,¿and minutes of proceedings of the
shareholders and the board and committees of the board of any domestic
corporation, and of any foreign corporation keeping any¿records in this state or having its
principal executive office in this state …¿shall be open to inspection¿at the corporation's principal office
in this state …¿upon the written demand on the corporation of any
shareholder … at any reasonable time during usual business hours, for a purpose
reasonably related to¿the¿holder's interests as a shareholder ….” (Corp. Code §
1601(a)(1).) “Upon refusal of a lawful demand for inspection, the superior
court of the proper county, may enforce the right of inspection with just and
proper conditions ….”  (Id., §
1603.) 
Corporations Code section 1602 governs
the inspection rights of a director. This is an “absolute right at any
reasonable time to inspect and copy all books, records and documents of every
kind and to inspect the physical properties of the corporation of which such
person is a director and also of its subsidiary corporations, domestic or
foreign. . . . This section applies to a director of any foreign corporation
having its principal office in California or customarily holding meetings of
its board in California.” (Corp. Code, § 1602.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Background
and Procedural History
Petitioner states that during the
COVID-19 crisis, he was solicited by Respondents and induced to serve as a
director for Pasaca and its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), as well as a
director of Pasaca’s most profitable subsidiary, Innova Medical Group, Inc.
(“Innova”). (Petition, ¶ 2.) Eventually, he was terminated from employment at
both Pasaca and Innova after being accused of self-dealing and other
malfeasance. (Petition, ¶ 3.) 
Prior to his removal as a director, Petitioner
demanded, pursuant to Corporations Code section 1602, to inspect and copy
Pasaca’s corporate records as well as those of its subsidiaries. (Petition, ¶
4.) Pasaca responded by immediately removing Petitioner as a director and
refusing his inspection demand on the basis of his removal. (Petition, ¶ 5.) Then,
Petitioner, as a shareholder with no less than 5% of Pasaca’s outstanding
shares, made a demand pursuant to Corporations Code section 1601 to inspect the
accounting books, records, and minutes of proceedings of the shareholders and
the board and committees of the board of Pasaca. (Petition, ¶ 6.) Pasaca
rejected this demand on the grounds that Petitioner did not demonstrate that
the demand was “made for a proper purpose.” (Petition, ¶ 7.) 
B.  
Petitioner’s
Right to Inspect Corporate Records as a Former Director
First, Respondents argue that
Corporation Code section 1602 does not apply because Pasaca is incorporated in
Nevada and the internal affairs doctrine requires the application of Nevada
law. “The internal affairs doctrine is a conflict of laws principle which
recognizes that only one State should have the authority to regulate a
corporation's internal affairs ... because otherwise a corporation could be
faced with conflicting demands.” (Edgar v. MITE Corp. (1988) 457 U.S.
624, 645.) 
However, the Court finds it unnecessary
to analyze whether the internal affairs doctrine precludes the application of
Corporation Code section 1602 because Respondents do not identify – and the
Court has not independently found – any conflicting Nevada statute which
governs directors’ inspection rights. 
The Court also addresses Respondents’
argument about judicial estoppel. Respondents claim that Petitioner is estopped
from arguing that Nevada law does not apply because he has already conceded
that it does in a different proceeding. (Response, pp. 12-13.) In California,
courts consider five factors in determining whether to apply judicial estoppel:
(1) the same party has taken two positions; (2) the positions were taken in
judicial or quasi-judicial administrative proceedings; (3) the party was
successful in asserting the first position (i.e., the tribunal adopted the
position or accepted it as true); (4) the two positions are totally
inconsistent; and (5) the first position was not taken as a result of
ignorance, fraud, or mistake. (Gottlieb v. Kest (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th
110, 131.) 
Here, Respondents refer to a different unrelated
proceeding that Petitioner stipulated would be governed by Nevada law. But this
other proceeding does not involve and is not related to any inspection rights
Petitioner may have as a director or shareholder. Moreover, judicial estoppel
is an equitable doctrine, and its application, even where all necessary
elements are present, is discretionary. (MW Erectors, Inc. v. Niederhauser
Ornamental & Metal Works Co., Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 412, 422.) Here,
given the California Legislature’s strong endorsement of public policy
permitting directors to inspect records, and the extensive connections Pasaca
has with California, the Court declines to conclude that Petitioner is
judicially estopped from asserting that Nevada law governs Pasaca for all
purposes. 
Next, Respondents argue that Petitioner
no longer has standing to assert a right to inspect Pasaca’s records because
Petitioner is no longer a director. (Response, p. 13.) Respondents also argue
that Petitioner has a conflict of interest because Pasaca is currently
investigating him for misconduct; Respondents claim that Petitioner’s competing
interests makes “disclosure of any records to him problematic.” (Response, p. 14.)

In his reply brief, Petitioner argues that,
as a former director, he has a qualified right of inspection within an
exception to the standing requirements of Corporations Code section 1602. Petitioner
likens himself to the appellant in Wolf v. CDS Devco (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 903, 921-922, a former corporate director who feared that he would
be subject to claims by minority shareholders that he did not adequately combat
corporate mismanagement and believed that he should be able to inspect records
in order to be able to defend himself. The court in Wolf concluded that
the former director did not allege sufficient facts to demonstrate that he
faced a realistic threat of personal liability. In contrast, Petitioner argues
he is exposed to personal liability for acts he purportedly committed during
his time as a director of Pasaca because Pasaca has accused him of committing
fraud and allowing an alleged childhood friend to charge excessive and
inappropriate prices to Claire Holdings, Inc., which was a joint venture
between Pasaca and LivePerson, Inc.  (Reply, p. 10; Petition, ¶¶ 25-28, 56.) In
fact, Respondents confirm Petitioner’s fears of potential personal liability by
stating in their response that Pasaca is currently investigating Petitioner for
misconduct, including fraud and any conflict of interest Petitioner may have
had with respect to the decision to enter into the joint venture with
Liveperson, Inc. (Response, p. 15.) 
          Therefore,
Petitioner has a right as a former director to inspect and copy all of Pasaca’s
books, records and documents (as well as those of Pasaca’s subsidiary
corporations, both domestic or foreign) up until the date of Petitioner’s removal
as a director. 
C.  
Petitioner’s
Inspection Rights as a Shareholder 
With respect to the scope of
Petitioner’s inspection rights as a shareholder, Respondents argue that, under
Nevada law, Petitioner would not have a right to inspect Pasaca’s records
because Petitioner is not a shareholder with a 15% stake or more. (NRS
78.257(1).) In contrast, California does not have a minimum ownership threshold.
However, despite this conflict, the internal affairs doctrine does not apply because
applying Nevada law to preclude Petitioner’s from inspecting corporate records
would impair California’s interest in allowing such inspection, as explicitly
expressed in section 1601, which was intended to apply to foreign corporations as
well as domestic ones. Therefore, pursuant to Corporations Code section 1601, Petitioner,
as a shareholder, is entitled to inspect Pasaca’s accounting books, records,
and minutes of proceedings of the shareholders and the board and committees of
the board, for a purpose reasonably related to the holder’s interests as a
shareholder or as the holder of a voting trust certificate.” 
Petitioner’s demand letter specified
that the purpose for inspecting Pasaca’s records was to: (1) determine the
value of his shares, and (2) to determine whether to sell his interests in the
corporation. (Petition, Ex. 3.) These are well-recognized purposes related to a
shareholder’s interest. (Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th
704, 715.) However, Respondents argue that Petitioner’s stated purpose is
belied by the broad scope of documents identified in his demand. “[T]he right
of inspection does not extend to records not reasonably related to the proper
purpose for which it is sought.” (Schnabel, supra, 5 Cal.4th at
p. 717.) Respondents argue that Petitioner would only need limited records to
assess the value of his shares, and these records would not include Pasaca’s tax
and audit information that he demands. (Response, pp. 16-17.) The Court
disagrees. Even if Petitioner would need limited records, this does not mean
that the documents requested under the category of accounting books and records
in Schedule 2 of Petitioner’s demand letter (attached as Exhibit 3 to the Petition)
are “not reasonably related” to the stated purpose of determining the value of
Petitioner’s shares. Furthermore, despite Respondents’ complaints about the
volume of documents which would need to be produced, Respondents provide no
evidence of such voluminosity, and the Court is skeptical of any such
unsubstantiated representation because the accounting books and records
demanded are mostly limited to those for the last two to five fiscal years. 
Respondents also argue that
Petitioner’s inspection demand is impermissibly overbroad because it seeks
records of Pasaca’s subsidiaries. This is inaccurate. The right of inspection
created by section 1601 “shall extend to the records of each subsidiary of a
corporation subject to this subdivision.” (Corp. Code, § 1601.)
Last, Respondents argue that
Petitioner’s request for shareholder lists and registers, stock ledgers, and
other documents relating to Pasaca’s securities issuances and sales are not
permissible under Corporations Code section 1601. Respondents also argue that
Petitioner is not entitled to any documents protected by privacy interests
and/or attorney-client privileged information. These arguments are well-taken
based on the plain language of section 1601, which only includes accounting
records, books, and minutes. This is not to say that Petitioner may not be
allowed to inspect documents related to Pasaca’s securities issuances and sales
under some other section of the Corporations Code. 
          Based on the
foregoing, the Court concludes that Petitioner is entitled to inspect the
accounting books, records, and minutes as requested in Exhibit 5 of the
Petition, but is limited to Schedule 2, Categories A and B. Pasaca may redact
the records as necessary to preserve privacy rights and withhold any documents
on the basis of attorney-client privilege. 
D.  Whether Huang Should Be Dismissed
Respondents argue that Huang is
improperly named in this petition because he is an individual who is not
responsible for providing corporate records under Corporations Code sections
1601 or 1602, not a corporate entity. (Response, p. 17.) In his reply, Petitioner
argues that Huang is joined as an alter ego of Pasaca. (Reply, p. 14.) Petitioner
states that Huang is Pasaca’s majority shareholder and dominates the
corporation, “exercising unfettered control over its affairs”, such that there
is no real separation between the two. (Ibid.) Huang is also Pasaca’s current
Chairman and its Chief Financial Officer. Petitioner further claims that Huang engaged
in self-dealing and treated Pasaca and its assets as Huang’s personal property
and resisted Petitioner’s attempts to establish a corporate compliance program,
corporate governance policies, or any controls and procedures at Pasaca and its
portfolio companies. (Petition, ¶ 24.) 
A plaintiff seeking to invoke the alter
ego doctrine must prove two conditions: (1) unity of interest and ownership
between the two entities and (2) an inequitable result if the two entities are
not equally liable. (Constellation-F, LLC v. World Trading 23, Inc.
(2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 22, 30.) Petitioner argues that Huang will likely
continue to deny Petitioner his inspection rights and deprive Petitioner of the
benefit of the Court’s order. (Reply, p. 14.) 
Any finding of alter ego liability
would be preemptive and the possibility that Pasaca will not comply with the
Court’s writ is insufficient to show that inequity would result. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the Petition is granted in
part. The Court issues a peremptory writ ordering Pasaca to permit Petitioner’s
inspection of books, records and documents (as well as those of Pasaca’s
subsidiary corporations, both domestic or foreign) up until the date of
Petitioner’s removal as a director, as identified in Exhibit 5, Schedule 1 attached
to the Petition, pursuant to Corporations Code section 1602. 
The Court also orders Pasaca to permit
Petitioner’s inspection and copying of Pasaca’s accounting books, records, and
minutes of proceedings as identified in Exhibit 5, Schedule 2, Categories A and
B, as well as those of Pasaca’s subsidiaries keeping any records in, or having
its principal office in, California, pursuant to Corporations Code section
1601. Pasaca may redact these records as necessary to preserve privacy rights
and withhold any documents on the basis of attorney-client privilege.
Petitioner’s request for fees and costs
is denied. Corporations Code section 1601 does not include inspection of the
documents related to securities issuances and sales. Therefore, Pasaca was
substantially justified in refusing Petitioner’s request as a shareholder.
There is no basis to recover fees and costs in connection with a director’s
right to inspection. 
Dated
this 6th
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 