 Case Number:  23PSCV02269    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  G Cross-Defendant MEDG International,  Inc.’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint as to Defendant/Cross-Complainant Hirbohd  Hedayat Respondent: NO OPPOSITION Cross-Defendant MEDG  International, Inc.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration as Against Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Heda Construction, Inc. Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Cross-Defendant MEDG  International, Inc.’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint as to  Defendant/Cross-Complainant Hirbohd Hedayat is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days  leave to amend as to the third (3rd), fourth (4th), and fifth (5th) causes of  action and without leave to amend as to the first (1st) and second (2nd) causes  of action. Cross-Defendant MEDG  International, Inc.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration as Against Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Heda Construction, Inc. is GRANTED and proceedings are STAYED as to Defendant/Cross-Complainant Heda  Construction, Inc. pending the arbitration of Defendant/Cross-Complainant Heda Construction, Inc.’s claims. BACKGROUND This  is a breach of contract action arising from a credit purchase agreement. In  March 2023, Plaintiff Consumers Pipe & Supply Co. (Consumers Pipe) entered  into a credit application and sales agreement with Defendant Heda Construction  Inc. (Heda Construction) in which Consumers Pipe agreed to extent credit to  Heda Construction for the purchase of goods and merchandise. In support of the  agreement, Defendant Hirbohd Hedayat executed a personal guaranty.  Subsequently, Consumers Pipe alleges Heda Construction and Hedayat failed to  make the payments required pursuant to their agreement. On  July 26, 2023, Consumers Pipe filed a complaint against Heda Construction,  Hedayat, and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) goods sold  and delivered, (2) quantum valebant, (3) open book account, (4) account stated,  (5) breach of contract, and (6) breach of personal guaranty. On April 4,  2024, Heda Construction and Hedayat filed a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants MEDG International, Inc. (MEDG) and Does 1-25, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) equitable indemnity, (2) contribution, (3)  declaratory relief, (4) express indemnity, and (5) breach of written contract. On June 14,  2024, MEDG filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing on June 6, 2024, MEDG’s  counsel met and conferred telephonically with Hedayat’s counsel. On June 17,  2024, MEDG filed the present motion to compel arbitration. A hearing on  both motions and a case management conference are set for August 19, 2024, with  a post-mediation status conference set for November 7, 2024. REQUEST  FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE MEDG’s  request for the court to take judicial notice of filings in another action  before this court is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision  (d). DEMURRER MEDG  demurs to Hedayat’s entire Cross-Complaint. For the following reasons, the court  SUSTAINS  MEDG’s  demurrer to Hedayat’s third, fourth, and ­fifth causes of action with leave to  amend and to Hedayat’s first and second causes of action without leave to  amend. Legal Standard A  party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn  v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering  demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT  Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,  the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,  994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face  of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court  (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing  is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.) Indemnity and Contribution (First, Second, and Fourth  Causes of Action) MEDG  argues Hedayat’s first cause of action for equitable indemnity and second cause  of action for contribution fail because MEDG’s alleged liability lies in  contract and not tort. (Demurrer, p. 6:8-7:12.) MEDG also argues Hedayat’s  fourth cause of action for express indemnity fails because there are no allegations  establishing an express agreement to indemnify Hedayat. (Demurrer, p. 8:11-21.)  The court agrees. Legal Standard “An  indemnitee seeking to recover on an agreement for indemnification must allege  the parties' contractual relationship, the indemnitee's performance of that  portion of the contract which gives rise to the indemnification claim, the  facts showing a loss within the meaning of the parties' indemnification  agreement, and the amount of damages sustained.” (Four Star Electric, Inc.  v. F & H Construction (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1380.) “To state a  claim for equitable indemnity, a defendant must allege the same harm for which  he may be held liable is properly attributable—at least in part—to the  cross-defendant.” (Platt v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate Services  (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439, 1445, fn.7.) “It is well-settled in California that  equitable indemnity is only available among tortfeasors who are jointly and  severally liable for the plaintiff’s injury.” (Stop Loss Ins. Brokers, Inc.  v. Brown & Toland Medical Group (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1040.) A  claim for contribution requires allegations of (1) “a money judgment,” (2)  “rendered jointly against two or more defendants in a tort action,” (3) “in  accordance with the principles of equity,” (4) “after one tortfeasor has, by  payment, discharged the joint judgment or has paid more than his pro rata share  thereof,” (5) without intentional injury by the tortfeasor. (Code Civ. Proc., §  875, subd. (a)-(d).) Discussion As  to the first cause of action for equitable indemnity and second cause of action  for contribution, the Cross-Complaint alleges that in the event a judgment is  obtained against Hedayat, any damages were contributed to and caused by MEDG’s  alleged negligence or fault. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 18, 22.) But the  Cross-Complaint fails to establish how MEDG qualifies as a joint tortfeasor with  Hedayat as the underlying claims brought by Consumers Pipe are founded in  breach of contract and do not allege any torts. Because there are no  allegations that establish how MEDG could be held liable as a joint tortfeasor,  Hedayat’s claims of equitable indemnity and contribution are without merit. And  in the fourth cause of action for express indemnity, the Cross-Complaint fails  to allege the existence and terms of an express indemnity agreement and instead  alleges equitable indemnity. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 29.) Accordingly,  MEDG’s demurrer to these causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as  to the first and second causes of action and with leave to amend as to the fourth  cause of action. Declaratory Relief (Third Cause of Action) MEDG  contends Hedayat’s third cause of action for declaratory relief fails because  it is an attempt to redress past wrongs rather than declare future rights. (Demurrer,  p. 7:15-8:8.) The court agrees in part. Legal Standard “To  qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action  presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,  and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the  party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)  213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) “The courts do  not issue advisory opinions about the rights and duties of the parties under  particular agreements, if no actual, justiciable controversy has yet  developed.” (Otay Land Co. v. Royal Indemnity Co. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th  556, 563.) Discussion In  contending declaratory relief is improper, MEDG cites Jolley v. Chase Home  Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909-910 (Jolley). There,  the court noted “[d]eclaratory relief generally operates prospectively to  declare future rights, rather than to redress past wrongs. [Citations.] It  serves to set controversies at rest before they lead to repudiation of  obligations, invasion of rights or commission of wrongs. In short, the remedy  is to be used in the interests of preventive justice, to declare rights rather  than execute them.” (Id., at p. 909.) The court held summary  adjudication that denied a request for declaratory relief was proper because the  controversy involved “a fully matured cause of action for money.” (Id.,  at p. 909-910.) But  while MEDG seizes on this language to suggest Hedayat’s cause of action is  improper, the court in Jolley also noted “[t]he undisputed facts show that  loan modification negotiations did not result in a written instrument or  contract under which the parties’ rights need to be declared.” (Id., at  p. 909.) Unlike Jolley, the present action does involve allegations of  express indemnity and breach of written agreement. Thus, there is a present  controversy that requires a declaration of MEDG and Hedayat’s rights with  regards to their alleged subcontractor agreement and any claim for express  indemnity. To the extent this request for declaratory relief fails, it does so  only because the underlying causes of action for express indemnity and breach  of written contract are insufficiently pled. Accordingly,  MEDG’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Breach of Written Contract (Fifth Cause of Action) MEDG  maintains Hedayat’s fifth cause of action for breach of written contract fails is  insufficiently pled. The court agrees. Legal Standard To  state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to  establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or  excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting  damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51  Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of  a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the  complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated  by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74  Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the  legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction  Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,  198-199.) “[T]he vital elements of a cause of action based on contract are  mutual assent (usually accomplished through the medium of an offer and  acceptance) and consideration.” (Division of Labor Law Enforcement v.  Transpacific Transportation Co. (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 268, 275.) Discussion In  this case, the Cross-Complaint alleges Cross-Complainants, which includes Heda  Construction and Hedayat, entered into a subcontractor agreement with MEDG.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 31.) While MEDG maintains the Cross-Complaint fails to  identify exactly who entered into the subcontractor agreement with MEDG  (Demurrer, p. 8:24-9:2), the court finds this allegation is sufficient to  establish the identities of the parties. MEDG also maintains it is unclear if  the subcontractor agreement alleged here is the same one at issue in a separate  action brought by Heda Construction. (Demurrer, p. 9:3-18.) But this contention  raises a more elemental issue in that the Cross-Complaint fails to provide a  copy of the agreement or allege its verbatim terms as required when alleging a  cause of action for breach of a written contract. Accordingly,  MEDG’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. MOTION TO COMPEL  ARBITRATION MEDG  petitions to compel Heda Construction to binding arbitration. For the following  reasons, the court GRANTS MEDG’s petition. Legal Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.)  The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In  interpreting an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to  interpret contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to  the parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties  8 LLC¿(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the court’s role  “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists  and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia  Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840,  quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th  Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, the Cross-Complaint alleges Hedayat, Heda Construction, and MEDG  entered into a subcontractor agreement in July 2022 as part of a construction  project for commercial property in Los Angeles. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 8.)  Subsequently, MEDG allegedly breached the subcontractor agreement by (1)  failing to meet stipulated completion deadlines, (2) exhibiting sub-par project  management practices, and (3) neglecting to pay Hedayat and Heda Construction  for their work. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 9.) The Cross-Complaint alleges MEDG’s  breaches caused Hedayat and Heda Construction to become indebted to Consumers  Pipe. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 11-14.) Here,  MEDG argues Heda Construction’s action is subject to an arbitration provision  that was included in the July 2022 subcontract agreement. Specifically, they  point to paragraph twenty-three which reads as follows in relevant part: “Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating  to this SUBCONTRACT, or the breach thereof, shall be settled by arbitration administered  by the AAA (American Arbitration Association). The place of arbitration shall  be Los Angeles County, California. California law shall apply. Judgment on the  award rendered by arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction  thereof. . . .” (Petition, Ex. 2, ¶ XXIII.) Based  on this provision, the court finds Heda Construction’s claim that MEDG breached  the subcontract agreement by failing to make payments owed is a matter arising  out of the subcontract agreement and must be submitted to arbitration. And the  same goes for Heda Construction’s other claims against MEDG as they all arise  out of or relate to MEDG’s alleged breach of the subcontract agreement. Furthermore,  in a separate action brought by Heda Construction against MEDG for the same  alleged breach, Heda Construction stipulated to arbitration. (See RJN, Attach.  B.) The court notes that Heda Construction failed to timely oppose this  petition. Accordingly,  because MEDG has established Heda Construction’s claims are subject to an  arbitration provision and Heda Construction failed to establish any defense to  the enforcement of that provision, MEDG’s petition is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, MEDG’s  demurrer to Hedayat’s Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the third (3rd),  fourth (4th), and fifth (5th) causes of action and without leave to amend as to  the first (1st) and second (2nd) causes of action. Furthermore, MEDG’s petition  to compel arbitration is GRANTED and proceedings are STAYED as to  Heda Construction pending the arbitration of Heda Construction’s claims.