 Case Number:  23CHCV02925    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/1/24                                                
TRIAL DATE: 2/2/26
Case #23CHCV02925
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
(Special
Interrogatories, Set 2)
 
Motion filed on 7/30/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Ofer Aliasi
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Roger George Salah
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
compelling Defendant Roger George Salah to provide further verified responses
without objection to Special Interrogatories, Set 2, Nos. 43, 60-99 and 103-105
within 20 days.  

 
RULING: The motion is denied.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle versus
motorcycle accident that occurred on 6/4/23 in Encino, California.  Plaintiff Ofer Aliasi (Plaintiff) was
traveling eastbound on Ventura Blvd. on a motorcycle and Defendant was
traveling westbound in a sedan. 
Plaintiff and Defendant collided while Defendant was making a left turn into
a car wash.  As a result of the accident,
Plaintiff’s left leg was amputated below the knee.  The parties dispute liability with Defendant
claiming that Plaintiff’s excessive speed was a significant factor in causing
the accident and Plaintiff’s injuries.  On
9/28/23, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendant alleging causes of
action for motor vehicle and general negligence.  On 11/16/23, Defendant answered the
complaint.  
 
On 4/4/24, Plaintiff electronically served Special
Interrogatories, Set 2, on Defendant making responses due on 5/7/24.  (Ayvazyan Decl., Ex.1 – Although the declaration
indicates that is the declaration attorney Khachatur Chris Ayvayan, the printed
name below the signature line indicates that it was signed by attorney Greg
Yagubyan and the actual signature is illegible. 
Additionally, none of the exhibits referenced in the motion or
declaration are attached thereto as claimed.).  Pursuant to Defendant’s request, Plaintiff
extended the due date for responses to 5/14/24. 
(Ayvazyan Decl.).  On 5/13/24,
Defendant served responses which Plaintiff deemed to be improper and
incomplete.  (Ayvazyan Decl., Ex.2).  On 5/24/24, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet
and confer letter to Defendant’s counsel requesting further responses.  (Id, Ex.3).  On 6/24/24, Defendant responded to the meet
and confer letter indicating that no further responses to the subject Special
Interrogatories would be provided.  (Id.,
Ex.4).
 
The parties agreed that the deadline to bring a motion to
compel further responses was extended to 7/23/24.  (Yagubyan Reply Decl., Ex.C).  On 7/30/24, Plaintiff filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order compelling Defendant to provide further
verified responses without objection to Special Interrogatories, Set 2, Nos.
43, 60-99 and 103-105 within 20 days. 
The motion was not filed and served until 7/30/24 due to the ransomware
attack experienced the Los Angeles Superior Court.  (See Yagubyan (second) Decl. attached
to motion).  Defendant has opposed the
motion and Plaintiff has filed a reply to the opposition. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant does not dispute the chronology of the service
of the discovery, the responses thereto and the extension to bring this motion.  (See Opposition, generally).  Additionally, the Court has the text of the
interrogatories and responses thereto from the separate statements filed by the
parties.  Further, any exhibits relied on
by the Court were provided with the reply. 
As such, despite the issues noted above with the first declaration attached
to the motion and the failure to include the exhibits, the Court will rule on
the merits of the motion.     
 
CCP 2030.300(a) provides:
 
“On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:
(1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
(2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate.
(3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.”
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff adequately met and
conferred before filing the instant motion as Defendant’s 6/24/24 response to
Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter indicated that Defendant was standing by his
responses/objections to the subject interrogatories.  (See Reply Yagubyan Decl., Ex.B, p.2
(pdf 16)); CCP 2030.300(b).
 
CCP 2030.010(b) provides: 
 
“An interrogatory may relate to
whether another party is making a certain contention, or to the facts,
witnesses, and writings on which a contention is based. An interrogatory is not
objectionable because an answer to it involves an opinion or contention that
relates to fact or the application of law to fact, or would be based on
information obtained or legal theories developed in anticipation of litigation
or in preparation for trial.”
 
However, contention interrogatories cannot be used to
require a layperson to provide answers to scientific matters on which expert
testimony will be required at trial.  See
Bockrath (1999) 21 C4th 71, 84.
 
All of the interrogatories at issue seemingly improperly
presume that Defendant is making certain contentions.  Special Interrogatory 43 asks Defendant what
injuries Defendant contends Plaintiff sustained as a result of the incident.  Plaintiff seems to argue that it is obvious
that he lost his left foot as a result of the collision; therefore, Defendant
should be able to respond to this interrogatory.  However, the extent of Plaintiff’s injuries may
require expert opinion on scientific matter. 
As such, Defendant properly objected to the question.  See Bockrath, supra.    
 
Special Interrogatories 60-99 presume that Defendant is
making certain contentions regarding Plaintiff’s claimed injuries, treatment,
cost of treatment, loss of earnings and other damages.  For example, Special Interrogatory 61 asks
Defendant what healthcare services Defendant contends Plaintiff needed as a
result of the incident but failed to receive?  Plaintiff does not cite to anything (i.e.,
Defendant’s answer) to establish that Defendant is making such a
contention.  Nor does Plaintiff preface
this interrogatory by asking whether Defendant actually contends that Plaintiff
needed healthcare services that were not provided.  Similarly, Special Interrogatory 74 asks
Defendant to describe all healthcare services provided to Plaintiff by Vogue
Prosthetic Orthotic Center as a result of the incident which Defendant contends
were not reasonably necessary and Special Interrogatory 80 asks Defendant to
describe the future general damages that Defendant contends Plaintiff is
reasonably certain to suffer as a result of the incident.  Again, Plaintiff fails to establish that
Defendant is making such contentions.    
 
Even if Defendant is making the contentions raised in Special
Interrogatories 60-99, responses to these interrogatories require answers to
matter on which expert testimony will be required at trial.  As such, Defendant’s objections are proper.  See Bockrath, supra.
 
Special Interrogatory 103 asks Defendant to state all
facts to support Defendant’s contention that Plaintiff has failed to mitigate
damages resulting from the incident and Special Interrogatories 104 and 105 ask
Defendant to identify persons with knowledge of facts to support the contention
and to identify documents to support the contention.  Again, Plaintiff fails to identify where
Defendant makes such a contention or ask whether Defendant is making such a
contention.  From the reply, it appears
that Plaintiff bases these interrogatories on Defendant’s answer to the
complaint.  However, a response to this interrogatory
also requires answers to matter on which expert testimony will be required at
trial making Defendant’s objections meritorious.  See Bockrath, supra.     
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 

 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to
electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to the reply in violation of CRC
3.1110(f)(4).  Counsel for the parties
are warned that failure to comply with this rule in the future may result in
matters being continued so that papers can be resubmitted in compliance with
the rule, papers not being considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.  
     
 
 
      
 
   