  Case Number:  22STCV20692    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/1/24                                                               
TRIAL DATE: 7/28/25
Case #22STCV20692
 
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Motion filed on 8/12/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Henkels &
McCoy, Inc. and Southern
California Gas Company, Inc. 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Robert Parco,
individually and as successor-in-interest to Decedent Stellina Parco; John
Parco; Maria Parco and Johnny Parco

NOTICE: ok
 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
granting summary judgment in favor of Defendants Henkels & McCoy, Inc. (H&M)
and Southern California Gas Company, Inc. (SCG) (collectively, Defendants) and
against Plaintiffs Robert Parco, individually and as successor-in-interest to
Decedent Stellina Parco; John Parco; Maria Parco and Johnny Parco
(collectively, Plaintiffs). 
Alternatively, Defendants seek an order granting summary adjudication in
favor of Defendants and against Plaintiffs on the following issues: 
 
Issue No. 1: H&M is entitled to judgment on the
second cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for negligence because
Plaintiffs lack evidence, and reasonably cannot obtain evidence, that
Defendants engaged in conduct that caused them any damage or injury.
 
Issue No.2: SCG is entitled to
judgment on the second cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for
negligence because Plaintiffs lack evidence, and reasonably cannot obtain
evidence, that SCG engaged in conduct that caused them any damage or injury.
 
Issue No. 3: H&M is entitled to
judgment on the fourth cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for loss
of consortium because Plaintiff John Parco lacks evidence, and reasonably
cannot obtain evidence, that H&M engaged in conduct that caused him any damage
or injury.
 
Issue No. 4: SCG is entitled to
judgment on the fourth cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for loss
of consortium because Plaintiff John Parco lacks evidence, and reasonably
cannot obtain evidence, that SCG engaged in conduct that caused him any damage
or injury.
 
Issue No. 5: H&M is entitled to
judgment on the fifth cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for
wrongful death because Plaintiffs John Parco, Robert Parco, Maria Parco, and
Johnny Parco lack evidence, and reasonably cannot obtain evidence, that H&M
engaged in conduct that caused them any damage or injury.
 
Issue No. 6: SCG is entitled to
judgment on the fifth cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for
wrongful death because Plaintiffs John Parco, Robert Parco, Maria Parco, and
Johnny Parco lack evidence, and reasonably cannot obtain evidence, that SCG
engaged in conduct that caused them any damage or injury.

 

 
RULING: The request for summary judgment is
granted.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle collision that
occurred on September 30, 2021 at the intersection of Lyons Avenue and Avenida
Rotella in Santa Clarita (the accident). 
Decedent Stellina Parco (Stellina) was a passenger in Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Helen Ann Lynn’s (Lynn) vehicle.  The
accident occurred as Lynn was attempting to make a left-turn at the subject
intersection, and her vehicle was struck by Defendant Alexander Gray Popejoy’s
(Popejoy) vehicle.  At the time of the accident,
Defendant Henkels & McCoy, Inc. (H&M) was working on a construction
project for the benefit of Defendant Southern California Gas Company, Inc.
(SCG) at the subject intersection, which required lane closures from the
oncoming traffic side heading westbound toward Lynn.  Stellina suffered injuries as a result of the
accident and subsequently died on March 5, 2024.  
 
Plaintiffs Robert Parco, individually and as
successor-in-interest to Decedent Stellina Parco; John Parco; Maria Parco and
Johnny Parco’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) First Amended Complaint  alleges three causes of action against H&M
and SCG (collectively, Defendants): (1) Negligent Infliction of Personal
Injuries (Second Cause of Action), (2) Loss of Consortium (Fourth Cause of
Action) and (3) Wrongful Death (Fifth Cause of Action).  Plaintiffs contend that the construction project
created a visual obstruction to drivers, constituting a dangerous condition,
and that such dangerous condition along with the negligence of the drivers
involved, caused the collision.    
 
Although Lynn’s original cross-complaint included claims
against Defendants, Lynn has since dismissed those claims against Defendants.  (See Dismissal  filed 12/7/23).  Lynn’s operative First Amended Cross-Complaint
for: (1) Indemnity, (2) Apportionment of Fault, (3) Comparative Fault and (4)
Declaratory Relief is alleged only against Popejoy and Roes 101-200.  (See Lynn’s FAXC filed 7/5/24).
 
On August 12, 2024, Defendants filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order granting summary judgment in favor of Defendants
and against Plaintiffs.  Alternatively, Defendants
seek an order granting summary adjudication in favor of Defendants and against
Plaintiffs on the following issues: 
 
Issue No. 1: H&M is entitled to judgment on
the second cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for negligence
because Plaintiffs lack evidence, and reasonably cannot obtain evidence, that
Defendants engaged in conduct that caused them any damage or injury.
 
Issue No.2: SCG is entitled to judgment on the
second cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for negligence because
Plaintiffs lack evidence, and reasonably cannot obtain evidence, that SCG
engaged in conduct that caused them any damage or injury.
 
Issue No. 3: H&M is entitled to judgment on
the fourth cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for loss of
consortium because Plaintiff John Parco lacks evidence, and reasonably cannot
obtain evidence, that H&M engaged in conduct that caused him any damage or
injury.
 
Issue No. 4: SCG is entitled to judgment on the
fourth cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for loss of consortium
because Plaintiff John Parco lacks evidence, and reasonably cannot obtain
evidence, that SCG engaged in conduct that caused him any damage or injury.
 
Issue No. 5: H&M is entitled to judgment on
the fifth cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for wrongful death
because Plaintiffs John Parco, Robert Parco, Maria Parco, and Johnny Parco lack
evidence, and reasonably cannot obtain evidence, that H&M engaged in
conduct that caused them any damage or injury.
 
Issue No. 6: SCG is entitled to judgment on the
fifth cause of action in the First Amended Complaint for wrongful death because
Plaintiffs John Parco, Robert Parco, Maria Parco, and Johnny Parco lack
evidence, and reasonably cannot obtain evidence, that SCG engaged in conduct
that caused them any damage or injury.
 
Plaintiffs have opposed the motion and Defendants have
filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs’ objections, numbers 1 and 2, are not proper
evidentiary objections.  See CRC
3.1354(b).  Rather than objecting to
evidence in these objections, Plaintiffs improperly object to facts set forth
in Defendants’ separate statement.  Assuming
Plaintiffs are objecting to the evidence which Defendants cite in support of
these facts, the Court finds the objections lack merit.  As such, these objections are overruled.    
 
Plaintiffs’ objection number 3 is also overruled.  
 
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice is granted.
 
Defendants’ objections, numbers 1-8, to Plaintiffs’
evidence are overruled.  
 
*    *   
*
 
A motion for summary judgment shall be granted “if all
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  CCP 437c(a). 
Similarly, a party may move for summary adjudication on the issue of
duty and/or whether a cause of action has no merit.  See CCP 437c(f)(1).
 
A defendant has met its burden of proof on a motion for
summary judgment if the defendant has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to
that cause of action.  CCP 437c(p)(2).  If a defendant makes a prima facie showing
for summary judgment, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to present non-speculative
evidence showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.  See Union Bank (1995) 31 CA4th
573, 583; Aguilar (2001) 25 C4th 826, 864; Lee (1996) 49 CA4th
1750, 1756 (speculation and conjecture do not create a triable issue of
material fact).  The mere “presence of a
factual conflict will not defeat a motion for summary judgment unless the fact
in dispute is a material one.”  People
ex. rel. Department of Transportation v. Outdoor Media Group (1993) 13
CA4th 1067, 1077; See also McGonnell (2002) 98 CA4th 1098,
1105-1106.   
  
2nd cause of action – Negligent Infliction
of Personal Injuries  
 
To prevail on a claim of negligence against Defendants,
Plaintiffs must establish that Defendants owed a duty, Defendants breached that
duty, and the breach caused their damages. 
See Conroy (2009) 45 C4th 1244, 1250.  To prove causation, a plaintiff must show
that the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the
plaintiff’s injury.  See Viner
(2003) 30 C4th 1232, 1239; Saelzler (2001) 25 C4th 763, 778.  The mere possibility of causation is
insufficient to impose liability on a defendant.  See Ortega 26 C4th 1200,
1205-1206.  On this motion, Defendants
contend that Plaintiffs cannot establish the element of causation.
 
The evidence establishes that neither Lynn nor Popejoy contend
the construction project caused or contributed to the accident.  Lynn, the driver of the vehicle in which Stellina
was a passenger, testified that her view of oncoming traffic was not obstructed,
that she could see Popejoy’s vehicle at all relevant times and that she would
not have pulled out if her view of approaching traffic was blocked in any way.  (See Defendants’ Separate Statement
(DSS) 2, 3, 6).  Popejoy, the driver of
the other vehicle involved in the accident, testified that he saw Lynn’s
vehicle when he was about 90 feet away from the intersection and that Lynn
began making her left turn when he was about 50-60 feet from the
intersection.  (Nielsen Decl., Ex.4, p.20:4-12).  Popejoy merely speculates that he may have
seen Lynn’s vehicle earlier if a truck had not been in the left-hand turn
pocket.  (Nielsen Decl., Ex.4,
p.24:3-6).  Popejoy went on to state that
he told the investigating officer at the scene of the accident that as he was
approaching the intersection, Lynn made “what felt like a very unexpected…left
into the intersection” resulting in the collision despite Popejoy hitting his
brakes really hard.  (Nielsen’s Decl.,
Ex.4, p.33:1-8).  Additionally, in his
written discovery responses, Popejoy indicated that no dangerous condition
contributed to the accident.  (DSS
4).  
 
The fact that Lynn’s written discovery responses,
prepared months before her deposition took place, reference an unidentified
visual obstruction is insufficient to create a triable issue of material fact
as to whether or not her view was obstructed by the construction in the face of
her clear deposition testimony that her view was not obstructed and that she
would not have made the turn if it was. 
As noted above, Lynn has also dismissed her cross-claims against
Defendants.  
 
The fact that the investigating officer may have thought that
there was a visual obstruction for drivers making left-hand turns at the
intersection does not create a triable issue of material fact because the
totality of the evidence establishes that Lynn saw Popejoy’s vehicle at all
relevant times and thought she could safely make the left turn before he
reached the intersection, but unfortunately she did not.  Additionally, Plaintiffs’ reliance on the
testimony of inspector Viser where he states that “there’s an obstruction until
there isn’t” is misleading because he further explained that “[i]f you pull far
enough forward, you can see up the road, and you turn when it’s clear,
right?  Everyone knows that when you’re
making a left turn.”  (Nielsen Decl., Ex.6,
p.84:7-11).  
 
Plaintiffs’ argument that Defendants failed to follow
their own safety plan by not having “flaggers” present and the presence of same
would have prevented the accident, fails to create a triable issue of material
fact.  First, Plaintiffs have failed to
establish that flaggers were required at the time of the incident considering
that the traffic signals were operational. 
(See Nielsen Decl., Ex.12, p.77:9-22).  Second, even if Defendants’ failed to follow
their safety plan, considering Lynn’s repeated deposition testimony that her
view of oncoming traffic was not obstructed and that she saw Popejoy’s vehicle before
she began her turn, Plaintiffs cannot establish that such failure was a
substantial factor in causing the collision. 

 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff cannot establish the
required element of causation against Defendants.  
 
4th cause of action – Loss of Consortium
 
The elements of a loss of consortium cause of action are:
(1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at
the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff’s spouse; (3)
loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4) the loss was proximately
caused by the defendant’s act.  See
LeFiell Manufacturing Co. (2012) 55 C4th 275, 284-285; Vanhooser
(2012) 206 CA4th 921, 927.  By its
nature, a cause of action for loss of consortium depends on the existence of a
cause of action for tortious injury to a spouse.  Hahn 
(2007) 147 CA4th 740, 746.   
 
Since the underlying tort claim against Defendants fails,
the claim for loss of consortium which depends on the tort claim also
fails.  
   
5th cause of action – Wrongful Death
 
The elements of a wrongful death cause of action are: (1)
the underlying tort, (2) a resulting death, and (3) damages.  B.B. (2020) 10 C5th 1, 31.  Again, since the underlying tort claim fails,
so does the wrongful death cause of action. 

 
Plaintiffs’ Request for a Continuance
 
Plaintiffs request that if the Court is inclined to grant
the motion, that the hearing be continued pursuant to CCP 437c(h) which
provides: 
 
“If it appears from the affidavits
submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the
court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The
application to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be
made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition
response to the motion is due.”
 
Plaintiffs contend that additional facts and evidence
exist to support the opposition.  (See
Nielsen Decl. ¶¶15-17).  However, no
additional evidence Plaintiffs obtain can refute Lynn’s clear testimony that
her vision was not obstructed, she saw Popejoy’s vehicle at all times before the
accident and she would not have attempted the left turn if her view was
obstructed.  (See Defendant’s Ex.B,
p.47:6-10, p.48:2-17, p.51:13-16, p.59:14-21, p.60:14-17, p.75:12-p.76:3,
p.80:3-13).  As such, the Court finds
that a continuance is not warranted.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The request for summary judgment is granted.  
 