 Case Number:  24SMCV02209    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  28, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02209




MOTION


Motion
  to Reclassify (Walker Motion)




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  LiveOne, Inc; PodcastOne, Inc.; Slacker, Inc.; LiveXLive, Corp.; Robert
  Ellin; and Josh Hallbauer




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs
  Michael Kibler and Ann Kibler



 
MOTION
 
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiffs Michael Kibler and Ann Kibler
(“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants LiveOne, Inc.; PodcastOne, Inc.; Robert Ellin; Joshua Hallbauer;
Aidan Crotinger; Splitmind LLC; Siamak Khakshooy; Tanaz Koshki; and ABC Corps
alleging five causes of action for (1) violation of Beverly Hills Municipal
Zoning Laws; (2) public nuisance; (3) private nuisance; (4) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; and (5) aiding and abetting tort, for
allegedly operating a commercial office, business event center, professional
podcast interview and music recording studio in the middle of a Beverly Hills
residential community.  (FAC ¶ 1.)
 
Moving Defendants LiveOne, Inc; PodcastOne, Inc.; Slacker, Inc.;
LiveXLive, Corp.; Robert Ellin; and Josh Hallbauer (“Moving Defendants”) now
move to reclassify this case from unlimited to limited jurisdiction.  Plaintiffs oppose the motion and Moving
Defendants reply.[1] 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Moving Defendants request judicial notice of the following:
 
·      
Exhibit A: the September 5, 2024 Joint Report
filed in Los Angeles County Superior Court unlawful detainer action with case
number 24SMCV03329
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the September 5, 2024 is part of a Los Angeles Superior court
record, the Court may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of the Joint Report filed in Case Number
24SMCV03329, and the fact that the statements contained therein were made and
filed, but not the truth of those statements. 

 
LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Per
Code of Civil Procedure section 86, a limited civil case is a case in which the
demand, exclusive of interest, amounts to $35,000 or less. (Code Civ. Proc., §
86, subd. (a)(1).) The court must order reclassification of a case from
unlimited to limited “when . . . it becomes clear that the matter will
‘necessarily’ result in a verdict” under $35,000. (Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 262 (hereafter Walker).) In determining whether
the demand of the case exceeds $35,000, the court aggregates the amount of
damages each plaintiff seeks. (See Collins v. City & County of San
Francisco (1952) 112 Cal.App.2d 719, 724.)
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 403.040, “[t]he plaintiff, cross-complaint, or
petitioner may file a motion for reclassification within the time allowed for
that party to amend the initial pleading. The defendant or cross-defendant may
file a motion for reclassification within the time allowed for that party to
respond to the initial pleading. The court, on its own motion, may reclassify a
case at any time.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subd. (a).) If a party files a
motion for reclassification after the time designated by statute, “the court
shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification only if both of
the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The case is incorrectly classified.
(2) The moving party shows good cause for not seeking reclassification
earlier.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subd. (b).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’
damages cannot exceed the $35,000 jurisdictional minimum for this case to be
classified as unlimited because (1) the tenant about whose conduct Plaintiffs
complained has since vacated the premises, and none of the Defendants currently
reside at the property; and (2) Plaintiffs’ discovery responses reveal that
Plaintiffs have not received any consultation or examination by a medical
provider or taken any medication for their injuries, nor suffered a loss of
income or earning capacity.
 
Plaintiffs argue in opposition
that they also seek damages for annoyance and the disruption of their quiet
enjoyment of their residential neighborhood, which damages are available
without a showing that the nuisance caused physical damage to their property or
person.  (See, e.g., Acadia,
California, Limited v. Herbert (1960) 54 Cal.2d 328, 337 [“It is settled
that, regardless of whether the occupant of land has sustained physical injury,
he may recover damages for the discomfort and annoyance of himself and the
members of his family and for mental suffering occasioned by fear for the
safety of himself and his family when such discomfort or suffering has been
proximately caused by a trespass or a nuisance”].)
 
As such, Plaintiffs argue that
a jury could theoretically award damages in excess of $35,000 based on the
massive pre-Grammy red carpet event alone that Defendants held at the residence
next door to Plaintiffs with whom Plaintiffs share a driveway.  As Moving Defendants concede, at least seven
such events were specifically alleged in the FAC.  In addition, Plaintiffs make general
allegations about daily visitors to the property that disrupted Plaintiffs’
lives.
 
Ultimately, the Court cannot
say as a legal certainty that the verdict will “necessarily” be less than
$35,000 to warrant reclassification.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies Moving Defendant’s motion for
Reclassification.  
 
Further, the Court orders Moving Defendants to provide notice of the
Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
DATED:  October 28, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


