


[1] Moving Defendants also submit in connection with
their reply the Supplemental Declaration of Teri T. Pham and attached
exhibits.  The Court does not consider
this reply evidence as it deprives Plaintiffs of a fair opportunity to respond.  (See San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316 [“due process requires a
party be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and be given adequate
notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail”]; see also Wall
Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
1171.)  

TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 28, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02209




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


(1)  
  Demurrer: Defendants LiveOne, Inc.; PodcastOne, Inc.;
  Slacker, Inc.; LiveXlive, Corp; Robert Ellin; and Josh Hallbauer

  Joinder by Defendants Aidan Crotinger and Splitmind, LLC
 
(2)  
  Motion to Strike: Defendant LiveOne, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Michael Kibler and Ann Kibler



 
MOTIONS
 
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiffs Michael Kibler and Ann Kibler
(“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants LiveOne, Inc. (“LiveOne”); PodcastOne, Inc. (“PodcastOne”); Robert
Ellin (“Ellin”); Joshua Hallbauer (“Hallbauer”); Aidan Crotinger (“Crotinger”);
Splitmind LLC (“Splitmind”); Siamak Khakshooy (“Khakshooy”); Tanaz Koshki
(“Koshki”); and ABC Corps (“ABC”) alleging five causes of action for (1)
violation of Beverly Hills Municipal Zoning Laws; (2) public nuisance; (3)
private nuisance; (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (5)
aiding and abetting tort, for allegedly operating a commercial office, business
event center, professional podcast interview and music recording studio in the
middle of a Beverly Hills residential community.  (FAC ¶ 1.)
 
Defendants LiveOne, PodcastOne, Ellin, and Hallbauer now demur to all
five causes of action for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(e).  Defendants Crotinger and Splitmind
have joined in the demurrer.  For ease of
reference, the Court refers collectively to Defendants LiveOne, PodcastOne,
Ellin, Hallbauer, Crotinger, and Splitmind as “Moving Defendants.”  
 
Defendant LiveOne additionally and separately moves to strike various factual
allegations from the FAC.
 
Plaintiffs oppose the motions and Moving Defendants reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants’ Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Moving Defendants request judicial notice of the following:
 
·      
Exhibit 1 (Demurrer)/Exhibit A (Motion to
Strike): the September 5, 2024 Joint Report filed in Los Angeles County
Superior Court unlawful detainer action with case number 24SMCV03329
 
·      
Exhibit 2: a printout of the map from Google
Maps, available at https://www.google.com/maps/place/516+N+Beverly+Dr,+Beverly+Hills,+CA+90210,
showing the property located at 516 N. Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, CA 90210
and its surrounding area.
 
Regarding Exhibit 1/A, Judicial
notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Because the September 5, 2024 Joint Report is
part of a court case file, the Court may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the Joint Report filed in Case
Number 24SMCV03329, and the fact that the statements contained therein were
made and filed, but not the truth of those statements.  
 
As for Exhibit 2, courts may
take judicial notice of a Google Maps view of a geographical area as “Facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy” pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h).  (See People v. Bratton (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 1100, 1105.)  Therefore, the
Court takes judicial notice of Exhibit 2.
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs request take
judicial notice of the “Notice of Violation” issued by the City of Beverly
Hills to Defendants Siamak Khakshooy, Tanaz Koshki and Aidan Crotinger
regarding use of 516 N. Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, CA 90210.  The Notice of Violation constitutes an
“official act” by the City pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(c) and “facts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and
are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy” pursuant to subdivision (h).  (See Gong
v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 363, 376 [taking judicial notice of city’s prefiling claim as an
“official act” under subdivision (c)]; Stockton Citizens for Sensible Planning v. City of Stockton (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1488, fn. 2
[taking judicial notice of city’s Notice of Exemption as an “official act”
under subdivision (c) and as facts and propositions not reasonably subject to
dispute and capable of determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy under subdivision (h)].)
 
Therefore,
the Court takes judicial notice of the Notice of Violation.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
First Cause
of Action – Violation of Beverly Hills Municipal Zoning Laws
 
The FAC seeks general and
compensatory damages in an amount of no less than $10,000 per day for violating
Beverly Hills Municipal Code section 10-3-4303. 
(See Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939-940
[“the concept is long-standing that a private person who suffers identifiable
harm by reason of a violation of a municipal zoning law may sue the violator
for compensatory damages and may also seek injunctive relief when applicable]
(hereafter Nestle).)   
 
Moving Defendants argue that
the first cause of action fails because there is no private right of action to
enforce municipal zoning laws.  In
support, Moving Defendants cite to Cohen v. Superior Court (Schwartz) (2024)
102 Cal.App.5th 706, 712 (hereafter Cohen).)  
 
Cohen held that Government Code section 36900,
which provides that “The violation of a city ordinance may be prosecuted by
city authorities in the name of the people of the State of California, or
redressed by civil action” only allows city authorities to bring a civil action
to redress violations of a city ordinance, but does not create a private right
of action for private citizens.  (Cohen,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at pp. 717-729.)
 
In so holding, Cohen clarifies
that Nestle and other cases like it stand for the proposition
that “an individual may file suit based on another's violation of an ordinance
when he or she: (1) suffers a special injury to himself in person or property
of a character different in kind from that suffered by the general public; or
(2) is a member of the community for whose particular welfare the ordinance was
enacted.”  (Cohen, supra, 102
Cal.App.5th at p. 728.)  Further, Cohen
clarifies that “We do not disturb caselaw recognizing that, in some
instances, a defendant's violation of a local ordinance may be relevant to, or
provide an element of, some other cause of action by a private party, such as
nuisance or public nuisance.”  (Ibid.)
 
Specifically in Cohen, the court noted that despite being given
an opportunity to amend the complaint to allege either a special injury or that
plaintiff is a member of the community for whose particular welfare the
ordinance was enacted, the plaintiff failed to allege any such facts, or
specify in their briefing what facts they could add to demonstrate either of
the two requirements to allege a cause of action for violation of the municipal
code.  (Ibid.)
 
By contrast, here, the FAC alleges:
 
210. Defendants have violated these zoning laws
since about July 2023 and continue to violate these zoning laws. The Kibler
Family is among the class of persons – residents of R-1 zoning divisions – for
which these municipal ordinances were intended to provide special protection. 
 
211. The Kibler Family has suffered injuries and
continues to suffer injuries different (and greater) from those suffered by
property owners generally, i.e., they have suffered special damages, as a
result of Defendants’ violations/unlawful conduct, which include the daily
operation of a global media company (see, e.g., ¶¶ 75-82, 95-153) and podcast
studio next door (see, e.g., ¶¶ 154-179) and regularly hosting large corporate
events like the February 3, 2024 pre-Grammy party (see, e.g., ¶¶ 83-94). These
damages are special in part because The LiveOne House shares a driveway with
the Kibler Family home, because The LiveOne House’s backyard (and recording
studio) abuts the Kibler Family home, and because the two properties are
architecturally similar, which causes business visitors of 516 N. Beverly to
repeatedly attempt entry into the Kibler Family Home.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 210-211.)  
 
Therefore, under both Nestle and Cohen, private citizens
like Plaintiffs may sue for municipal code violations if they are either the
class of persons the local ordinance was designed to protect or if they have
suffered a special injury, both of which Plaintiffs have alleged here.
 
            As such, the Court overrules Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Second and
Third Causes of Action – Public and Private Nuisance
 
A “nuisance” is “[a]nything which is injurious to health, including,
but not limited to, the illegal sale of controlled substances, or is indecent
or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so
as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park,
square, street, or highway, is a nuisance.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3479.)
 
A nuisance may be public, private, or both.  (Koll-Irvine Center Property Owners Assn.
v. County of Orange (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1041.)  “Unlike public nuisance, which is an
interference with the rights of the community at large, private nuisance is a
civil wrong based on disturbance of rights in land.”  (Ibid.)  “So long as the interference is substantial
and unreasonable, and such as would be offensive or inconvenient to the normal
person, virtually any disturbance of the enjoyment of the property may amount
to a nuisance.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Moving Defendants first argue that Plaintiffs
have failed to state a cause of action for public nuisance because Plaintiffs
do not allege a personal injury that is “different in kind, not merely in
degree” from that suffered by the other neighbors.  
 
            As a threshold issue, the appellate
court in Kempton v. City of Los Angeles, upon which Moving Defendants
rely for the proposition that the harm suffered by Plaintiffs must be different
in kind, and not merely in degree from the harm suffered by other members of
the public at large, explained:  “A
private individual may bring an action against a municipality to
abate a public nuisance when the individual suffers harm that is specially
injurious to himself but not otherwise” such that “[t]he damage suffered must
be different in kind, not merely in degree, from that suffered by other members
of the public.”  (Kempton v. City of
Los Angeles (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1344, 1349, emphasis added.)
 
            Here, Plaintiffs have not sued a
municipality.  Rather, Plaintiffs are
suing other private citizens.  As such, Kempton
does not seem to apply. 
 
            In any event, the allegations of
paragraph 211 as indicated above (and incorporated by reference to the second
cause of action by virtue of paragraph 214) adequately alleges a unique injury
by virtue of Plaintiffs’ shared driveway with the LiveOne house and because
Defendants’ guests keep attempting to enter Plaintiffs’ home, regularly
mistaking it for the LiveOne house.
 
            Moving Defendants also argue that
Plaintiffs fail to allege a substantial and unreasonable interference with a
public right because they only allege five gatherings over the course of over a
year and only one instance of their home being mistaken for Defendants’
property.  
 
            To the contrary, in addition to the
specific gatherings alleged, the FAC also alleges:
 
81. As was the case during The Revels Group LLC’s
illegal commercial operations in the residential neighborhood, the Kibler
Family Home is often mistaken for The LiveOne House by the many daily business
visitors to the house. LiveOne employees and company officers, including on at
least one occasion LiveOne, Inc.’s board member, Corporate Secretary and Chief
Financial Officer Aaron Sullivan, also regularly appear and conduct business at
The LiveOne House at 516 N. Beverly Drive.
 
82. In 2023, the Kibler Family began observing
the exact same conduct associated with The Revels Group LLC’s commercial
activity: heavy commercial vehicle and foot traffic, people coming and going
all day and night, large events, and at night when the rest of the residential
neighborhood was quiet and the homes darkened, the driveway of The LiveOne
House and the street near the house would be filled with cars, with every light
inside and outside the house on all night and into the early morning.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 81-82.)   Therefore, in addition to the five or so
specific incidents Plaintiffs outline in the FAC, Plaintiffs have also
generally alleged substantial, daily harms, including that their home “is often
mistaken for the LiveOne House” sufficient to withstand demurrer.
 
Finally, Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have failed to allege
causation.  The FAC alleges:
 
222. Defendants’ conduct was a substantial factor
in causing the Kibler Family harm. 
 
223. As direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ conduct, the Kibler Family seeks general and compensatory damages
in an amount that is in excess of the minimum jurisdiction of this Court, but
not less than $10,000 per day of the illegal use of the house, and injunctive
relief.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 222-223.)  As such,
Plaintiffs have sufficiently pled the ultimate facts[1] necessary
to state a cause of action for public nuisance. 
 
For the same reasons, Plaintiffs have adequately alleged that Moving
Defendants’ activity interfered with their use and enjoyment of their property
to state a cause of action for private nuisance.
 
As such, having found Plaintiffs adequately alleged causes of action
for public and private nuisance, the Court overrules Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the second and third causes of action.
 
                                                    
iii.         
Fourth Cause
of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
To prevail on the Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”) cause of action, a plaintiff must prove: “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when “it is so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Ibid.
[cleaned up].)  Further, the
defendant’s conduct must be “intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.” (Id. at p. 1051 [cleaned up].)

 
            Moving Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs fail to allege extreme and outrageous conduct; intent to emotionally
distress Plaintiffs or reckless disregard for Plaintiffs; severe emotional
distress; or causation.
 
            The FAC alleges:
 
80.  […] As
set forth in detail below, LiveOne in fact hosted a “big party,” attended by
hundreds of guests from the music entertainment industry complete with a red
carpet the night before the 2024 Grammy Awards in February that required
multiple units of the Beverly Hills Police Department to break up.
 
[…]
 
84. On January 16, 2024, LiveOne hosted a music
entertainment industry event. On that night, N. Beverly Drive was packed with
cars near The LiveOne House, often blocking egress and ingress to the Kibler
Family’s driveway, and many different people were entering and exiting The
LiveOne House throughout the evening. 
 
85. On January 23, 2024, large crowds were again
observed gathering at The LiveOne House. 
 
86. On January 31, 2024, LiveOne hosted another
large event at The LiveOne House, with loud noise and aggravating lights
emanating from the residence.
 
87. On February 3, 2024 (the day before the 2024
Grammy Awards), LiveOne hosted a large-scale (i.e., the “big party”) red carpet
pre-Grammy party at The LiveOne House, featuring, among other things, a red
carpet, professional photoshoots and videography, and live music performances
hosted by a professional DJ. 
 
88. According to several of The LiveOne House
guests who were lined up in front of the Kibler Family Home and stood in their
driveway before walking the red carpet that LiveOne had constructed in front of
the residence, LiveOne threw this event for LiveOne affiliated artist Victoria
Monét who had received a Grammy-nomination (and would go on to win the Grammy
for Best New Artist the next night). 
 
89. Leading up to the February 3 LiveOne
pre-Grammy corporate event, the Kibler Family observed heavier than usual foot
traffic into The LiveOne House, saw and heard construction of what they later
learned was a professional outdoor sound system, stage, and photoshoot area for
LiveOne’s large pre-Grammy event that was attended by what appeared to be more
than 200 invited guests from the music industry. 
 
90. In the afternoon of February 3, LiveOne began
conducting loud soundchecks that could be heard throughout the neighborhood,
and of course throughout every room of the Kibler Family Home. 
 
91. Early in the evening of February 3, scores of
people began to arrive at the LiveOne pre-Grammy event. Heavy car and
pedestrian traffic filled the neighborhood, causing significant disruption and
noise. 
 
92. By 8:00 p.m., on February 3, 2024, a long
line had formed, spilling out of The LiveOne House as invited guests lined up
for photoshoots and interviews on the LiveOne red carpet area that had been
constructed in the driveway of The LiveOne House less than 30 feet from the
Kibler Family Home. LiveOne’s guests wandered onto the property of the Kibler
Family Home as they milled about the red carpet area. 
 
93. On this night, the Kibler Family confirmed
that the company masquerading as their next-door neighbor was LiveOne, a
publicly traded music entertainment company and its subsidiaries. They learned
this directly from the mouths of the pre-Grammy party guests lined up on the
sidewalk in front of the Kibler Family Home, who were happy to openly talk
about the company—its history, its principals, its affiliated artists, and the
reason for the pre-Grammy event—to Mr. Kibler when he inquired. 
 
94. In response to neighborhood complaints, the
Beverly Hills Police Department responded to the scene at least three times
that evening, diverting scarce law enforcement resources from more important
duties of protecting the citizens of Beverly Hills. According to City records,
the Beverly Hills Police received several calls related to the pre-Grammy
party. The calls ranged from complaints about “an unruly gathering” and
“disturbing the peace” to noise and parking issues. The Kibler Family, living
next door, experienced all of this firsthand. 
 
95. On the third intervention by law enforcement
that night, three Beverly Hills Police Department cars responded with their
emergency lights on. By then dozens of people were loitering outside The
LiveOne House, and in front of and on the property of the Kibler Family Home,
and scores more partied in The LiveOne House and backyard. After the police
arrived, a City zoning enforcement officer arrived on the scene to observe the
extent of LiveOne’s zoning violations and to speak to the Beverly Hills Police
Department. 
 
96. After observing the size of the event, and
hearing from the street the loud music blaring from the professional sound
stage and concert-quality music equipment LiveOne had installed in the back of
The LiveOne House, the police shut the party down and began dispersing the
crowd. But crowds of people continued to linger on and around the property for
hours into the night, making noise, causing traffic congestion, and leaving
garbage—empty beer and wine bottles, cups, paper plates, cigarette butts—on the
street, neighboring yards and sidewalks of the neighborhood around the Kibler
Family Home. 
 
97. At the scene, Beverly Hills Police Sargeant
Yashimoto interviewed Hallbauer, who, upon information and belief, lied to her
by claiming to be the “resident” of The LiveOne House who was hosting a private
event. 
 
98. Later, and contrary to what Mr. Halbauer told
the police, LiveOne posted video clips on its corporate social media platforms
showing scenes from the night in and around The LiveOne House and the red
carpet in front, boasting about the success of the “LiveOne pre-Grammy event”
at The LiveOne House.
 
99. On February 15, 2024, LiveOne hosted another
large music industry event at The LiveOne House when visitors blocked the
driveway shared with the Kibler Family Home, along with the public sidewalk and
fire hydrant. The Beverly Hills Police Department again had to be called to the
scene, and required the LiveOne employees and visitors to move their cars.
 
[…]
 
157. As recently as the evening of Saturday,
April 27, 2024, LiveOne hosted another music industry event. The Kibler Family
observed a professional videographer staging and then filming a guest walking
in front of their home and into The LiveOne House. The driveway and street
around The LiveOne House again filled with the cars of attendees. A white
Porche 911 Turbo S with Washington plate number AZL3011 parked directly in
front of the fire hydrant between the Kibler Family Home and The LiveOne House
and remained there for hours into the night while its occupants attended the
event, thereby creating a dangerous condition in the neighborhood of family
homes, and was ticketed by Beverly Hills parking enforcement.
 
[…]
 
175. On Thursday, March 28, 2024, LiveOne hosted another
large music industry event related to its LVO Podcast division. In fact,
LiveOne even mounted a large green neon “LVO Podcast” sign at the front of The
LiveOne House for this event, which was observable from the street. […]
 
[…]
 
177. Over the course of the evening, a large
number of rideshare vehicles began to arrive. In the end, more than 100 people
arrived at The LiveOne House on that Thursday evening. A Crave Private Dining
catering truck and U-Haul rented by LiveOne’s Hallbauer were also observed on
the property bringing food and party equipment to the event. After the event, a
large amount of trash spewed out of trash bins in the alley behind the Kibler
Family Home.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 80, 84-99, 157, 175, 177.)
 
            The Court disagrees with Moving
Defendants’ characterization of the alleged conduct as a “mere annoyance” and
akin to having “friends and family over for a gathering such as during the
holidays[.]”  Plaintiffs have alleged that
Moving Defendants regularly held large entertainment industry parties and other
business gatherings in their residential home, and red carpet events on the
shared driveway that far exceed the “mere annoyance” caused by an occasional
family holiday gathering, both in frequency and scope.  
 
It is axiomatic that regularly hosting such large entertainment
industry and red carpet events as well as other daily business foot traffic at
a residential home in violation of the city’s municipal code would vex, annoy,
and/or harass the next-door neighbors with whom the LiveOne House shares a
driveway.  Further, the FAC alleges:
 
239. As described herein, Defendants’ conduct was
outrageous.
 
240. Defendants intended to cause the Kibler
Family emotional distress or Defendants acted with reckless disregard of the
probability that the Kibler Family would suffer emotional distress, knowing
that the Kibler Family was present when the conduct occurred. 
 
241. The Kibler Family suffered severe emotional
distress.
 
242. Defendants’ conduct was a substantial factor
in causing the Kibler Family’s severe emotional distress. 
 
243. As direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ conduct, the Kibler Family seeks general and compensatory damages
in an amount that is in excess of the minimum jurisdiction of this Court, but
not less than $10,000 per day of the illegal use of the house, and injunctive
relief. 
 
244. Defendants’ intentional misconduct was
carried out with a conscious disregard for the Kibler Family’s rights, with the
intent to vex, annoy, and/or harass them and to unjustly profit at their
expense. Such misconduct was unauthorized and constitutes fraud, oppression,
and/or malice under California Civil Code § 3294, entitling the Kibler Family
to an award of punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish and/or set
an example of the offending party in an amount to be determined at trial.
 
(FAC
¶ 239-244.)
 
            There is no heightened pleading
requirement to allege intentional infliction of emotional distress.  As such, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have
sufficiently alleged “ultimate facts” to withstand demurrer regarding the IIED
cause of action.
 
                                                    
iv.         
Fifth Cause
of Action – Aiding and Abetting a Tort
 
Moving Defendants argue that because the first four causes of action
fail, so too must the fifth cause of action predicated on those alleged
torts.  Because the Court overrules
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the first through fourth causes of action, the
Court similarly overrules Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of
action.
 
                                                      
v.         
Conduct
Alleged as to Slacker, LiveXLive, Ellin, and Hallbauer
 
Finally, Moving Defendants argue that the conduct is alleged only as
to LiveOne, and not as to Slacker, LiveXLive, Ellin, or Hallbauer.  To the contrary, the allegations upon which
the Court relies are alleged as to all “Defendants.”  Therefore, the Court overrules the demurrer
on this basis.  
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
LiveOne moves to strike various factual allegations from the FAC as “improper”
because they derive from an inadvertently disclosed letter from the insurance
company to LiveOne, which LiveOne argues is protected under the Insurance
Information and Privacy Protection Act. 
LiveOne also moves to strike allegations and requests for punitive
damages and injunctive relief.
 
                                                        
i.         
Inadvertently
Disclosed Insurance Letter
 
Raphael & Associates, the
claims adjuster for LiveOne’s insurer, Old Republic, apparently copied by
mistake Plaintiffs’ counsel on a June 25, 2024 letter addressed to and intended
for LiveOne.  (Le Decl. ¶ 3 and
Ex. B.)  On July 12, 2024, Raphael &
Associates sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a clawback request.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to destroy and
disregard the letter pursuant to the clawback request (Id. at ¶ 4), and
included the letter and allegations derived therefrom in the FAC, which
Plaintiffs filed on July 29.  
 
LiveOne now moves to strike the June 25, 2024 letter and allegations
derived therefrom as “improper” on the grounds that they are privileged pursuant
to the Insurance Information and Privacy Protection Act (“Act”).  Plaintiffs oppose on the grounds that LiveOne
is not an “individual” protected by the Act.
 
The Act defines “privileged
information” as any individually identifiable information that both (1) relates
to a claim for insurance benefits or a civil or criminal proceeding involving
an individual and (2) is collected in connection with or in reasonable
anticipation of a claim for insurance benefits or civil or criminal proceeding
involving an individual.  (Ins. Code §
791.02, subd. (v).)  An “individual” is
defined as a “natural person.”  (Id.
at subd. (i).)  
 
The Court generally agrees with LiveOne that, as indicated in the
letter itself, individual Defendants to this action Ellin and Hallbauer are
“insureds” under the policy, in their respective capacities as CEO and CFO of
LiveOne.  (See Exhibit K to FAC.)  As such, the letter undoubtedly concerns
“privileged information” as that term is defined under the Act.
 
However, that does not resolve the issue of whether the letter and
allegations are “improper” matters subject to being stricken.  As the Court of Appeal explained:
 
We find nothing in the Insurance Code provisions cited by defendants
which would require a restrictive interpretation of the Civil Discovery Act of
1986. Defendants point to the Insurance Information and Privacy Protection Act.
(Ins. Code, § 791 et seq.) That act is part of this state's regulation of the
business of insurance. It was enacted “to establish standards for the
collection, use and disclosure of information gathered in connection with
insurance transactions by insurance institutions, agents or insurance-support
organizations; ...” (Ins. Code, § 791.) The act applies to, and restricts,
information gathering practices and disclosures of information by insurers. It
does not purport to create a privilege against discovery by an insured party
who is a party to a lawsuit. Moreover, the provisions of the insurance act
yield where disclosure is “[o]therwise permitted or required by law” or is
“[i]n response to a facially valid administrative or judicial order, including
a search warrant or subpoena.” (Ins. Code, § 791.13, subds. (g), (h).)
 
(Irvington-Moore,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)  
 
Thus, the cited provisions of the Insurance Code do not prevent
discovery or disclosure of otherwise discoverable insurance information to
parties to a lawsuit, such as Plaintiffs, and LiveOne does not raise any other grounds
of privilege.  
 
Further, both Raphael & Associate and Old Republic voluntarily
produced the letter.  (Halwani Decl. ¶
5.)  Thus, even if Raphael &
Associate’s clawback request were honored, Plaintiffs would still have the
letter by virtue of Old Republic’s production of it.  
 
As such, the Court denies
LiveOne’s request to strike Exhibit K and allegations stemming from the
exhibit.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Punitive
Damages
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
 
            As
discussed above, the FAC alleges Defendants regularly hosted large entertainment
industry events of such scope and frequency that would clearly disturb the
neighbors, especially the red carpet events held on Plaintiffs’ shared driveway
with the LiveOne house.  The conduct
alleged is sufficiently egregious to constitute a willful and conscious
disregard of Plaintiffs’ right to peace in their residential home.  Further, the conduct is alleged on the part
of LiveOne’s CEO, Robert Ellin:
 
8.  […] Discovery and
investigation to date shows that throughout the negotiation of the lease,
LiveOne and its CEO, Robert Ellin, were recognized by all involved as the true
parties in interest to the lease and that LiveOne would operate out of the
residence. For example, LiveOne (i) through its CEO and with assistance from
its corporate counsel in New York negotiated all of the lease terms; (ii) paid
the security deposit, three months upfront rent and monthly lease payments from
its business bank account (until it defaulted on the lease in June); (iii) paid
for all utilities for the property, which were in the company’s name, again
through its business bank account; (iv) purchased millions of dollars of
commercial general liability insurance for the property, with LiveOne, Inc. as
the named insured, where the policy designated 516 N. Beverly as LiveOne’s
business address and described the residence as a “recording studio”; (v)
described the residence in its application for insurance as LiveOne’s
“office/studio space”; and (vi) proceeded to operate its business from the 516
N. Beverly Drive property for more than a year as of the filing of this
pleading by, among other things, recording podcasts in the recording studio,
holding business meetings, operating lodging for business guests, including
recording artists and podcast hosts and their guests, and hosting music and
podcast industry events.
 
[…]
 
55. In or around April 2023, LiveOne, Inc.’s executives CEO Robert
Ellin, CFO Aaron Sullivan, and Head of Music Publishing Joshua Hallbauer began
negotiating the lease of 516 N. Beverly Drive with the specific intention of
leasing the property for LiveOne’s business purposes. On or about April 20,
2023, Ellin and Crotinger submitted personal applications for lease of the
residential property as well as personal credit reports. 
 
56. In connection with the lease negotiations, LiveOne also provided
its corporate formation documents, financial and banking statements and other
company records to the landlord owners through its real estate broker.
 
57. At the same time, LiveOne, Inc. continued plans to “spin-out” its
podcast division, PodcastOne, into a separate publicly traded corporation,
issuing a press release on the topic in March 2023. “We are excited about the
planned spin-out of PodcastOne as it will be the only pure play publicly traded
podcast company,” said Ellin at the time. As set forth below, the company’s
spun-out podcast division, also led by Ellin, later began operating out of 516
N. Beverly Drive, including from the podcast studio the company had built in
the guest house behind the residence. 
 
58. Although the sham lease agreement ultimately purported to provide
for residential occupancy by Crotinger, from the outset the residence always
was intended to be the center of LiveOne’s business operations, by all
concerned. It also was apparently designed to further LiveOne, Inc’s “spin-out”
of PodcastOne. Indeed, Defendants always knew that 516 N. Beverly Drive would
be used as an office, recording studio and corporate event space by LiveOne and
PodcastOne and that this use would be a violation of the law. 
 
59. On June 23, 2023, as lease negotiations between LiveOne and the
owners were being finalized, LiveOne head of music publishing Hallbauer texted
owner Khashkooy, on a text chat that included CEO Ellin (but notably not the
planned sham lessee Crotinger) seeking to schedule a walk-through of the
residence with other LiveOne employees including its Chief Financial Officer
Aaron Sullivan for later that day, inquiring, “[a]nyone there now? Like to take
my head production/cfo now??” Khashkooy replied, “Give me a call,” and then
followed-up that “[c]oast is clear” for LiveOne executives Hallbauer, Sullivan
and “production head” to do a final walkthrough at approximately 4:00 p.m. on
June 23. 
 
60. In the lease negotiations between the owner Khashkooy and LiveOne,
Inc. executives, which almost never included sham lessee Crotinger, LiveOne
executives (CEO Ellin and CFO Sullivan) sought to modify the subject lease
agreement apparently so that its terms would permit LiveOne to operate as a
business from 516 N. Beverly Drive, despite the residential property being in
an R-1 zone and everyone knowing that such commercial operations in a
residential zoned area would be illegal. 
 
61. For example, LiveOne executives sought to strike the word
“personal” from a description of the occupancy as the “personal residence of
[Crotinger]” in recognition that the company would occupy and operate out of
the residence, although Crotinger may live on the business premises. They also
sought to include the phrase “[lessee] plus such number of his guests as he
reasonably deems appropriate,” to address the fact that LiveOne employees,
business visitors, vendors, podcast interviewers and guests, and music industry
invitees to corporate events that would take place at the residence, would
bring dozens if not hundreds of people to the residence each week. And they
sought to strike a section requiring owner’s consent for overnight guests.
Attached hereto as Exhibit B is a true and correct copy of this email
communication. LiveOne even sought to include itself as a named tenant in the lease
so that, as far as the landlord was concerned, it could not be evicted from the
residence for conducting its planned illegal commercial operations. However,
the owners’ real estate agent advised against this, stating, “[T]hey want to
add the company name as a tenant. I think the Company name should be added as a
SECOND guarantor not as a tenant.” Attached hereto as Exhibit C is a true and
correct copy of this email communication.
 
[…]
 
63. By July 2023, LiveOne, including Ellin, had discussed with the
owners that LiveOne, Inc. would guarantee the lease with Crotinger acting as a
sham lessee. LiveOne sent the owners two months of company bank statements,
bylaws, 2022 corporate tax returns and other corporate documents, on or about
June 27, 2023, to support its credit worthiness as a guarantor. But according
to the owners’ real estate agent, LiveOne, Inc. later “reneged” on such
guarantees, on or about July 5, 2023. Eventually, Ellin (the CEO of LiveOne,
Inc.) signed a personal guarantee of the sham residential lease to Crotinger. 
 
64. In text messages to the owners on or about July 5, 2023, LiveOne
CEO Ellin, apparently upset about a delay in signing the company’s lease, said,
“I agreed 3 months and 2 months security your agent should be fired.” He added
later, “This is not fair.” The parties ultimately settled on this arrangement
with LiveOne (not sham lessee Crotinger) paying the owners $100,000
representing three months’ rent and two months’ security deposit.
 
65. Before the sham lease agreement was finalized in Crotinger’s name
but without his involvement in the negotiations and without his agreement to
pay any money for the lease, on or about July 7, 2024, LiveOne’s real estate
agent, attempting to cover up LiveOne’s illegal plans, asked Crotinger to fill
out a phony lease application and to list individuals who would be staying at
the residence as part of that application. In response to this request,
Crotinger wrote via text message, “Okay, I texted Rob [Ellin] we shouldn’t list
kids and should treat them more like guests coming and going.” Upon information
and belief, “kids” refers to LiveOne artists, contractors and employees who
worked from 516 N. Beverly Drive. 
 
66. On July 14, 2023, Crotinger signed the sham lease agreement. 
 
67. On July 17, 2023, LiveOne’s real estate agent wrote to Crotinger
via text message, “According to [LiveOne head of music publishing] Josh
[Hallbauer], [LiveOne CEO] Rob [Ellin] wanted to review the lease before the
owner signs. He hasn’t done so[,] so I’m still holding on to the lease … If you
don’t mind checking in with them [Halbauer and Ellin] that would be great!” In
response, Crotinger said, “Rob [Ellin] texted me and said he hasn’t seen
anything.” The real estate agent responded, “What?!” Attached hereto as Exhibit
E (pp. 5-6) is a true and correct copy of these communications. 
 
68. In reality, documents obtained so far show that CEO Ellin had seen
the sham lease but was holding up execution to extract a concession from the
owners. Specially, Ellin wanted the owners to admit in writing that they knew
the company would illegally operate its business from the residential property
governed by the sham residential lease. Four days earlier, on July 13, 2023,
the owners’ real estate agent wrote to the owners via email, “So apparently the
tenant is not signing the lease documents until and unless they get an email
from Siamak [Khakshooy] saying he knows they are doing business there. Just
fyi…” (emphasis added). Attached hereto as Exhibit F is a true and correct copy
of this email communication. 
 
69. On July 18, 2023, the owners acknowledged the intended illegal use
of the property and signed the sham residential lease agreement. 
 
70. After the lease was fully executed, LiveOne continued to pay the
rent and utilities on the residence. In January 2024, LiveOne requested a W9
from the owners in connection with the rent payments, which, upon information
and belief, under the Internal Revenue Code would enable the company to deduct
the hundreds of thousands of dollars it invested in its new offices, recording
studio and corporate event space as a business expense rather than
characterizing it as income to the sham residential tenant Crotinger and
thereby the company could evade the its obligation to pay state and federal
payroll taxes and Crotinger could evade paying income tax for the company
paying “his” rent and utilities.
 
[…]
 
72. Defendants, including CEO Ellin, premeditatedly violated Beverly
Hills’ zoning laws with a conscious disregard for the Kibler Family’s rights
and with the intent to unjustly profit at their expense. For example, on July
5, 2023, LiveOne corporate counsel in New York, Foley Schecter Ablovatskiy LLP
Partner Sasha Ablovatskiy, wrote to Ellin after reviewing the lease (a
communication LiveOne later shared with a broker), “The lease says that the
premises are to be used solely as personal residence of [Crotinger]. Not sure
if you need to or would like to clarify that it will be used for any other
business purposes to avoid any confusion or future problems with the landlord.”
(emphasis added). In response, Ellin wrote, “Problem[.] we must have proper
language not to get tossed out … Living and Working.” Mr. Ablovatskiy also
advised Ellin to purchase general commercial liability insurance “for the
premises and any business to be operated theron[.]” Ellin, knowing LiveOne
intended to use the residence as its corporate offices and recoding (sic) studio,
responded by saying, “[W]e need to asap … Need to be fully protected.” Attached
hereto as Exhibit I are true and correct copies of email communications
reflecting these discussions. 
 
73. LiveOne, Inc. ultimately took the Foley partner’s advice,
purchasing and paying premiums on millions of dollars of general commercial
liability insurance for itself (Old Republic Policy No. ORB-PK-23-A01924-00),
listing 516 N. Beverly Drive as a covered premise. LiveOne, Inc.’s CGL Policy
Declarations page describes the residential property with the following
business description: “Recording Studio.” The policy also lists Slacker, Inc.,
PodcastOne, Inc., LiveXLive Corp, “Splitminds LLC [sic]” and Drumify LLC as
additional insureds and apparently insures audio/video equipment at the
residential property. Attached hereto as Exhibit J are true and correct copies
of excerpts of LiveOne’s Old Republic Insurance policy. 
 
74. In its email application for this commercial general liability
policy, LiveOne described the residential property as follows: “Office/studio
space with separate living space for approx 5 individuals. There is also a
pool. We will be hosting small events on location occasionally also.” In other
words, LiveOne admitted that 516 N. Beverly Drive was the company’s “office,”
would be used as a professional “recording studio,” and that it would host
corporate events at the residence. LiveOne also stated in this email
application that “[t]he primary resident will be Aidan Crotinger -while other
people will be staying for long periods of time (month at a time plus) there
will be no other official residents. On a daily basis the property will be
Aidan’s primary home/office space for LiveOne corp and creative space for
podcast studios/recording studios.” (emphasis added). LiveOne also stated that
it would be leasing out the residential property for “studio time to other
major labels and Lu koshers [sic] when they need studios.” Finally, LiveOne
stated it would be, “charging people who are staying at the residents [sic]
when they need somewhere to sleep.” Attached hereto as Exhibits K and L is a
true and correct copy of an insurance letter reflecting this information and an
email from LiveOne to the insurance company requesting the policy, i.e. its
email application. 
 
75. That Ellin, Hallbauer, and Crotinger authorized, and directed
LiveOne’s intentional violations of Beverly Hills zoning laws and other torts
is beyond any legitimate dispute. It is also clear that Ellin, Hallbauer, and
Crotinger conceived, orchestrated, and implemented LiveOne, Inc.’s plan to
commercially operate from 516 N. Beverly Drive as a business in violation of
Beverly Hills zoning laws, as described below, and to commit other torts under
California law. They also directed and authorized other LiveOne, Inc.
employees, including CFO Sullivan, to engage in illegal conduct.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 8, 55-61, 72-75.)
 
Therefore, the Court
determines that Plaintiffs have adequately alleged facts amounting to oppression,
fraud, and malice, on the part of LiveOne’s CEO.
 
                                                    
iii.         
Injunctive
Relief
 
As to LiveOne, Plaintiffs seek a “Preliminary and permanent injunction
to cease all of LiveOne, Inc.’s business operations at 516 N. Beverly
Drive[.]”  (Prayer at ¶ (b).)  LiveOne moves to strike Plaintiffs’ request
for injunctive relief as moot because “the adjacent residence has been
vacated.”  (Motion at p. 7.)  In support, LiveOne cites to Request for
Judicial Notice Exhibit A (the joint report filed in the unlawful detainer
case).  
 
Although the Court cannot take judicial notice of the truth of the hearsay
statements made in the joint report, it can take judicial notice of the fact
that such statements were made, and the legal impact of those statements
(converting the unlawful detainer action to an action for damages only).  Further, Plaintiffs do not dispute that
LiveOne and associated Defendants have vacated the home.  Thus, it is clear that LiveOne and associated
Defendants have surrendered the property to its owner, and have, for all
intents and purposes, already ceased all business operations at the
property.  
 
In opposing the request to strike the request for injunctive relief,
Plaintiffs argue that “there is nothing preventing LiveOne, its executives or
its subsidiaries from moving back into the property in the future” because the
owner “has a history of leasing the house to music entertainment
companies.”  
 
The Court agrees that in light of Defendants’ refusal to stipulate to
the permanent injunction combined with the allegations that LiveOne and the
owners previously orchestrated an alleged sham lease to Crotinger to cloak the
fact that LiveOne ran its business from the home, and the owners’ history of
leasing the property to music companies, an ever-present risk remains that
LiveOne and associated Defendants may continue to try to host events and
otherwise conduct business out of the home it widely publicized as being its
headquarters by way of another “sham” lease. 

 
Thus, the Court finds that the permanent injunctive relief remains an
active controversy.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Moving Defendants’ Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint in its entirety. 
Further, the Court denies LiveOne’s Motion to Strike in its
entirety.  
 
Moving Defendants shall file and serve Answers to the FAC on or before
November 18, 2024.  
 
Moving Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
 
DATED:  October 28, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


