 Case Number:  23AHCV01991    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 4, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         FRANCIS CHUNG YU
and WEI MEEI YU, v. TIENSTAR INVESTMENTS LLC, a California limited liability
company, KEVIN TIEN LEE, an individual; LINDA T. HUYNH LEE aka LINDA T. LEE aka
LINDA HUYNH, an individual; GOODYEAR CONSTRUCTION CORP. aka GOODYEAR
CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION, a California corporation; SAMI GEORGE BITAR, an
individual; and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01991
 
            
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Tienstar Investments
LLC, Kevin Tien Lee, and Linda T. Lee (“Moving Parties”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Francis Chung Yu and Wei Meei Yu (“Plaintiffs”)
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 5, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed February 20, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed February 26, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants move to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Francis Chung Yu and
Wei Meei Yu (“Plaintiffs”) claims that Defendants Tienstar Investments LLC,
Kevin Tien Lee, Linda T. Huynh Lee, Goodyear Construction Corporation, and Sami
Georges Bitar trespassed onto on Plaintiff’s property located at 801 W.
Huntington Drive, Arcadia, California (“Subject Property”) and engaged in
unconsented to construction. Plaintiffs filed this complaint on August 29,
2023, alleging four causes of action for (1) trespass/encroachment to land, (2)
damages to lang, (3) temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, and
permanent injunction, and (4) ejectment.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’
motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is GRANTED with 20
days leave to amend. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. 
(Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
             Defendants move to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages. 
 
            Punitive damages may be
imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant
has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a). A plaintiff seeking punitive damages “must include specific factual allegations showing that defendant's
conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for
punitive damages. [Citation.] Punitive damages my not be pleaded generally.” (Today’s
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
3294, subdivision (c), provides definitions for each grounds to bring punitive
damages. “
‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “ ‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “ ‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
 
A cause of
action for “trespass also support[s] the award of exemplary damages.” (Cyrus
v. Haveson (1976) 65 Cal.App.3d 306, 316.) The issue presented is whether
Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to sustain a claim for punitive
damages. The court concludes that Plaintiffs have not.
 
In their
complaint, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants began improvements on Defendants’
property. (Complaint ¶¶ 12-14.) Plaintiffs allege
that Defendants’ contractors entered onto Plaintiffs’ property without
permission to perform improvements to Defendants’ property, which included
building a scaffolding on Plaintiffs’ property. (Id. ¶¶ 15-16.)
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants stated that they had not instructed their
workers to build scaffolding on Plaintiffs’ property but ultimately decided to
continue to work on Plaintiffs’ property. (Id. ¶¶ 17-19.) Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants have responded with untruths, misrepresentation,
bullying and threats. (Id. ¶ 21.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ allegations, if proven, at best demonstrate that
Defendants or their agents intentionally encroached onto Plaintiffs’ property.
However, to establish malice, Plaintiffs must allege that Defendants intended
to cause Plaintiffs injury or engaged in despicable conduct with a willful and
conscious disregard for Plaintiffs’ safety. (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Plaintiffs have not alleged so in the present
case. Further, Plaintiffs allegations that Defendants engaged in “untruths” and
“misrepresentations” are too generalized to support a claim for punitive
damages based on fraud, which requires specific factual allegations. (Today’s IV, Inc., supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p.
1193.)
 
Defendants’
motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendants’
motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is GRANTED with  20 days leave to amend. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 4, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
