 Case Number:  21STCV21491    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon.
Lee S. Arian, Dept 27  
  
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY 
Hearing
Date: 5/15/24   
CASE
NO./NAME: 21STCV21491 FLOYD WILTZ vs NORMANDIE PORTFOLIO II LP; INC., et al. 
Moving
Party: Defendant Normandie Portfolio II
Responding
Party: Plaintiff
Notice:
Sufficient
Ruling:
SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED
 
Background
On June 9, 2021,
Plaintiff filed the present slip and fall action, alleging that on the morning
of June 1, 2019, Defendant’s property manager, Obioma Iwuoma, mopped the
stairs, causing them to become slippery. As Plaintiff descended the stairs, he
slipped and sustained injuries. He brought this action alleging premises
liability and negligence.  Defendant
Normandie Portfolio II now moves the court for summary judgment on the basis
that Plaintiff cannot prove actual or constructive notice nor that it was
Obioma Iwuoma who created the puddle of water that caused the fall.
Evidentiary
Ruling
 
Defendant’s
objection to lines 17 and 18 of the declaration of Dashida Gordon is sustained
on the basis that it lacks foundation and is speculative. The Parties
did not make any other objections to evidence that were material to the Court’s
ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).) 
 
The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests for
judicial notice.
 
Legal
Standard 
 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). "When the motion for summary judgment is
supported by affidavits sufficient to sustain the motion,…the burden of showing
that triable issues exist shifts to the party opposing the motion. [Citation.]
A party cannot avoid summary judgment based on mere speculation and
conjecture…but instead must produce admissible evidence raising a triable issue
of fact. (Crouse v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1509, 1524.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment
should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)
 
Premises Liability and Negligence
The
elements of causes of action for premises liability and negligence are the same: duty,
breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013)
220 Cal. App. 4th 994, 998 (citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal. 4th 1200, 1205; Civil Code § 1714(a)). “As a
general rule, each person has a duty to use ordinary care and is liable for
injuries caused by his failure to exercise reasonable care in the
circumstances.” (Romero v. Superior Court (2001) 89 Cal. App. 4th
1068.)
 Because a landowner is not the insurer of a
visitor’s safety, the owner’s actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous
condition is key to establishing liability. (Hall v. Aurora Loan
Servs., LLC (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1134, 1139, Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1206.)
In
the ordinary slip and fall case, as in Ortega, the cause of
the dangerous condition is not necessarily linked to an employee. Consequently,
there is no issue of respondeat superior. Where, however, “the evidence is such
that a reasonable inference can be drawn that the condition was created by employees
of the [defendant], then [the defendant] is charged with notice of the
dangerous condition.” (Getchell v. Jewelry, 203 (2012) Cal.App.4th 381,
385 citing (Oldham, supra, 85 Cal.App.2d at pp.
218–219; Hatfield v. Levy Bros. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 798,
806.))
Plaintiff
alleges that an employee of the Defendants created the slippery condition on
the stairs. In such a case, Plaintiff need not prove actual or constructive
notice because if the condition was created
by employees of the [defendant], then [the defendant] is charged with notice of
the dangerous condition (Getchell v. Jewelry, 203 (2012) Cal.App.4th 381, 385.)
Therefore, the question of notice is essentially the same as the question of
causation: whether the alleged water on the stairs was created by Defendants’
employee, Obioma Iwuoma.
Defendant's Initial Burden
Defendant
has met its initial burden in showing that the water that allegedly caused
Plaintiff’s fall was not created by Iwuoma. Iwuoma declared that he inspected
and cleaned the common area where Plaintiff fell one hour before the incident.
During the inspection, he did not observe any puddles, spillage, or liquid
substances on the staircase. (Iwuoma Decl. ¶ 3.) Iwuoma further declares that
in the approximately one hour between his inspection and cleaning of the
stairwell and the incident, he did not receive any reports of liquid spillage,
puddles, or any issues with the staircase from anyone. (Iwuoma Decl. ¶ 6.)
Defendant
also introduced Plaintiff’s testimony where Plaintiff testified that seven
minutes prior to his fall, when he walked up the same set of stairs, he did not
observe the stairs to be wet. (Wiltz Depo. 43:9-14.) Plaintiff further
testified that although he observed water on the stairs about an inch deep when
he fell, did not know where the water came from, how long the water had been
there, and confirmed that he did not see the water seven minutes before when
going up the same set of stairs. (Wiltz Depo. 59:4-17.)
Plaintiff’s Burden
Plaintiff
attempts to create a triable issue of fact by arguing that Iwuoma did not dry
mop the stairs after he wet mopped the floors in the morning, resulting in the
water puddle that caused Plaintiff to fall. Plaintiff mainly relies on two
pieces of evidence in support of his contention regarding the issue of
causation: Plaintiff’s declaration and Dashida Gordan’s declaration. Plaintiff’s
declaration states only that he slipped on water; he does not state where the
water came from or that Iwuoma created the puddle/water. The Declaration of
Dashida Gordan states, in pertinent parts, that “Earlier that morning, I saw
Obi mopping the lobby on the ground floor of the building.” (Gordan Dec. par.
7).  She then states that “[b[efore Mr. Wiltz
fell, I slipped and almost fell because 'Obi' kept leaving things wet when he
mopped and didn't dry-mop afterward. I complained to him, and he promised he
would, but I never saw him dry-mop, and I don't believe that he ever did. I saw
water other times on the steps, even after I complained and before Mr. Wiltz
fell." (Gordan Decl. ¶ 8.)
The
Gordan declaration does not state what she observed Iwuoma do in relation to
the stairs on the day of the incident. Gordan states only that she believes
Iwuoma did not dry mop and left water behind based on prior incidents. In a
motion for summary judgment, the testimony or evidence must be based on
specific facts and observations. It is axiomatic that an inference may not be
based on suspicion alone, or on imagination, speculation, surmise, conjecture,
or guesswork (Estate of Gutierrez (1961) 189 Cal. App. 2d 165, 173.) 
Gordan’s
inference that the puddle of water that caused Plaintiff to fall was created by
Iwuoma is based solely on the fact that Iwuoma had previously failed to dry
mop. This assertion is not based on Gordan’s observation on the day of the
incident and fails to account for other possible sources of the water. Without
any additional other evidence to support this inference, the Court would
consider Gordan’s declaration speculative and insufficient to overcome
Plaintiff’s own testimony that he did not observe the water 7 minutes before
the incident when going up the same set of stairs and that he does not know
where the water came from or Iwuoma’s declaration stating that he inspected the
stairs after mopping and did not see any puddles to create a triable issue of
fact. Thus, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with
the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of the
email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information,
and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email
to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume that
others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 