 Case Number:  22STCV25326    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Hearing Date: 5/15/24
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV25326 HOUSSEM ZIDI vs
SANFORD SIGAL et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Diamante Electric
& Construction (“Diamante”)
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Background
 
On August 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed a premises
liability case against Defendants Sigal Family Trust, Allison Binder, and
Diamante Electric & Construction, alleging that Defendants were performing
construction at the front of the property which was left open with large
trenches without any protective coverings. Plaintiff fell into the construction
area while delivering food to the Defendants. On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the second amended complaint seeking punitive damages. Defendant Diamante
now move the court to strike the allegations relating to punitive damages in
the SAC, specifically the following allegations:
 
1. Complaint ¶ 8, 3:16-20 (“and willfully, maliciously,
or with conscious disregard, failed to guard or warn against a dangerous
condition, use, structure or activity on the Premises. In a premises liability
case like this one, the standard for punitive damages includes ‘with a willful
and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,’ which is a
subcategory of malice.”)
 
2. Complaint ¶ 9, 4:1-5 (“Defendants, and each
of them, knew these trenches were dangerous and could cause injury in multiple
ways, including by individuals being able to fall into the open trenches, blunt
force from hitting the concrete, cuts and lacerations from the corners of the
concrete blocks and glass inside the trenches, as well as electrification from
the wiring and light fixtures inside the trenches.”)
 
3. Complaint ¶ 11, 4:21-22 (“including
Defendant Diamante Electric & Construction, Inc. demonstrated malice,
conscious disregard, and extreme recklessness for the safety of individuals on
the premises”)
 
4. Complaint ¶ 11, 4:23-25 (“By failing to
take adequate safety measures to prevent persons on the property from falling
into the trenches, demonstrated malice, conscious disregard, and extreme
recklessness.”)
 
5. Complaint ¶ 14, 5:17-21 (“Defendants acted
with extreme recklessness, and with “evil motive” sufficient for malice, found
here in “an intention to perform an act that the actor knows, or should know,
will very probably cause harm.” See Nolin v. National Convenience Stores, Inc.
(1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 286 [internal citations Donnelly v. Southern Pacific
Co. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 863, 869, 118 P.2d 465, 468].”)
 
6. Complaint ¶ 14 5:24-6:2 (“This extreme
recklessness and conscious disregard for Plaintiff and his safety, and where
they knew, or should have known would probably cause him harm, demonstrates
malice. This also constitutes as fraud for punitive damages purposes as
Defendants acted with intentional misrepresentation, deceit and or concealment
of a material fact known to the Defendants with the intention on the part of
the Defendant of thereby depriving Plaintiff of his rights or otherwise causing
injury.”)
 
7. Complaint ¶ 15, 6:3-9 “(Defendants, by
verbally warning their friends/acquaintances of the dangerous condition and
instructing them to avoid the front door/walkway where the trenches were and to
enter the home through the garage or other areas, while not doing the same for
service workers and/or other similarly situated such as Plaintiff, aka the
“help”, shows wanton and reckless misconduct. Defendants instructing Plaintiff
to walk on the known dangerous walkway with the open trenches displays malice
and despicable conduct which was carried on by the Defendants with a willful
and conscious disregard for the rights and safety of Plaintiff.”)
 
8. Complaint ¶ 16, 6:12-14 “(and willfully or
maliciously failed to guard or warn against a dangerous condition, use,
structure or activity on the Premises, demonstrating a conscious disregard for
the safety of individuals on the premises.”)
 
9. Complaint ¶ 17, 6:16-18 (“As a result of
the wrongful conduct of Defendants and DOES 1-100’s failure to obey multiple
safety rules and regulations, and to provide signage and cover to fill in areas
of the pavers or take protective measures to keep the area safe for persons
entering the property.”)
 
10. Complaint ¶ 18, 6:20 (“willfully or
maliciously”)  
 
11. Complaint ¶ 19, 6:24-25 (“unlawfully
maintained the premises”)
 
12. Complaint ¶ 20, 7:2-3 (“recklessness, and
unlawfulness”)
 
13. Complaint ¶ 21, 7:7-8 (“willfully or
maliciously failed to guard or warn against a dangerous condition, use,
structure or activity on the Premises.”)
 
14. Complaint ¶ 22, 7:9-10 (“recklessness,
wantonness, and unlawfulness”)
 
15. Complaint ¶ 24, 7:15-16 (“Furthermore,
Defendants were aware of the dangerous condition and acted with a conscious
disregard for the safety of others, including Plaintiff and the residents of
the premises.
 
16. Complaint ¶ 24, 7:29 (“As a result,
Plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages.”)
 
17. Complaint ¶ 34, 9:10-11 (“res ipsa
loquitor negligence, carelessness, recklessness, wantonness and unlawfulness”)
 
18. Prayer for Relief, 6 (“For punitive and
exemplary damages as provided for by Cal. Civil Code § 3294 against
Defendants.”)
 
Legal Standard 
 
Punitive damages
may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).)¿ “Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civil Code section
3294 (c)(1).) Under the statute, malice does not require actual intent to harm.
Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences. (Pfeifer v.
John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) ‘Despicable’ is a
powerful term that refers to circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or
‘contemptible.’ (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 725.)
 
A plaintiff must
assert facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a defendant acted
with oppression, fraud, or malice.¿ To wit, there is
a heightened pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.¿(Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)
 
Analysis
 
In this
premises liability/negligence case, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to
ensure the safety of a construction area, resulting in Plaintiff sustaining
injuries while delivering food to Defendants. Regarding punitive damages, the
complaint primarily contains legal conclusions rather than specific facts
necessary to substantiate such claims. (Opposition at pgs. 9-14.) Plaintiff
references paragraphs 9-14 of the SAC, asserting that these sections contain
specific factual allegations supporting the request for punitive damages. The
Court finds that, while some allegations are specific, they do not demonstrate
the willful and despicable conduct required for punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff
claims that Defendants left the front of the property open with large trenches
and unfilled concrete, stones, and pavers without protective coverings. The
trenches contained large pebbles, electrical wires, and lightbulbs, measuring
between six and eight inches wide and over one-foot deep. (SAC ¶ 9.) Defendants
were aware that these trenches posed multiple dangers, including the risk of
falls, blunt force trauma from hitting the concrete, cuts from the concrete
blocks and glass, and electric shocks from the wiring and light fixtures. (SAC
¶ 9.) Despite this knowledge, Defendants intentionally failed to implement
safety measures such as warning signs, fences, gates, or protective coverings.
(SAC ¶ 10.) Defendants were aware that multiple people lived at and visited the
property. (SAC ¶ 11.) Defendants advised their friends and close contacts to
avoid the walkway where the trenches were located and to use alternative
entrances. They warned these individuals of the dangerous conditions. (SAC ¶
12.) Despite being aware of the risk, Defendants directed Plaintiff to deliver
food to the front door via the walkway with the open trenches, without warning
Plaintiff of the hazard. Defendant Binder specifically instructed Plaintiff to
navigate the dangerous trenches to deliver the food, resulting in Plaintiff's
injury. (SAC ¶ 14.)
 
In Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the court differentiates
between risks that are foreseeable and those that are necessarily probable,
holding that the risk must be necessarily probable for the conduct to be deemed
willful. Here, the allegations must demonstrate that the risk was not merely
foreseeable but necessarily probable to support claims for punitive damages.
The specific facts alleging that the open trench is 6 to 8 inches wide and more
than 1-foot deep and filled with construction material indicate risks that are
foreseeable but not necessarily probable.
Plaintiff’s
allegations that Defendant knew the trench was dangerous and intentionally
failed to provide safety measures are legal conclusions and not facts pled with
the requisite specificity. Furthermore, Plaintiff only pled with specificity
Defendant Binder’s conduct in instructing Plaintiff to navigate the trenches to
deliver food, and not specific facts relating to Defendant Diamante.
 
Moreover, the
alleged facts do not rise to the level of "despicable conduct."
Plaintiff's assertion that Defendant left 
trenches with construction equipment and materials without installing
warning signs, fences, or protective coverings suggests potential negligence
but does not show conduct that is "base," "vile," or
"contemptible."
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion to
strike is GRANTED. Leave to amend is denied because this is Plaintiff’s second
amended complaint. Based on the allegations in the SAC, it appears unlikely
that Plaintiff can allege facts sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages with reasonable probability. However, if Plaintiff acquires sufficient
information during discovery to substantiate a claim for punitive damages, the
Court will consider Plaintiff’s motion to amend the complaint.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.