 Case Number:  21STCV26869    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUBSTITUTION
Hearing Date: 5/15/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV26869 MAN HWA YIM, et al.
vs TAYLOR ASCHENBRENER 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUBSTITUTION IS CONDITIONALLY
GRANTED
 
Legal
Standard
 
“A pending action or
proceeding does not abate by the death of a party if the cause of action
survives.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.21.) “On motion after the death of a person who commenced an action or
proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not
abate to be continued by the decedent’s
personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.31.)
 
The person who seeks to
commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding
as the decedent’s successor in interest shall execute and file an affidavit or
a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating:
(1) The decedent’s name, (2) The date and place of the decedent’s death, (3)
“No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent’s estate,” (4) If the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of
the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to
the successor in interest, (5) Either of the following, as appropriate, with
facts in support thereof, (6) “No other person has a superior right to commence
the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending
action or proceeding,” and (7) the statements are true, under penalty of
perjury. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32.)
 
A certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
 
Discussion
On July 21, 2021,
Plaintiffs filed the present car accident case arising out of a two-vehicle
collision that occurred on December 18, 2019, in Hollywood. Plaintiff Mr. Man
Hwa Yim, age 90, now deceased, and his wife, 83-year-old Chang Suk Kim, a
front-seat passenger, were struck by a vehicle driven by Defendant Taylor
Aschenbrener. Plaintiff Man Hwa Yim passed away on November 22, 2021, and now
Plaintiff Chang Suk Kim, as his successor in interest, moves the court to
substitute herself in place of her husband in the present case.
The court examined the
filing and found that the successor in interest has filed a declaration
fulfilling all the requirements under CCP § 377.32. A certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate is also attached; however, the death certificate
is illegible. The court will CONDITIONALLY GRANT the present motion upon the
filing of a legible certificate of death.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 