 Case Number:  21STCV38404    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL 
Hearing Date: 5/15/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV38404 BRENDA LEE vs
ACCESS SERVICES
Moving Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard¿and Analysis
 
Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿ The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors
in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the
trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any
party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)¿¿A trial court cannot refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed
within the time limits of California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) § 437c. (Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918, 919.)
 
On
October 19, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present premises liability case. The
current trial date is set for November 13, 2024. Defendant County of Los
Angeles has a Motion for Summary Judgment (MSJ) scheduled for a hearing on
November 20, 2024, after the trial date. 
Continuing the trial date so Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment can be heard constitutes good cause. Thus, the
Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED. Since Defendant’s sole basis for
continuing the trial is so its MSJ can be heard, Defendant did not discuss the
various factors to continue/reopen fact discovery deadline; therefore, fact
discovery does not follow the new trial date.
 
The new trial date will be January 6, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.
and all pretrial dates, except fact discovery deadline, are continued in
accordance with the new trial date.  The Final Status Conference is continued to December __, 2024, at
10:00 a.m.[1]
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 


