 Case Number:  23STCV14713    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT A SECOND IME 
Hearing Date: 5/8/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV14713 REGINALD WILSON vs
JIYEON CHOI
Moving Party: Defendant Ji Yeon Choi 
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT A SECOND
IME IS GRANTED IN PART
 
Background
On
June 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the present auto accident action, claiming
injuries to his left knee and back. The knee injuries included tears in both
the inner and outer knee cartilage, inflammation of the tendon below the
kneecap, and a painful condition affecting the front of the knee, all of which
required injections and surgery. The back injuries included a loss of the
natural curve in the lower back, muscle spasms or stiffness. There was also a
6mm bulging disc at one of the lower back levels, which required multiple
steroid injections and nerve blocks to manage the pain and inflammation in the
lower back.
On November 21, 2023, Dr. Kvitne conducted a first
IME on Plaintiff’s knee, back, and spine. Defendant now moves the court for
leave to conduct a second physical examination by Dr. Samudrala on Plaintiff’s
spine. Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing that Plaintiff’s spine/back has
already been examined by Dr. Kvitne and that this examination by Dr. Samudrala
is duplicative. In its reply, Defendant argues that this examination is
neurological in nature and different from that previously conducted by Dr. Kvitne.
Legal Standard
Except for
defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which one examination is
permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court
order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made
only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.” (CCP §2032.320(a).)
The
examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the
action. (CCP §2032.020(a).) This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation. Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337. Often, a party's pleadings put
his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff
claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A
party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can
hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.” See Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing
emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer. Discovery
responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.
Where the
plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists
in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental
exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause. The good cause
requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff. See Shapira
v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.
The burden
is on the moving party to show (by declarations or other evidence) that the
examinee's condition is “in controversy” in the action. The moving party must
also establish good cause for the examination(s) sought. A court order for
physical or mental examination must be based on a showing of “good cause” (CCP
§ 2032.320(a)): (1) relevancy to the subject matter; and (2) specific facts
justifying discovery: i.e., allegations showing the need for the information
sought and lack of means for obtaining it elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) The purpose is to protect an examinee's
privacy by preventing annoying “fishing expeditions” - i.e., one party may not
compel another to undergo psychiatric testing “solely on the basis of
speculation that something of interest may surface.” (Id.)
The notice of motion must state the time, place, identity and
specialty of the examiner, and the “manner, conditions, scope and nature of the
examination.” (CCP § 2032.310(b).) The requirement for specification of the
“manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination” requires disclosure
of whatever diagnostic tests and procedures will be utilized (x-rays, blood and
urine samples, etc.). (See CCP § 2032.220(c).) The notice of motion must be
accompanied by a separate document setting forth the discovery request, the
Declarations must state facts showing that “a reasonable and good faith
attempt” to arrange the examination by stipulation was unsuccessful. (CCP §
2032.310(b).)
Preliminary matters
Defendant
filed a declaration stating that the meet and confer requirement has been met,
and Plaintiff in the opposition does not contest this. Defendant has provided
the time, place, identity, and specialty of the examiner, as well as the
manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination in the motion.
Analysis
The
central dispute between the parties is whether the requested examination is
duplicative. The Court compared the tests done by Dr. Kvitne and the tests
proposed by Dr. Samudrala. The proposed IME by Dr. Samudrala includes numerous tests
under five categories: general examination, examination of the neck,
neurological examination of the upper limbs, neurological examination of the
lower limbs, and general examination of the spine.
As
for the examination of the neck and limbs, Defendant has not shown how these
body parts are at issue. Plaintiff's response to form interrogatory no. 6.2,
which Defendant relies on to show which body parts are at issue, indicates that
Plaintiff only alleges injuries to the back and knee. Therefore, an IME for the
neck and limbs is denied.
As
for the examination of the spine, it includes evaluations that are general,
orthopedic, or neurological in nature. Generic examination includes evaluating
and measuring chest expansion. Neurological examination includes tests such as
the femoral stretch test. Orthopedic examination includes tests such as the
rotation of the spine. As a general rule, examinations of the same body part by
different experts in different fields are allowed. Considering the car crash
led to several injections and complaints of chronic pain, a neurological
examination of the body parts at issue is reasonable.
Thus,
the court will limit the second IME by Dr. Samudrala to the general or neurological
examinations of the spine only. As Dr. Samudrala proposes more than 30 tests to
be conducted on the spine, the parties are ordered to meet and confer in good
faith on the exact neurological tests to be conducted within 7 days of today. To
the extent the parties cannot agree on the tests to be conducted, they may come
in on an ex parte application to obtain the Court’s assistance.  But, only after good faith efforts to
agree.  Plaintiff is ordered to attend
the second IME within 30 days of today pursuant to the agreement reached by the
parties.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.