  Case Number:  20STCV21873    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL 
Hearing Date: 5/15/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV21873 NEOME VELASQUEZ vs
WHOLE FOODS MARKET GROUP, INC.
Moving Party: Defendant Schwartz Investment
Company
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard¿and Analysis
 
Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿ The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors
in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the
trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any
party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)¿¿A trial court cannot refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed
within the time limits of California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) § 437c. (Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918, 919.)
On June 10, 2020, Plaintiff filed the present
premises liability case. The current trial date is set for October 21, 2024.
Defendant Schwartz Investment Company has a Motion for Summary Judgment (MSJ)
scheduled for a hearing on December 17, 2024, after the trial date. No
opposition to the request to continue has been filed.
Continuing the trial date so Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment can be heard constitutes good cause. Defendant
requests a continuance to sometime in March 2025. However, given the age of the
case and the four previous continuances, the Court is disinclined to grant any
further continuances beyond the statutory requirement, allowing Defendant’s MSJ
to be heard 30 days before trial.
 
Since Defendant’s sole basis for continuing
the trial is so its MSJ can be heard and Defendant did not discuss the various factors
to continue/reopen fact discovery deadline; therefore, fact discovery does not
follow the new trial date.
 
The new trial date will be January 20, 2025,
at 8:30 a.m. and all pretrial dates, except fact discovery deadline, are
continued in accordance with the new trial date.¿ The Final Status Conference is continued to _______, at
10:00 a.m.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.