 Case Number:  22STCV12263    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF 
Hearing Date: 5/15/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV12263 EMILIO ARIAS RAMOS,
et al. vs TAMARA NICOLE JORDAN. 
Moving Party: Defendant
Responding Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF IS CONTINUED
 
Background
 
On
April 12, 2022, Plaintiffs Emilio Ramos and Sylvia Arias filed the present
motor accident case against Defendant Tamara Jordan. On May 20, 2022,
Defendant, represented by counsel Thomas Kielty, Esq., filed a cross-complaint
against Defendants for negligence. On September 30, 2022, Ibrahim N. Muhtaseb
was associated in this case by Defendant’s insurance carrier. On February 14,
2023, defense counsel Ibrahim N. Muhtaseb amended the complaint to add
additional causes of action for indemnity, contribution, and declaratory
relief. On December 5, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s Request for
Dismissal of the entire Cross Complaint filed by Thomas Kielty, Esq. The
Request for Dismissal allegedly should have been limited to only the first
cause of action of the cross complaint. Defendant now moves the Court for
relief from the dismissal of the entire Cross Complaint.
Legal Standard
“It is … well
established that it is the policy of the law to bring about a trial on the
merits whenever possible, so that any doubts which may exist should be resolved
in favor of the application, to the end of securing to a litigant his day in
court and a trial upon the merits.”  (Frank E. Beckett Co. v. Bobbitt (1960) 180 Cal.App.2d Supp. 921, 928.)
 
Section 473, subdivision
(b) provides for two distinct types of relief—commonly differentiated as
“discretionary” and “mandatory”—from certain prior actions or proceedings in
the trial court. (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.)
“Under the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of ‘mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,’ the court has discretion to
allow relief from a ‘judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against’ a party or his or her attorney.  Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a
showing by attorney declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,’ the court shall vacate any ‘resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.’” (Ibid.,
internal citations and quotation marks omitted, quoting CCP § 473, subd. (b).)
 
An application for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) must be made within a reasonable time and in no case, exceeding
six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
from which relief is sought. (CCP § 473, subd. (b).)
 
Discussion
The
moving party submitted a declaration by defense counsel Ibrahim N. Muhtaseb
stating that defense counsel Thomas Kielty mistakenly dismissed the entire
cross-complaint against the Plaintiffs, beyond the scope of Defendant’s
authorization to dismiss only the first cause of action of the cross-complaint.
The basis for an order to vacate is proper; however, the moving party needs to
submit either a declaration from Kielty acknowledging he inadvertently and
mistakenly dismissed the entire case, or a declaration from the client
confirming Kielty acted beyond the client's authorization. 
Furthermore,
the moving party states that the cross-complaint was dismissed with prejudice,
but the Court examined the filing and notes that it was dismissed without
prejudice. The Court will continue the hearing to May ___, 2024, and the moving party is ordered to
file the requisite declaration(s) 5 days before the hearing date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 