  Case Number:  22STCV13373    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  74 Jerome S. Greene, et al. v. Dollar
Tree Stores, Inc., et al.
 
Defendant Rubin Pachulski Properties
36 LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Motion for Summary
Adjudication
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
 
            Defendant
Rubin Pachulski Properties 36, LLC (“Pachulski Properties”) partly owns the shopping plaza known as La Cienega-Sawyer
Plaza. A property owner owes a duty of care – the existence of which the court
decides as a legal question – to keep the property safe. It is a triable issue of
material fact whether the security measures taken at the property satisfied
Defendant’s duty of care or breached it. If the duty was breached, a triable
issue of material fact exists whether that breach caused plaintiff’s injuries
because a triable issue of material fact exists whether the criminal act was
foreseeable or, alternatively, an intervening superseding cause of plaintiff’s
injuries. Summary judgment and adjudication are improper.
 
BACKGROUND
            On April 21, 2022, Plaintiff Jerome
Greene filed the instant action for negligence and premises liability by and
through his guardian ad litem Francine Greene, as a result of injuries
sustained following an assault on the premises allegedly owned, leased,
controlled, managed, secured, and/or maintained by Defendants.  On September 1, 2022, Plaintiff’s counsel
informed the Court that Plaintiff Jerome Greene had passed away as a result of
his injuries and filed a First Amended Complaint adding Plaintiff’s sister,
Francine Greene, as his successor in interest.   The First Amended Complaint names the
following defendants: Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. (“Dollar Tree”), RP Realty
Partners, LLC (“RP Realty”), RPD Catalyst, LLC (“RPD”), RPD Catalyst II, LLC
(“RPD II), and Security 1 (“Security”).  Subsequently,
the following defendants were added to the case: RPD Property Management
Company, LLC (“RPD Management”) and Rubin Pachulski Properties 36, LLC
(“Pachulski Properties”), while Defendants RPD and RPD II were dismissed
without prejudice.  Throughout the
pendency of the lawsuit, several additional cross-complaints have been filed
between the parties.
            On
April 26, 2024, Defendant Pachulski Properties filed the instant Motion for
Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication.  Plaintiff filed an Opposition on June 27,
2024, and Defendant filed a Reply on July 5, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
A
party seeking summary judgment has the burden of producing evidentiary facts
sufficient to entitle him/her to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  The moving party must make an affirmative
showing that he/she is entitled to judgment irrespective of whether or not the
opposing party files an opposition.  (Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
733, 742-743.)  Thus, “the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
When
a plaintiff seeks summary judgment, he/she must produce admissible evidence on
each element of each cause of action on which judgment is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  When a defendant seeks summary judgment,
he/she has the “burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action,
even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
The
opposing party on a motion for summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden
to produce rebuttal evidence until the moving party meets his or her initial
movant’s burden.  (Binder v. Aetna Life Insurance Company (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832,
840.)  Once the initial movant’s burden
is met, then the burden shifts to the opposing party to show, with admissible
evidence, that there is a triable issue requiring the weighing procedures of
trial.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p).)  The opposing party may not simply
rely on his/her allegations to show a triable issue but must present
evidentiary facts that are substantial in nature and rise beyond mere
speculation.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162.)  Summary judgment must be granted “if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
As
to any alternative request for summary adjudication of issues, such alternative
relief must be clearly set forth in the Notice of Motion and the general
burden-shifting rules apply but the issues upon which summary adjudication may
be sought are limited by statute.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(1).)  “A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.”  (Ibid.)
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant
requests judicial notice of the following documents:
(1)   Declaration
of Rosalba Alvarez, submitted with Defendant Dollar Tree’s Motion for Summary
Judgment and attached to Declaration of Patrick Ball as Exhibit 7;
(2)   Compendium
of Evidence – Exhibit C, submitted with Defendant Dollar Tree’s Motion for
Summary Judgment and attached to Declaration of Patrick Ball as Exhibit 8;
(3)   Felony complaint in The People of
the State of California v. Nicholas Wayne Gill, Los Angeles Superior Court,
Case No. SA105659, attached to Declaration of Patrick Ball as
Exhibit 9.
According
to Evidence Code § 452, the Court may take judicial notice of matters that
include records or rules of another court and facts or propositions of common
knowledge, among other matters.  Here the
Court grants Defendant’s requests as to Exhibit 9, but denies its request as to
Exhibits 7-8.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Pachulski Properties moves for summary judgment as to the causes of action
alleged in the First Amended Complaint on the basis that there are no triable
issues of material fact as to Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant and, thus,
Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  Alternatively, Defendant requests summary
adjudication as to the following matters: Defendant Pachulski Properties cannot
be held liable for any of Plaintiff’s negligence-based claims because there is
no triable issue of material fact as to Defendant’s (1) duty of care, (2)
breach of any duty of care, (3) any alleged act or omission that proximately
caused the criminal assault at issue, and (4) the criminal assault at issue was
an intervening and superseding cause of Plaintiff’s damages.
In order to state a claim for negligence,
Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of
care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an
injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific,
LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.  (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp¿(2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)  While those who
own, possess, or control property are not insurers of the safety of their
patrons, they generally have a duty to exercise reasonable and ordinary care in
keeping the premises reasonably safe and in managing the property¿to¿avoid
exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.  (Ortega v. Kmart Corp.¿(2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Annocki¿v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  The
existence and scope of duty are legal questions for the court.  (Annocki, 232 Cal.App.4th.¿at¿36.)  “A store owner exercises ordinary care by
making reasonable inspections of the portions of the premises open to
customers, and the care required is commensurate with the risks involved.”¿ (Ibid.)  If a dangerous condition exists, the property
owner is “under a duty to exercise ordinary care either to make the
condition¿reasonably safe for their¿[customers’]¿use or to give a warning
adequate to enable them to avoid the harm.” 
(Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc.¿(1960) 53 Cal.2d 443,
446.)  The party asserting the cause of
action has the burden to prove that the owner had actual or constructive notice
of the dangerous condition in sufficient time to correct it.  (Ortega, 26 Cal.4th at 1203,
1206.)  Once duty is established, the
plaintiff must prove that the defendant breached this duty by failing to
exercise ordinary care and the breach was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.  (Ortega, 26
Cal.4th at 1205.)
“The elements of a cause of action for wrongful
death are a tort, such as negligence, and resulting death.”  (Lopez
v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.)
The following facts are undisputed.  On November 21, 2021, Jerome Greene
(“Decedent”) was shopping at the Dollar Tree located at 1837 South La Cienega
Boulevard in Los Angeles, located within a larger shopping plaza known as La
Cienega-Sawyer Plaza (“Plaza”). 
(Opposition – Undisputed Facts (“UF”) Nos. 1, 7.)  When he approached one of the checkout
counters, he inadvertently cut in front of Defendant Gill.  (UF No. 2.) 
In response, Gill approached Decedent and began physically attacking
Decedent.  (UF Nos. 3-4.) Approximately
nine months after the incident, Decedent passed away from the injuries.  (UF No. 5.) 
Gill was criminally charged for the incident in LA County Case No.
SA10569, The People of the State of California v. Nicholas Wayne Gill.  (UF No. 6.) 
Since June 1, 2021, and on the date of the incident, Defendant RPD
Management was the property manager of the Plaza.  (UF Nos. 8-9.)  Pachulski Properties
did not manage the property on the date of the incident; however, it did have
an interest in the subject property.  (UF
Nos. 10-11.). Defendant Security 1, Inc. is a third-party security company
contracted to provide roaming security for the common areas of the Plaza,
including on the date of the incident. 
(UF No. 12.)  No one associated
with Defendants RPD, RP Realty, or Pachulski Properties
knew of, or had any interactions with Defendant Gill prior to the incident and
they did not learn about the incident until served with the instant
lawsuit.  (UF Nos. 17-18.)
Defendant Pachulski Properties
argues that it cannot be held liable for any of the negligence-based claims
because there is no triable issue of material fact as to its duty of care,
breach of duty, any alleged act or omission which proximately caused the
criminal assault at issue.  Furthermore, according
to Defendant, the criminal assault at issue was an intervening, superseding
cause of Plaintiff’s damages.  In support
of its Motion, Defendant presents the following evidence: excerpts from the
deposition testimonies of (1) Alexis Munguia, (2) Rosalba Alvarez, (3) Maria
Vasquez, and (4) Scott Dew, RPD Realty’s person most knowledgeable, (5)
Declaration of Rosalba Alvarez, (6) Exhibit C to Defendant Dollar Tree’s
Compendium of Evidence filed in support of Dollar Tree’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, containing a link to the video footage of the incident, and (7) copy
of felony complaint in The People of the State of California v. Nicholas
Wayne Gill, LA County Superior Court Case No. SA 105659.  (Ball Decl. ¶¶ 5-11, Exs. 3-9.)
Having reviewed the evidence submitted in
support of the Defendant’s Motion, the Court finds that Defendant has not met its
burden of presenting evidentiary facts that are substantial in nature and rise
beyond mere speculation. Defendant argues that it did not owe a duty to protect
the Decedent from what Defendant characterizes as the “random, unforeseen,
third-party criminal violence of Gill that occurred inside the Dollar Tree.”
(Mot. p. 12.) Defendant adds that even if a security guard had been inside the
store that day, there is no evidence that Gill would have been prevented from
entering the store, as Dollar Tree was responsible for determining who was
allowed to enter or asked to leave, and, according to Defendant, the assault
would have still occurred.  (Ibid.)  Finally, Defendant argues that Gill’s attack
“was so extraordinary that it was not reasonably foreseeable to Pachulski Properties” and was thus, “an intervening cause
of Decedent’s alleged injuries that superseded any negligence on the part of Pachulski Properties.” 
(Mot. p. 19.) Each of these assertions is a triable issue of material
fact which the court cannot decide as a matter of law. Accordingly, the Court denies
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, as well as the Motion for Summary
Adjudication.
CONCLUSION
The Court Defendant Rubin Pachulski
Properties 36, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication.  Defendant shall give notice.