 Case Number:  23SMCV03393    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Roshan v. Bedford
Apartments, LLC, Case No. 23SMCV03393
Hearing Date
December 1, 2023 
Plaintiff Roshan’s
Motion for Trial Preference 
 
Plaintiff Roshan alleges
she sustained injuries after falling on “slippery and defective steps with
improper handrailing” at defendant Bedford Apartments, LLC’s property
(complaint, p. 4). Roshan, who is ninety-one years old and has dementia, moves
for trial preference per Code of Civ. Proc §36. Her son, plaintiff Moheban,
sues for negligent infliction of emotional distress.
 
When a party over
70 moves for trial preference, the court must grant the motion if the party has
a substantial interest in the action and the party’s health is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the
litigation. Code of Civ. Proc. §36. 
 
As plaintiff,
Roshan has a substantial interest in case, as she seeks compensation for her
injuries. Dr. Peiman Berdjis, her treating physician, states Roshan is 91 years
old, suffers from dementia and traumatic brain injury. Id. ¶¶2-5. Dr. Berdjis
states her life expectancy is short because of these conditions. Id. ¶6. 
 
Defendants Bedford
and Elit Property Management argue Roshan has not provided sufficient evidence regarding
her age or health. This is without merit. Defendants argue they will be
prejudiced if the motion is granted, since they have not yet been able to
conduct discovery, have not been advised of all claims and will not have time
to prepare their defense. This appears to be a straightforward slip and fall
claim, with the son claiming damages due to NEID.
 
A trial preference
is mandatory when plaintiff meets the conditions of §36(a) (1)-(2). See Cal.
Code of Civ. Proc. §36 (“the court shall grant if the court makes both
of the following findings”); Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085-86 (“Failure to complete discovery or other pretrial
matters does not affect the absolute substantive right to trial preference for
those litigants who qualify for preference under subdivision (a) of section
36.”) Roshan qualifies under §36(a); the statutory language is mandatory. 
 
Trial will be set in
120 days. The court will discuss shortened notice for dispositive motions and scheduling
of depositions. The parties are to meet and confer in advance of the hearing
regarding dates for depositions, independent medical examinations and motions. GRANTED.

 
To the extent
plaintiff has not responded to discovery, as stated in the opposition,
plaintiff is to respond, or the court will discuss scheduling an IDC. 