 Case Number:  23STCV01422    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  30 JOSEPH K COFEY vs METROPOLITAN TRANSIT AUTHORITY A PUBLIC ENTITY PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION AND PLANNING AGENCY MOPD NYC GOVJudgment on the PleadingsMotion to Compel Responses to Form InterrogatoriesMotion to Compel Responses to Special InterrogatoriesMotion to Deem Request for Admissions AdmittedTENTATIVEDefendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend.Defendant’s motions to compel responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and to deem matters admitted in requests for admission are GRANTED. Plaintiff Joseph K. Cofey is ordered to provide verified responses without objections to the discovery requests within 30 days of this order. The truth of the matters in the request for admissions, set one, served on Plaintiff are admitted.Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.   Moving party to give notice.           DiscussionI. Motion for Judgment on the PleadingsMeet and Confer                The motion is accompanied by the declaration of Mariana Ortega, which satisfies the meet and confer requirements. (Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a)(2).)MeritsDefendant moves for judgment on the pleadings, arguing that it is not clear what cause of action Plaintiff is pleading against Defendant, and the complaint does not contain a prayer for relief; the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; and any cause of action against Defendant lacks merit because Plaintiff did not identify a statutory basis for liability.Any valid cause of action overcomes demurrer. It is not necessary that the cause of action be the one intended by Plaintiff. The test is whether the complaint states any valid claim entitling Plaintiff to relief. Thus, Plaintiff may be mistaken as to the nature of the case, or the legal theory on which he or she can prevail. But if the essential facts of some valid cause of action are alleged, the complaint is good against general demurrer. (Quelimane Co., Inc. v. Stewart Title Guar. Co. (1998) 19 C4th 26, 38-39; Adelman v. Associated Int'l Ins. Co. (2001) 90 CA4th 352, 359.) General demurrer may be upheld “only if the complaint fails to state a cause of action under any possible legal theory.” (Sheehan v. San Francisco 49ers, Ltd. (2009) 45 C4th 992, 998.)Here, Plaintiff appears to be asserting a cause of action for negligence. In order to overcome demurrer, Plaintiff must assert essential facts of some valid cause of action alleged. (Quelimane Co., 19 C4th at 38-39; Adelman, 90 CA4th at 359.) A cause of action for negligence requires the following elements: (1) legal duty to use due care; (2) breach of such legal duty; (3) the breach is the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. (Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1202.)However, Plaintiff fails to plead any facts as to the element of duty. As such, the motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted with leave to amend on this ground.Next, Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to cite to any statutory basis for liability as Defendant is a public entity.Government Code § 815 provides, in pertinent part, that, except as otherwise provided by statute, a “public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person.” (Government Code § 815(a).) (See Nasrawi v. Buck Consultants LLC (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 328, 341 (“A public entity…is subject to direct liability only as provided by statute or required by the state or federal Constitution. [Citations]”).) (See also San Mateo Union High School Dist. v. County of San Mateo (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 418, 427-428.) In order to properly assert a claim in tort against a California governmental entity, a plaintiff must demonstrate that a statute provides a basis for liability. (Williams v. Horvath (1976) 16 Cal.3d 834, 832-838 [“Government Code section 815 restores sovereign immunity in California except as provided in the Tort Claims Act or other statute. Thus the intent of the [A]ct is not to expand the rights of plaintiffs in suits against governmental entities, but to confine potential governmental liability rigidly delineated circumstances: immunity is waived only if the various requirements of the [A]ct are satisfied”].)The Court agrees with Defendant. Plaintiff fails to identify a statute which provides a basis for liability for his cause of action for negligence. As noted above, in order to assert a claim in tort against a public entity, such as Defendant, Plaintiff must allege a statutory basis for liability. (Williams, supra, 16 Cal.3d at p. 832-838.)As such, the motion for judgment on the pleadings is also granted on this basis.Lastly, as to the prayer for relief, “A complaint or cross-complaint shall contain both of the following: (1) A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language;” and “(2) A demand for judgment for the relief to which the pleader claims to be entitled. If the recovery of money or damages is demanded, the amount demanded shall be stated.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.10, subd. (a).)As the motion is being granted, the court does not reach this argument. However, Plaintiff should include a prayer for relief in any amended pleading.II. Motions to Compel Initial Responses to DiscoveryOn April 10, 2023, Defendant served upon Plaintiff Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Admissions, Set One. (Ortega Decl., ¶ 3; Exhs. 1.) Plaintiff’s responses were due on May 15, 2023. To date, no responses to the discovery were provided.As Defendant properly served discovery requests and Plaintiff has failed to serve responses, the Court finds Defendant is entitled to a court order directing Plaintiff to provide verified responses without objections to the discovery request served on Defendant. The Court also finds Defendant is entitled to an order establishing the truth of the matters in Defendant’s request for admissions served on Plaintiff. Therefore, the motions are granted.Defendant also requests sanctions. Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.290(c) allows for sanctions when the motion is unsuccessfully opposed. Here, as the motions were not opposed, the request for sanctions in connection with the motions to compel is denied.Defendant’s request for sanctions under CCP section 2023.010 for the misuse of discovery is also denied, as "sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 do not independently authorize the trial court to impose monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery.” (City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.) However, while sanctions are mandatory in connection with the motion to deem the truth of the matter in the requests for admissions admitted, the notice of this motion contains no request for sanctions. CCP § 2023.040 provides that: “[a] request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.” As such, the Court cannot grant the request for sanctions without notice.