 Case Number:  21STCV44854    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  30 GINA MARIE EARL vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.Motion for Leave to Amend ComplaintTENTATIVEPlaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to file the proposed amended complaint attached as exhibit H to the motion within 10 days of this order.  Moving party to give notice.  DiscussionPlaintiff seeks a court order permitting her to file an amended complaint to Bruffy’s Inc. dba Bruffy’s Tow in the place of Doe Defendant 1; (2) add additional cause of action for negligence per se under Government Code 815.6 against Defendant City of LA/LADWP based on new facts discovered through formal and informal discovery; and (3) add additional cause of action for negligence per se under Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 62.104, et seq. against Defendants City of LA/LADWP and Bruffy’s Inc. dba Bruffy’s Tow. Plaintiff has uncovered information during discovery suggesting that both Defendants City of LA/LADWP and Bruffy’s had some form of interest in the subject property during the period in question and thus must share some form of liability. Further, Plaintiff has obtained evidence that Defendants City of LA/LADWP were aware of the dangerous condition and failed to carry out a mandatory duty imposed by law. Finally, Plaintiff learned of information that Defendant Bruffy’s damaged the service vault cover, which would impose liability on Defendant Bruffy’s in the original complaint as well. The proposed new causes of action rely on the same facts newly discovered by Plaintiff through Defendants’ discovery responses and could not have been alleged by Plaintiff at the time the original complaint was filed.                   Plaintiff contends Defendant Bruffy’s will not be prejudiced by the amendment as it is already a Cross-Defendant in this matter, and has had the opportunity to thoroughly investigate Plaintiff’s injuries and is aware of Plaintiff’s damages. Bruffy’s has conducted extensive discovery with all parties. Bruffy’s has defended itself from liability throughout the litigation. Nothing will come as a surprise to Bruffy’s. Adding Bruffy’s as a named defendant would not additional and/or extensive discovery.Plaintiff has generally complied with CRC Rule 3.1324 by including a copy of the proposed amended complaint and indicating what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading. (Ortiz Decl., Ex. H.) Plaintiff also explains that she discovered during discovery the facts that give rise to the amended pleadings. This is sufficient to explain why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why it was not made earlier.The Court finds Defendants will not be prejudiced by the amendment in this case. Trial is set for April of 2024. Further, Defendant Bruffy’s was already named in this case as a cross-defendant and it appears the parties have conducted discovery and thus, there is no prejudice. Defendant Bruffy’s opposes, but it does not argue that it would be prejudiced by the amendment, but rather, that Plaintiff waited a year to move to amend, as the City stated in discovery that Bruffy’s damaged the manhole cover in May of 2022. However, “ ‘it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.’ (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 759-761.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) Again, there is no argument of any prejudice.As such, in view of the well-established liberality with which amendments are to be allowed, the motion is granted. 