 Case Number:  22STCV18301    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  30 ALEXANDER KANAKIS vs ANSCHUTZ ENTERTAINMENT GROUP, INC., A CORPORATION, et al.Demurrer without Motion to StrikeTENTATIVEDefendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend in part. The demurrer is overruled as to the first and second causes of action for premises liability and negligence, but sustained with leave to amend as to the third cause of action for negligent hiring, training, supervision and retention. Moving party to give notice.Meet and ConferThe demurrer is accompanied by the declaration of Priscilla Hernandez which satisfies the meet and confer requirements. (CCP section 430.41(a).)DiscussionDefendant demurs to the complaint, arguing that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain.Failure to State Sufficient Facts and Uncertainty – First and Second Causes of Action for Premises Liability and NegligenceThe elements for negligence are: (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to the plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.) In California, negligence may be pleaded in general terms. (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 407-408.)“Ordinarily, negligence may be alleged in general terms, without specific facts showing how the injury occurred, but there are ‘limits to the generality with which a plaintiff is permitted to state his cause of action, and . . . the plaintiff must indicate the acts or omissions which are said to have been negligently performed. He may not recover upon the bare statement that the defendant’s negligence has caused him injury.’ [Citation].” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 527.)The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998 (citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Civil Code § 1714(a)).) In order to impose liability on a property owner for a dangerous condition, the owner must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition or have been able to discover the condition by the exercise of ordinary care. (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at 1206.)Defendant contends that Plaintiff fails to plead any facts establishing what the alleged dangerous condition was and fails to plead any facts whether Defendant had actual or constructive notice of the claimed dangerous condition; that Plaintiff does not differentiate between the alleges duties and alleged breaches owed and committed by each of the thirteen named Defendants; and that Plaintiff has failed to identify what acts or omissions if any of Moving Defendant caused a “dangerous condition.”The complaint alleges that on April 18, 2022, while plaintiff was working as a sound engineer at the Coachella Music Festival (the “Festival”) held on grounds of the Empire Polo Club in Indio California (the “Premises”), Plaintiff was assisting in taking down the sound equipment after Swedish House Mafia performed. As Plaintiff was working, a large light fixture “Light” on a rollable rise rolled to the edge of the stage and part of the fixture went over the edge of the stage and onto Plaintiff’s lower back, causing 3 vertebrae to break. The wheels on the light fixture were not properly locked. (Compl., ¶ 18.)Defendants knew of prior incidents where fixtures, equipment and/or stage props fell from their mountings at the Premises and/or at other outdoor venues managed by defendants. (Id., ¶ 19.)Unfortunately, this is not the first time a light fixture has fallen of the stage at Coachella and injured people beneath it. On April 21, 2019, Caroline Hator and Kristin Messih were attending the Coachella Music Festival, when suddenly, and without warning, a 120 pound light fell from the stage structure and crashed into them, causing serious personal injuries. (Id., ¶ 20.)The production managers cut corners in their staffing of the production in order to increase their profits by requiring persons working on the stage to work for 30 hour shifts, without a break. This saved the production a significant amount of money because the production could reduce the total staff it hired with this grueling schedule and lower costs because it did not need to provide hotels for the workers. This led to an incredible amount of fatigue to the persons working on the stage, so that the safety measures which could have prevented this incident were not followed. (Id., ¶ 22.)Defendants created, planned, sponsored, managed, promoted, controlled, operated, scheduled, supervised all aspects of the Festival, and managed, maintained and controlled the Premises, including all structures, fixtures and equipment erected, installed and/or brought onto the Premises. (Id., ¶ 15.)The Court finds that these allegations are ultimate facts and are thus sufficient to plead general negligence and premises liability against Defendant. The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles, 42 Cal. 4th 531, 550 (2007).) Any further clarifications as to the allegations and claims can be resolved during discovery. At a later stage of the litigation, Plaintiff will need to prove his allegations with substantial evidence, but for the purposes of the subject demurrer, these allegations are enough. (See Doe, supra, 42 Cal.4th at p. 550.) Further, the complaint is not uncertain as ultimate facts have been pled. Moreover, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty will not lie where the ambiguous facts alleged are presumptively within the knowledge of the demurring party.” (Bacon v. Wahrhaftig (1950) 97 Cal.App.2d 599, 605.) The demurrer is overruled on this ground.DuplicativeDefendant argues that Plaintiff improperly and confusingly combines two different and distinct theories of liability against the Moving Defendant by asserting Negligence and Premises Liability in the First Cause of action against Moving Defendant. In addition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for General Negligence appears to be duplicative of the First Cause of Action.First, Defendant has not provided any authority that says two theories of liability cannot be combined in one cause of action. Thus, the Court rejects the argument that this would a ground to sustain a demurrer.However, a demurrer may be sustained when a cause of action is duplicative of another cause of action and “thus adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery.” (Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501; see Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)The second cause of action contains additional theories of liability, and is therefore not duplicative. Namely, it alleges Defendants should have purchased and/or used mounting hardware and wheel locking devices sufficiently strong to support the weight of the Light, which information defendants knew or should have known. (Compl., ¶ 34.) The demurrer is overruled on this ground.Allegations Based on Information and BeliefDefendant next argues that Plaintiff makes various allegations purportedly on information and belief but does not identify any source of information for any such allegations. Most importantly, Defendant argues, Plaintiff alleges “on information and belief” that defendants knew that persons such as plaintiff would be positioned underneath or near the Light, and would reasonably rely upon defendants to provide and maintain the Premises in a safe manner, and would not reasonably expect the Light to and fall upon plaintiff, and that defendants knew of prior incidents of lights or other fixtures or props falling from their mounts and injuring persons, which placed them on notice of the likelihood of an incident and injury such as the one alleged in this Complaint. (Compl., ¶ 28.)However, Defendant argues, there is no information provided as to where Plaintiff received this information, and no facts to show how Defendant owned or controlled this area, nor any facts to show Defendant owed Plaintiff a duty of due care.Complainants may state allegations on information and belief, where matters are not within their personal knowledge, and information leads them to believe the allegations are true, including the information that leads them to have the belief. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “[A]llegations on information and belief are proper where the allegations involve matters peculiarly within the knowledge of the defendants.” (Id. at 542; see 35 Cal.3d 197)Here, the issue of whether this Defendant owned or controlled the area, or owed Plaintiff a duty of care is solely within the knowledge of Defendant. As such, the demurrer is overruled on this ground.Failure to State Cause of Action -- Third Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, or RetentionAs to the third cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision, training and retention, Defendant argues there is no “employee” or “employer” identified in it. The mere “hiring” or “retention” of an independent contractor or vendor (as Plaintiff alleges) is insufficient as there is no required employer-employee relationship. Similarly, Defendant argues, Plaintiff pleads no facts showing that unidentified “persons so hired....” were “unfit,” nor how Defendant had actual or constructive knowledge prior to the incident that he or she were “unfit.”A cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of an employee requires the following elements: (1) the employer hired employee; (2) the employee was/became unfit or incompetent to perform the work for which he was hired; (3) the employer knew or should have known the employee was/became unfit or incompetent and that this unfitness or incompetence created a particular risk to others; (4) the employee’s unfitness or incompetence harmed plaintiff; and (5) the employer’s negligence in hiring/supervising/ retaining the employee was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (CACI No. 426; see also Federico v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1214.) To establish a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, a plaintiff must show that the employer knew or should have known that hiring or retaining the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm occurs. (See Z.V. v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902; Doe, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at 1054.) Negligent hiring, retention, or supervision is a form of direct negligence. (Ibid.)The Court agrees. Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision, training and retention. Specifically, Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts supporting the first, second, and third elements of the cause of action – that Defendant hired an employee, that the employee was unfit (or how), and that Defendant knew or should have known the employee was unfit. While the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the specific employee does not need to be identified, the complaint fails to allege an employee, rather than an independent contractor, was hired. Plaintiff has not alleged any factual allegations to overcome the general rule of nonliability for the hirer of an independent contractor for the negligent acts of the contractor. (Johnson v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1097, 1107.) Plaintiff’s reliance on Noble v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 654, 663, fn. 8, to assert negligent hiring is unpersuasive because Noble concerns the intentional torts of the hired agency and the court expressly avoided a conclusion as to negligent acts.Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision or retention is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.