 Case Number:  20STLC10473    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  26 MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT (CCP § 473(b))     TENTATIVE RULING: DENY   Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside the Default Judgment is DENIED.  Background             On December  16, 2020, Victor Saucedo (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Enrique Preciado  (Defendant) for violations of the Unruh Civil Rights Act after Plaintiff  experienced difficulty accessing the public accommodations provided by  Defendant’s restaurant location. As Defendant never made an appearance, default  judgment was entered by the Court on March 18, 2021. The Motion now before the  Court is Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside the Default Judgment. Plaintiff  opposes the Motion.   Discussion   Legal Standard             “Section 473.5, subdivision (c) allows the court to set  aside the default judgment if it finds the defendant's lack of actual notice in  time to defend was not caused by the defendant's avoidance of service or  inexcusable neglect.” (Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal. App. 4th 540,  547.) “Section 473.5 requires that the motion to set aside the default judgment  be accompanied by ‘an affidavit showing under oath that the party's lack of  actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance  of service or inexcusable neglect’ and ‘a copy of the answer, motion, or other  pleading proposed to be filed in the action.’” (Sakaguchi v. Sakaguchi  (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 852, 861.)   Analysis             Defendant’s primary contention is that Defendant never  received the Summons nor the Complaint to notify them of the suit against them.  Although the Court has a proof of service on file signed by a process server  showing that the Summons and Complaint were delivered via personal service,  Defendant states that he was not at the address at that time. However, the  Court is unpersuaded. In addition to the proof of service, the Court also  possess a Declaration of Mailing pursuant to CCP § 587 (see Default Judgment  Form CIV-100 filed on March 18, 2021) which shows that the request for entry of  default judgment was mailed to Defendant at what appears to be Defendant’s home  address, the same address where the Summons and Complaint were personally delivered.               Although Defendant contends they were not served, the  Court is not required to accept this self-serving evidence. (American  Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.)  Moreover, Defendant is silent as to the notice for being served the request for  entry of default. As the evidence Defendant puts forth is insufficient, and  seeing as there is no other evidence, the Court denies the instant Motion.     Conclusion             Accordingly,  Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside the Default Judgment is DENIED. The stay of execution of judgment is hereby lifted.       Moving party to give notice.           