 Case Number:  21VECV01737    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  26  
Zvard Artemyan v. Yervand Azizyan, et al.Defendant’s Motion for Leave to Conduct
Additional Discovery(CCP § 95)
TENTATIVE RULING: GRANTBackground
            On December
20, 2021, Zvard Artemyan (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint containing nine causes
of action against Yervan Azizyan and Emilya Papoyan (collectively Defendants)
stemming from a landlord-tenant dispute. The case was initially classified as unlimited;
however, it was reclassified to limited. 
 
            The motion
now before the Court is Defendants’ Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional
Discovery (the Motion). The Motion is unopposed.  
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            The court may, on noticed motion and subject to such
terms and conditions as are just, authorize a party to conduct additional
discovery, but only upon a showing that the moving party will be unable to
prosecute or defend the action effectively without the additional discovery. In
making a determination under this section, the court shall take into account
whether the moving party has used all applicable discovery in good faith, and
whether the party has attempted to secure the additional discovery by stipulation
or by means other than formal discovery. (CCP § 95.)
 
Analysis
            The Court
will grant the Motion as Defendants have demonstrated that they will only be
able to effectively defend against the suit if additional discovery is allowed.
Plaintiff filed a Complaint containing the following causes of action:
1.     
Illegally Holding Security Deposit - Violation of CCP §
1950(g)(1)
2.     
Retaliation
3.     
Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
4.     
Breach of Contract
5.     
Illegally Entering the Property - Violation of CCP §
1954(d)(1)
6.     
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
7.     
Harassment
8.     
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith & Fair
Dealing
9.     
Promissory Estoppel
            
            The
Complaint is twenty pages long and requests statutory, compensatory, and
punitive damages. Defendants contend that they will not be able to properly
defend themselves in this suit when limited to the statutorily prescribed 35
interrogatories, demands to produce documents, or requests for admissions (CCP
§ 94.) The Court agrees. 
 
            The nine
causes of action alleged against Defendants make for a formidable suit.
Moreover, it appears that all discovery conducted thus far has been done in
good faith, and Defendants attempted to secure additional discovery by
stipulation, but to no avail. Defendants were left with no other choice but to
either rely on insufficient discovery or file this Motion. Accordingly, the
Motion is granted.
 
Conclusion
            Defendants’
Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional Discovery pursuant to CCP § 95 is GRANTED.

 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
 