 Case Number:  23STLC02679    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  26 Richard Heng Taing dba USA Donuts v. Worldwide
ATM, Inc.MOTION TO COMPEL 
(CCP § 2031.300)
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: GRANT
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Response to Request to Inspect Writings is GRANTED.
Sanctions are imposed against Defendant and awarded to Plaintiff in the amount
of $718.91.Background
            On April
24, 2023, Richard Heng Taing dba USA
Donuts (Plaintiff) filed suit against Worldwide ATM, Inc for two causes of
action: breach of contract and fraud. The motion now before the Court is a Motion
to Compel Response to Request to Inspect Writings. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            “If a party
to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed
fails to serve a timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: (a)
The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4…(b) The party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (c) Except as
provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2031.300)
 
Analysis
            Plaintiff provides the Declaration of Robert Gentino (Gentino
Decl.) which states that on November 2, 2023, Plaintiff propounded the Request
to Inspect Writings (Set 1), but that Defendant refused to respond or produce
the writings. Therefore, the Motion is granted, and sanctions are warranted.
Plaintiff provides the following calculations:
 
·        
Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate is $650.00 per
hour
·        
Counsel spent two hours preparing this Motion
·        
Counsel incurred a filing fee of $68.91
 
            The Court will impose sanctions against Defendant, and
award them to Plaintiff in the amount of 
$718.91.
 
Conclusion
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Response to Request to Inspect Writings is GRANTED.
Sanctions are imposed against Defendant and awarded to Plaintiff in the amount
of $718.91. Defendant is ordered to produce the writings and the
monetary sanctions to Plaintiff within 30 days of this order. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
 