 Case Number:  23STCV15883    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV15883




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Leroy Gibbon’s Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Leroy Gibbon’s (Plaintiff) counsel of
record, Harry Nalbandyan, Esq., Levin & Nalbandyan, LLP (Counsel), moves to
be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. Counsel contends relief is necessary
because Plaintiff passed away on February 15, 2024. 
 
            No
opposition has been filed for this motion. 
ss
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051 and
MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form
MC-053 as required.  (Cal Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.)  Counsel states the instant
motion is filed for the following reason: “Plaintiff's Counsel has learned that
Plaintiff Leroy Gibbons has passed away on February 15, 2024. Plaintiff's
counsel has not been able to locate a next of kin for Plaintiff. If the court
requires additional information, Plaintiff requests an in-camera hearing.” (MC-052.) 
 
            Notice of this motion has been
provided to all parties that have appeared in the case, except Plaintiff, as
Counsel asserts he passed away. 
 
However,
Counsel must file a copy of the death certificate and serve all parties of
record, as the Court finds there is currently insufficient evidence in the
record of Plaintiff’s death.  In addition, Counsel must exhaust efforts to
determine if there is a successor-in-interest or personal representative of
Plaintiff and state that all efforts have been exhausted in counsel’s
declaration. If so, counsel must also be prepared to move to dismiss the case.
 
Additionally, information on all future proceedings in this case has
not been provided. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion to relieve
counsel.  
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
proofs of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 