 Case Number:  21STCV47469    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV47469




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Soo J. Chang, D.M.D.  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declaration of Stephen Budica
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
3.     Declaration of Soo J. Chang,
D.M.D.  
4.     Notice of Lodgment of Exhibits
5.     Declaration of Mark Exler, D.D.S.[1]
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
None
 
REPLY PAPERS
None
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On December 30, 2021, Plaintiff Blanca Reyes
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Soo Jin Chang, D.D.S., Lari
Soman Esmailian, D.D.S., Santo Tomas Dental Group, and Does 1 through 100, for
medical negligence around a procedure conducted on February 27, 2021.
 
            Defendant
Soo J. Chang, D.M.D. (“Defendant”) now
moves for summary judgment, arguing that (1) Defendant did not breach the
standard of care; and (2) no act or omission was a substantial factor in
causing Plaintiff’s injuries. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
 
1.    
LEGAL STANDARDDS – PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE CLAIM
 
“Civil Code section 1714, subdivision (a) establishes the general duty
of each person to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the
safety of others. When applied to medical professionals, this duty of care
imposes a duty to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other members of
his profession commonly possess and exercise.” (Flores v. Liu (2021) 60
Cal.App.5th 278, 290 [cleaned up].) To prevail on a claim for negligence
against a medical professional, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) a
medical professional had a duty to use the skill, prudence and diligence that
members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that
duty; (3) an injury that resulted from the breach of that duty; and (4) actual
loss or damage resulting from the breach of that duty. (Banerian v. O’Malley
(1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612.)
 
“[T]he legal standard of care required by doctors is the standard of
practice required by their own profession. The courts require only that
physicians and surgeons exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable
degree of skill, knowledge, and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by
members of the medical profession under similar circumstances. Thus, liability
is not found, and the label of malpractice is not placed upon a physician's
actions, unless some deviation by the physician from the standard of care that
his peers consider appropriate in the situation under review is proven.” (Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1081 [cleaned up].)
 
Expert testimony is generally the only admissible and relevant
evidence on whether a medical professional has breached the standard of care. (Landeros
v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 410 [“ ‘The standard of care against which
the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the
knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and
can only be proved by their testimony (citations), unless the conduct required
by the particular circumstances is within the common knowledge of the layman’
”].) As the Court of Appeal has held, in reversing summary judgments for
medical professionals: “The standard of care against which the acts of a
physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of
experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be
proved by their testimony. California courts have incorporated the expert
evidence requirement into their standard for summary judgment in medical
malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his
motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, defendant is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Hanson v. Grode
(1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606-607 [cleaned up].) Further, a plaintiff “is
entitled to all favorable inferences that may reasonably be derived from” an
expert’s declaration which must be liberally construed. (See Fernandez v.
Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 770, 782.)
 
2. STANDARD
OF CARE – BREACH AND CAUSATION
 
Defendant argues Defendant complied with the standard of care in
applying Plaintiff’s veneers and did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries. 
 
            Defendant sets
forth the following facts:
 
-       
The care and treatment provided to Ms. Reyes by Dr.
Chang at all times complied with the standard of care. (UMF 9.)
-       
No negligent act or omission by Dr. Chang was a
substantial factor in causing Ms. Reyes’ claimed injuries. (UMF 10.) 
 
Defendant relies on the expert
declaration of Mark Exler, D.D.S., who opines that to a reasonable degree of
medical probability, Defendant’s care and treatment was within the standard of
care. (Exler Decl. ¶ 8.) His declaration is based on Plaintiff’s medical
records and deposition. He also declares to a reasonable degree of medical
certainty that no negligent act or omission by Defendant was a substantial
factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries. (Id. ¶ 9.) As a result,
Defendant meets the burden to establish no triable issue of fact. Since
Plaintiff has not opposed this motion, she fails to meet her burden. 
 
Accordingly, the Court grants the
motion for summary judgment.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant Soo
J. Chang, D.M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant shall file
a proposed judgment within 10 days. 
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
 


