 Case Number:  22STCV25044    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25044




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Physical Examination of Defendant




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Ciara M. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Jeremey Ellis 



 
 
MOTION
 
            On August 3, 2022, Plaintiff Ciara M.
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Jeremey Ellis (“Defendant”)
for intentional misrepresentation, and negligence regarding the sexual
transmission of a disease. Defendant filed an answer on January 27, 2023.  
 
             Plaintiff now moves to compel a physical
examination of Defendant that entails providing a blood sample to test for a
herpes simplex virus, the disease at issue in this case. Defendant opposes and
Plaintiff replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in
which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may
demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following
conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The examination
is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff
claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer.)¿
Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and
damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Tuan Ho, Plaintiff’s counsel, states that he
attempted to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel by sending an email on
November 16, 2023. (Ho Decl. ¶ 3.) On January 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
requested that Defendant submit for an examination to take the blood sample and
Defendant refused to meet and confer further. (Id. ¶ 5.) Therefore, the
meet and confer requirement is met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
             Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant infected her with the herpes simplex virus type 2
(“HSV-2”) after a sexual encounter on July 27, 2020. Plaintiff argues that
Defendant refuses to submit to a blood test for this virus. Defendant has
already provided two blood test reports from April 15, 2023 and December 22,
2023. However, Plaintiff contends the reports do not authenticate that
Defendant provided the blood. (Motion, 5.) Plaintiff would like an authorized
representative to be present at the examination to verify Defendant’s identity
with a government-issued identification card. (Motion, 7.) 
 
            Plaintiff argues that the parties
agreed to an examination on June 5, 2024, and then subsequently agreed to
another examination on July 10, 2024. Defendant did not appear. (Motion at p.
9.) Accordingly, Plaintiff requests that the examination take place on August
27, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. at Quest Diagnostics in Miami, Florida. (Motion at p. 8.)
Plaintiff further requests that an authorized representative of Plaintiff be
allowed to verify Defendant’s identity. (Id.) The venous blood draw will
be performed by any licensed phlebotomist at Quest Diagnostics. (Id.)
 
            Defendant argues that the prior
tests are sufficient. Yet Defendant also argues that he has “agreed to undergo
an additional test under the conditions stipulated by Plaintiff.” (Opposition
at pp. 5-6.) Plaintiff provides the declaration of Gary Richwald, MD, which
describes deficiencies with the prior testing, to which Defendant provides
argument but no evidence in opposition. The Court finds good cause to order the
examination.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel the Physical Examination of Defendant is GRANTED. Defendant
shall appear at Quest Diagnostics, 1050 NW 14th Street, Suite 110,
Miami Florida 33136 on August 27, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. EDT, for an intravenous
blood draw by a licensed phlebotomist. Prior to the blood draw, Defendant shall
provide a government issued photo identification card to an authorized
representative of Plaintiff’s counsel, for identification.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 