 Case Number:  22STCV20476    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Case number 22STCV20476  On  June 23, 2022, Plaintiff Darneika Watson (“Watson”) filed an action against  Defendants Robert Mossesian (“Mossesian”), Rasier-CA, LLC (“Rasier-CA”),  Rasier, LLC (“Rasier”), Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence.  (Case number 22STCV20476.)  On October 31, 2022, Rasier-CA, Rasier, and Uber  (collectively, “Uber”) filed an answer.  On November 18, 2022, Mossesian filed an answer. On  February 22, 2023, Mossessian filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant  Jasmin Leon (“Jasmin Leon”) for indemnity, comparative contribution,  declaratory relief, negligence, and negligence per se. On April 3, 2023, Jasmin  Leon filed an answer to the cross-complaint.   On August 12, 2024, the Court dismissed Mossesian’s cross-complaint  without prejudice at his request.  On November 22, 2023, the Court granted Uber’s motion to  compel Watson to arbitrate her claims against Uber.  The Court stayed Watson’s claims against Uber  pending the outcome of arbitration.  B.   Case number 23CMCV01554  On  September 27, 2023, Plaintiffs Jasmin Celeste Leon and Raquel Leon filed an  action against Mossesian, Uber, and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence.  (Case number 23CMCV01554.)  On December  1, 2023, Mossesian filed an answer.  On  December 19, 2023, Uber filed an answer.  On  August 8, 2024, the Court dismissed the action of Plaintiffs Jasmin Celeste Leon and Raquel Leon with prejudice at  their request.  C.   The Court relates and consolidates the cases  On  January 8, 2024, the Court found that case  numbers 22STCV20476 and 23CMCV01554 are related within the meaning of  California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).   Case number 22STCV20476 became the lead case.  The cases were assigned to Department 28 at the  Spring Street Courthouse for all purposes.  On  February 2, 2024, the Court granted the parties’ stipulated request to  consolidate case numbers 22STCV20476 and  23CMCV01554 for all purposes.  Case  number 22STCV20476 remained the lead case.  D.   Mossesian’s motion to compel arbitration or to stay litigation  On  August 28, 2024, Mossesian filed a motion to compel arbitration or in the  alternative to stay litigation.  The  motion was set for hearing on October 2, 2024.   On September 19, 2024, Watson filed an opposition. On September 24,  2024, Mossesian filed a reply.  Trial  is currently scheduled for January 6, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Mossesian  asks the Court to compel arbitration of Watson’s claims against him or in the  alternative to stay the action against him pending the outcome of arbitration  against Uber.  Watson  asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, save  upon such grounds as exist for the rescission of any contract.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 provides in part:  “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement  alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and  that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court  shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if  it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it  determines that:  “(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived  by the petitioner; or  “(b) Grounds exist for rescission of the  agreement."  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2,  subds. (a), (b).)  “Arbitration  is a favored procedure. An ‘ “ ‘arbitration should be upheld unless it can be  said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an  interpretation covering the asserted dispute.’ ” ’ ” (Salgado v. Carrows  Restaurants, Inc. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 356, 360, quoting Cruise v.  Kroger Co. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 390, 397.) “Doubts about the  applicability of the arbitration clause to the dispute should be resolved ‘in  favor of sending the parties to arbitration.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Cione  v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 625, 642.)  “  ‘Both the federal government and California have strong public policies “ ‘in  favor of arbitration as an expeditious and cost-effective way of resolving  disputes.” ’ ” (In re Uber Technologies Wage & Hour Cases (2023) 95  Cal.App.5th 1297, 1304, cert. petition pending, quoting People v. Maplebear  Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 923, 930 (Maplebear).)  “But ‘[e]ven though the “ ‘law favors  contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties’ [citation], ‘ “there is  no policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they  have not agreed to arbitrate ....’ ” ’ ” ’ ” (Id. at pp. 1304-1305,  quoting Maplebear, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 931.)  With  limited exceptions, only parties to an arbitration agreement can enforce it or  be required to arbitrate. (See Westra v. Marcus & Millichap Real Estate  Investment Brokerage Co., Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 759, 763.)  But nonsignatories of arbitration agreements  may be bound under ordinary contract and agency principles.  (See Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v.  SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840-841 (Philadelphia).)   DISCUSSION          A.   Overview  Watson  alleges that on November 24, 2021, she was injured in a motor vehicle accident  while riding as an Uber passenger in an Uber vehicle driven by Mossesian.  Watson had previously agreed to be bound by  the arbitration agreement contained in Uber’s “terms of use.”  (See Nov. 22, 2023 minute order.)  As a result, the filing of Watson’s complaint  “invoked the protections and procedures of the court system, and thus was an  effective refusal of arbitration” of her claims against Uber for purposes of  Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2.  (See  Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 574;  Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Mossesian  acknowledges that he is not a party to the arbitration agreement between Uber  and Watson.  Nonetheless, Mossesian  argues that the Court may compel Watson to arbitrate her claims against  Mossesian based on two exceptions to the general rule that only a party to an  arbitration agreement may enforce it: (1) the agency exception and (2) the  equitable estoppel exception.  B.   The agency exception  Citing  Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782 (Garcia), Mossessian  argues that he can enforce the arbitration agreement against Watson under the “agency  exception” because the exception applies “when a plaintiff alleges a defendant  acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration agreement.” (Motion p. 4,  quoting Garcia, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 788.)  In Garcia,  temporary staffing company Real Time hired Garcia as an hourly employee.  As part of the hiring process, Garcia filled  out an employment application which included an arbitration agreement between  Real Time and Garcia.  (Garcia, supra,  11 Cal.App.5th at p. 784.)  Real Time  then assigned Garcia to work for Pexco, which was not a signatory to the  arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.)  Garcia later brought suit against Real Time  and Pexco for Labor Code violations and unfair business practices.  The trial court granted Pexco’s motion to  compel arbitration under the arbitration agreement between Garcia and Real Time.  The  Court of Appeal affirmed, noting that “the  operative complaint alleged Real Time and Pexco were acting as agents of one  another and every cause of action alleged identical claims against ‘All  Defendants’ without any distinction.” (Garcia,  supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 788.)   The Court of Appeal rejected Garcia’s arguments that (1) the trial court  improperly determined an agency exception applied absent a judicial admission  and (2) Pexco improperly relied on “boilerplate” language in the complaint to  allege an agency exception.  The  appellate court reasoned that the trial court “determined that since the  operative complaint alleged the two defendants were joint employers fulfilling  the same role, the allegations were sufficient to support the agency exception.”  (Ibid.)  While boilerplate allegations that all  defendants were agents of one another would not, by themselves, constitute a  judicial admission allowing a non-signatory to compel arbitration (see ibid.,  citing Barsegian v. Kessler & Kessler (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 446, 451),  the operative complaint in Garcia “alleged workplace violations against  Real Time and Pexco as joint employers, referred to both employers collectively  as “defendants” without any distinction, and alleged identical claims and  conduct regarding unlawful and improper acts. This was not merely boilerplate  language. As the alleged joint employers, Pexco and Real Time were agents of  each other in their dealings with Garcia. Accordingly, Pexco is entitled to  compel arbitration of Garcia's claims against it under the arbitration clause  in Garcia's contract with Real Time.”  (Ibid.)  Mossesian  argues the agency exception applies here because Watson alleges that Mossesian  was Uber’s employee and/or agent and was acting within the course and scope of  his employment and/or agency.  According  to Mossesian, these are “not mere boilerplate allegations; rather, they are  critical allegations necessary to [Watson’s] claims that [Uber is] vicariously  liable for [Mossesian’s] alleged tortious conduct.”  (Motion p. 5.)  Watson’s  complaint does not support application of the agency exception.  The complaint alleges that, at the time of  the accident, Mossesian (1) was in the course and scope of employment as a  driver for Uber and (2) was the agent and employee of the other defendants and  acted within the scope of the agency.   These are boilerplate allegations.   Watson’s complaint contains nothing analogous to the allegation in Garcia  that defendants Real Time and Pexco “were joint employers fulfilling the same  role.”  (See Garcia, supra,  11 Cal.App.5th at p. 788.)  In addition, Watson’s  complaint does not allege that Mossesian and Uber engaged in identical conduct.  (See ibid.)  The Court finds that Mossesian may not compel  arbitration under the agency exception.  C.   Equitable estoppel  Mossesian  contends that he may enforce the arbitration agreement between Uber and Watson by  invoking the principle of equitable estoppel.   (Motion p. 5.)  Equitable estoppel  may apply “where the claims are ‘ “ ‘ “based on the same facts and are  inherently inseparable” ’ ” from the arbitrable claims against signatory  defendants.” (Garcia, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 786.)    Equitable  estoppel applies here, according to Mossesian, because Watson’s case is based  on the inherently inseparable claims that Mossesian negligently drove his vehicle  and that Uber is vicariously liable for Mossesian’s negligence.  In Soltero  v. Precise Distribution, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 887 (Soltero),  the Court of Appeal explained: “As applied in the arbitration context, ‘if a  plaintiff relies on the terms of an agreement to assert his or her claims  against a nonsignatory defendant, the plaintiff may be equitably estopped from  repudiating the arbitration clause of that very agreement. In other words, a  signatory to an agreement with an arbitration clause cannot ‘have it both  ways’; the signatory ‘cannot, on the one hand, seek to hold the non-signatory  liable pursuant to duties imposed by the agreement, which contains an  arbitration provision, but, on the other hand, deny arbitration’s applicability  because the defendant is a non-signatory.’ ” (Soltero, supra, 102  Cal.App.5th at p. 893.)  “ ‘[T]he  sine qua non for application of equitable estoppel as the basis for allowing a  nonsignatory to enforce an arbitration clause is that the claims [the]  plaintiff asserts against the nonsignatory must be dependent upon, or founded  in and inextricably intertwined with, the underlying contractual obligations of  the agreement containing the arbitration clause.’ ” (Soltero, supra,  102 Cal.App.5th at p. 893.)  “ ‘The  plaintiff’s actual dependence on the underlying contract in making out the  claim against the nonsignatory ... is ... always the sine qua non of an  appropriate situation for applying equitable estoppel.’ ” (Ibid.) “ ‘This  requirement comports with, and indeed derives from, the very purposes of the  doctrine: to prevent a party from using the terms or obligations of an  agreement as the basis for his claims against a nonsignatory, while at the same  time refusing to arbitrate with the nonsignatory under another clause of that  same agreement.’ ” (Ibid.)  Thus,  “the critical question is whether the plaintiff’s claims against the  nonsignatory defendant actually rely on the terms of the contract containing  the arbitration clause.”  (Soltero,  supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at p. 895.) “If so, the plaintiff cannot avoid  the arbitration clause. If not, the nonsignatory defendant cannot compel  arbitration under the equitable estoppel doctrine—even if the plaintiff is  asserting claims of a type that would otherwise fall within the scope of the  arbitration agreement if asserted against a signatory defendant.”  (Ibid.)  Here,  while Watson’s claims against Uber may rely on the contract between Uber and  Mossesian (which contains the arbitration clause), Watson’s claim against Mossesian  does not rely on that contract.   Therefore, Mossesian cannot compel arbitration under the equitable  estoppel doctrine.  The  Court denies the motion to compel arbitration.  D.   Stay pending arbitration  Mossesian  asks the Court to stay Watson's action against Mossesian pending arbitration of Watson’s claim against  Uber under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4.  The Court  previously ordered arbitration of Watson’s action against Uber, which involves  a “controversy which is an issue involved” in Watson’s action against Mossesian,  namely, Mossesian’s alleged negligence.  (See  Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  The issue  which is the controversy subject to arbitration is not severable.  (See ibid.)  Therefore, the Court grants Mossesian’s  request to stay Watson’s action pending the outcome of the arbitration of  Watson’s action against Uber.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant Robert Mossesian’s motion to compel Plaintiff Darneika Watson to arbitrate her claims against Defendant  Robert Mossesian.  The  Court GRANTS Defendant Robert Mossesian’s  motion to stay Plaintiff Darneika Watson’s claims against Defendant Robert  Mossesian pending arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants  Rasier-CA, LLC, Rasier, LLC, and Uber Technologies, Inc.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.