 Case Number:  23STCV08667    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling   Judge Upinder S.  Kalra, Department 51   HEARING DATE:   March  13, 2024                                                  CASE NAME:           Lawrence  Molbury, et al. v. Robert Babish, et al.   CASE NO.:                23STCV08667   [Related to Lawrence Molbury, et al. v. Robert Babish, et al. 23STCV11717 and Lawrence Molbury, et al. v. Robert Babish,  et al. 23STCV09241]    MOTION  TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL   MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiffs  Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca Molbury   RESPONDING PARTY(S): None as of March 11, 2024   REQUESTED RELIEF:    TENTATIVE RULING:    STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:    On April 19, 2023, Plaintiffs Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca  Molbury (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Michael Sinkov,  Robert Babish, and S M Management LLC (Defendants) with four causes of action  for (1) Harassment, (2) Extortion, (3) Negligence, and (4) Discrimination  Against the Disabled. (The Sinkov Matter)   On April 26, 2023, Plaintiffs Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca  Molbury (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Domonique Cojone,  Katja Seib, and Robert Babish (Defendants) with four causes of action for (1)  Dereliction of Duty, (2) Harassment, (3) Discrimination Against Persons with  Disabilities, and (4) Inhabitability Violations. (The Cojone Matter)   On May 24, 2023, Plaintiffs Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca  Molbury (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Jake Ellwood Mallot  and Robert Babish (Defendants) with five causes of action for (1) Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress, (2) Negligence, (3) Fraudulent  Misrepresentation, (4) Unfair Business Practices, and (5) Conversion. (the  Mallot Matter)   On September 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) to the Sinkov Matter which adding eight additional causes of  action for: (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Breach of  Contract, (7) Invasion of Privacy, (8) Violation of Fair Housing Act, (9)  Violation of Tenant Protection Ordinances, (10) Fraud or Misrepresentation,  (11) Abuse of Process or Malicious Prosecution, and (12) Unlawful Business  Practices.   On September 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) to the Cojone Matter which added two more defendants, S M  Management LLC and The Place LLC as well as adding nine additional causes of  action for: (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Retaliatory  Eviction, (7) Breach of Contract, (8) Violation of the Americans with  Disabilities Act, (9) Constructive Eviction, (10) Fraud or Misrepresentation,  (11) Private Nuisance, (12) Invasion of Privacy, and (13) Unjust Enrichment.   On September 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) in the Mallot matter which added two more defendants, S M  Management LLC and The Place LLC as well as adding six additional causes of  action for: (6) Breach of Contract, (7) Harassment, (8) Defamation, (9)  Constructive Eviction, (10) Violation of Consumer Protection Laws, and (11)  Retaliation.   On October 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for  Preliminary Injunction in the Sinkov Matter which the court DENIED.   On October 20, 2023, the court ordered the Complaint  stricken in all three matters and granted Plaintiffs 30 days leave to file an  amended complaint properly stating the causes of action.   On November 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second  Amended Complaint (SAC) to the Sinkov Matter with six causes of action for: (1)  Harassment, (2) Retaliation, (3) Discrimination Against the Disabled, (4)  Breach of Contract, (5) Violation of the Fair Housing Act, (6)  Intentional/Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (7) Deceitful  Business Practices.   On November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second  Amended Complaint (SAC) to the Cojone Matter with six causes of action for: (1)  Breach of the Covenant of Habitability, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Negligence,  (4) Harassment, (5) Unlawful Business Practices, and (6) Invasion of Privacy.   On November 17, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second  Amended Complaint (SAC) in the  Mallot  Matter with eleven causes of action for: (1) Assault, (2) Conversion, (3)  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4) Harassment, (5) Defamation,  (6) Unfair Business Practices, (7) Breach of Contract, (8) Constructive  Eviction, (9) Retaliation, (10) Invasion of Privacy, and (11) Disability  Discrimination.   On February 20, 2024, Defendants filed this motion. On March  12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an untimely opposition.        LEGAL STANDARD:    “Code of Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(5)  gives courts the power to order a lawyer's disqualification…[A] trial court's  decision concerning a disqualification motion will not be disturbed absent an  abuse of discretion…’ The trial court's exercise of this discretion is limited  by the applicable legal principles and is subject to reversal when there is no  reasonable basis for the action.’” (See  DCH Health Services Corp. v. Waite (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 829, 831-832  (2002).)      “Disqualification motions implicate several important  interests, among them are the clients' right to counsel of their choice, the  attorney's interest in representing a client, the financial burden of replacing  a disqualified attorney, and tactical abuse that may underlie the motion.   The ‘paramount’ concern in determining whether counsel should be disqualified  is the preservation of public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice  and the integrity of the bar.  It must be remembered, however, that  disqualification is a drastic course of action that should not be taken simply  out of hypersensitivity to ethical nuances or the appearance of  impropriety.”  (Roush v. Seagate  Technology, LLC (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 210, 218-219 (citations and  quotations omitted).)   The duty of loyalty is at stake when an attorney’s  representation of one client is adverse to the interests of a another current  client.  (Flatt v. Superior Court  (1994) 9Cal.4th 275, 284.)  “Disqualification in cases of successive  representation is based on the prohibition against ‘employment adverse to a [.  . .] former client where, by reason of the representation of the [. . .] former  client, the [attorney] has obtained confidential information material to the  employment.’”  (See H.F. Ahmanson  & Company v. Salomon Brothers, Inc. (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1445,  1451.)     The scope of the clients’ consent determines whether  disqualification is necessary “when the prior representation involves joint  clients, and the subsequent action relates to the same matter.”  (Zandor Corp. v. Kwan (1995) 31  Cal.App.4th 1285, 1294-1295.)     “[C]lients may consent in writing [citation] to continued  representation by the conflicted attorney after the attorney discloses ‘the  relevant circumstances and … the actual and reasonably foreseeable adverse  consequences to the client….”  [Citation.]  In order for there to be  valid consent, clients must indicate that they ‘know of, understand and acknowledge  the presence of a conflict of interest….’”  (Sharp v. Next Entertainment, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 410, 429  (citations omitted).)     ANALYSIS:    Plaintiffs move to disqualify Mr. Wilson for the following  reasons: (1) his simultaneous representation of all defendants in this matter,  (2) his discussion of (unidentified) confidential matters, (3) his alleged  perjury, and (4) lack of communication with Plaintiffs.[1]  Defendants did not file an opposition.   The court is not persuaded by Plaintiffs’ arguments. First,  there is no evidence that Mr. Wilson cannot competently represent the  Defendants. Second, Plaintiffs’ evidence (and arguments) show general  displeasure with litigating the three  pending cases against the same Defendants with the same counsel. In sum, the  court does not see a basis to take the drastic action of disqualifying the  counsel chosen by Defendants because of Plaintiffs’ perceived deficiencies in  counsel’s conduct.    Accordingly, the court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion to  disqualify counsel.   CONCLUSION:   Moving party is to give notice.    IT IS SO ORDERED.    Dated:              March 13, 2024                       __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder  S. Kalra                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior CourtTentative Ruling Judge Upinder S.  Kalra, Department 51 HEARING DATE:   March  13, 2024                                                CASE NAME:           Lawrence  Molbury, et al. v. Michael Sinkov, et al. CASE NO.:                23STCV08667 [Related to Lawrence Molbury, et al. v. Robert Babish, et al. 23STCV11717 and Lawrence Molbury, et al. v. Robert Babish,  et al. 23STCV09241] DEMURRER  TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY:  Defendants  Dominique Cornejo, Katja Seib, Robert Babish, S M Management LLC, and The Place  LLC RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Lawrence Molbury and  Rebecca Molbury REQUESTED RELIEF:  1.      Demurrer  to the Entire SAC for Failure to State Sufficient Facts Constituting a Cause of  Action and for Uncertainty.TENTATIVE RULING:  Sinkov Matter 1.      Demurrers  to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant The Place and  SUSTAINED as to Defendants Michael Sinkov, Robert Babish, and S M Management,  LLC;2.      Demurrers  to the Second, Third, Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Causes of Action are SUSTAINED.Cojone Matter 1.      Demurrers  to the Third Cause of Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant The Place and  SUSTAINED as to Defendants Robert Babish, Dominique Cornejo, Katja Seib, and S  M Management LLC;2.      Demurrers  to the First, Second, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action are SUSTAINED. Mallot Matter 1.      Demurrers  to the Fourth Causes of Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant The Place and  SUSTAINED as to Defendants Robert Babish, Jake Ellwood Mallot, and S M  Management LLC.2.      Demurrers  to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and  Eleventh Causes of Action are SUSTAINED.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  On April 19, 2023, Plaintiffs Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca  Molbury (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Michael Sinkov,  Robert Babish, and S M Management LLC (Defendants) with four causes of action  for (1) Harassment, (2) Extortion, (3) Negligence, and (4) Discrimination  Against the Disabled. (The Sinkov Matter) On April 26, 2023, Plaintiffs Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca  Molbury (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Domonique Cojone,  Katja Seib, and Robert Babish (Defendants) with four causes of action for (1)  Dereliction of Duty, (2) Harassment, (3) Discrimination Against Persons with  Disabilities, and (4) Inhabitability Violations. (The Cojone Matter) On May 24, 2023, Plaintiffs Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca  Molbury (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Jake Ellwood Mallot  and Robert Babish (Defendants) with five causes of action for (1) Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress, (2) Negligence, (3) Fraudulent  Misrepresentation, (4) Unfair Business Practices, and (5) Conversion. (the  Mallot Matter) On September 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) to the Sinkov Matter which adding eight additional causes of  action for: (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Breach of  Contract, (7) Invasion of Privacy, (8) Violation of Fair Housing Act, (9)  Violation of Tenant Protection Ordinances, (10) Fraud or Misrepresentation,  (11) Abuse of Process or Malicious Prosecution, and (12) Unlawful Business  Practices. On September 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) to the Cojone Matter which added two more defendants, S M  Management LLC and The Place LLC as well as adding nine additional causes of  action for: (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Retaliatory  Eviction, (7) Breach of Contract, (8) Violation of the Americans with  Disabilities Act, (9) Constructive Eviction, (10) Fraud or Misrepresentation,  (11) Private Nuisance, (12) Invasion of Privacy, and (13) Unjust Enrichment. On September 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) in the Mallot matter which added two more defendants, S M  Management LLC and The Place LLC as well as adding six additional causes of  action for: (6) Breach of Contract, (7) Harassment, (8) Defamation, (9)  Constructive Eviction, (10) Violation of Consumer Protection Laws, and (11)  Retaliation. On October 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for  Preliminary Injunction in the Sinkov Matter which the court DENIED. On October 20, 2023, the court ordered the Complaint  stricken in all three matters and granted Plaintiffs 30 days leave to file an  amended complaint properly stating the causes of action. On November 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second  Amended Complaint (SAC) to the Sinkov Matter with six causes of action for: (1)  Harassment, (2) Retaliation, (3) Discrimination Against the Disabled, (4)  Breach of Contract, (5) Violation of the Fair Housing Act, (6)  Intentional/Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (7) Deceitful  Business Practices. On November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second  Amended Complaint (SAC) to the Cojone Matter with six causes of action for: (1)  Breach of the Covenant of Habitability, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Negligence,  (4) Harassment, (5) Unlawful Business Practices, and (6) Invasion of Privacy. On November 17, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second  Amended Complaint (SAC) in the  Mallot  Matter with eleven causes of action for: (1) Assault, (2) Conversion, (3)  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4) Harassment, (5) Defamation,  (6) Unfair Business Practices, (7) Breach of Contract, (8) Constructive  Eviction, (9) Retaliation, (10) Invasion of Privacy, and (11) Disability  Discrimination. On January 5, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer. On  February 22, 2024, Defendants filed an Amended Demurrer . On March 4, 2024,  Plaintiffs filed an untimely opposition. Defendants’ reply brief was due on or  before March 6, 2024. As of March 8, 2024, there is no reply brief filed with  the court. LEGAL STANDARD:  Meet and Confer¿ ¿¿ Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required  to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.  §430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer  obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.  §430.41(a)(2) & (3). Here, Defendants sent a meet and confer letter to  Plaintiffs on January 2, 2024. (Wilson Decl. ¶ 2, Exhibit A.) One letter is  hardly sufficient meet and confer efforts. However, failure to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or  sustain a demurrer, or grant or deny a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§  430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).)¿ Demurrer¿¿ ¿¿ A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint  states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the  allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects  must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)  116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the  evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer  hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous  matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147  Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿ ¿ When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations  liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center  (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits attached to  the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).)¿  ANALYSIS:  THE SINKOV MATTER First Cause of  Action – Harassment Upon reviewing the SAC, Plaintiffs’ claim for harassment is  really a claim for negligence.[1] The basic elements of a negligence claim are: a duty on the  part of the defendant towards the plaintiff; defendant’s breach of that duty;  causation; and harm to plaintiff. (Kesner  v. Sup. Ct. (Pneumo Abex, LLC) (2016 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.)   Here,  there are sufficient factual allegations supporting Plaintiffs’ claim for  negligence against Defendant LANDLORD. First, Defendant LANDLORD owed  Plaintiffs a duty to keep the property in a safe condition, they breached that  duty by removing the sensors from the mechanized fence, that removal injured  Plaintiff Lawrence Molbury, and he sustained damages. (Sinkov SAC 3:9-14.)  However, there are no facts that the remaining defendants owed Plaintiffs a  duty or breached any such duties. Accordingly,  the court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to the First Cause of Action as to  Defendant The Place and SUSTAINS as to Defendants Michael Sinkov, Robert  Babish, and S M Management LLC.  Second Cause of  Action – Retaliation Upon reviewing the SAC, Plaintiffs appear to allege a cause  of action for Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment. The implied covenant of quiet enjoyment is breached when  there is an eviction, actual or constructive, of the tenant.  (Marchese  v. Standard Realty & Development Co. (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 142, 148.)  Actual eviction occurs when there is an expulsion or ouster of the tenant by  the landlord.  (Giraud v. Milovich (1938) 29 Cal.App.2d 543.) Constructive eviction  occurs when there is a substantial and material interference with the tenant’s  beneficial use and enjoyment of the premises, causing the tenant to  vacate.  (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903.) An interference  by the landlord amounts to a constructive eviction if the tenant so elects and  surrenders possession, and the tenant will not be liable for rentals following  his eviction. Upon surrendering possession of the premises, the tenant is  relieved of the obligation to pay rent and may sue for damages, or may plead  damages by way of offset in an action brought by the landlord to recover any  unpaid rent that accrued prior to surrender. (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 590.)  Alternatively, a tenant may elect to stand upon the lease, remain in possession  and sue for breach of contract damages as well as for injunctive relief. (Ibid.)   Minor inconveniences and annoyances are not actionable. (Id., at pp. 589-590.) Here, Plaintiffs have insufficiently alleged a cause of  action for Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment.[2]  First, Plaintiffs allege a slew of conduct by Defendants that does not  interfere with Plaintiffs’ possession of the property. (SAC pg. 3:13-4:26.)  Second, Plaintiffs apparently remain in possession of the property.  Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the Second Cause of Action. Third Cause of  Action – Discrimination Against the DisabledUnder FEHA, the plaintiffs must make a prima facie showing  of discrimination in housing accommodations as defined by Gov. Code § 12927(c).  Gov. Code § 12955(f) prohibits harassing, evicting or otherwise discriminating  in the rental of housing when the dominant purpose is retaliation against a  person opposing unlawful housing discrimination under FEHA (among other  things). (See also 42 USC § 12203(a).)  Upon reviewing the SAC, Plaintiffs have insufficiently  alleged Discrimination Against the Disabled under FEHA. Specifically, while  Plaintiffs allege tasteless conduct by Defendants, there are no allegations  that the conduct was retaliation for Plaintiffs’ opposing unlawful housing  discrimination. Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the Third Cause of Action. Fourth Cause of  Action – Breach of Contract The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are  (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)  defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times  Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) “A written contract may be pleaded  by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract  attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal  effect.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc.  (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) To plead a contract by its legal effect, a  plaintiff must “allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more  difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the instrument,  comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.” (Ibid.)¿  Upon  reviewing the SAC, while Plaintiffs appear to have sufficiently alleged a claim  for breach of contract as to Defendant LANDLORD,[3]  their attachments undermine the allegations. Plaintiff  alleged to be tenants in good standing, meaning, they performed under the  lease. However, as indicated above, Plaintiffs include exhibits  indicating they are withholding rent which is a breach under the lease.[4]  “Under the doctrine of truthful pleading, the courts ‘will not close their eyes  to situations where a complaint contains allegations of fact inconsistent with  attached documents, or allegations contrary to facts which are judicially  noticed.’ ” (Hoffman v. Smithwoods RV  Park, LLC (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 390, 400.) While  they may have had a reason for not performing under the lease, Plaintiffs admit  through their attachments that they were not  performing under the lease. “If the allegations in the complaint conflict with  the exhibits, we rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits. (SC Manufactured Homes, Inc. v. Liebert  (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 68, 83.) Accordingly,  the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Action as to  Defendant The Place and also SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer as to Defendants Michael  Sinkov, Robert Babish, and S M Management LLC.  Fifth Cause of  Action -  Violation of the Fair Housing  Act The court adopts the same analysis as the Third Cause of  Action. Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the Fifth Cause of Action. Sixth Cause of  Action – Intentional/Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress The elements of an intentional  infliction of emotional distress (IIED) cause of action are: (1) extreme and  outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless  disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe  emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional  distress.  (See¿Moncada¿v. West  Coast Quartz Corp.¿(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 780.)  To satisfy the  element of extreme and outrageous conduct,¿defendant’s conduct “‘must be so  extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized  society.’”  (Ibid.) (internal  citations omitted.)      While there is no bright-line as  to what constitutes outrageous conduct and thus this involves a case-by-case  analysis, courts can determine whether conduct was sufficiently outrageous at  the demurrer stage. (Cochran v. Cochran¿(1998)  65 Cal.App.4th 488, 494.)¿¿Recovery for emotional distress caused by injury to  property is permitted in IIED claims. (Ragland  v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 203-04.) (internal  citations omitted.)  A claim for negligent infliction of emotional distress  (NIED) requires: (1) a legal duty to use due care (direct victim or bystander),  (2) breach of such legal duty, (3) damage or injury (serious emotional  distress), and (4) cause of the resulting damage or injury. (Huggins v. Longs Drug Stores California,  Inc. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 124, 129.)  Upon reviewing the SAC, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently  alleged a claim for IIED or NIED. As to IIED, the allegations do not rise to  “outrageous” conduct. Indeed, the allegations are demanding documentation  related to a service animal, delaying requests for accommodations, blocking  communication with Plaintiffs, and delaying services related to habitability  which, taken in the context of the entire SAC, amount to alleged failure to  respond quickly enough to maintenance requests.[5]  There are no allegations addressing the NIED claim. Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the Sixth Cause of Action. Seventh Cause of  Action – Deceitful Business Practices California Business and Professions Code section 17200  prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus.  & Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v.  Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.) A business practice is unfair  when it offends an established public policy or when the practice is immoral,  unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous, or substantially injurious to  consumers." (Community Assisting  Recovery, Inc. v. Aegis Security Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 886, 894.)  A business practice is unlawful if it violates another law. (Berryman v. Merit Property Management, Inc.  (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.) A business practice is fraudulent if  “members of the public are likely to be deceived." (See Wang v. Massey Chevrolet (2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 856, 871.) “A  plaintiff alleging unfair business practices . . . must state with reasonable  particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.  (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)¿  Upon reviewing the SAC, Plaintiffs failed to sufficiently  plead a claim for Unfair Business Practices. Plaintiffs allege conclusory  statements of misrepresentation, false statements, and violating various Civil  Codes and Regulations. These are not facts. Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the Fifth Cause of Action. THE COJONE MATTER First Cause of  Action – Breach of the Covenant of Habitability The elements of a cause of action for breach of the implied  warranty of habitability “are the existence of a material defective condition  affecting the premises' habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition  within a reasonable time after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the  landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting  damages.” (Peviani v. Arbors at  California Oaks Property Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874, 891 review  denied (July 14, 2021)). A violation of a statutory housing standard that  affects health and safety is a strong indication of a materially defective  condition. (Ibid.)   Here, Plaintiffs have insufficiently alleged a cause of  action for breach of the warranty  of habitability. First, Plaintiffs allege a slew of problems with  the property. (SAC pg. 3:13-4:26.) However, Plaintiffs include exhibits that  indicate they blocked Defendants’ ability to remediate the deficiency. Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the First Cause of Action.  Second Cause of  Action – Breach of Contract The court refers to the reasoning above in the Sinkov  Matter. Third Cause of  Action – Negligence The court refers to the reasoning above in the Sinkov  Matter. Fourth Cause of  Action – Harassment The court refers to the reasoning above in the Sinkov  Matter. Fifth Cause of  Action – Unlawful Business Practices The court refers to the reasoning above in the Sinkov  Matter. Sixth Cause of  Action – Invasion of Privacy Generally, invasion of privacy requires: (1) a legally  protected privacy interest; (2) reasonable expectation of privacy under the  circumstances; and (3) defendant’s serious invasion of privacy. Four distinct  kinds of activities have been found to violate this privacy protection and give  rise to tort liability: (1) intrusion into private matters; (2) public  disclosure of private facts; (3) publicity placing a person in a false light;  and (4) misappropriation of a person’s name or likeness. To prevail on an invasion  of privacy claim, the plaintiff must have conducted himself or herself in a  manner consistent with an actual expectation of privacy. (Moreno v. Hanford Sentinel, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1129;  Lachtman v. Regents of University of  California (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 187, 213.)  Intrusion upon private affairs requires: (1) the defendant  must intentionally intrude into a place, conversation, or matter as to which  the plaintiff has a reasonable expectation of privacy; and (2) the intrusion  must occur in a manner highly offensive to a reasonable person. (Hernandez v. Hillsides, Inc. (2009) 47  Cal.4th 272, 286.)   Upon reviewing the SAC, Plaintiffs have insufficiently  alleged a claim for invasion of privacy. Notably, the claimed invasion occurred  when the Defendants shared complaints made by Plaintiffs concerning the  property. This is not a reasonable expectation of privacy under the  circumstances. The other allegations in this cause of action are conclusory. Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the Sixth Cause of Action. THE MALLOT MATTER First Cause of  Action – Assault To prevail on an assault claim, plaintiff must prove: “(1)  the defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or  threatened to touch the plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) the  plaintiff reasonably believed he [or she] was about to be touched in a harmful  or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to the plaintiff that the  defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) the plaintiff did not consent  to the defendant's conduct; (4) the plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the defendant's  conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff's harm.” (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227  Cal.App.4th 879, 890; So v. Shin  (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669; Lowry  v. Standard Oil Co. of Calif. (1944) 63 Cal.App.2d 1, 6-7.)  Upon reviewing the SAC, Plaintiffs’ claim fails to  sufficiently allege assault.[6]  In particular, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Mallot threw a large cup of  soda and ice at Plaintiff’s vehicle, but there are no allegations that  Plaintiffs believed they would be hit by the soda or that the soda hit anything  other than the vehicle. (SAC, pg. 6:26-28.) The court is unaware of authority  indicating that apprehension of a chattel sustaining damage constitutes  assault. Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the First Cause of Action. Second Cause of  Action – Conversion The elements for a claim of conversion are: “(1) the  plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the  defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property right; and  (3) damages.” (IIG Wireless, Inc. v. Yi  (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 630, 650; Berry v.  Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1271.) Intentional destruction or  alteration of property may constitute conversion of property. (Martinez v. Robledo (2012) 210  Cal.App.4th 384, 387.) If the interference is less significant than the  exercise of complete dominion or control, the proper claim is for trespass to  personal property. (See Jamgotchian v.  Slender (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1400-1401.) Wrongful intent is not  required. (Mendoza v. Rast Produce Co.,  Inc. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1405.)   Upon  reviewing the SAC, Plaintiffs’ claim fails to sufficiently allege conversion.[7] Notably, Plaintiffs  allege damage to their vehicle by Defendant Mallot’s throwing the soda cup,  which is not “complete dominion or control” over the property. (SAC pg.  7:11-13.) Accordingly,  the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Cause of Action. Third Cause of  Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress The court refers to the reasoning above in the Sinkov  Matter. Fourth Cause of  Action – Harassment The court refers to the reasoning above in the Sinkov  Matter. Fifth Cause of  Action – Defamation Slander is  a false and unprivileged publication, orally uttered, and also communications  by radio or any mechanical or other means which: 1. Charges any person with  crime, or with having been indicted, convicted, or punished for crime; 2.  Imputes in him the present existence of an infectious, contagious, or loathsome  disease; 3. Tends directly to injure him in respect to his office, profession,  trade or business, either by imputing to him general disqualification in those  respects which the office or other occupation peculiarly requires, or by  imputing something with reference to his office, profession, trade, or business  that has a natural tendency to lessen its consequence, causes action damage.  (Civ. Code § 46.)  “Publication means a communication to some third person who  understands the defamatory meaning of the statement and its application to the  person to whom reference is made. Publication need not be to the ‘public’ at  large; communication to a single individual is sufficient.” (Smith v. Maldonado (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th  637, 645.)  To constitute libel, a “ ‘statement must contain a provable  falsehood . . .’” and to this end, “ ‘courts distinguish between statements of  fact and statements of opinion for purposes of defamation liability.’” (Summit Bank v. Rogers (2012) 206  Cal.App.4th 669, 695.) “’[A]n opinion based on implied, undisclosed facts is  actionable if the speaker has no factual basis for the opinion’ but ‘[a]n  opinion is not actionable if it discloses all the statements of fact on which  the opinion is based and those statements are true.’ . . . . To decide whether  a statement expresses or implies a provable false assertion of fact, courts use  a totality of the circumstances test. [citation.] ‘[A] court must put itself in  the place of an average reader and determine the natural and probably effect of  the statement . . . .’ [citation.] Thus, a court considers both the language of  the statement and the context in which it is made. [citation.] ‘The contextual  analysis requires that courts examine the nature and full content of the particular  communication, as well as the knowledge and understanding of the audience  targeting by the publication.’” (Bently  Rsr. LP v. Papaliolios (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 418, 427.)  Upon reviewing the SAC, Plaintiffs have insufficiently  alleged defamation. Notably, there are no statements alleged in the SAC.  Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the Fifth Cause of Action. Sixth Cause of  Action – Unfair Business Practices The court refers to the reasoning above in the Sinkov  Matter. Seventh Cause of  Action – Breach of Contract The court refers to the reasoning above in the Sinkov  Matter. Eighth Cause of  Action – Constructive Eviction The court refers to the reasoning above in the Sinkov  Matter. Ninth Cause of  Action – Retaliation The court refers to the reasoning above in the Sinkov  Matter. Tenth Cause of  Action – Invasion of Privacy The court refers to the reasoning above in the Cojone  Matter. Eleventh Cause of  Action – Disability Discrimination The elements of a Disability Discrimination claim in  violation of FEHA are: (1) Plaintiff suffers from a disability defined by FEHA,  (2) defendant knew or should have known of the disability, (3) accommodating is  necessary to provide plaintiff the equal opportunity to use and enjoy the  dwelling, and (4) the defendant refused an accommodation. (Auburn Woods I Homeowners Assn. v. Fair Employment & Housing Com.  (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1578, 1592.)  Upon reviewing the SAC, Plaintiffs have insufficiently  alleged Disability Discrimination in violation of FEHA. Notably, Plaintiffs  fail to allege what the reasonable accommodations were and that Defendants  refused such accommodations.[8] Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the Eleventh Cause of Action. Leave to Amend Leave to amend should be liberally  granted if there is a reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the  defect.¿ (County of Santa Clara v.  Superior Court (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.)¿ The Plaintiff has the  burden of demonstrating that leave to amend should be granted, and that the  defects can be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can  amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his  pleading.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)  18 Cal.3d 335, 349). Here, Plaintiffs have had multiple  opportunities to amend their claims. The Court wonders how further amendment  would cure such deficiencies. Unless Plaintiffs can explain to the court in  what manner they can amend the complaints, leave to amend will be denied.   CONCLUSION:             For  the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows:  Sinkov Matter 1.Demurrers to the First Cause of  Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant The Place and SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to Defendants  Michael Sinkov, Robert Babish, and S M Management, LLC;2.Demurrers to the Second, Third, Fourth,  Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Causes of Action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend.Cojone Matter 1.Demurrers to the Third Cause of  Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant The Place and SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to Defendants  Robert Babish, Dominique Cornejo, Katja Seib, and S M Management LLC;2.Demurrers to the First, Second, Fourth,  Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Mallot Matter 1.Demurrers to the Fourth Cause of  Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant The Place and SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to  Defendants  Robert Babish, Jake Ellwood Mallot, and S M Management LLC.2.Demurrers to the First, Second,  Third, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh Causes of  Action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Moving party is to give notice.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  Dated:              March 13, 2024                       __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder  S. Kalra                                                                                    Judge  of the Superior Court      