 Case Number:  23STCV29697    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Strike
filed by Defendant Noreen Marie Dimster-Denk. 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On December 5, 2023, Jose Sanchez (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Noreen Marie Dimster-Denk (“Defendant”) and Does 1
through 100, asserting a cause of action for motor vehicle negligence arising
out of an automobile accident that occurred on May 11, 2022, at or near the
intersection of Washington Boulevard and Mariposa Avenue in Los Angeles. 
On March 14, 2024, the Court granted, with
leave to amend, Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages.  
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  Plaintiff
again seeks punitive damages.
On March 27, 2024, Defendant filed this
motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages in the FAC.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on April 9, and
Defendant filed a reply on April 10.
Legal Standard
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 435, subd. (b)(1).)
A motion to strike challenges “any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading” or “all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) In
ruling on a motion to strike, the court must assume the truth of the properly
pleaded facts in the complaint or other pleading. (Turman v. Turning Point
of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) 
Discussion
The motion to strike is accompanied by the
declaration of Honey
Shaw, which satisfies the statutory meet and confer
requirement.  (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).)
Defendant requests the Court strike punitive damages from
Plaintiff’s FAC. Defendant contends that punitive damages cannot be recovered
for negligent conduct, and that although Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was
driving under the influence, Plaintiff’s complaint lacks sufficient allegations
to support the claim for punitive damages. 
To recover punitive damages in a tort action, Civil Code
section 3294, subdivision (a), requires that a plaintiff prove by clear and
convincing evidence “that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice.” In subdivision (c), the Legislature defines the terms “oppression,”
“fraud,” and “malice” for purposes of recovering punitive damages under section
3294: 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others. 
(2) “Oppression” means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights. 
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3).) 
To plead a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section
3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant has
been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (College Hospital, Inc. v.
Super. Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721; Smith v. Super. Ct. (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pleaded with
specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are
insufficient. (Ibid.; see also Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.) A motion to strike may lie where
the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant
acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Today IV’s Inc. v. Los Angeles
County MTA (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193; Turman, supra,
191 Cal.App.4th at p. 63.) 
In Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, the
California Supreme Court addressed whether punitive damages may be recovered in
an action based upon allegedly intoxicated driving. As the court, stated, “the
act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of
“malice” under section 3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a
conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” (Id. at p.
892.) “One who voluntarily commences, and thereafter continues, to consume
alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication, knowing from the outset that
he must thereafter operate a motor vehicle demonstrates, in the words of Dean
Prosser, ‘such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others
that his conduct may be called wilful or wanton.’” (Id. at p. 899.) But
the court also noted, “Although the circumstances in a particular case may
disclose similar wilful or wanton behavior in other forms, ordinarily, 
routine negligent or even reckless disobedience of traffic laws
would not justify an award of punitive damages.” (Id. at pp. 899-900.)
Subsequently, in Dawes v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, the Court of Appeal, applying and
interpreting Taylor, held that driving while intoxicated does not always
give rise to a claim for punitive damages. (Id. at p. 89.) “[W]e do not
agree that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and
decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as
the risk created by an intoxicated driver's decision to zigzag in and out of traffic
at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon
on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while
intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable.” (Ibid.) 
Applying these principles, the
California Supreme Court in Peterson v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 147
issued a peremptory writ directing the trial court to vacate its order granting
a motion to strike punitive damages allegations.  In that case, plaintiff alleged that defendant
had earlier in the day driven in excess of 100 miles per hour; that plaintiff
had objected to the high speed; and defendant, after consuming additional
alcohol, then drove at a speed in excess of 75 miles per hour.  (Id., at p. 162.)
In addition, in 1987, the
Legislature amended Civil Code Section 3294 to add the reference to “despicable”
conduct as part of the definition of malice. 
This was “a new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at
p. 725.)  
“Used in its ordinary sense, the
adjective ‘despicable’ is a powerful term that refers to circumstances that are
‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (4 Oxford English Dict. (2d ed. 1989) p.
529.)¿As amended to include this word,¿the statute plainly indicates that
absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a
‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs' interests. The additional
component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.”  
(Ibid.; see also CACI 3940
[“Despicable conduct is conduct that is so vile, base, or contemptible that it
would be looked down on and despised by reasonable people.”].)  
Here, this Court previously granted a motion to strike, ruling
that the initial complaint contained “no specific factual allegations in the
complaint that would, if proven, establish that the risk of injury to other was
probable or otherwise that the Defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or
malice.” (March 14, 2024 Minute Order.) 
In response, Plaintiff now alleges in the FAC that Defendant
was “highly intoxicated by the consumption of alcohol”; that Defendant operated
a motor vehicle “knowing that she was intoxicated and could not operate the
vehicle safely”; that Defendant drove more than 60 miles per hour on a public
street with a speed limit of 35 miles per hour; and that Defendant did so when “there
were multiple pedestrians and vehicles at and near the location.”  (FAC, at p. 5.)  
The Court finds that these specific allegations are sufficient
to state a claim for punitive damages.  These
allegations, if ultimately proven at trial by clear and convincing evidence,
would be sufficient to establish that Defendant engaged in despicable conduct with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  As alleged in the FAC, this was more than
mere negligence.
For that reason, the motion to strike is denied. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendant’s Motion to Strike.
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 