 Case Number:  23STCV29820    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  73 05/21/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
RUBIO, et al. v. B.V. GENERAL, INC.,
et al. (23STCV29280)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Tom Allen
(Allen Saltzman LLP) 
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party: Thomas McAndrews (Reback, McAndrews, Blessey, LLP)
 
Demurrer to complaint (filed by Defendants Azmy Fouad Ghaly,
M.D. and Senior Care Clinic on 02/09/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ second, third and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend. 
 
The motion to
strike is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 6,
2023, Plaintiffs Anna E. Rubio
(“Anna”), a deceased dependent adult, by and through her Successor in Interest,
Ruby Pacheco; and Ruby Pacheco, individually, filed
this action against Defendants B.V. General, Inc., and East Los Angeles
Healthcare, LLC jointly doing business as Costa Del Sol Healthcare, Healthcare
Management Services, LLC, Providence Group, Inc., Azmy Fouad Ghaly, M.D., and
Senior Care Clinic.
 
The Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff Anna was harmed by Defendants during her residency at
Costa Del Sol Healthcare, a nursing facility, which led to her wrongful death. The
Complaint alleges the following causes of action:
            C/A 1: Non-Covid Dependent Adult
Abuse/Neglect (First Count)
            C/A 2: Non-Covid Dependent Adult
Abuse/Neglect (Second Count)
            C/A 3: Dependent Adult
Abuse/Physical Abuse (Non-Covid Related)
            C/A 4: Non-Covid Negligence
            C/A 5: Dependent Adult
Abuse/Financial (Wrongful Advantage)
            C/A 6: Violation of Resident’s
Rights
            C/A 7: Wrongful Death
 
On May 13,
2024, Defendants Costa Del Sol Healthcare, Providence Group, Inc., B.V. General
Inc., East Los Angeles Healthcare, LLC and Healthcare Management Services filed
a motion to determine good faith settlement stating that they reached a
settlement with Plaintiffs. 
 
On February 9, 2024, Defendants Azmy
Fouad Ghaly, M.D. and Senior Care Clinic filed the instant Demurrer and Motion
to Strike portions of the Complaint, arguing:
·      
Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ Second Cause of Action for Neglect
on the grounds that Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to constitute
said cause of action against these Defendants 
·      
Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for Physical
Abuse on the grounds that Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute said cause of action against these Defendants
·      
Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ Fifth Cause of Action for
Financial Abuse on the grounds that Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient
to constitute said cause of action against these Defendants.
·      
Defendants move to strike any claim for punitive damages as well
as all language supporting the same from Plaintiffs’ Complaint
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
The Complaint adequately alleges Neglect
o   Plaintiffs allege that
defendants failed to use the degree of care that a reasonable person in the
same situation would have used
o   Defendants
argue they are not liable for DA abuse absent a substantial caretaking or
custodial relationship
§  However, Winn
v. Pioneer Healthcare (2016) 63 Cal. 4th 148 stated , it is the defendant’s
relationship with the elder…-not the defendant’s professional standing or
expertise – that makes the defendant potentially liable for neglect. Here,
Plaintiffs allege defendants rendered and controlled her care in Costa del
Sol's residential setting. While Anna was in Costa del Sol, defendants were
required to initiate and control Anna's medical care precisely because she was
an in-patient at Costa del Sol. Winn supports Anna's claims for elder
abuse against defendants because they had the type of custodial control
contemplated by §§ 15657 and 15610.57.
·      
The Complaint adequately alleges
Physical Abuse
o   Plaintiffs
allege Anna was provided only between one quarter and 30% of her fluid needs
and on several days she was provided no fluids at all. (Compl., ¶ 238.) She also
received less than half of her food needs 69% of the time, and that she had no
daily meals 39% of the time. (Compl., ¶ 239.)
·      
The Complaint adequately alleges Financial Abuse
o   Plaintiffs
allege defendants injured and damaged Anna and were overpaid by Medicare
despite having done so. The injuries and damages caused by defendants required
otherwise unnecessary additional care, for which Anna's Medicare account was
charged. This allowed defendants to profit financially by obtaining Anna’s
property in the form of her Medicare benefits despite damaging her, and
defendants continue to retain those ill-acquired funds. Third, it is Anna, not
defendants, who is forced by federal law to reimburse Medicare for the payments
made to and kept by defendants.
·      
Defendants’ Motion to Strike must be denied because it violates
Rule 3.1322. Defendants’ motion fails to specify/quote the portions of the
Complaint it seeks to strike.
Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs fail to provide facts showing
oppression, fraud or malice to support their cause of action for Elder Abuse
·      
Dr. Ghaly was not a care custodian, thus
he cannot be held liable 
o   In the case
of Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc., supra, 63 Cal.4th 148, the
California Supreme Court held that a physician cannot be held liable for elder
abuse “unless the defendant healthcare provider has a caretaking or custodial
relationship with the elder or dependent adult.” (Id. at 165.) Merely treating
a patient in a hospital or skilled nursing facility does not give rise to such
a relationship. There are no factual allegations showing that Dr. Ghaly stepped
outside his role as a medical care provider and rendered or was responsible for
rendering custodial care.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) 
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating he attempted
to call Plaintiffs’ counsel to meet and confer regarding the instant motion. (Sverdlov
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) He states Plaintiffs’ counsel returned his call, but they
were not able to meet and confer. (Ibid.) Counsel for Defendants then sent
an email to Plaintiffs’ counsel and although Plaintiffs’ counsel responded, the
parties did not meet and confer. (Ibid.) Here, the Court finds the
moving party did not satisfy its obligation to meet and confer. While the
parties did not meet and confer in person or by telephone, the failure to meet
and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the Court
proceeds on the merits.
 
C.     Second and
Third Causes of Action: Neglect and Physical Abuse
 
“The Elder Abuse Act's heightened remedies are available only
in limited circumstances. A plaintiff must prove, by clear and convincing
evidence, that a defendant is liable for either physical abuse under section 15610.63
or neglect under¿section 15610.57, and that the defendant committed the abuse
with ‘recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.’ ” (Winn v. Pioneer
Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 156.) “To recover the enhanced
remedies available under the Elder Abuse Act from a health care provider, a
plaintiff must prove more than simple or even gross negligence in the
provider's care or custody of the elder.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405 (“Carter”.) “In
order to obtain the Act's heightened remedies, a plaintiff must allege conduct
essentially equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of punitive
damages.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771,
789.) 
 
“Neglect” is defined as “[t]he negligent failure of any
person having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise
that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position would
exercise.” (Welf. & Inst. Code section 15610.57, subd. (a)(1).) 
“Neglect includes, but is not limited to, all of the following: [¶] (1) Failure
to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of food, clothing, or
shelter. [¶] (2) Failure to provide medical care for physical and mental health
needs.... [¶] (3) Failure to protect from health and safety hazards. [¶] (4)
Failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration.” (Welf. & Inst. Code
section 15610.57, subd. (b).) 
 
The Act defines “Physical Abuse”, in pertinent part, as follows:
(d) Unreasonable physical constraint, or prolonged or continual deprivation of
food or water. … or (f) Use of a physical or chemical restraint or psychotropic
medication under any of the following conditions: (1) For punishment; (2) For a
period beyond that for which the medication was ordered pursuant to the
instructions of a physician and surgeon licensed in the State of California,
who is providing medical care to the elder or dependent adult at the time the
instructions are given; (3) For any purpose not authorized by the physician and
surgeon. (Wels. & Inst. §15610.63)
Here, the Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiffs allege
during the course of Anna’s admission at Costa Del Sol, Defendants knowingly
deprived Anna of sufficient food and water to meet her nutritional and
hydration needs for a period of months, thus allowing her to become profoundly
dehydrated and malnourished. (Compl., ¶ 237.) Anna was provided only between one quarter
and 30% of her fluid needs and on several days she was provided no fluids at
all. (Compl., ¶ 238.) She also
received less than half of her food needs 69% of the time, and that she had no
daily meals 39% of the time. (Compl., ¶ 239.) 
“The plaintiff must allege (and
ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the
defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or
dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care
[citations]; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult
unable to provide for his or her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or
withheld goods or services¿necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult's
basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to
befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud
or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such
injury¿(if the plaintiff alleges recklessness) [citations]. The plaintiff must
also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the
neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or
mental suffering.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC, supra,
198 Cal.App.4th at pp. 406-07.) 
 
The Court
finds that the second and third causes of action in the Complaint against
Defendants are insufficiently alleged. Plaintiffs failed to allege specific
facts showing that Defendants acted with recklessness, oppression, fraud, or
malice. (Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th 771, 779.) Plaintiffs’
allegations that Defendants conduct is more than negligence is based solely on
conclusions. “ ‘Facts, not conclusions, must be pleaded.’ [Citation.]
Further, where, as here, statutory remedies are invoked, the facts ‘must be
pleaded with particularity.’ ” (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p.
410.) The Complaint concludes, without supporting factual allegations,
that Defendants
“acted with recklessness in physically abusing Anna.” (Compl., ¶ 234.)
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ second and third causes of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend.  
D.     Fifth Cause
of Action: Financial Abuse
 
“[F]inancial abuse of an elder .
. . occurs when a person or entity does the following:”
 
(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud, or both.
 
(2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or
retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a
wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
 
(3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or
assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined
in Section 15610.70.
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.30(a).)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’
fifth cause of action is not adequately pled because the Complaint does not
allege the wrongful use
Plaintiffs’ property by Defendants. 
The Complaint alleges the following. Defendants committed
financial dependent adult abuse against Anna through reckless neglect, physical
abuse, and/or negligent conduct which caused her injury. (Compl., ¶ 262.) These
injuries increased both the required level and cost of medical and nursing care
she required. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs are informed and believes that Defendants
having increased the need for and level of Anna's care and treatment, then
sought higher and additional reimbursement rates from Medicare for the enhanced
level of care and treatment they and each of them claimed to have provided her.
(Ibid.) Those higher reimbursement rates were paid to, received by, and
retained exclusively by Defendants. (Ibid.)
Generally, to
plead a cause of action, the complaint must contain a “statement of the facts
constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.” (Code Civ.
Proc, § 425.10(a).)¿ Although pleading conclusions of law does not fulfill this
requirement, it has long been recognized that “[t]he distinction between
conclusions of law and ultimate facts is not at all clear and involves at most
a matter of degree.¿ For example, the courts have permitted allegations which
obviously included conclusions of law and have termed them ‘ultimate facts' or
‘conclusions of fact.” ’ (Burks v. Poppy-Construction Co. (1962) 57
Cal.2d 463, 473.)¿ However, because causes of action for elder and dependent
abuse are governed by a statute, the elements must be alleged with
particularity. (See Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600, et seq.; Intrieri v.
Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 72, 82 [elder abuse elements are
statutory]; Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771,
790 [in general statutory claims must be alleged with particularity].) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs’
allegations are vague and fail to meet the required specificity requirement
when alleging fraud. The Complaint alleges broadly that Defendants increased
the cost of Anna’s treatments and sought higher reimbursement rates from
Medicare, these reimbursements were then kept by Defendants. This fails to
allege any detail regarding when this occurred, what the services were, or how
much was allegedly fraudulently charged.  
 
Thus, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
E.     Motion to
Strike
 
Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike a pleading or any part thereof.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)¿ The court¿may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)¿ The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)¿ An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)¿ The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿¿ 
 
Defendants
move to strike “any claim for punitive damages as well as all language
supporting the same from Plaintiffs’ Complaint.” (Motion, p. 2.)
 
However,
Defendants fail to quote the portions of the Complaint they are moving to
strike. Motions to strike are governed by Rule 3.1322 of the California Rules
of Court. Rule 3.1322 subpart (a) states: "A notice of motion to strike a
portion of a pleading must quote in full the portions sought to be stricken
except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action,
count, or defense." Since Defendants' motion fails to comply with this
mandatory requirement, the Court denies Defendants motion to strike. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is denied. 
 
F.     
Conclusion

 
The
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ second, third and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
The
motion to strike is DENIED.