  Case Number:  22STCV35995    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  73 05/21/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
NORRIS v. BRENTWOOD DERMATOLOGY
MEDICAL GROUP, INC., et al. (22STCV35995)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff:  Leonard Sansanowicz (Sansanowicz
Law Group, P.C.)
Counsel
for Defendants:  Lauren Katunich (Raines Feldman
Littrell LLP)
 
(1) PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed by Plaintiff on 12/13/23)
 
(2) DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (filed by Defendants on 12/14/23)
 
(3)
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ORDER FOR DEFENDANTS TO PRODUCE EVIDENCE OF THEIR 
FINANCIAL
CONDITION SUBJECT TO PROTECTIVE ORDER (filed by Plaintiff on 3/20/24)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment
is DENIED as to Plaintiff’s first, second, third, fourth and fifth causes of
action, and as to punitive damages. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED as to Issue Nos. 1-4 and GRANTED as to Issue No. 5. 
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion for
Order for Defendants to Produce Evidence of their Financial Condition Subject
to Protective Order.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On November
14, 2022, Plaintiff Madison Norris (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action
against Defendants Brentwood Dermatology Medical Group, Inc. (“BDMG”) and Jack
Hakimian Silvers, M.D. (“Dr. Silvers”) alleging the following causes of action:
(1) sexual harassment in violation of Government Code § 12940(j); (2) gender
discrimination in violation of Government Code § 12940(a); (3) FEHA retaliation
in violation of Government Code § 12940(h); (4) retaliation in violation of
Labor Code § 1102.5(c); and (5) wrongful termination in violation of public policy.

 
The Complaint alleges the following. BDMG
offers medical, procedural and cosmetic dermatology services. (Complaint, ¶
13.) Plaintiff alleges upon information and belief, Dr. Silvers is the sole
practicing physician of BDMG. (Id., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff began working for Defendants
in June 2020 as an office assistant. (Id., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff worked at the front desk and her job description
included duties such as scheduling, stocking supplies, answering phone calls,
processing payments, managing the company’s social media posts, and greeting
visitors. (Id., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff
alleges that Dr. Silvers tried to present Plaintiff as a medical assistant to
the patients and wanted her to perform medical assistant duties, such as taking
notes during patient examinations and intakes, removing stitches from patients,
and removing actinic keratoses – rough, scaly patches of skin – from patients. (Id.,
¶ 15.) However, Plaintiff alleges she refused to perform some of these duties
because she had no training as a medical assistant. (Ibid.) 
 
One of the services offered by BDMG is platelet-rich plasma (“PRP”)
therapy, which involves
injecting a concentration of platelets from the patient’s own blood back into
the body after having been separated from the patient’s blood with a
centrifuge. (Id., ¶ 16.) BDMG
also offers a form of PRP therapy known as the Priapus shot or “P-Shot” which
is typically used to improve sexual function or treat erectile
dysfunction in men. (Id., ¶ 16.)
Plaintiff alleges Dr. Silvers insisted Plaintiff be present in the room
on several occasions while he administered PRP injections to women, although
Plaintiff did not request nor wish to observe the procedure. (Id., ¶ 18.) Shortly after she began
working at BDMG, Dr. Silvers also requested that Plaintiff edit videos of him
injecting patients with the P-Shot to be uploaded on the BDMG website and to be
used to show patients the effects of PRP therapy. (Id., ¶ 19.) Plaintiff alleges
she did not want to see videos of genitals but complied with Dr. Silvers’
request as she was new to BDMG and did not want to lose her job. (Ibid.) In or around September 2020, Dr.
Silvers asked Plaintiff to film him injecting himself with the P-Shot. (Id., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges
she was shocked by the request and did not answer right away. (Ibid.) About a week later, Dr. Silvers asked
Plaintiff again to film him and Plaintiff refused. (Ibid.) After she
refused to film Dr. Silvers, Plaintiff alleges that she did not receive any
bonuses in her last four pay periods, except for a bonus of $7.39 on her last
paycheck, which was a fraction of what she had been paid in bonuses before. (Id., ¶ 21.) Plaintiff’s compensation
was supposed to include a bonus based on the number of patient compliments she
received and documented, and Plaintiff claims she received multiple patient
compliments during those last four pay periods. (Ibid.) 
 
On more than
one occasion, Dr. Silvers made comments to Plaintiff to the effect that it did
not matter how good his work was as it was not going to be effective with his
patients, several of whom were women in their sixties, because they were “aging
poorly.” (Id., ¶ 22.) Dr.
Silvers also commented to some of his female patients on multiple occasions
while in Plaintiff’s presence, that women getting divorced these days was
causing anxiety with their children. (Id.,
¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges upon information and belief, Dr. Silvers did
not make similar comments to his male patients. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
alleges that on multiple occasions, Dr. Silvers would talk to Plaintiff and her
female co-worker about his dating attempts and kept his dating apps on the iPad
that Plaintiff used to record treatments, which made Plaintiff uncomfortable. (Id., ¶ 24.)
 
On or about
December 5, 2020, Dr. Silvers terminated Plaintiff’s employment with BDMG
because the two of them didn’t work well together. (Id., ¶ 25.)
 
A.      Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
On 12/13/2023, Plaintiff filed a motion
for summary adjudication, arguing:
·      
Issue No. 1: There is no merit to Defendants’
Seventeenth Affirmative Defense
(Consent).
o  
Defendants’ Seventeenth Affirmative Defense states, in relevant
part, “Defendant asserts that Plaintiff is barred on the ground that at all
times alleged in the Complaint, Plaintiff expressly or impliedly assented to,
ratified, or concurred with the conduct alleged to be unlawful.”
o  
Plaintiff repeatedly opposed or refused to participate in
Defendants’ illegal activity (requiring her to perform medical assistant tasks
for which she had not been properly trained) and in no way consented to the
illegal activity she was asked to do.
o  
Plaintiff has established as a matter of law that there is no
merit to Defendants’ Seventeenth Affirmative Defense as to the Fourth Cause of
Action in Plaintiff’s Complaint, Unlawful Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5, because Plaintiff may show retaliation was a contributing
factor to her termination even if other legitimate factors contributed to the
termination decision, and because Plaintiff did not consent to violating
California law or to being terminated.
·      
Issue No. 2: There is no merit to Defendants’ Twentieth Affirmative Defense (Good faith).
o  
Defendants’ Twentieth Affirmative Defense states, in relevant
part, “Defendant asserts that all actions taken by Defendant with respect to
Plaintiff, at all times relevant to this action, were taken in good faith for
legitimate non-discriminatory reasons.”
o  
Plaintiff merely needs to show that Defendants’ retaliation for
her opposition to their illegal conduct was “a contributing factor” to the
decision to terminate her. It is irrelevant whether Defendants acted in a
non-discriminatory manner. Even if all of Defendants’ nondiscriminatory actions
were taken in “good faith,” Plaintiff still could prevail, rendering this
affirmative defense meritless as a matter of law. 
o  
Plaintiff has established as a matter of law that there is no
merit to Defendants’ Twentieth Affirmative Defense as to the Fourth Cause of
Action in Plaintiff’s Complaint, Unlawful Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5, because Plaintiff may show retaliation was a contributing
factor to her termination even if other legitimate factors contributed to the
termination decision, and Plaintiff does not plead retaliation.
·      
Issue No. 3: There is no merit to Defendants’ Twenty-First Affirmative Defense (Essential Lawful
Part of Business Operation).
o  
Defendants’ Twenty-First Affirmative Defense states, in relevant
part, “Defendant asserts that Plaintiff is barred because the alleged conduct,
if true, would be an essential lawful part of the Defendant’s business
operations and/or consistent with industry practice.”
o  
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to properly train her
before having her perform technical supportive services and holding her out as
a medical assistant to their patients when they knew she was not one. This
affirmative defense fails because there is no merit in violating the law.
o  
Plaintiff has established as a matter of law that there is no merit
to Defendants’ Twenty-First Affirmative Defense as to the Fourth Cause of
Action in Plaintiff’s Complaint, Unlawful Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5, because Plaintiff may show retaliation was a contributing
factor to her termination even if other legitimate factors contributed to the
termination decision.
·      
Issue No. 4: Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty to comply with
California law by providing her with the required training, including
documenting such training, before asking her to perform technical supportive
services on patients.
o  
A duty of care exists in every employment relationship.
§  Section 1714
“imposes a general duty of care on a defendant only when it is the defendant
who has ‘“created a risk”’ of harm to the plaintiff, including when ‘“the
defendant is responsible for making the plaintiff's position worse.”’
[Citation.]” (Brown v. USA Taekwando (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.) 
§  In Kuciemba
v. Victory Woodworks, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 993, 1015-16, the court reviewed
Section 1714 through the analysis provided in Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69
Cal.2d 108 to determine which situations might justify deviating from the
default duty of care in the Civil Code. The Kuciemba court divided the
Rowland factors into two basic categories, (1) foreseeability factors, and (2)
public policy concerns, including moral blame, prevention of future harm, and
burden on the employer. (Id. at 1021-29.)
§  Here, failure
to provide training meets the foreseeability factors. Here, it is extremely
foreseeable that if Plaintiff were not properly trained, it could cause harm to
her or others, even with Dr. Silvers’ supervision.
§  Public policy
considerations also favor finding a duty in this area. There is no negative
public policy concern to recognize a duty of care to healthcare employees to
train them properly, including to evaluate and document their competence and
understanding. Here, Dr. Silvers could have complied with the law, his failure
to do so was morally wrong.
·      
Issue No. 5: Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty to not retaliate
against her for refusing to participate in practices which would result in
violations of California law.
o  
Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (c), clearly states that
neither an employer nor anyone acting on the employer’s behalf may retaliate
against an employee for refusing to participate in illegal conduct.
§  In Lawson
v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, the court found
that under Section 1102.6, whistleblower plaintiffs simply need to show that
retaliation was “a contributing factor" to the adverse employment
decision, not that there was some sort of retaliatory animus covered by
pretext. (Lawson, supra, 12 Cal.5th at 713- 14.)
o  
Plaintiff had good cause to believe that by holding her out to
their patients as a medical assistant and by asking her to perform technical
supportive services on patients without her having received adequate training,
Defendants were asking Plaintiff to participate in an activity that would
result in a violation of California statutes and regulations.
o  
Because this is a matter of public policy and codified in the
California Labor Code, this Court should find that Defendants owed Plaintiff a
duty to not retaliate against her for refusing to participate in medical
assistant tasks for which she was not properly trained.
 
Defendants’ filed an opposition,
arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s MSA does not establish admissible evidence on each element of a cause
of action entitling her to judgment. Nor does Plaintiff’s MSA completely
dispose of any causes of action, any of the three identified affirmative
defenses (consent, good faith, essential lawful part of business operations),
any claim for damages, or any issue of duty that is at issue or of consequence
in this action.
·      
Plaintiff’s MSA to Defendants’ affirmative
defenses do not completely dispose of those affirmative defenses and must be
denied. Plaintiff
seeks adjudication of the affirmative defenses as to the Fourth Cause of Action
for Retaliation only, but Defendants have plead the affirmative defenses to
each and every one of Plaintiff’s remaining causes of action.
o  
Seventeenth Affirmative Defense (Consent)
§  Plaintiff’s
sole argument in support of the MSA as to this affirmative defense is that she
“did not consent to violating California law or to being terminated. 
§  However,
Plaintiff knowingly took a job in a medical office that performed sensitive
medical procedures on genitalia and therefore she cannot and should not be able
to pose an objection to the position’s legitimate job requirements, i.e., she
consented to precisely the work environment that she found herself in.
o  
Twentieth Affirmative Defense (Good Faith)
§  Plaintiff
appears to be arguing that Defendants should be foreclosed from asserting Good
Faith as an affirmative defense to the Retaliation causes of action since
Plaintiff contends that she can still meet her burden to prove the cause of
action regardless of whether Defendants acted in good faith.
§  Plaintiff has
not, and cannot, conclusively prove that Defendants failed to act in good
faith, and so, not only does Plaintiff’s MSA attempt to deprive Defendants of
their opportunity to present a defense as to each of the claims in the action,
as well as Plaintiff’s contention that she should be entitled to punitive
damages, but does so without any evidentiary support to suggest that Defendants
did not act in good faith.
o  
Twenty First Affirmative Defense (Essential Lawful Part of
Business Operation).
§  Defendants
must be allowed to present this affirmative defense to not only the 1102.5
retaliation cause of action, but to all causes of action alleged.
·      
Plaintiff’s MSA seeking an order that Defendants owed Plaintiff a
duty to comply with California law by providing her with the required training
does not dispose of any duty at issue and must be denied. 
o  
Employers do not owe employees a duty to train.
o  
Plaintiff’s reliance on Civil Code § 1714 is inapposite. Civil
Code § 1714 refers to willful acts and negligence in the context of personal
injury and injury to property, and a duty of care to one’s person or property
as well as that of others. (Civ. Code § 1714.)
o  
Plaintiff’s reliance on Kuciemba v. Victory Woodworks, Inc.
(2023) 14 Cal. 5th 993, 1003-04 is also inapposite. The court found that
employers are not liable to nonemployees who contract COVID-19 from employee
household members who bring the virus home from their workplace.
o  
Any “duty” that Dr. Silvers owes to his employees, to his
patients, or to the public in general is promulgated by the California
Legislature in the Business and Professions Code §§ 2069-2071, Title 16 of the
California Code of Regulations §§ 1366-1366.4, and by the California Medical
Board. California Business and Professions Code section 2071 states, “The board
shall adopt and administer regulations that establish standards for technical
supportive services that may be performed by a medical assistant.” (Cal. Bus.
& Prof. Code § 2071.)
o  
Even if such a duty to train did exist, Plaintiff has presented no
evidence whatsoever that Defendants failed to meet that duty.
o  
An order adjudicating that Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty to
provide training is procedurally improper because it does not completely
dispose of any duty at issue in this case. (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code 437c(f)(1).)
·      
Plaintiff’s MSA seeking an order that Defendants owed Plaintiff a
duty to not retaliate does not dispose of any duty at issue and must be denied.
o  
No such duty exists, and even if such a duty did exist, Plaintiff
has presented no evidence whatsoever that Defendants failed to meet that duty.
o  
Plaintiff’s MSA for such an order again is procedurally improper
because it does not completely dispose of any duty at issue in this case. (Cal.
Civ. Proc. Code 437c(f)(1).)
 
On February 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply, arguing:
·      
The Court should strike Defendants’
opposition because they served their separate statement two days after the
deadline. 
·      
Defendants’ Seventeenth Affirmative
Defense is without merit. 
o  
Defendant’s Seventeenth Affirmative Defense (“Plaintiff expressly
or impliedly assented to, ratified, or concurred with the conduct alleged to be
unlawful”) cannot apply to the sexual harassment cause of action as a matter of
law.
o  
Granting summary adjudication of Defendants’ Seventeenth
Affirmative Defense would dispose of the defense as to all causes of action
(since the FEHA retaliation and wrongful termination claims are derivative of
the sexual harassment, gender discrimination, and whistleblower retaliation
claims).
·      
Defendants’ Twenty-First Affirmative
Defense is without merit.
o  
Plaintiff alleges Silvers sexually
harassed Plaintiff, discriminated and retaliated against her for opposing his
sexually harassing conduct.
o  
Plaintiff further alleges Defendants failed to properly train her
in “technical supportive services” (as that term is defined at law) and
illegally held her out as a medical assistant to their patients, a practice she
opposed.
o  
Defendants have not presented any evidence
that the alleged conduct was essential to Defendants’ business or consistent
with industry practice.
·      
Plaintiff asks the Court to grant summary adjudication as to the
issues of duty only, and finding such a duty would completely dispose of the
issue of whether the duty exists and should have been applied in this instance.
Plaintiff still would need to prove the merits of her retaliation claims to
prevail on those causes of action, but she need not do so at this stage of the
litigation.
 
B.      Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

 
On 12/14/2023, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment or
alternatively, summary adjudication, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for sexual
harassment in violation of the FEHA fails because: (a) Plaintiff was not subject to conduct that qualifies as sexual
harassment, including any unwelcome conduct; (b) the harassment complained of
was not based on sex; (c) the conduct complained of was not severe or pervasive
so as to alter the conditions of employment and create an abusive working
environment; (d) no hostile environment existed at the time of Plaintiff’s
employment with BDMG; and (e) Defendants’ actions were motivated by legitimate,
nondiscriminatory business reasons and Plaintiff cannot carry her burden to
show a triable issue of fact as to pretext.
·       Plaintiff’s second cause of action for gender discrimination
in violation of the FEHA fails because: (a) Plaintiff was not willing to nor competent to perform her job
duties; (b)
Plaintiff cannot establish Defendants’ actions were motivated by
her gender;
and (c) Defendants’ actions were motivated by legitimate,
nondiscriminatory business reasons and Plaintiff cannot carry her burden to
show a triable issue of fact as to pretext.
·       Plaintiff’s third cause of action for retaliation in violation of the FEHA
fails because: (a) Plaintiff did
not engage in a protected activity under FEHA; (b) Plaintiff is unable to
establish a causal link between any protected activity and an adverse
employment action; and (c) Defendants have shown legitimate, non-retaliatory reasons for
its actions. 
·       Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for retaliation in violation of Labor
Code 1102.5 fails because: (a) Plaintiff did not make a protected complaint, including failing to
identify to Defendants or complain as to any laws or regulations she believed
Defendants violated; (b) Plaintiff is unable to establish any of Defendants’
actions were motivated by protected conduct; (c) Plaintiff is unable to
establish a causal link between any protected activity and an adverse
employment action; and (d) Defendants
can prove that they would have taken the same actions regardless of any
protected activity by Plaintiff.
·       Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for wrongful termination in violation
of public policy fails because: (a) Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s employment for legitimate
reasons that did not violate any public policy; and (b) the predicate
claims from which this cause of action is derived also fail as a matter of law.
·       Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages from Defendants because Plaintiff
cannot produce clear and convincing evidence of oppression, fraud, or malice
against Defendants.
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
·       Sufficient triable issues of material fact exist that preclude summary
judgment of Plaintiff’s sexual harassment cause of action.
o   Dr. Silver’s invitation to Plaintiff to view his naked buttocks and penis was sexually
harassing.
·       Plaintiff can
establish a prima facie case for gender discrimination and FEHA retaliation. 
o   Plaintiff can
establish pretext based on the timing of the termination decision and the
identity of the termination decisionmaker.
·       Plaintiff can
establish a prima facie case for retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5
because her refusal to engage in conduct she reasonably believed to be illegal
was protected.
o   Performing
additional technical supportive services required more training.
·       A reasonable jury could find facts to support the malice or reckless
indifference required for punitive damages. 
In reply, Defendants maintain that Plaintiff is unable to establish a
prima facie case for any of her causes of action. 
 
C.     
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order for Defendants to Produce Evidence of
their Financial Condition Subject to Protective Order
 
On 3/20/2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Order for Defendants to Produce Evidence of their
Financial Condition Subject to Protective Order, arguing:
·      
There is a substantial probability Plaintiff will prevail at trial.
Plaintiff has demonstrated a prima facie case for punitive damages. Plaintiff
must present evidence of Defendants’ financial condition to provide a basis for
an award of punitive damages. Thus, Plaintiff requests Defendants produce their
current financial information consisting of their net worth and wealth subject
to a protective order limiting the use of such information to the second phase
of trial, pursuant to California Civil Code section 3295(c).
·      
In addition to this motion, Plaintiff has timely served a Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987(c) demand on both defendants to produce financial
information and, in the case of BDMG, a person most qualified about the
information to appear at trial.
 
Defendants
did not file an opposition. 
 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motions for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
 
A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the
action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.  In determining if the papers show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all
of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which
objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be
granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as
to any material fact.”  (Id., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
Motions for
summary adjudication are procedurally identical to motions for summary
judgment. (Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830,
859.) “A party
may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an
action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or
one or more issues of duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has
no merit or that there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no
merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that
there is no merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code of Civ. Proc., §¿437c,¿subd. (f)(1).)¿
 
A plaintiff
moving for summary judgment/summary adjudication bears the initial burden of
showing that “there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved
each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the
cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “Plaintiff's¿initial¿burden¿of
proof in moving for summary judgment, however, d[oes] not include disproving any
affirmative defenses asserted by defendants.”  (Oldcastle
Precast, Inc. v. Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co.¿(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554,
564, citing Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853
(“Aguilar”) [“summary judgment law in this state no longer requires
a¿plaintiff¿moving for summary judgment to disprove any defense asserted by the
defendant as well as prove each element of his own cause of action.... All that
the¿plaintiff¿need do is to ‘prove[ ] each element of the cause of
action’ ”])  Once Plaintiff meets its initial burden of
proving each element of the cause of action, “the burden shifts to the defendant
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action¿or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show “that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2); see also, Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The defendant may also
present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following
extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.  But…
the defendant must indeed present evidence."  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in
original].)   “In other words, all that the defendant need do is to
show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of
action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot prove element¿X.”  (Id.,
at 853.) The court in Aguilar distilled summary judgment to “a
single proposition:  If a party moving for summary judgment in any action
. . . would prevail at trial without submission of any issue of material fact
to a trier of fact for determination, then he should prevail on summary
judgment.  In such a case . . . the ‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and
“avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’ by nonsuit or directed verdict or
similar device.  (Id. at 855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar, “the party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at 850.)  Thus, courts usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify
the issues framed by the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether
the moving party’s showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s
claim and justify a judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion
prima facie justifies a judgment, the third and final step is to determine
whether the opposition demonstrates the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”  (Ojavan Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385 [citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing parties must present substantial evidence in order to
avoid summary judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative
value that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts “construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe
the opponent's affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of
granting the motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v.
Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation
omitted.)  “The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues
of fact. The court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.     
Request for Judicial Notice
 
a.       Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
In
support of Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment,
Plaintiff requests the Court take judicial notice of the following: 
(1) Archived webpages of Brentwood Dermatology Medical Group
website from 2020 from the WayBack Machine Internet Archive (available at https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://brentwooddermatology.com/);
and 
(2) “Medical Assistants” webpage, published by the Medical Board
of California, (available at https://www.mbc.ca.gov/Licensing/Physicians-and-Surgeons/Practice-Information/MedicalAssistants.aspx).
 
The court may take judicial notice of
“official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿¿ 
 
California Evidence Code section 452(h) provides that “[j]udicial
notice may be taken of [ . . . ] [f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” Per
Section 453, the trial court then shall take judicial notice of any matter
specific in Section 452 if the requesting party provides adequate notice and
“[f]urnishes the court with sufficient information to enable it to take
judicial notice of the matter.” (Cal. Evid. Code § 453.)
 
Defendants
object to Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of Exhibit 1, the archived
webpages of Brentwood Dermatology Medical Group website from 2020 from the
WayBack Machine Internet Archive, because it has not been properly
authenticated.
 
The
Court agrees. Plaintiff’s counsel, Ms. Adams, does not lay a foundation as to
the accuracy or methodology for saving and capturing true and accurate versions
of BDMG’s webpage. Plaintiff’s counsel does not attest to the methodology that
the WayBack Machine Internet Archive uses to store, capture, or save archived
webpages, nor any evidence to show that it is a true and accurate archive. Plaintiff
has not furnished the Court with sufficient information to enable it to take
judicial notice of the matter.
 
The Court denies
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.
 
b.      Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
In
support of Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication, Plaintiff requests that
the Court take judicial notice of the following: 
(1) “Medical Assistants” webpage, published by the Medical Board
of California, (available at https://www.mbc.ca.gov/Licensing/Physicians-and-Surgeons/Practice-Information/MedicalAssistants.aspx); 
(2) Centers for Disease Control (“CDC”), “Guideline for Infection
Control in Hospital Personnel,” July 1983 (available via Google books at
https://www.google.com/books/edition/CDC_Guideline_for_Infection_Control_in_H/TLMx
AAAAMAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0); and 
(3) Brentwood Dermatology Medical Group webpages, “O-shot” and
“P-shot” on the front page of BDMG’s website from at least February 2020
through September 2020 (available at https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://brentwooddermatology.com/).
 
In
support of Plaintiff’s Reply to Defendants’ Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication, Plaintiff requests that the Court take judicial
notice of the following: 
 
(1) Brentwood Dermatology Medical Group webpages, “O-shot” and
“P-shot” on the front page of BDMG’s website from at least February 2020
through September 2020 (available at https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://brentwooddermatology.com/)
 
The court may take judicial notice of
“official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿¿ 
 
For the reasons stated
above, Plaintiff’s requests as to the webpages of the Brentwood
Dermatology Medical Group from the WayBack Machine Internet Archive has not
been properly authenticated. The Court denies Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice as to these webpages.
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s requests 1
and 2 for judicial notice of the Medical Assistants webpage and the “Guideline
for Infection Control in Hospital Personnel.” Courts routinely take judicial
notice of matters contained on government websites. (See, e.g., Barri v.
Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 428, 437 (taking judicial
notice of information contained on California Department of Industrial
Relations website); People v. Morales (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 502, 511 n.7
(taking judicial notice of information contained on official government website
pursuant to section 452(h)); In re N.M. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 253, 268
n.9 (taking judicial notice of information provided on California’s State
Department of Social Services website); Placerville Historic Preservation
League v. Judicial Council of California (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 187, 191 n.1
(taking judicial notice of demographic facts County’s official website.).
 
C.     
Evidentiary Objections
 
a.       Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s objections
Nos. 1-34 to Defendants’ evidence in support of their opposition to Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication as follows:
                                                              
i.     
Declaration of Silvers
·       No. 1: Overruled
·       No. 2: Sustained. Speculation.
·       No. 3: Sustained as to “the vast majority of medical assistants within
the medical field are women.” Lacks foundation. 
·       No. 4: Sustained. Lacks foundation, hearsay.
·       Nos. 5-28: Overruled. 
·       Nos 29: Sustained. Speculation. 
·       No. 30 (¶
33:13-16 & ¶ 36:8-12): Sustained. Speculation
·       Nos 31-33 overruled 
·       No. 34: Sustained. Lacks foundation.
 
b.      Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s objections
Nos. 1-34 to Defendants’ evidence in support of their Motion for Summary Judgment
as follows:
Declaration of Jack Silvers
·       No. 1: Overruled
·       No. 2: Sustained. Speculation.
·       No. 3: Sustained as to “the vast majority of medical assistants within
the medical field are women.” Lacks foundation. 
·       No. 4: Sustained. Lacks foundation, hearsay.
·       Nos. 5-10: Overruled. 
·       No. 11: Sustained. Irrelevant, improper opinion. 
·       Nos. 12-29: Overruled.
·       No. 30: Sustained. Speculation.
·       Nos 31-32: Overruled.
·       Nos. 33-34: Sustained. Lacks foundation. 
The Court rules on Defendant’s objections
to Plaintiff’s evidence in support of their opposition to Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Judgment as follows:
Declaration of Christina Adams
·       Nos. 1-3: Sustained. Lacks foundation. 
Declaration of Denise Wallace
·       Nos. 1-10: Overruled
Declaration of Madison Norris
·       Nos. 1-6: Overruled.
 
D.     Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Defendants move for summary judgment of Plaintiff’s first, second,
third, fourth and fifth causes of action in the Complaint. 
 
a.       First Cause
of Action for Sexual Harassment 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s first cause of action for sexual
harassment in violation of the FEHA fails because Plaintiff was not subject to conduct that qualifies as sexual
harassment and the conduct complained of was not severe or pervasive so as to
alter the conditions of employment and create an abusive working environment. 
 
The Fair
Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”) makes it unlawful for an employer to
“harass an employee because of the employee’s ‘sex, gender, gender identity,
gender expression, . . . [or] sexual orientation.’” (Taylor v. Nabors
Drilling USA, LP (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1235-36 (quoting Govt. Code,
§ 12940(j)(1)).) “A hostile work environment sexual harassment claim requires a
plaintiff employee to show: (1) he or she was subjected to unwelcome sexual
advances, conduct or comments; (2) the harassment was based on sex; and (3) the
harassment was sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of
employment and create an abusive working environment.” (Lewis v. City of
Benicia (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1524; see also Taylor, supra,
222 Cal.App.4th at 1236.) Unwelcome conduct under the hostile work environment standard need
not be motivated by sexual desire. (Miller v. Dept. of Corrections
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 446, 469.) Verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature
“that has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an
individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive work environment” is sufficient. (Id. at 463.)
 
“There is no
recovery ‘for harassment that is occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial.’”
(Fuentes v. AutoZone, Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1221, 1226 (quoting Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1043).) “A single incident of harassing conduct is
sufficient to create a triable issue regarding the existence of a hostile work
environment.”  (Gov. Code, § 12923(b).)  “Harassment cases are rarely
appropriate for disposition on summary judgment. In that regard, the
Legislature affirms the decision in Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc.
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243 and its observation that hostile working environment
cases involve issues ‘not determinable on paper.’” (Gov. Code, §
12923(e).) 
 
The Complaint
alleges that Dr. Silvers’ sexually harassing conduct includes: (1) requesting
Plaintiff to edit videos of his medical procedures involving genitalia; (2) sexually
harassing comments; and (3) asking Plaintiff to film him injecting
himself with the P-Shot. 
 
                                                              
i.     
Requesting
Plaintiff to Edit Videos of Medical Procedures Involving Genitalia
 
Defendants argue that requesting Plaintiff to edit
videos of Dr. Silvers’ medical procedures involving genitalia is not conduct
that qualifies as sexual harassment because it was legitimate, work-related
conduct. 
 
The Complaint
alleges shortly after she began working at BDMG, Dr. Silvers
requested that Plaintiff edit videos of him injecting patients with the P-Shot
to be uploaded on the BDMG website and to be used to show patients
the effects of PRP therapy. (Complaint,
¶ 19.) Plaintiff alleges she did not want to see videos of genitals but
complied with Dr. Silvers’ request as she was new to BDMG and did not want to
lose her job. (Ibid.)
 
Defendants
assert that asking Plaintiff to edit videos of his medical procedures involving
genitalia is legitimate, work-related conduct that a reasonable person in
Plaintiff’s position would expect to do while working in a medical office that
performs medical procedures involving genitalia. “In determining whether or not a hostile environment existed,
courts should only consider the nature of the workplace when engaging in or
witnessing prurient conduct and commentary is integral to the performance of
the job duties.” (Cal. Gov. Code Section 12923(d).) Defendants rely
on Lyle
v. Warner Bros (2006) 38 Cal. 4th 264, 287 where the Court considered the nature
of the creative work environment and the legitimate need for discussions of sex
in the workplace when determining whether summary judgment for the employer was
appropriate. (Lyle v. Warner Bros (2006) 38 Cal. 4th 264, 287.)
 
Here, Defendants contend the PRP genital treatments were part of
the of medical services offered by BDMG and thus editing videos of the
procedures for marketing and educational purposes was a legitimate need of the business.
In Dr. Silvers’ declaration, he stated the videos were intended to allow
potential patients the ability to learn about and observe given procedures and
their results before deciding to get the procedure. (Silvers Decl., ¶ 31.) Defendants also note that
Plaintiff testified there was nothing sexual about the PRP genital procedure itself
or Dr. Silvers’ conduct during the procedures. (Norris Depo., 89:19-91:9.) Thus,
since Defendants have shown that the videos had a marketing and educational
purpose, and that the Plaintiff did not find the procedures themselves had
sexual connotations, the Court finds that taking into account Plaintiff’s
workplace, a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position would not have been
surprised or offended by having to observe, record, or edit videos of the PRP
genital procedures. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that when she first interviewed for the job, she
was not told there would be an expectation or requirement
to assist with medical procedures involving genitalia or edit videos showing
genitalia. Plaintiff argues that in Lyle, the plaintiff was told before
she accepted the position that there may be sexual commentary in the course of
her work. (Lyle, supra, 38 Cal. 4th at 287.) However, in Lyle, the
conduct and statements were overtly sexual and sexist, but not harassing
because they were a necessary part of the writing process for a TV show. Here,
the complained of conduct was not sexual and involved sex organs and nudity
that was medically necessary for the procedure. Therefore, the Court finds that
a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position would not find exposure to nudity
in a medical practice that offers procedures on genitalia to be unexpected or
offensive. Thus, Plaintiff has not shown that Dr. Silvers’ request for her to
edit videos involving genitalia qualifies as sexual harassment because it was
legitimate, work-related conduct. 
 
                                                            
ii.     
Dr. Silvers’
Comments
 
Defendants
argue the allegedly sexually harassing comments made by Dr. Silvers were not
severe or pervasive so as to alter the conditions of employment and create an abusive
working environment.   
 
The
Complaint alleges that on more than one occasion, Dr. Silvers made comments to
Plaintiff to the effect that it did not matter how good his medical procedure work
was as it was not going to be effective with his patients, several of whom were
women in their sixties, because they were “aging poorly.” (Id., ¶ 22.) Dr. Silvers also
commented to some of his female patients on multiple occasions while in
Plaintiff’s presence, that women getting divorced these days was causing
anxiety with their children. (Id.,
¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges upon information and belief, Dr. Silvers did
not make similar comments to his male patients. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
alleges that on multiple occasions, Dr. Silvers would talk to Plaintiff and her
female co-worker about his dating attempts and kept his dating apps on the iPad
that Plaintiff used to record treatments, which made Plaintiff uncomfortable. (Id., ¶ 24.)
 
Defendants
argue these occasional comments regarding his female patients and his personal
life were not severe or pervasive and fail to demonstrate any alteration of
Plaintiff’s employment conditions or any impediment to her job performance.
 
Although it appears that the comments are based on gender,
and Plaintiff alleges they made her uncomfortable, the Court finds these
statements do not rise to the level of severe or pervasive. The comments made
by Dr. Silvers do not appear severe, for example, they do not include epithets,
derogatory comments or slurs. The comments also do not appear to have been
pervasive, as Plaintiff must show harassment of a repeated, routine or
generalized nature, especially when harassing conduct is not severe. (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1043; see McCoy v. Pacific Maritime
Assn. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 283, 294 [finding that, over the four months
plaintiff worked in the office, at the most nine comments were made to
plaintiff, and this was insufficient to show that the workplace was permeated
with harassment].) Harassment that is occasional, isolated, or sporadic is
insufficient. Plaintiff does not specify the number of times Dr. Silvers made
these comments, but stating they were made on “multiple occasions” is not
sufficient in showing the workplace was permeated with harassment. Thus, Plaintiff has
not shown that Dr. Silvers’ comments regarding female patients and his dating
life qualifies as sexual harassment.
 
                                                          
iii.     
Dr. Silvers’
Request for Plaintiff to Film his PRP Procedure
 
Defendants
also argue Dr. Silvers’ request for Plaintiff to film his PRP procedure was legitimate,
work-related conduct that would not constitute sexual harassment, and it was not severe or pervasive.  
 
The Complaint
alleges in or around September 2020, Dr. Silvers asked Plaintiff to film him
injecting himself with the P-Shot. (Complaint,
¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges she was shocked by the request and did not
answer right away. (Ibid.) About
a week later, Dr. Silvers asked Plaintiff again to film him and Plaintiff
refused. (Ibid.) After she refused to film Dr. Silvers, Plaintiff
alleges that she did not receive any bonuses in her last four pay periods,
except for a bonus of $7.39 on her last paycheck, which was a fraction of what
she had been paid in bonuses before. (Id.,
¶ 21.) Plaintiff’s compensation was supposed to include a bonus based on
the number of patient compliments she received and documented, and Plaintiff
claims she received multiple patient compliments during those last four pay
periods. (Ibid.)
 
Defendants
argue that Dr. Silvers’ request for Plaintiff to film him
injecting himself with the P-Shot was legitimate,
work-related conduct that would not constitute sexual harassment. However,
while Defendants assert that viewing procedures involving patients nudity is
expected, Defendants do not demonstrate how assisting Dr. Silvers inject the
PRP procedure on himself would be expected, even if the video was made for
educational purposes. “In determining whether or not a hostile environment
existed, courts should only consider the nature of the work when [the
complained-of conduct] is integral to the performance of job duties.” (See Cal.
Gov’t Code § 12923(d).) It does not appear that the complained of conduct,
filming Dr. Silvers, was integral to the performance of Plaintiff’s duties.
Defendants
have not shown that a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position would expect to
be exposed to nudity from her supervisor as opposed to nudity from patients. Since the Court does not find Defendants have shown this request
would be work-related conduct, the Court next turns to whether this request was
severe or pervasive such that it would qualify as sexual harassment.
 
Defendants assert the request only
occurred twice and was not pervasive. Defendants also contend it did not rise to
the level of sufficiently severe conduct because it did not alter Plaintiff’s
employment conditions or impede her job performance. According to the
Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that after she refused to film Dr. Silvers, she
did not receive any bonuses in her last four pay periods, except for a bonus of
$7.39 on her last paycheck, which was a fraction of what she had been paid in
bonuses before. (Compl., ¶ 21.)
Plaintiff’s compensation was supposed to include a bonus based on the
number of patient compliments she received and documented, and Plaintiff claims
she received multiple patient compliments during those last four pay periods. (Ibid.)
Although the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff’s bonus was reduced after
refusing to film Dr. Silvers’, Defendants present evidence that the decrease in
Plaintiff’s bonus was not due to her refusal to film Dr. Silvers. In Dr.
Silvers’ declaration, he states that Plaintiff
received a nominal $7.39 incentive bonus on her final paycheck on December 1,
2020 and no other employee that month received an incentive bonus. (Silvers
Decl., ¶ 47.) Dr. Silvers testified that COVID was a factor in calculating the
incentive bonus and that the incentive bonus was based on the monthly profit of
the office and how happy patients were with Plaintiff. (Silvers Depo. 162: 9-20.)
Since Defendants provided other reasons for Plaintiff’s decrease in her bonus,
the Court finds Defendants have sufficiently established that Dr. Silvers’
request was not severe such that it altered her employment conditions.
 
The burden then shifts to Plaintiff, who asserts that a reasonable
trier of fact could conclude this particular incident was sufficiently severe
enough to create a work environment that was hostile to Plaintiff in violation
of the FEHA. “A single incident of harassing conduct is sufficient to create a
triable issue regarding the existence of a hostile work environment if the
harassing conduct unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s work performance
or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.” (Cal. Gov.
Code § 12923(b).) In support, Plaintiff cites to Dr.
Silvers’ deposition testimony in which he states that he  noticed a change in Plaintiff after his
request. (Silvers Depo. 101: 13-102:1.) Dr. Silvers felt that Plaintiff was no
longer happy at the job but could not tell why she was unhappy. (Ibid.) 
 
The Court finds Dr. Silvers’ testimony to be sufficient in raising
a triable issue of fact as to Plaintiff’s harassment claim. A reasonable
juror could conclude that Dr. Silvers’ request for Plaintiff to film him while
being nude sufficiently severe to create a hostile work environment for
Plaintiff. Sexual harassment involving the creation of a
hostile work environment need not have anything to do with sexual advances. (Accardi v. Superior Ct. (1993) 17 Cal. App. 4th 341,
348–49.) “Sexual harassment creates a hostile,
offensive, oppressive, or intimidating work environment and deprives its victim
of her statutory right to work in a place free of discrimination, when the
sexually harassing conduct sufficiently offends, humiliates, distresses or
intrudes upon its victim, so as to disrupt her emotional tranquility in the
workplace, affect her ability to perform her job as usual, or otherwise
interferes with and undermines her personal sense of well-being.’ [Citation.]”
(Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 608.) Thus, drawing inferences in the light most favorable to the
nonmoving party, as required on summary judgment, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has demonstrated a triable issue of fact in this respect. The Court finds Plaintiff has met her burden.
 
As such, summary adjudication for the first cause of
action in the Complaint for sexual harassment is DENIED.
 
b.      Second Cause
of Action for Gender Discrimination
 
Defendants move for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action on the ground that
Plaintiff is unable to establish a
prima facie claim for discrimination under the FEHA. In any case, Defendants
assert that they had a legitimate business reason for the actions they took
against Plaintiff. 
 
A plaintiff alleging discrimination must allege
“that (1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the
position he sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3) he
suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial
of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory
motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) To
satisfy its initial summary judgment burden, moving party employer must either
undermine an element of plaintiff's prima facie case by affirmatively negating
it or showing plaintiff cannot prove it, or provide a legitimate
nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment action. (McGrory v.
Applied Signal Tech., Inc.¿(2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1523.) 
 
The
Complaint alleges that Dr. Silvers’ comments about women and to women reflected
his objectification of women and his refusal to treat them as equals to men. Specifically,
the Complaint alleges Dr. Silvers made comments to Plaintiff to the effect that
it did not matter how good his medical procedure work was as it was not going
to be effective with his patients, several of whom were women in their sixties,
because they were “aging poorly.” (Id.,
¶ 22.) Dr. Silvers also commented to some of his female patients on
multiple occasions while in Plaintiff’s presence, that women getting divorced
these days was causing anxiety with their children. (Id., ¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges upon information and belief,
Dr. Silvers did not make similar comments to his male patients. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendants argue that they had legitimate,
non-discriminatory reasons for terminating Plaintiff that were not motivated by
Plaintiff’s gender. Dr. Silvers terminated Plaintiff not because she was a woman but because
he did not think she was a good fit for the Practice, was not showing the same
enthusiasm for the job as she initially showed, and that she did not want to do
the job for which she was hired. (Silvers Decl., ¶¶ 42-43.) Thus, Defendants have met
their burden of showing an element of Plaintiff’s case is missing by showing a
non-discriminatory motive for her termination, which shifts the burden to
Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that she was terminated, in substantial part, due to her gender.
Plaintiff contends she was engaged in protected activity under the FEHA for opposing sexual
harassment, which itself is a form of gender discrimination. (Meritor Sav.
Bank, FSB v. Vinson (1986) 106 S.Ct. 2399, 2404; Government
Code section 12940(h).) Plaintiff asserts that her refusal to film Dr. Silvers was
sexually harassing conduct that she opposed. Approximately
three months after Plaintiff refused Dr. Silvers’ request, she was terminated. (Norris
Depo., 146:5-12.) Plaintiff asserts that the timing of her termination
sufficiently infers pretext. 
 
The Court
agrees that a reasonable juror could conclude that timing infers pretext.
“Pretext may…be inferred from the timing of the company’s termination decision,
by the identity of the person making the decision, and by the terminated
employee’s job performance before the termination.” (Flait v. N. Am. Watch
Corp. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 467, 479.) The Ninth Circuit has found that
“causation can be inferred from timing alone where an adverse employment action
follows on the heels of protected activity.” (Villiarimo v. Aloha Island
Air, Inc. (9th Cir. 2002) 281 F.3d 1054, 1065; Matthews v. Trilogy
Comm’ns, Inc., 143 F.3d 1160, 1166 (8th Cir. 1998) (a gap of only two
months between the protected activity and the employee’s discharge may create
an inference of a retaliatory motive).) Here, Plaintiff’s termination was only
a few months after opposing the alleged sexual harassment. The person making
the decision to terminate Plaintiff was Dr. Silvers, the same person she
refused to film. This is a sufficient showing to meet
Plaintiff’s shifted burden.
 
As such, summary adjudication for the second
cause of action in the Complaint for gender discrimination is DENIED.
 
c.       Third Cause
of Action for Retaliation in violation of FEHA
 
Defendants
argue that the third cause of action in the FAC for retaliation fails because
(1) Plaintiff cannot show a prima facie case of retaliation because she cannot
show a causal link between any protected activity and any adverse employment
action; and (2) Defendants have shown a legitimate, non-retaliatory reasons for
their actions.  
 
To
establish retaliation under FEHA, a plaintiff must show that “(1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA,
Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) A retaliation claim can be brought by
an employee who has complained of conduct reasonably believed to be
discriminatory. (Id. at 1043; see also Kelley v. Conco Companies
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 191, 209-10.) “[A]lthough an adverse employment action
must materially affect the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment to be
actionable, the determination of whether a particular action or course of
conduct rises to the level of actionable conduct should take into account the
unique circumstances of the affected employee as well as the workplace context
of the claim.” (Yanowitz, supra, 36 Cal.4th at 1052.)  
 
Defendants submit the same evidence to show that
they had legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for terminating Plaintiff that
were not motivated by any protected activity. As discussed above, this evidence
was sufficient to meet Defendants’ burden, however, Plaintiff also presented
evidence of pretext and triable issues of material facts. The Court finds that
it is sufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden for this cause of action as well. 
 
As such, summary adjudication as to the third cause
of action in the FAC for retaliation is DENIED. 
 
d.      Fourth Cause
of Action for Retaliation in violation of Labor Code 1102.5
 
Defendants move for summary
adjudication as to the fourth cause of action on the ground that
Plaintiff
is unable to establish a prima facie claim for retaliation in violation of Labor
Code 1102.5(c).  
 
Section 1102.5(c) states, “An employer…shall not retaliate against
an employee for refusing to participate in an activity that would result in a
violation of state or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with
a local, state, or federal rule or regulation.” (Cal. Lab. Code § 1102.5(c).)
Where a plaintiff alleges violation of 1102.5(c), she must establish that an
actual violation of law would result from an activity to prove retaliation
under § 1102.5(c). (Ibid.) An employee’s reasonable but incorrect
suspicion of illegality is not sufficient; the activity must actually result in
the violation of a statute, rule, or regulation. (Nejadian v. County of Los
Angeles, 40 Cal. App. 5th 703, 719 (2019).) The employee must identify the
specific activity in which the employee refused to participate, and what specific
statute, rule, or regulation would have been violated. (Id.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff did not refuse to perform an act
that would result in the violation of law. Plaintiff alleges one activity she
refused to perform: refusing to remove sutures (stitches) from patients because
she was not a trained medical professional in violation of Business and
Professions Code § 2069. (Norris Depo., , 76:9-77:9.) That statute states in
pertinent part: 
 
(a)(1)
Notwithstanding any other law, a medical assistant may administer medication
only by intradermal, subcutaneous, or intramuscular injections and perform skin
tests and additional technical supportive services upon the specific
authorization and supervision of a licensed physician… 
[(b)](1)
“Medical assistant” means a person who may be unlicensed, who performs basic
administrative, clerical, and technical supportive services in compliance with
this section and Section 2070 for a licensed physician…. 
(3)
“Supervision” means the supervision of procedures authorized by this section by
the following practitioners, within the scope of their respective practices,
who shall be physically present in the treatment facility during the
performance of those procedures: (A) A licensed physician and surgeon…. 
(4)(A)
“Technical supportive services” means simple routine medical tasks and
procedures that may be safely performed by a medical assistant who has limited
training and who functions under the supervision of a licensed physician…. 
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 2069.)
 
Medical
assistants are specifically permitted to remove sutures from patients after
“receiving such training as, in the judgment of the supervising physician[,] is
necessary to assure the medical assistant’s competence in performing that
service[.]” (Cal. Code Regs. tit. 16, §§ 1366(b)(4) (sutures), 1366.2
(training).) 
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff admits that Dr. Silvers trained her on how to remove
sutures. (Norris Depo., p. 83:9-25.) In Plaintiff’s deposition, she states that
“When he [Dr. Silvers] was showing me things, or, I guess, for lack of a better
term, training me on things, almost all the time it was with patients in the
room. So it wasn’t before – it wasn’t like we had a training session before I
performed it. It was at that point in time he would walk me through it or
showed me.” (Ibid.) Dr. Silvers attested that he trained Plaintiff on
how to perform any technical supportive services and any service or task she
did was under his supervision. (Silvers Decl., ¶¶ 17-20.) The Court finds that
Defendants have sufficiently carried its burden in showing that the removal of
sutures by Plaintiff would not have resulted in the violation of law to prove
retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5(c).  
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues triable issues of material fact exist as to
whether Dr. Silvers satisfied all the requirements necessary for Plaintiff to
have completed the training required for removing sutures.  
 
Plaintiff
asserts that to be eligible to perform such this service, at least four
conditions must all be met, including that:
 
“(3) The
medical assistant has completed the training specified in Sections 1366.2,
1366.3, and 1366.4 and has demonstrated competence in the performance of the
service;” and 
“(4) A record
shall be made in the patient chart or other record…of each technical supportive
service performed by the medical assistant, indicating the name, initials or
other identifier of the medical assistant, the date and time, a description of
the service performed, and the name of the physician or podiatrist who gave the
medical assistant patient-specific authorization to perform the task....” 
 
(16
C.C.R. § 1366(a).) 
 
Under
Section 1366.2, “Training to Perform Additional Technical Supportive Services”
provides that: 
“Such
training shall be administered pursuant to either subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2)
of Section 1366.3.” (16 C.C.R. § 1366.2.) Subsection (a)(1) provides that
training may be administered “Under a licensed physician or podiatrist, who
shall ascertain the proficiency of the medical assistant.” However, “The
supervising physician or podiatrist, pursuant to subsection (a)(1)…shall certify
in writing the place and date such training was administered, the content and
duration of the training, and that the medical assistant was observed by the
certifying physician, podiatrist, or instructor to demonstrate competence in
the performance of each such task or service, and shall sign the
certification.” (16 C.C.R. § 1366.3(b)(1).)
 
Plaintiffs
assert that Defendants never kept any records on any of the alleged training he
provided to Plaintiff, in violation of 16 C.C.R. § 1366(a). In support,
Plaintiff cites to the deposition of Dr. Silvers. When asked whether
Plaintiff’s training on removing sutures was documented anywhere, in writing or
some other recorded form, Dr. Silvers states “No.” (Silvers Depo. 10/26/23,
39:24-40:7.) Thus, Dr. Silvers’ failure to certify in writing the date, place,
content, or duration of any training he provided to Plaintiff would have made
it a violation of 16 C.C.R. § 1366(a) for Plaintiff to perform the suture
removal procedure. The Court finds this is sufficient to create a triable issue
of material fact to prove retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5(c).  
 
As such, summary adjudication for the fourth cause
of action in the Complaint for retaliation in violation of Labor Code 1102.5 is
DENIED.
 
e.      Fifth Cause
of Action for Wrongful Termination
 
An employee has a common law right to sue for wrongful
termination “when he or she is discharged for performing an act that public
policy would encourage, or for refusing to do something that public policy
would condemn.”  (Gantt v. Sentry Insurance (1992) 1 Cal.4th 1083,
1090 (overruled on other grounds).)  “‘The elements of a claim for
wrongful discharge in violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee
relationship, (2) the employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the
termination was substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and
(4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm.’”  (Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp
Chula Vista Medical Center (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234-35 (quoting Yau
v. Allen (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 154).)  “A discharge is
actionable as against public policy if it violates a policy that is: ‘(1)
delineated in either constitutional or statutory provisions; (2) ‘public’ in
the sense that it ‘inures to the benefit of the public’ rather than serving
merely the interests of the individual; (3) well established at the time of
discharge; and (4) ‘substantial’ and ‘fundamental.’’”  (Id. at
1238-39 [quoting Carter v. Escondido Union High School District (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 922, 929].)   
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot establish that she was wrongfully terminated in
violation of public policy because her termination was a direct result of her
inadequate job performance. However, since triable issues of fact exist with
regard to Plaintiff’s harassment and gender discrimination claims, triable
issues of fact also exist with Plaintiff’s wrongful termination in violation of
public policy claim. 
 
Thus,
the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the fifth
cause of action. 
 
f.       
Punitive Damages
 
A recovery of punitive damages under Civil Code § 3294 requires
clear and convincing evidence that that an officer, director, or managing
agent of the defendant acted with "oppression, malice, or fraud."
(Code Civ. Proc., § 3294(b); Lacker v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th
1188, 1210.) Civ. Code §
3294(c)(1) defines “malice” as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2) defines “oppression” as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” 
 
A managing
agent is not merely a supervisory employee, but rather is limited to those “who
exercise[] substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately
determine corporate policy.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal. 4th
563, 577.) Corporate policies are “the general principles which guide a
corporation, or rules intended to be followed consistently over time in
corporate operations” and a managing agent is “one with substantial authority
over decisions that set these general principles and rules.” (Cruz v.
Homebase (2000) 83 Cal. App. 4th 160, 167-68.) Under CCP §
437c(f)(l), a party may move for summary adjudication if the party contends
that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of
the Civil Code. (Catalano v. Superior Ct. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 91,
96-97.) 
 
The FAC
seeks punitive damages for each of its causes of action. Defendants argue that
since Plaintiff’s claims fail, her punitive damages claim must also fail.
 
However, as
discussed above, the Court finds triable
issues of fact exist with regard to Plaintiff’s claims. Courts have found
that evidence of pretext in a FEHA discrimination or retaliation case creates
an inference of intent, meeting the punitive standard for both malice and
oppression. (Cloud v. Casey (1999) 76 Cal. App.4th 895, 911-912
(intentional retaliation itself consists of a conscious disregard of another’s
rights, thus is malicious, oppressive, and despicable conduct easily supporting
punitive damages). Further, Plaintiff states Dr. Silvers has been the owner,
CEO, and every corporate officer of BDMG since its incorporation. (AUMF 14.)
Thus, since the Court finds triable issues of fact
exist with regard to Plaintiff’s discrimination and retaliation claims, she has
established a prima facie case for punitive damages.
 
As such, the Court DENIES the motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. 
 
E.      Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
a.       Procedural
Objections
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff asserts that the Court should
strike Defendants Separate Statement because it was served late. 
 
The
Court notes that the deadline for Defendants to file an opposition was February 13, 2024, i.e., 14 days before the
hearing on February 27, 2024. (CCP § 437c(b)(2).) Defendants filed the Separate
Statement in support of their opposition to Plaintiff’s MSA on February 15, 2024,
and it is therefore late. The Court has the discretion to refuse to consider
any evidence not timely submitted. (Mackey v. Bd. of Trustees of California
State Univ. (2019) 31 Cal. App. 5th 640, 657.) Despite
the Separate Statement being filed late, the Court will not exercise its
discretion to strike and will consider it. 
 
b.      Issue Nos.
1-3: Defendants’ Affirmative Defenses 
 
Plaintiff argues there is no merit to Defendants’ Seventeenth
Affirmative Defense (Consent), Twentieth Affirmative Defense (Good faith), and Twenty-First
Affirmative Defense (Essential Lawful Part of Business Operation).
 
Defendants’
Seventeenth Affirmative Defense states, in relevant part, “Defendant asserts
that Plaintiff is barred on the ground that at all times alleged in the
Complaint, Plaintiff expressly or impliedly assented to, ratified, or concurred
with the conduct alleged to be unlawful.”
 
Defendants’
Twentieth Affirmative Defense states, in relevant part, “Defendant asserts that
all actions taken by Defendant with respect to Plaintiff, at all times relevant
to this action, were taken in good faith for legitimate non-discriminatory
reasons.”
 
Defendants’
Twenty-First Affirmative Defense states, in relevant part, “Defendant asserts
that Plaintiff is barred because the alleged conduct, if true, would be an
essential lawful part of the Defendant’s business operations and/or consistent
with industry practice.”
 
Plaintiff argues she has established as a matter of law that there
is no merit to Defendants’ Seventeenth, Twentieth and Twenty-First Affirmative
Defenses specifically as to the Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action for Retaliation
in Violation of Labor Code section 1102.5
 
However, “[a] motion for summary adjudication shall be granted
only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a
claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” Cal. Code. Civ. Proc. § 437(c)(f)(1).
Here, Plaintiff’s Notice of MSA moves for a judicial determination of these
affirmative defense only as to the Fourth Cause of Action for Retaliation.
Plaintiff’s Notice of MSA would have needed to move for a judicial
determination that the affirmative defenses can be resolved as to all causes of
action alleged.  Because Plaintiff’s MSA
would not completely dispose of the seventeenth, twentieth and twenty-first
affirmative defenses, her MSA as to these affirmative defenses must therefore
be denied.
 
As such, the Court DENIES the motion for summary
adjudication as to Issue Nos. 1-3.
 
c.       Issue No. 4: Duty
to Comply with California Law by Providing Plaintiff Training
 
Plaintiff seeks an order adjudicating that “Defendants owed her a
duty to comply with California law by providing her with the required training,
including documenting such training, before asking her to perform technical
supportive services on patients.” (Notice of MSA, p. 2.)
 
Plaintiff asserts that “although the word “duty” does not appear
in the relevant Code sections or regulations, Civil Code section 1714 imposes a
general duty of care on a defendant only when it is the defendant who has
‘“created a risk”’ of harm to the plaintiff, including when ‘“the defendant is
responsible for making the plaintiff's position worse.”’ (Brown v. USA
Taekwando (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.) 
 
Plaintiff performs an analysis of the factors
from Rowland v. Christian, 69 Cal.2d 108, 113. However, Rowland only
applies in situations that justify a departure from Civ. Code, section 1714. In
Cabral v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 764, the Supreme Court
summarized the so-called Rowland factors: “In the Rowland
decision, this court identified several considerations that, when balanced
together, may justify a departure from the fundamental principle embodied in
Civil Code section 1714.” Rowland’s multifactor test “was not designed as a
freestanding means of establishing duty, but instead as a
means for deciding whether to limit a duty derived from other sources,” like
Civil Code section 1714. (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 217.) 
 
In Kuciemba v. Victory
Woodworks, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal. 5th 993, the court stated that Rowland’s multifactor test
“was not designed as a freestanding means of establishing duty,
but instead as a means for deciding whether to limit a duty derived from other
sources,” like Civil Code section 1714. (Kuciemba, supra, 14 Cal.
5th at 1021.)  “As we have also
explained, however, in the absence of a statutory provision establishing an
exception to the general rule of Civil Code section 1714, courts should create
one only where ‘clearly supported by public policy.’ ”[Citations].” (Ibid.) “The most important factor to consider in determining
whether to create an exception to the general duty to exercise ordinary care
articulated by [Civil Code] section 1714 is
whether the injury in question was foreseeable.” (Ibid.) In making this assessment, the court must focus not
on particularities of the defendant's conduct and the plaintiff's injury, but
on “whether the category of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently likely
to result in the kind of harm experienced that liability may appropriately be
imposed ....” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff appears to argue that Civil Code §
1714 supports the proposition that Defendants owed Plaintiff the duty to train
her properly and document that training before asking her to act as a medical
assistant. However, Plaintiff does not point to a statutory provision
establishing such a duty. Further, based on the Rowland factors,
Plaintiff does not specify the injury in question that was foreseeable.
Plaintiff merely states “it is extremely foreseeable that if Plaintiff were not
properly trained, it could cause harm to her or others.” The Court does not
find that Plaintiff has established Defendants owed Plaintiff the duty to train
her properly and document that training before asking her to act as a medical
assistant.
 
As such, the Court DENIES the motion for
summary adjudication as to Issue No. 4. 
 
d.      Issue No. 5: Duty
to Not Retaliate 
 
Plaintiff also seeks an order adjudicating that “Defendants owed
Plaintiff a duty to not retaliate against her for refusing to participate in
practices which would result in violations of California law.” (Notice of MSA,
p. 2.)
 
Plaintiff argues that the duty to not retaliate is a statutory
duty. Plaintiff cites to Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (c), which states
that neither an employer nor anyone acting on the employer’s behalf may
retaliate against an employee for refusing to participate in illegal conduct.
Whistleblower protections reflect “the broad public policy interest in
encouraging workplace whistle-blowers to report unlawful acts without fearing
retaliation.” (Green v. Ralee Eng’g Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 66, 77.) Since
Plaintiff cites to the statutory provision of Labor Code 1102.5(c) establishing
that Defendants owed a duty to not retaliate, Plaintiff has met her burden.
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s MSA as to this duty must be
denied because it would not completely dispose of any duty at issue or cause of
action in this case. However, Plaintiff is only requesting the Court to grant
summary adjudication as to the issue of duty only. Finding such a duty would
completely dispose of the issue of whether the duty exists and should have been
applied in this instance. Plaintiff still would need to prove the merits of her
retaliation claims to prevail on those causes of action. Thus, the Court grants
summary adjudication as to the issue of duty only.
 
As such, the Court GRANTS the motion for
summary adjudication as to Issue No. 5. 
 
F.       Plaintiff’s
Motion for Order for Defendants to Produce Evidence of their Financial
Condition Subject to Protective Order
 
Plaintiff
moves the Court for an order that Defendants produce their current financial
information consisting of their net worth and wealth subject to a protective
order limiting the use of such information to the second phase of trial,
pursuant to California Civil Code section 3295(c).
 
California
Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (c), provides in pertinent part: 
 
“[T]he court
may at any time enter an order permitting the discovery otherwise prohibited by
this subdivision if the court finds, on the basis of the supporting and
opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has established that there is
a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant
to Section 3294.”
 
Finding a
substantial probability of success does “not require a weighing of evidence by
the trial judge, but only a determination as to whether sufficient evidence
ha[s] been presented to demonstrate a prima facie case [for punitive damages].”
(Looney v. Super. Ct. (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 521, 538.)
 
Plaintiff argues
that she has demonstrated a prima facie case for punitive damages. Plaintiff
must present evidence of Defendants’ financial condition to provide a basis for
an award of punitive damages. Thus, Plaintiff requests Defendants produce their
current financial information consisting of their net worth and wealth subject
to a protective order limiting the use of such information to the second phase
of trial.
 
Defendants
do not oppose the motion.  “A party who has not timely filed written
opposition to a motion…may not be afforded an opportunity to offer oral
argument at the hearing.” (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) “The failure to file opposition creates an inference
that the motion or demurrer is meritorious.”¿ (Id.)¿ “In such cases, the
court may hear argument limited to a request for a continuance of the hearing
in order to afford an opportunity for written opposition.”¿(Id.) “[T]he
rule is patently intended to prevent the introduction of legal theories without
prior notice to opposing counsel and the court.”¿(Id.) 
 
As discussed
above, Plaintiff has demonstrated a prima facie case for punitive damages. In
order for Plaintiff to base an award for punitive damages, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s motion subject to a protective order limiting the use of such
information to the second phase of trial. 
 
As such, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion
for Order for Defendants to Produce Evidence of their Financial Condition
Subject to Protective Order.
 
III.
DISPOSITION
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment
is DENIED as to Plaintiff’s first, second, third, fourth and fifth causes of
action, and as to punitive damages. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED as to Issue Nos. 1-4 and GRANTED as to Issue No. 5. 
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion for
Order for Defendants to Produce Evidence of their Financial Condition Subject
to Protective Order.