  Case Number:  22PSCV00895    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  K The hearing on Plaintiff
Marjorie Sobosky’s Motion to Substitute Personal Representative as Plaintiff is
CONTINUED to April 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. [see below].
Background   
Plaintiff Marjorie Sobosky (“Marjorie”)
alleges as follows:
On or about August 20, 2021, Marjorie was
hospitalized at Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center (“PVHMC”). During Marjorie’s
hospitalization, PVHMC’s nursing and care staff failed to timely diagnose and
treat her obstructed bowel and UTI and failed to take pressure wound
precautions, which resulted in Marjorie developing a stage 4 ulcer. Marjorie was
also given blood thinners which caused bowel bleeding.
On February 2, 2023, Marjorie filed
a Second Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against PVHMC and Does
1-50 for:
1.                 
Professional Negligence
2.                 
Reckless Neglect in Violation of Elder Abuse and
Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act
The Final Status Conference is set for November 19, 2024.
Trial is set for December 3, 2024.
Legal Standard
“On motion after the
death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow
a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the
decedent's personal representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in
interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31).
“The person who seeks to
commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding
as the decedent's successor in interest under this article, shall
execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury under
the laws of this state stating all of the following:
(1)
      The decedent's name. 
(2)
      The date and place of the decedent's
death. 
(3)
      ‘No proceeding is now pending in
California for administration of the decedent's estate.’ 
(4)
      If the decedent's estate was
administered, a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the
decedent's cause of action to the successor in interest. 
(5)
      Either of the following, as
appropriate, with facts in support thereof: 
(A)
      ‘The affiant or declarant is the
decedent's successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent's interest in
the action or proceeding.’ 
(B)
      ‘The affiant or declarant is
authorized to act on behalf of the decedent's successor in interest (as defined
in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to
the decedent's interest in the action or proceeding.’ 
(6)
      ‘No other person has a superior
right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the
decedent in the pending action or proceeding.’ 
(7)
      ‘The affiant or declarant affirms or
declares under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California
that the foregoing is true and correct.’” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
377.32subd. (a).) 
“Where more than one
person executes the affidavit or declaration under this section, the statements
required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that
fact.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (b).) “A certified copy of the
decedent's death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or
declaration.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c) [Emphasis added].)
Discussion
Paul Eugene Sobosky (“Paul”), as
Marjorie’s duly appointed personal representative, moves the court for an order
allowing him to substitute in as plaintiff on this case.
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The court rules on Paul’s Request for
Judicial Notice as follows: Granted as to Exhibit B (i.e., “Order for Probate”
entered August 10, 2023 in case styled Estate of Marjorie Faith Sobosky,
Case No. PR0882300842 [“Probate Action”]) and Granted as to Exhibit C (i.e.,
Letters Testamentary issued September 5, 2023 in the Probate Action). 
 
Paul has submitted a declaration,
wherein he attests that he is Marjorie’s successor in interest (Paul Decl., ¶
1); that Marjorie died on May 11, 2023 at San Antonio Regional Hospital, 999 San
Bernadino Road in Upland, California (Id., ¶ 2; see also “Notice of
Errata Relating to Exhibit A in Motion to Substitute Plaintiff”); that he was
appointed the executor of Marjorie’s will on August 10, 2023 and letters
testamentary were issued on September 5, 2023 (Id., ¶ 3, Exhs. B and C)
and that no other person has a superior right to continue this action or to be
substituted for the decedent in this pending action (Id., ¶ 4). 
Paul’s declaration, however, fails to reflect compliance
with Code of Civil Procedure § 377.32, subdivision (c)(3)-(5) [see
above].
The court will continue the hearing to April 8, 2024
at 8:30 a.m. Paul is requested to file and serve a supplemental declaration
addressing the above deficiencies no later than five court days prior to the
continued hearing date.