  Case Number:  24TRCV00740    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  P    Superior Court    of California County of Los    Angeles Southwest    District Torrance Dept. P       MARIA    ANGELES REYES, ANGEL ARMANDO REYES, Individually, and/or as the Surviving    Heirs, Personal Representatives, and/or Successors in Interest of Decedent,    JOSE ANTONIO REYES, and/or as Administrators or Executors of the ESTATE OF    JOSE ANTONIO REYES,                            Plaintiffs,     Case No.:       24TRCV00740       vs.         [Tentative]    RULING RE:   DEMURRER    TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE           KINDRED    HOSPITAL SOUTH BAY; KND DEVELOPMENT 53, LLC; KINDRED HEALTHCARE OPERATING,    LLC; GARDENA MEMORIAL HOSPITAL; GARDENA HOSPITAL, L.P.; GARDENA HOSPITAL    MANAGEMENT, LLC; PIPELINE HEALTH SYSTEM HOLDINGS, LLC; JOSE ANTONIO REYES,    JR.; SERGIO OMAR REYES, and DOES 1 through 200, Inclusive,                                      Defendants.                                Hearing  Date:  September 23, 2024 Department  P, Judge David K. Reinert             Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint and Motion to Strike   Moving  Parties: Defendants  Gardena Hospital L.P.; Gardena Memorial Hospital; Pipeline Health System  Holdings (collectively, the “Gardena Defendants”)   Responding Party: Plaintiffs Maria Reyes and Angel  Reyes   RULING Having  considered Defendant’s demurrer, Plaintiff’s opposition, and Defendant’s reply,  the court rules as follows: the demurrer to the second and third causes of  action are sustained. The motion to strike portions of the allegations is  granted.   PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND On March  1, 2024, Plaintiffs Maria Reyes (“Maria”) and Angel Reyes (“Angel”) filed a  complaint against Defendants Kindred Hospital South Bay; KND Development 53,  LLC; Kindred Healthcare Operating, LLC; and the Gardena Defendants. On June 3,  2024, the Gardena Defendants filed a demurrer to Plaintiffs’ complaint.   On August 6,  2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against the Gardena  Defendants alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence/Professional Medical  Negligence; (2) Elder Abuse; (3) Willful Misconduct; and (4) Wrongful Death. On  August 13, the Gardena Defendants filed a demurrer to the second and third  causes of action and a motion to strike portions of the FAC. On September 9,  2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to both motions. The next day, the  Gardena Defendants filed their reply.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND On June 2,  2023, Jose Reyes (“Jose”) died from injuries sustained while he was a patient at  Kindred Hospital. (FAC, ¶ 1.) Angel is his son, and Maria is his widow. (FAC, ¶  5.)   Jose,  prior to his stay at Kindred Hospital, was a patient at Gardena Memorial Hospital,  where he also sustained injuries. (FAC, ¶ 2.)   On  September 12, 2022, Jose was admitted to Gardena Memorial Hospital after presenting  with shortness of breath and respiratory distress. (FAC, ¶ 61.) Doctors  diagnosed Jose with acute respiratory failure and heart failure. (FAC, ¶ 61.) Medical  staff determined that Jose was at an elevated risk of developing pressure  ulcers. (FAC, ¶ 61.) On September 15, Jose was discharged.   On  December 1, 2022, Jose was again admitted to Gardena Memorial Hospital after  complaints of respiratory distress. Jose was intubated and remained on  ventilator support until December 6, 2022. (FAC, ¶¶ 66, 68.) From December 3 to  6, 2022, Jose was catheterized and ordered to remain on complete bedrest. (FAC,  ¶ 69.) During that time, hospital staff failed to reposition him. (FAC, ¶ 69.)   On  December 9, 2022, Jose was extubated and diagnosed with a Stage I ulcer. (FAC,  ¶ 71.) Jose remained on bedrest and continued to develop pressure ulcers, which  nurses failed to document. (FAC, ¶ 75.) Despite the presence of pressure sores,  doctors did not order a wound consultation until December 23, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 85B(h).)   On  December 19, 2022, Jose went into cardiac arrest. Medical staff reintubated and  resuscitated him. (FAC, ¶ 76.) The next day, examination of his ulcers revealed  that they had progressed to Stage II. (FAC, ¶ 77.)   Jose  remained catharized and on bed rest until he was discharged on December 28,  2022. On the day of discharge, a skin examination revealed several ulcers and  skin tears. Jose was transferred to Kindred Hospital for further treatment.  (FAC, ¶¶ 84-85.)   Plaintiffs  allege that all hospital defendants knew that Jose had an increased risk of pressure  ulcers but failed to comply with proper pressure sore protocols. (FAC, ¶  22-23.) Plaintiffs allege that Jose was not cleaned, repositioned, and examined  throughout his stay at the hospitals because they were inadequately staffed.  (FAC, ¶ 26.)   Plaintiffs  allege that all Defendants failed to provide Jose with the proper care or train  staff adequately, breaching their duty of care towards Jose. (FAC, ¶ 35-37.)   Plaintiffs  allege that Gardena Hospital, in particular, has failed to address systemic  issues identified by regulators, and they have received numerous citations for  failure to provide proper care. (FAC, ¶ 85A.)               LEGAL STANDARD           A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state  facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a  complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., §  430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of  action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special  demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,  subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is  so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot  reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or  claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif.,  Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   When considering demurrers, courts accept all  well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185  Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the  evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects  appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v.  Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in  a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with  extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147  Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions,  deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)   Although courts construe pleadings liberally,  sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a  demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81  Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be  allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show  the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)   DISCUSSION             Moving  Party’s Arguments   Gardena  Defendants contend that Plaintiffs fail to plead with particularity, such that  they know which allegations are attributable to them. Further, they argue that  Plaintiffs attempt to recharacterize their allegations such that their claims  can bypass protections provided by Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of  1975 (“MICRA”). Gardena Defendants argue that the demurrer to the second cause  of action should be sustained because Plaintiffs allege facts pertaining to  negligence, not elder abuse. Further, the demurrer to the third cause of action  should be sustained because willful misconduct is a form of elevated  negligence, not a separate cause of action.   Gardena  Defendants assert that Plaintiffs cannot seek punitive damages under the Code of  Civil Procedure section 425.13.   Gardena  Defendants also contend that the allegations specific to Gardena Hospital in  FAC ¶ 85A, are vague because they do not include the dates that Gardena  Hospital received the alleged citations. These allegations are also irrelevant  because they are broad accusations of negligence that are not specific to the instant  case.   Responding  Party’s Opposition    Plaintiffs  argue that Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13 does not apply to Elder Abuse  Act claims. Plaintiffs argue that they have asserted a valid claim of elder  abuse because Gardena Defendants have a history of subpar care and neglected  Jose.   Plaintiffs  contend that they have pleaded sufficient facts to establish that Gardena  Defendants engaged in Willful Misconduct because Gardena Defendants have numerous  citations and failed to take corrective measures. Their failure to provide Jose  with proper care was a willful breach of their duty towards him.   Reply  Arguments   Gardena  Defendants reassert that Plaintiffs are attempting to recharacterize a  professional negligence claim as an elder abuse claim.   Gardena  Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s Elder Abuse Act claim must be pleaded with  particularity because it is subject to heightened pleading standards, and  Plaintiffs have failed to meet this standard. They also argue that Plaintiffs  have heightened pleading requirements if they want to seek punitive damages against  a healthcare provider under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13, which  Plaintiffs have failed to do.   Finally,  Gardena Defendants argue that the allegations in FAC ¶ 85A must be struck  because they are irrelevant.   Merits  of the Demurrer and Motion to Strike    A.    Meet and Confer    Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and  confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who  filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of  determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended  pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) A motion to strike also requires a meet and  confer process, which is procedurally identical to the meet and confer process  prior to filing a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)    Defense  counsel declares that she emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel a meet and confer  request, but Plaintiffs’ counsel did not reply. Defense counsel called and left  a voicemail asking to meet and confer but did not get a response. (Demurrer, Charles  Decl., ¶ 4-5.)   Accordingly,  the court finds that the parties have not satisfied the meet and confer  requirement.   B.     Second Cause of Action for Elder  Abuse   The Elder  Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600  et seq.) provides for steep penalties against those who abuse an elder or a  dependent adult. Dependent adult abuse includes physical abuse, neglect,  isolation, deprivation by a care custodian of necessary goods or services, and  financial abuse. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a).) Neglect  includes failure to assist in personal hygiene, failure to provide medical care  for physical and mental health needs, and failure to protect from health and safety  hazards. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd. (b).)     [S]everal  factors must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of  the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under  the Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and  convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had  responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,  such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions  that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own  basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to  meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that  injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the  plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of  the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges  recklessness). The plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear  and convincing evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult  to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts  constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect  and the injury “must be pleaded with particularity,” in accordance with the  pleading rules governing statutory claims.    (Carter  v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396,  406-407, citations omitted.)   The  instant case is similar to Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32  Cal.4th 771. In Covenant, plaintiffs sued a healthcare facility for  elder abuse after the facility failed to feed, clothe, bathe, or provide any  nursing care to their father, leading to his death. (Id. at p. 777.) Plaintiffs  alleged that the facility conspired with other care organizations to withhold  medical treatment from the decedent and hide their noncompliance with  regulatory standards to avoid penalties. (Ibid.) The Court found that  the facility’s conduct was so egregious that it was elder abuse, not just  professional negligence. (Id. at p. 778.)    Here, Plaintiffs  similarly allege that Jose was not fed, bathed, or provided with proper nursing  care. However, Plaintiffs allege that a contributing factor to his inadequate  care was Gardena Defendants’ short-staffing practices. Plaintiffs contend  Gardena Defendants failed to employ enough licensed nurses, which satisfies the  “recklessness” element of the test for elder abuse discussed above. (FAC, ¶  152.) However, as Defendant notes, a Court of Appeal has already determined  that failure to maintain sufficient staffing is not recklessness for the  purpose of the Elder Abuse Act. (Worsham v. O’Connor Hospital (2014) 226  Cal.App.4th 331, 338.) Plaintiffs do not allege other conduct that resembles  that of the healthcare facility in Covenant. Plaintiffs do not allege  that Gardena Defendants engaged in a conspiracy to withhold care or hide  noncompliance with regulatory standards. In fact, Plaintiffs allege that  Gardena Defendants have received multiple citations for noncompliance. Thus, Plaintiffs’  allegations rise to the level of professional negligence, not elder abuse.   Accordingly,  the court sustains the demurrer to the second cause of action without leave to  amend.   C.     Third Cause of Action for Willful  Misconduct   Plaintiffs  cite to Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th 396[1] to  support their contention that willful misconduct is a separate cause of action.  The plaintiff in Carter did file a complaint with willful misconduct as  a separate cause of action. (Id. at p. 403.) However, the Court of  Appeals in Carter declined to address whether it was a proper cause of  action because the plaintiff’s claim was time-barred. (Id. at p. 403.) Moreover,  the Court of Appeals found that, even if it was timely, the plaintiff did not plead  sufficient facts to establish that defendant engaged in willful misconduct. (Id.  at pp. 412-413.)    In Carter,  the plaintiff alleged that the defendant healthcare facility acted willfully  and fraudulently when they failed to bathe, feed, and provide proper wound care  for the patient’s pressure ulcers (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th  at pp. 410, 412.) However, the Court of Appeals disagreed with this assertion  because willful misconduct implies intent to cause harm. (Id. at p. 412.)  If anything, the defendant healthcare facility’s actions showed an intent to treat  the patient because they diagnosed him with pneumonia, sepsis, and pressure  sores; provided fluids; and searched for the correct size intubation tube  required for the patient. (Id. at p. 413.) Although the defendant may  have been negligent in its care, its actions did not rise to the level of  willful misconduct. (Ibid.)    Similarly,  Plaintiffs allege that Gardena Defendants engaged in willful misconduct by failing  to provide proper wound care, nutrition, and hygiene even though they knew that  Jose was susceptible to pressure ulcers. Much like Carter, these actions  indicate a failure to provide proper care but do not imply that Gardena  Defendants intended to cause Jose harm. Gardena Defendants diagnosed Jose with  respiratory distress; cardiac distress; and Stage I and II ulcers. After  diagnosis, Gardena Defendants attempted to provide care by intubating Jose, ordering  a wound consultation, and discharging him to be treated at another facility. Gardena  may have acted negligently in providing said care, but that is not enough to  elevate their actions to willful misconduct.   Accordingly,  the court finds that Plaintiff has failed to state sufficient facts to maintain  a willful misconduct claim. Thus, the court sustains the demurrer to the third  cause of action in the FAC without leave to amend.   D.    Motion to Strike The court  may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems  proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or  any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., §436, subd.  (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading  or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)     Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13, subdivision (a), a FAC in a  professional negligence action may not contain a request for punitive damages  without first obtaining a court order. Accordingly, the motion to strike the  request for punitive damages is GRANTED.   Gardena Defendants seek to strike Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s  fees, pursuant to the Elder Abuse Act. As established above, Plaintiffs cannot  maintain a cause of action for elder abuse. Thus, the motion to strike the  request for attorney’s fees is GRANTED.   Gardena  Defendants seek to strike paragraph 85A in its entirety on the basis that the citations  and alleged short staffing are irrelevant to this action. Although the  citations and short staffing do not support a cause of action for elder abuse,  they may be relevant to the professional negligence cause of action. (See Worsham,  supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 338.) However, evidence of past citations  against Defendant are irrelevant and inadmissible.  Accordingly, the motion to strike paragraph  85A in its entirety is GRANTED with leave to amend.   Gardena  Defendants’ Motion to Strike Specific Allegations      Request    to Strike   Result     Paragraph    28, in its entirety, as follows: “The Stage III and IV Hospital Acquired    Pressure Injuries were avoidable and are considered an "adverse    event." Stage Ill and IV pressure ulcers which develop after admission    to a hospital are considered "never events" by the Patient Safety    Network (PSN)/Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ). In a Stage    IV pressure ulcer there is full thickness skin loss with extensive    destruction, tissue necrosis, or damage to muscle, bone, or supporting    structures including tendon or joint capsule.”   DENIED     Paragraph    55, in its entirety, as follows: “Elder abuse as defined in the Act, even    when committed by a health care provider, is not an injury that is    "directly related" to the provider's professional services. That    statutory elder abuse may include the egregious withholding of medical care    for physical and mental health needs is not determinative. As a failure to    fulfill custodial duties owed by a custodian happens also to be a health care    provider, such abuse is at most incidentally related to the provider's    professional health care services. The function of a health care provider is    distinct from that of an elder custodian, and the fact that some health care    institutions, such as the facilities herein, perform custodial functions and    provide professional medical care does not mean that the two functions are    the same.”   GRANTED     Portion    of Paragraph 56, as follows: “which prohibits the "physical abuse"    and/or "neglect" of elderly or dependent adults”   GRANTED     Paragraph    57, in its entirety, as follows: “"Neglect" statutorily includes    all of the following: The negligent failure to exercise that degree of care    that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise, specifically    including the failure to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of    food, clothing or shelter, the failure to provide medical care for physical    and mental health needs, the failure to protect from health and safety    hazards, and the failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    58, in its entirety, as follows: “"Physical abuse" statutorily    includes the crimes listed in Well. & Inst. Code§ 15610.63, unreasonable    physical constraint, prolonged or continual deprivation of food or water, and    use of a physical and/or chemical restraint or psychotropic medication for    punishment, for a period beyond that for which the medication was ordered, or    for any purpose not authorized by a physician or surgeon licensed in the    State of California, who was providing medical care to the elder at the time    instructions are given.”   GRANTED     Portion    of Paragraph 59, as follows: “…A pleader may plead in the alternative, and    claims under the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, for    "physical abuse," "neglect," "financial abuse,"    "abandonment," "isolation," and "abduction,"    have been pled in the alternative.”   GRANTED     Portion    of Paragraph 69, as follows: “…It is a deviation from the standard of care to    fail to meticulously document two hourly turning and re-positioning. Timing    and positioning should be documented.”   DENIED     Portion    of Paragraph 70, as follows: “…An unstageable pressure injury is    characterized by full thickness skin and tissue loss in which the extent of    tissue damage within the ulcer cannot be confirmed because it is obscured by    slough or eschar. If slough or eschar is removed, a Stage III or Stage IV    pressure injury will be revealed. The DECEDENT was supposed to be receiving    complete assistance with ADLs, oral hygiene, and repositioning during his    hospitalization but, as noted herein, he did not receive adequate or timely    assistance with ADLs, oral hygiene, and/or repositioning every 2 hours.”   DENIED     Portion    of Paragraph 75, as follows: “The DECEDENT should have been receiving    complete assistance with ADLs, oral hygiene, incontinence care, and    repositioning every 2 hours, but such care was not documented several times    on certain days during this time period. Nursing staff failed to note,    document and/or render wound care to the DECEDENT's pressure ulcers.”   DENIED     Paragraph    124, in its entirety, as follows: “DECEDENT developed pressure ulcers which    worsened as a result of the recklessly egregious substandard care he received    from Defendants. In particular, and without limiting the generality of the    foregoing, Defendants, and each of them, recklessly and with deliberate    indifference to the DECEDENT's health and safety failed to provide DECEDENT    adequate care, in part, as a result of understaffing, as follows: a)    Defendants, and each of them, were entrusted with the sole custodial care of    DECEDENT, but failed to provide DECEDENT with necessary health and medical    care; b) Defendants, and each of them, knowingly failed to ensure that a    resident or patient having pressure sores receives necessary treatment and    services to promote healing, prevent infection, and prevent new sores from    developing; c) Defendants, and each of them, knowingly failed to    appropriately assess DECEDENT's medical needs; d) Defendants, and each of    them, knowingly failed to reassess DECEDENT's skin wounds; e) Defendants, and    each of them, knowingly failed to provide accurate medical assessments of the    DECEDENT; f) Defendants, and each of them, knowingly failed to create a    comprehensive assessment of DECEDENT's needs using the Resident Assessment    Instrument specified by the State of California; g) Defendants, and each of    them, knowingly failed to notify physicians of the changes in DECEDENT's    physical and/or mental/emotional condition; h) Defendants, and each of them,    knowingly failed to maintain acceptable parameters of nutritional status,    such as body weight and protein levels; i) Defendants, and each of them,    knowingly failed to provide a therapeutic diet when a nutritional problem or    issue arose which concerned the DECEDENT; j) Defendants, and each of them,    knowingly failed to provide comprehensive care plans for the DECEDENT; k)    Defendants, and each of them, knowingly failed to maintain a complete,    accurately documented, readily accessible, systematically organized medical    record concerning the DECEDENT; I) Defendants, and each of them, knowingly    failed to administer medications and treatment as prescribed; m) Defendants,    and each of them, knowingly failed to ensure that their patients, including    DECEDENT in particular, was free from abuse or neglect while he was a    patient. The above list is not exclusive, as there may be additional    instances of abuse and neglect that may come to light following litigation    discovery and further investigation.”   GRANTED    as to “recklessly egregious”; “ recklessly and with deliberate indifference    to the DECEDENT's health and safety”; “m) Defendants, and each of them,    knowingly failed to ensure that their patients, including DECEDENT in    particular, was free from abuse or neglect while he was a patient. The above    list is not exclusive, as there may be additional instances of abuse and neglect    that may come to light following litigation discovery and further    investigation.”     Portion    of Paragraph 126, as follows: “…, even though said laws/regulations are    minimum standards of care which were established to protect elderly patients    from unnecessary exposure to health and safety hazards”   GRANTED     Portion    of Paragraph 129, as follows: “…continually and knowingly…”   GRANTED     Paragraph    131, in its entirety, as follows: “A decreased or poor appetite was    documented in the Defendants' records. However, the DECEDENT's poor appetite,    failure to eat and/or inadequate nutritional intake were not timely addressed    in the Care Plan(s) of the facilities. The DECEDENT's Care Plan(s) fails to    address his nutrition requirements and/or there were no eating/nutrition    measures to aid the DECEDENT in maintaining or improving his body weight    during the length of his stays at KINDRED HOSPITAL and GARDENA HOSPITAL. The    Defendants failed to provide the ordered diet, assist with feeding as    necessary, provide nutritional supplements as ordered or needed, maintain a    position of comfort during meals, and/or provide clinical nutrition    consultations.”   DENIED     Paragraph    132, in its entirety, as follows: “Notwithstanding the fact that the    Defendants knew of DECEDENT's worsening condition and that he had developed    pressure sores/pressure ulcers/bedsores and was not eating well, Defendants    knowingly continued to provide poor prevention/care of pressure ulcer    development and failed to provide acceptable parameters of    nutritional/hydration status. Defendants also knowingly failed to report    DECEDENT's deteriorating and changing condition to his physician or family as    required by law.”   GRANTED     Portion    of Paragraph 133, as follows: “…Defendants denied or withheld goods or    services to meet the DECEDENT's basic needs, both with knowledge that injury    was substantially certain to befall the DECEDENT and/or with conscious    disregard of the high probability of such injury.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    134, in its entirety, as follows: “The Defendants' conduct was reckless,    given Defendants' knowledge of DECEDENT's condition, and that he was A known    risk for the development of skin breakdown and deep tissue injuries/pressure    ulcers secondary to his multiple medical conditions. Such failure to provide    medical care and protect the DECEDENT from health and safety hazards showed    Defendants' deliberate disregard of the high probability that the DECEDENT    would suffer injury.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    135, in its entirety, as follows: “Based on the DECEDENT's prior medical    history and assessments, and due to his multiple medical conditions,    Defendants knew that the DECEDENT was at high risk for developing pressure    ulcers if he was not provided with needed supervision and assistance, as well    as needed medical care and services. Nevertheless, the DECEDENT was left    lying in his bed, unattended and unassisted, for excessively long periods of    time during which time his needs were ignored and disregarded. On frequent    occasions, the staff failed to respond to DECEDENT's alarms when he needed    assistance and/or the DECEDENT was left lying in his own excrement and/or    urine soaked linens for excessively long periods which not only caused him    severe emotional distress, but also caused him to develop unnecessary    pressure ulcers which went untreated such that the ulcers became severely    infected and ate through multiple layers of soft tissue structures, exposing    deep muscle tissue and bone.”   DENIED     Paragraph    136, in its entirety, as follows: “The DECEDENT's condition during his stays    at KINDRED HOSPITAL and GARDENA HOSPITAL shows that the Defendants failed to    protect the DECEDENT from harm and failed to provide services to the DECEDENT    that the Defendants were supposed to be providing. In part, Defendants failed    to turn or reposition the DECEDENT properly or adequately, or take intensive    interventions. DECEDENT was unable to move himself, and was totally reliant    on Defendants to reposition him. When the Defendants' staff did turn or    reposition him, the DECEDENT suffered a lot of pain, and the Defendants knew    this.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    137, in its entirety, as follows: “While a patient at KINDRED HOSPITAL and    GARDENA HOSPITAL, the Defendants failed to care for the DECEDENT, as partly    described hereinabove, and failed to treat him humanely or with dignity.    While at the facilities, the DECEDENT was miserable and in a lot of pain    because of the pressure sores he had developed and/or the pressure sores    which had worsened. Despite Defendants knowing this, they still did not    provide the staffing necessary to meet DECEDENT's care needs.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    138, in its entirety, as follows: “All of these acts and omissions caused    DECEDENT to suffer extreme and unnecessary emotional and physical pain and    suffering and were caused, in part, by rapid turnover of nursing staff,    staffing shortages, inadequate training of employees and a failure to    establish and implement policies and procedures mandated by law.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    139, in its entirety, as follows: “Plaintiffs can prove by clear and    convincing evidence that the facilities were understaffed at the time that    the DECEDENT was a patient at the facilities, and that this understaffing was    part of a pattern and practice.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    140, in its entirety, as follows: “The Defendants had a pattern and knowing    practice of improperly understaffing to cut costs, and had the facilities    been staffed sufficiently, the DECEDENT would have been properly supervised,    treated and cared for, and would not have suffered injury.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    141, in its entirety, as follows: “By failing to provide adequate staffing    levels and supervision, and by failing to provide corrective/preventive    measures, and by failing to properly monitor the DECEDENT and provide    adequate assistance to him, among others, the Defendants continued to    knowingly expose DECEDENT to an unreasonable risk of injury or death.    DECEDENT was not turned adequately even after his wounds were demonstrated to    extend into the subcutaneous tissues and eventually to the bone. Defendants    knew DECEDENT needed to be turned in order to properly care for him.    Defendants knew that if DECEDENT was not turned, he would suffer further    injury to his health, including death. Despite Defendants' knowledge, they    blatantly disregarded these needs and refused to provide proper staffing to    care for DECEDENT's needs because they wanted to increase their profit    margin.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    142, in its entirety, as follows:     “Those responsible for attending to the DECEDENT's basic needs and    comforts failed to carry out their custodial or caregiving obligations, due,    in part, to chronic understaffing of the facilities and deficiencies    regarding the quality of care/treatment and nursing services, as can be shown    by California Department of Public Health (CDPH) records evidencing numerous    incidents and First Amended Complaints and violations by the Defendants.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    143, in its entirety, as follows: “Plaintiffs are informed and believe that    on numerous occasions prior to and/or during DECEDENT's admissions,    Defendants were cited and penalized by the CDPH or other state or federal    agencies for violating staffing regulations and risking their patients'    safety. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that Defendants have been cited,    in part, for failing to implement an effective system that provided for    oversight of staffing and maintenance of a safe environment for all patients.    As a result of investigations of First Amended Complaints, State deficiencies    regarding Quality of Care/Treatment, Facility Staffing, were identified at    the hospitals.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    144, in its entirety, as follows: “Plaintiffs are informed and believe that    the Defendants failed to comply with the nurse-to-patient ratio in various    units of their hospitals, including those units where the DECEDENT was a    patient, which put patients (including DECEDENT) at risks for their health    and safety needs. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that CDPH surveys at    the hospitals have shown serious, systemic, and recurring issues, including    but not limited to failure to ensure that nursing services were provided to    meet the needs of patients. These cumulative failures resulted in the    hospitals' inability to ensure patient safety and quality of care.”   DENIED     Paragraph    145, in its entirety, as follows: “With regard to CFR § 482.23, said section    provides that the hospital must have an organized nursing service that    provides 24-hour nursing services. The nursing services must be furnished or    supervised by a registered nurse. This condition was not met by the    Defendants. The Defendants failed to comply as evidenced, in part, by: (1)    Failure to provide nursing staff to meet Nurse-to-Patient ratios at 1:2 or    fewer at all times in the intensive care units. (2) Failure to provide charge    nurses every shift in each unit. (3) Failure to validate nursing staff's    competency prior to providing care, among others. The cumulative effect of    these systemic problems resulted in the hospitals' inability to ensure the    provision of quality health care in a safe environment.”   DENIED     Paragraph    146, in its entirety, as follows: “The standard set forth in CFR § 482.23(b)    was not met by Defendants. Under 482.23(b), the nursing service must have    adequate numbers of licensed registered nurses, licensed practical    (vocational) nurses, and other personnel to provide nursing care to all    patients as needed. There must be supervisory and staff personnel for each    department or nursing unit to ensure, when needed, the immediate availability    of a registered nurse for care of any patient. Defendants failed to provide    adequate nursing staff, as described herein.”   DENIED     Paragraph    147, in its entirety, as follows: “With regard to CFR(s) 482.23 (Nursing    Services), the condition was not met. Defendants failed to comply with the    Condition of Participation for Nursing Services as evidenced by: (1) Failure    to provide nursing staff to meet Nurse-to-Patient ratio at 1:2 (ratio of one    nurse to two patients) or fewer at all times for critical care patients. (2)    Failure to provide charge nurses every shift. (3) Failure to properly    escalate staffing needs. (4) Failure to validate nursing staff's competency.    (5) Failure to assess patients and document the assessment, among others. The    cumulative effect of these systemic problems resulted in the hospitals'    inability to ensure the provision of quality health care in a safe    environment.”   DENIED     Paragraph    148, in its entirety, as follows:     “Nonetheless, Defendants refused to change, and as a result of    Defendants' pattern and practice of knowingly understaffing their facilities,    Defendants knowingly continued to understaff their facilities during    DECEDENT's admission(s), and they knew that assistance with ADLs,    incontinence care, wound care, and skin care, among others, could not be    performed or adequately/timely performed for DECEDENT, as needed. As described    herein, the DECEDENT did not receive the care and pressure ulcer treatment he    needed because the facilities were chronically short staffed and there was a    pattern or practice on the part of the Defendants of understaffing.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    149, in its entirety, as follows: “The conduct causing injury to DECEDENT was    the result, in part, of chronic and intentionally low staffing levels,    including but not limited to nurses and nurse aides, resulting in a knowing    pattern of violating staffing regulations. The staff that was employed was    not qualified and was unfit, insufficiently trained, and/or insufficiently    supervised.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    150, in its entirety, as follows: “Evidence as to understaffing and    identification of employees who were supposed to be caring for the DECEDENT    is information presumptively within the Defendants' knowledge (i.e., is    information available from Defendants' own records) or is ascertainable by    invoking discovery procedures. In part, production of staffing sheets will    indicate that the nurse-to-patient ratios were not complied with at the    hospitals. In addition, it is anticipated that interviews or deposition    testimony by licensed nurses will show that there are days when the hospitals    were short staffed, very short of staff for licensed nurses, and certain    units were always short of staff for licensed nurses. Such evidence, however,    is not required at the pleading stage.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    151, in its entirety, as follows: “In abusing the DECEDENT, the Defendants    consciously disregarded his rights and safety, acting recklessly and with    oppression and/or malice. "Recklessness" refers to a subjective    state of culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been described    as a "deliberate disregard" of the "high degree of    probability" that an injury will occur, or a "conscious choice of a    course of action with knowledge of the serious danger to others involved in    it." Specific factual allegations indicating recklessness (i.e., a    conscious or deliberate disregard of a high probability of injury), have been    alleged herein, which constitutes abuse or neglect within the meaning of the    Elder Abuse Act.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    152, in its entirety, as follows: “Understaffing of a facility can establish    the recklessness required for elder abuse in this case, and Defendants'    deliberate understaffing of the facilities and inadequate training of their    staff serves as a basis for authorization or ratification. Deliberate    understaffing of the facilities (KINDRED HOSPITAL and GARDENA HOSPITAL), not    only in quantity, but also in relation to the inadequate training of such    staff, suffices as a basis for inference of authorization or ratification in    this case.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    153, in its entirety, as follows: “The care provided to DECEDENT was overseen    by supervising nurses, and the care that was provided was therefore provided    according to Defendants' policies or practices. Supervising nursing staff    knew of the failure to address the DECEDENT's care needs, and as a matter of    practice (or intent) did nothing. Because the Defendants' staff did nothing,    the DECEDENT was repeatedly left unsupervised and unassisted. Because they    did nothing, the DECEDENT developed wounds/pressure injuries which worsened,    as described herein.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    154, in its entirety, as follows: “As a result of said Defendants' continued    and repeated failure to provide the minimal amount of physician care,    services and supervision which the law required them to provide, the    DECEDENT's rights were violated and he suffered needless physical pain and    mental suffering. By virtue of the foregoing, in addition to pain and    suffering damages under Welf. & inst. Code§ 15657, Plaintiffs are    entitled to attorney's fees under the same provision of law.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    156, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants, through the decisions of their    officers, directors, employees and/or managing agents, acted in conscious    disregard of the rights and safety of patients and residents, including    DECEDENT, by failing to provide adequate staffing levels, among other    failures noted above. The facilities were not staffed as required by law and    were understaffed during the time period that the DECEDENT was treated at the    facilities.”   DENIED     Paragraph    157, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants made certain financial and    budgetary decisions — at the highest corporate levels — regarding their    operation based solely on the need to enhance the profitability of their    operation. Among these decisions was a reduction in the level of staffing    necessary to meet the needs of the facilities patients, including DECEDENT.    Accordingly, the nurses responsible for assessing and noting changes in    DECEDENT's condition had insufficient time to allow them to do so. Likewise,    there were insufficient numbers of staff to assist patients in toileting,    repositioning and bathing patients.”   DENIED     Paragraph    158, in its entirety, as follows:  “As    a foreseen and predictable result of these cut-backs, patients, including    DECEDENT, were for extended periods of time left unattended, helpless, unable    to reposition themselves, unable to get out of bed, unable to feed or bathe    themselves, and unable to contact others including family members who might    intercede for and advocate for them. These changes were knowingly in    violation of basic and humane care responsibilities and were in clear    violation of the minimum staffing requirements stated in various places in    California law, including but not limited to 22 Cal. Code Regs. § 72501(e).”   GRANTED     Paragraph    159, in its entirety, as follows: “The officers, directors, employees and/or    managing agents of Defendants and DOES 1-200, inclusive, and each of them, in    an effort to mislead the public, and thereby increase corporate profits at    the expense of human safety, summarily disregarded any information regarding    the deficiencies in the care of patients and residents, including DECEDENT,    which was unfavorable to the facilities and might lead members of the public    and potential patients, residents, or clients, to refrain from seeking care    and treatment for themselves or their loved ones, at the facilities. Such    information was unfavorable to their company(ies) and might lead the public    to refrain from using the facilities and negatively impact revenue generated    by patients admitted to the facilities.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    160, in its entirety, as follows: “During the DECEDENT's residency at the    facilities, the Defendants' officers, directors, employees and/or managing    agents, were aware that staffing levels were inadequate to ensure adequate    supervision in meeting the DECEDENT's needs. Defendants chose to take no    corrective action. The officers, directors, employees and/or managing agents,    knew that inadequate staffing levels at the facilities, and failure to    adequately supervise the DECEDENT, would result in injury. The Defendants    continued to knowingly expose the DECEDENT to an unreasonable risk of injury    or death.”   GRANTED    IN PART as to: “The officers, directors, employees and/or managing agents,    knew that inadequate staffing levels at the facilities, and failure to    adequately supervise the DECEDENT, would result in injury. The Defendants    continued to knowingly expose the DECEDENT to an unreasonable risk of injury    or death.”     Paragraph    161, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants, and their officers, directors,    employees and/or managing agents, knew that the DECEDENT was not being    supervised due to inadequate staffing and inadequate supervision. The    Defendants chose to take no corrective action because Defendants determined    that such action would decrease the company's profitability and would be too    costly when compared to litigating the resulting claims and lawsuits by    patients and their families.”   DENIED     Paragraph    162, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants, through the decisions of their    officers, directors, employees and/or managing agents, acted in conscious    disregard of the rights and safety of patients and residents, including    DECEDENT, by failing to provide adequate staffing levels, among other    failures noted above.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    163, in its entirety, as follows:  “The    officers, directors or managing agents of the facilities authorized or    ratified the conduct of the facilities' employees who failed to attend to,    care for, assist or supervise the DECEDENT at a time when he was an elder and    dependent on the Defendants while a patient at the facilities. The    authorization and ratification was on the part of an officer, director or    managing agent of the Defendants including but not limited to: I. Michael    Kerr, Administrator, Kindred Hospital South Bay. 2. Arthur Rivas, Director of    Nursing, Kindred Hospital South Bay. 3. Kevan Metcalfe, Administrator,    Memorial Hospital of Gardena.”   DENIED     Paragraph    164, in its entirety, as follows: “The authorization and ratification was on    the part of additional officers, directors or managing agents of the    Defendants whose identities are unknown at this time. It is anticipated that    discovery will reveal the identity of the additional officers, directors or    managing agents re: assistance of patients, and the pleading will be amended    accordingly.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    165, in its entirety, as follows:     “Because the acts and/or omissions of Defendants and DOES 1-200,    inclusive and each of them, were either committed by or authorized, ratified,    or otherwise approved by their officers, directors, and/or managing agents,    or were carried out in an oppressive, fraudulent, malicious, deliberate,    callous, intentional, and/or unreasonable manner, causing severe personal    injury and damage to DECEDENT, and were done with a conscious disregard of    DECEDENT's rights, Plaintiffs request that punitive damages be assessed    against Defendants and DOES 1-200, inclusive and each of them, in an amount    appropriate to punish and/or set an example of them.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    166, in its entirety, as follows:  “The    above-described despicable acts of "neglect" and/or "physical    abuse" engaged in by Defendants caused DECEDENT to suffer severe pain    and suffering over a prolonged period of time and were so vile, base,    miserable, loathsome, and contemptible that such acts are looked down upon    and despised by ordinary decent people and are utterly intolerable in a    civilized community.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    167, in its entirety, as follows: “The acts, omissions and conduct of said    Defendants, and each of them, were willful, despicable, wanton, malicious,    oppressive and in conscious disregard of the rights and safety of DECEDENT    and other patients at the facilities. By virtue of the foregoing, at all    times during their care and treatment of the DECEDENT, Defendants have acted    with recklessness.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    168, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants' conduct was intended to cause    injury to the DECEDENT or was despicable in that it was carried on by    Defendants with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of    others, including DECEDENT.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    169, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants were aware of the probable    dangerous consequences of their conduct and willfully and/or deliberately    failed to avoid those consequences.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    170, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants' conduct subjected DECEDENT to    cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of DECEDENT's rights.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    171, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants' conduct was so vial, base,    contemptible, miserable, wretched, or loathsome that it is looked down upon    and despised by ordinary decent people   GRANTED     Paragraph    172, in its entirety, as follows: “By virtue of the foregoing, Defendants,    and each of them, have acted in conscious disregard of the probability of    injury to the DECEDENT, and because he was isolated, helpless and injured,    their failure and refusal to provide such basic care and services is    despicable. Accordingly, Defendants have each acted with malice.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    173, in its entirety, as follows: “By virtue of the foregoing, Defendants,    and each of them have acted despicably, and have subjected the DECEDENT to    cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of his rights and safety.    Accordingly, Defendants have each acted with oppression.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    174, in its entirety, as follows: “The acts, omissions and conduct of'    Defendants were willful, despicable, wanton, malicious, oppressive and in    conscious disregard of the rights and safety of others, including DECEDENT    herein, thus warranting the assessment of punitive and exemplary damages.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    175, in its entirety, as follows: “By virtue of the foregoing, punitive    damages should be assessed against Defendants, and each of them, in a sum    according to proof at trial.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    177, in its entirety, as follows: “Three elements are necessary for a cause    of action for willful misconduct. These are Defendant's knowledge of the    peril he or she has created; the Defendant's conscious failure to act to    avoid the peril; and the Defendant's knowledge that injury to the DECEDENT is    a probable, and not merely a possible, consequence of the peril. A    "probable" consequence is one more likely to follow its cause than    not, or a danger from which harm is likely or probable to result.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    178, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants, and each of them, knew of the    peril he, she or they created. At the time of the DECEDENT's admissions to    the facilities, the DECEDENT should have been assessed as a risk for    developing and/or worsening of pressure ulcers because he had multiple    medical conditions (described hereinabove, including Diabetes Mellitus) which    placed him at risk for the development and/or worsening of skin breakdown and    pressure ulcers. Additional risk factors included immobility, bladder    incontinence, and malnutrition. In addition, his Braden Scale (Skin Breakdown    Risk Screening) scores (cited in the first cause of action) indicated that    the DECEDENT was at risk for injury or impaired skin integrity.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    179, in its entirety, as follows:     “Defendants knew that if they failed to provide adequate staffing    levels, and failed to adequately supervise the DECEDENT, and failed to    provide needed medical care and services and failed to turn or reposition the    DECEDENT in a timely manner so as to prevent skin breakdown, that the    DECEDENT was at risk for developing and/or worsening of pressure ulcers and    would likely develop ulcers that could become severely infected and eat    through multiple layers of soft tissues structures, exposing deep muscle    tissue and bone. Further, Defendants knew that if they failed to provide    acceptable parameters of nutritional/hydration status, that DECEDENT would    suffer from weight loss, dehydration, and/or malnutrition.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    180, in its entirety, as follows:     “Defendants consciously failed to act to avoid the peril he, she or    they created. Defendants knew that the DECEDENT's past medical history was    extensive and that DECEDENT suffered from COPD, ESRD, hypertension, and    diabetes mellitus type 2, among others. Defendants knew that DECEDENT'S past    surgical history was significant for kidney transplant and hemodialysis    access placement. Defendants knew that the DECEDENT's condition had    deteriorated and that he suffered from generalized weakness and impaired    mobility, among others. Nonetheless, Defendants failed to provide adequate    staffing levels, and failed to properly monitor and adequately supervise and    care for the DECEDENT, resulting in the development and/or worsening of    various pressure ulcers and tissue injuries as detailed hereinabove.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    181, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants' consciously failed to act to    avoid the peril he, she or they created. Defendants failed to provide    adequate nutrition and failed to follow acceptable parameters of    nutritional/hydration status such that the DECEDENT lost weight and suffered    from malnutrition. Appetite stimulants were not ordered and/or were not    timely ordered by the Defendants. Snacks between meals were not ordered    and/or were not timely ordered by the Defendants.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    182, in its entirety, as follows: “Defendants knew that the injury to    DECEDENT was a probable, if not merely a possible, consequence of the peril.    The Defendants knew that the DECEDENT was at risk for the development and/or    worsening of pressure ulcers and that he would develop pressure ulcers and/or    his pressure ulcers would worsen if staff were inadequately trained or not    trained at all in the prevention and treatment of decubitus ulcers, if the    DECEDENT was not turned and repositioned in a timely manner, and if he was    not properly monitored and cared for. Defendants knew that the DECEDENT would    or could become malnourished and/or lose weight if he was not eating properly    and if he was not given adequate nourishment and adequate assistance with    eating meals.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    183, in its entirety, as follows: “Dating from his admissions, the Defendants    had failed to implement preventative/corrective measures, which compromised    the DECEDENT's health. His condition continued to deteriorate and he failed    to be properly treated, thereby increasing his risk for serious    complications.”   DENIED     Paragraph    184, in its entirety, as follows:  “At    all times during the periods of their care of the DECEDENT, each Defendant    knew or should have known that their failure to comply with the standard of    care, by providing care which a reasonably prudent hospital operator, skilled    nursing facility operator, physician or other health care provider or    administrator would use, posed a peril to the DECEDENT.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    185, in its entirety, as follows:  “The    DECEDENT's physicians, including his primary care physician, DOES I through    200, Inclusive, and each of them, failed to see the DECEDENT as required by    law, failed to assess, evaluate and treat his health care conditions, and    failed to make timely and proper orders for his care at the facilities, all    notwithstanding their status as the DECEDENT'S physicians, or similar    position(s).  This failure was intended    and allowed Defendants to avoid the trouble and inconvenience of visiting the    DECEDENT at the facilities.”   GRANTED    IN PART as to: “This failure was intended and allowed Defendants to avoid the    trouble and inconvenience of visiting the DECEDENT at the facilities.”     Paragraph    186, in its entirety, as follows:  “At    all times mentioned during the periods of their care of the DECEDENT, each    Defendant knew or should have known that the peril posed by their failure to    comply with the standard of care, by providing care which a reasonably    prudent hospital operator, skilled nursing facility operator, physician or    other health care provider or administrator would use, exposed DECEDENT to    the high probability of his injury or death.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    187, in its entirety, as follows: “Upon DECEDENT's admission to the    facilities, pressure sore protocol should have been instituted and followed,    but it was not. Upon DECEDENT's admission to the facilities,    preventative/corrective measures should have been implemented, but were not.    Following the DECEDENT's admission to the facilities, the Defendants'    employees should have checked the DECEDENT's skin condition on a daily basis    and notified a physician of the need for a treatment order, but they did not.    The Defendants' employees should have offloaded the offending pressure    source, provided adequate drainage of any areas of infection, arranged for    debridement of devitalized tissue, and/or provided regular wound care to    support the healing process, but they did not. Such conduct shows deliberate    disregard of the high degree of probability that the DECEDENT would suffer    injury, including but not limited to skin deterioration and the development    of decubitus ulcers, including Stage IV pressure ulcers.”   GRANTED    IN PART as to: “Such conduct shows deliberate disregard of the high degree of    probability that the DECEDENT would suffer injury, including but not limited    to skin deterioration and the development of decubitus ulcers, including    Stage IV pressure ulcers.”     Paragraph    188, in its entirety, as follows:     “Given the DECEDENT's age, condition, and diagnoses, the Defendants    had actual or constructive knowledge that if wound care prevention and    preventative/corrective measures were not instituted or followed, that the    DECEDENT's condition would deteriorate or continue to deteriorate, he would    suffer skin breakdown, he would develop pressure sores, the bedsores would    not heal and would develop into advanced bedsores.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    189, in its entirety, as follows:  “At    all times mentioned above Defendants, and each of them, knowingly disregarded    the aforesaid peril and high probability of injury and in doing so failed to    comply with their duties under the standard of care as set forth above, and    as follows: a. Notwithstanding the fact that Defendants knew that the federal    and state nursing homes laws set forth the minimal amount of care which the    Legislature had determined was necessary to protect the health, safety and    dignity of nursing home patients and that the health and safety of DECEDENT    would be at grave risk if said laws/regulations and patient rights were not    complied with, Defendants routinely failed to comply with and/or failed to    require others under their supervision or control to comply with said    laws/regulations. b. Notwithstanding the fact that Defendants knew the    facilities was required to maintain staffing levels in compliance with the    minimum staffing levels mandated by law so that patients could receive at    least the minimal amount of nursing home care mandated by federal and state    law, Defendants failed to maintain 'minimum staffing levels in compliance    with the law and, as a result, patients at the facilities, including    DECEDENT, were not provided with the care and treatment they required to meet    even their basic health needs, including assistance in eating, assistance in    going to the bathroom, care to prevent the formation and progression of    bedsores, care to prevent malnutrition and dehydration, care to prevent and    reduce incontinence, care to prevent painful muscle contractures and the loss    of range of motion, basic hygiene care and dental care. c. Notwithstanding    the fact that Defendants knew they were prohibited by law from admitting or    retaining a patient unless they could provide the care needed by that    patient, Defendants admitted and/or retained DECEDENT in the hospital and    facility even though they knew they could not provide the care which DECEDENT    required. d. Although Defendants knew the quality of patient care in nursing    homes was dependent upon the competence of the facility's personnel and that    federal and state nursing home laws established the minimum amount of    training that was required to be provided by every nursing home, Defendants    failed to provide such training and therefore knew the personnel at the    facilities were not properly trained and/or qualified to attend to even the    basic needs of the patients at the facilities, including DECEDENT. e.    Defendants knew via prior patient First Amended Complaints as well as prior    state and/or federal investigations which were reported to Defendants'    officers, directors and managing agents, that facilities' employees had, in    the past, consistently neglected and/or abused patients in the facilities and    that such neglect and abuse had become a known pattern of conduct.    Nevertheless, said Defendants consistently failed to reasonably investigate    First Amended Complaints and/or failed to make a good faith effort to correct    the deficiencies and/or violations in patient care. f. Defendants knew that    federal and state nursing home laws required them to establish, implement    and/or review the policies and procedures of the facilities to ensure that    facility staff had adequate guidance regarding the care they were required to    provide in accordance with the minimal standards of care set forth in federal    and state nursing home laws. Nevertheless, said Defendants failed to    establish, implement, make available and/or review said policies and    procedures and, as a result, facility staff did not provide the minimal care    required by federal and state nursing home laws.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    190, in its entirety, as follows: “All of these acts and omissions caused    DECEDENT to suffer extreme and unnecessary emotional and physical pain and    suffering and were caused, in part, by rapid turnover of nursing staff,    staffing shortages, inadequate training of employees and a failure to    establish and implement policies and procedures mandated by law.”   GRANTED     Paragraph    191, in its entirety, as follows: “By virtue of the foregoing, punitive    damages should be assessed against Defendants and each of them, in a sum    according to proof at trial.”   GRANTED        CONCLUSION   Based  on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the second and third causes  of action in the FAC without leave to amend. The motion to strike is GRANTED in  part and DENIED in part.   Gardena  Defendants to give notice.                   