 Case Number:  21TRCV00531    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 24, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      21TRCV00531
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Mohammed Abdoun v. South Bay Center SPE, LLC, et
al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Plaintiff, Mohammed Abdoun
                                                (2)
 Plaintiff,
Mohammed Abdoun
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Defendant,
South Bay Center SPE, LLC 
                                                (2)
Defendant, CBRE, Inc. 
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        March
4, 2024
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1)
Motions for Protective Order as to both South Bay Center and CBRE
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) The Court will take oral argument as to whether the Defendants
should be entitled to file sur-reply papers bearing on the new evidence raised
by Plaintiff for the first time at the Reply
stage.  Prior to receiving the Reply
declaration and its attached exhibits, the Court’s tentative was to deny the
request for protective order.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On October
19, 2022, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against South
Bay Center SPE, LLC, QIC Properties US, Inc, QIC US Management, Inc, CBRE, Inc,
CBRE Group, Inc, L Catterton Real Estate, and DOES 1 through 20. On March 21,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On June 12, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging the following causes of
action: (1) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Negligence; (3) Fraud; (4) Private
Nuisance; (5) Public Nuisance; (6) Violation of Los Angeles County Municipal
Code; (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (8) Constructive
Eviction. 
 
On July 18,
2023, South Bay contends that it propounded a limited set of discovery to
Plaintiff including Form Interrogatory No. 2.8, along with several requests for
admission and production demands when it claims it became aware that Plaintiff
is a registered sex offender in California. South Bay asserts it believes that
there may be additional felony convictions and thus it propounded the limited
set of discovery to confirm or deny any such felony convictions. 
 
Also, on
August 9, 2023, Defendant, CBRE asserts it propounded its first set of
discovery to Plaintiff and included requests involving Plaintiff’s prior
convictions. However, CBRE asserts Plaintiff refused to respond to these
requests and instead provided objections that such requests were irrelevant. 
 
Now,
Plaintiff brings forth a Motion for Protective Order, arguing that the requests
do not relate, in any way, to the claim or defense of either requesting
Defendant. 
 
B. Procedural 
 
On September 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion for
Protective Order. On September 27, 2023, Defendant South Bay filed an
opposition. On October 10, 2023 Defendant, CBRE filed an opposition. On October
17, 2023, Plaintiff filed reply briefs and a reply declaration attaching
several documents from the Commonwealth of Virginia that were not mentioned or
addressed in the moving papers.
 
¿II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.    Legal Standard
 
“When an
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things,
places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to
whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may
promptly move for a protective order.  This motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Code of Civil
Procedure §§2031.060(a).” “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that
justice requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” 
(Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.060(b); §2030.090(b).) Section
2031.060(b) provides a nonexclusive list of directions that may be included in
a protective order, including orders directing that the items not be produced
or made available or that the time to respond be extended.  (Ibid.)  The Court is empowered to limit or restrict a selected
method of discovery, i.e., requests for production or interrogatories, if the Court
weighs the objection or requested protective order against the discoverable need
for the discovery and determines it “is unduly burdensome or expensive, taking
into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.030(a)(2).)  Essentially, the Court is granted discretion
to determine if a topic of requested discovery is objectionable where the
responding party seeks facts, documents, or other information bearing on that
topic.  The permissible scope of
discovery is quite broad: “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter,
not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim
or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.
Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition, and location of any document, electronically
stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
Plaintiff’s
Declaration in support of the motions for protective order indicates that he
met and conferred over the requested information, states that he asserted lack
of relevancy, and noted various points of law such as the admissibility at
trial of a felony conviction that is more than 10 years old or a felony as to
which a certificate of rehabilitation has been given.  However, Plaintiff’s declaration does NOT state
that he was or was not convicted of a felony, does NOT state that any felonies
for which he was convicted are more than 10 years old, does NOT state that the crimes
for which he was convicted do or do not involve moral turpitude, and does NOT
state that he has an expungement or certificate of rehabilitation as to any prior
conviction.  Because the moving party on
a motion for a protective order bears the burden of proving entitlement to the
protection being sought from requested discovery, and because the moving papers
do not provide the Court with admissible evidence meeting that burden, the
motion is procedurally defective.  However,
Plaintiff’s motions do assert that the topic of prior felony convictions is
annoying or embarrassing to him and that he objects to responding to the form interrogatory,
RFAs, and document requests seeking that information.
One
week before this hearing, Plaintiff field reply papers on both motions, adding
for the first time a declaration and documents from the Commonwealth of Virginia
indicating that as to some prior conviction in Virginia that he may have
obtained the equivalent of an expungement of a felony conviction.  The Court will permit oral argument and
possibly supplemental briefing by Defendants bearing on this new evidence that
they were not afforded the opportunity to consider.
B.   
South Bay Discussion 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that good cause
exists for the issuance of the protective order but South Bay asserts that the
moving papers provide no reason, and instead they merely provide citations to
relevant law and cases. Further, as a preliminary matter, South Bay argues that
Plaintiff’s notice is untimely as the papers were required to be served and
filed at least 16 court days before the hearing. Based on this, South Bay
argues Plaintiff was required to serve the motion no later than Friday
September 15, 2023, but did not serve the motion until September 20, 2023 after
5:00 pm. As such, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion is untimely. Because
Plaintiff is representing himself in pro per, and because both defendants were
able to prepare written oppositions to the motion notwithstanding the shortened
time for them too do so, the Court nonetheless proceeds to analyze the motion on
the merits.  Plaintiff is cautioned,
however, that in the future he must comply with statutory time limits and other
procedural rules as if he were still represented by counsel. 
 
South Bay argues that Plaintiff’s prior
conviction is discoverable and outweighs the Plaintiff’s desire for a
protective order because evidence of Plaintiff’s felony conviction has a direct
bearing on South Bay’s potential counterclaims against him. South Bay notes
that the Fourth Amended Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was “an enthusiastic
member of the Mall community, participating in many events…”(Complaint, ¶ 40.)
South Bay gives the example of written discovery, where Plaintiff confirmed he
was a volunteer in the “Santa Arrival” event on November 23, 2019 at the Mall
food Court where he provided “[f]ood samples and complimentary kids meals…”
(Valles Decl., ¶ 7, Exhibit A.) Based on this allegation, the Mall alleges that
Penal Code § 290.95(a)(d) would have required Plaintiff to disclose his status
as a registered sex offender to South Bay, and his failure to do so supports a
cross-complaint against him. South Bay assets that if Plaintiff claims that he
is not a registered sex offender or if he claims he is not subject to Penal
Code section 290, et seq.  due to a
Certificate of Rehabilitation, pardon or otherwise, then he needs to respond to
the discovery and provide documentary support of the same. However, South Bay
argues that without Plaintiff’s responses to the propounded discovery regarding
his felony rape conviction, South Bay is deprived of this discoverable
information and will be prejudiced. 
 
South Bay notes that Plaintiff refuses to
respond to Form Interrogatory 2.8, request for admissions Nos. 1-10 (regarding
prior felony convictions) and requests for production of documents Nos. 1-17,
19, 23-24 regarding prior felony convictions. South Bay contends that pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.710, the California Judicial Council has
developed and approved official form interrogatories for use in civil actions
and that judicial council Form Interrogatory 2.8 asks whether the individual
has been convicted of a felony. As noted by South Bay, this interrogatory
exists because felony convictions may be admissible for impeachment purposes at
trial. In civil cases the court has the option of admitting evidence of a
felony conviction after following the requirements established in Evidence Code
§§ 788 and 352 or following the rules used in criminal cases for deciding
whether prior felonies may be used to impeach. (Robbins v. Wong (1994)
27 Cal.App.4th 261, 274.) Evidence Code section 787 provides that
“specific instances of ... conduct relevant only as tending to prove a trait of
... character,” such as honesty or veracity, are “inadmissible to attack or
support the credibility of a witness.” An exception exists for impeachment
based upon a prior felony conviction. (Evid.Code, § 788.) No such exception
exists for misdemeanor convictions in civil proceedings, nor does an exception
exist for expunged felonies. 
 
Lastly, South Bay argues that requested
material need not be admissible in order to be discoverable, but that the
felony conviction has a direct bearing on South Bay’s counterclaims involving
California Code of Civil Procedure § 290.95.  Prior to reviewing Plaintiff’s Reply
declaration and its attached exhibits, the Court’s tentative ruling was to DENY
Plaintiff’s motion as the moving papers failed to carry his burden of proof
that the discoverable value of the felony conviction evidence is outweighed by
the burden, annoyance, or embarrassment he would suffer if he were to answer the
interrogatory, produce the documents, and admit or deny the RFA.   If
that tentative ruling were to stand, Plaintiff would be ordered to give a verified
response to the felony conviction discovery requests within 21 days.  A ruling that discovery is required on a
topic is without prejudice to Plaintiff’s right to object to the admission of
such evidence at trial such as on the ground that the date of the conviction is
too remote, or that the felony has been expunged, or that a certification of
rehabilitation was secured.  But the Court
will take oral argument as to whether the Defendants should be entitled to file
sur-reply papers bearing on this new evidence raised for the first time at the Reply
stage.
 
 
C.   
CBRE Discussion
 
As noted above, Plaintiff has failed to
carry his burden in bringing forth a Motion for Protective Order. Defendant
CBRE, in its opposition, contends that Plaintiff’s motion fails to substantiate
the protective order he seeks, and instead, lodges general objections to all of
CBRE’s requests, failing to identify a single one that he finds objectionable. CBRE
also notes, as did South Bay (and the Court above), that prior convictions are
admissible at trial for impeachment. CBRE notes it seeks information regarding Plaintiff’s
prior convictions, including what Defendants assert to be his conviction for
forging checks and failing to register as a convicted sex offender. CBRE
contends that in response to this, Plaintiff has argued that he should not have
to provide hos information because he is “married and have his son and is a
landscaper contractor who the California contractor board licensed and
authorized to conduct business and the department of justice have cleared
Plaintiff criminal record with a moral character determination and cleared
Plaintiff to enter any home with not a single restriction knowing Plaintiff
prior conviction and after assessing [his] character and seeing that the
conviction was too remote in time and that [he] got all of [his] civil rights
back they cleared [him].” However, as noted by CBRE Plaintiff provided no
evidence in his moving papers to support this statement in his brief which is
not contained in his original declaration. Prior to reviewing Plaintiff’s Reply
declaration and its attached exhibits, the Court’s tentative ruling was to DENY
Plaintiff’s motion as the moving papers failed to carry his burden of proof.   The Court
will take oral argument as to whether the Defendants should be entitled to file
sur-reply papers bearing on this new evidence raised for the first time at the Reply
stage.
 
 
The Court also notes that in connection to
the opposition, CBRE has requested Plaintiff pay $11,986 for requiring them to
file an opposition to a baseless motion. The Court DECLINES CBRE’s request as
well and does not award monetary sanctions at this time. 
 

 
 