 Case Number:  22TRCV01562    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 24, 2023 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01562
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Floyd Broadnax v. Lyft, Inc., et al.   
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
ATTORNEY NAME:             Attorney for Plaintiff, Floyd
Broadnax
 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel is GRANTED. 
                                                (2)  Continue hrg on Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
 
I.                   
Background  
 
On December 21, 2022, Plaintiff, Floyd Broadnax
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Lyft, Inc., John Doe, and
Does 1 through 100. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Assault;
(2) Battery; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Negligence;
and (5) Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention. 
 
 On September 19,
2023, Plaintiff’s attorney, Khashayar Eshraghi, Esq (“Eshraghi”) filed a Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel. In light of that motion, the Court continued to this
same October 24 date the hearing on an OSC re Settlement that had been
scheduled earlier.  
 
II.                
Legal Standard & Discussion  
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 284 states that “the attorney in
an action…may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final
determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both client and attorney…;
(2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or
attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 284;
CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it would cause an
injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's discretion in this area
is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell v. Superior (1977)
67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161,
1173.) 
 
In making a motion to be relieved as counsel, the attorney
must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil (MC-051); Declaration
“stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was brought (MC-052); and a
Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The forms must be filed and
served on all parties who have appeared in the case.  (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel Mr. Eshraghi
moves the Court to relieve him as attorney of record
for Plaintiff.   Mr. Eshragi has filed a
Notice of Motion, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed
Order in accordance with Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362. On September 19, 2023, all
forms for the pending motion were per Mr. Eshragi served on Plaintiff by mail
and the attorney notes he has confirmed within the past 30 days that the
address is current. On September 19, 2023 proof of service for said documents were
filed with the Court. 
 
In the declaration Eshraghi notes
that “counsel seeks to withdraw from representation of Plaintiff because he
asserts his client is not available and unresponsive to the communications
attempted requesting his signature on the settlement agreement. Eshraghi also
notes that Mr. Broadnax is also uninterested in these proceedings. Eshraghi
also contends that due to his client’s refusal to return any of his attempts at
communication, there has been an irremediable breakdown in the attorney-client
relationship that stands in the way of effective representation. 
 
Since Plaintiff’s counsel has
complied with all procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved as
counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue delay
in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of Khashayar Eshraghi,
Esq. as attorney of record for Plaintiff can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to the Plaintiff’s interests. 
 
The Court will discuss the arbitration
motion setting at the hearing. 
 
III.             
Conclusion & Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Khashayar Eshraghi’s Motion to
Be Relieved As Counsel is GRANTED and the Order will be signed at the hearing.
“After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the
client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(e).) The Order on this Motion will not be effective “until
proof of service of a copy of the signed order on Plaintiff and Defendant has
been filed with the court.” (Id.) 
 
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice and to give notice of the continued hearing on Lyft’s arbitration motion.  