  Case Number:  21STCV18236    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 24, 2023¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  21STCV18236
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Homa Deris v.
Byron Kim, DDS, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Rojin Erfan, D.D.S.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Homa Deris
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        March
22, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Summary Judgment
and in the alternative, Summary Adjudication 
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                 (1 MSJ denied, but MSA granted as
to all causes of action except dental malpractice and granted as to punitive
damages 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On
May 14, 2021, Plaintiff, Homa Deris (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Byron Kim, DDS, Rojin Erfan, DDS, Walter Jefferson, DDS, Walter
Jefferson Dental Corporation dba PCH Smiles Dentistry and Orthodontics, Kevin
Choi, DDS, Bardi-Nugent Dental Corporation dba Rootvision Endo, and DOES 1
through 10. On October 26, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Dental Malpractice; (2) Fraudulent
Concealment; (3) Intentional Misrepresentation; (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
and (5) Elder Abuse.  
 
Defendant, Rojin Erfan, D.D.S. (“Erfan”)
now files her Motion for Summary Judgment or in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On February 2, 2023, Defendant, Rojin
Erfan, DDS filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication. On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On October 19,
2023, Defendant Erfan filed a reply brief. 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJCTIONS 
 
Erfan’s Objections to
Plaintiff’s Declaration 
 
Sustain: 1, 3, 4, 6, 7
Overrule: 2, 5
Erfan’s Objections to
Plaintiff’s Evidence, Declaration of Stephen J. Howard, D.D.S.
 
Sustain: N/A
Overrule: 1-5
 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A. Legal Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the trial
judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant
moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B. Discussion 
 
Dr. Erfan’s Motion raises the following issues: (1) Plaintiff’s
cause of action for dental malpractice fails because moving defendant’s
treatment of plaintiff met the standard of care and did not cause injury; (2) Plaintiff’s
fraudulent concealment claim against moving defendant fails because Dr. Erfan
did not conceal any material facts from the plaintiff with the intent to cause
injury and there was no justifiable reliance; (3) Plaintiff’s intentional
misrepresentation claim against moving defendant fails because Dr. Erfan did
not conceal any material facts from the plaintiff with the intent to cause
injury and there was no justifiable reliance; (4) Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim
against moving defendant fails because Dr. Erfan did not commit any acts which
amount to elder abuse; and (5) Plaintiff’s Punitive Damages Claim Against
Moving Defendant Fails Because Dr. Erfan’s Conduct Was Not Willful, Malicious,
Or Oppressive. 
 
Dental Malpractice 
 
Defendant Erfan
argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for Dental Malpractice fails because
moving Defendant’s treatment of Plaintiff met the standard of care and did not
cause injury. In a medical malpractice action, a plaintiff must establish the
following elements: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage
resulting from the professional's negligence.  [citations.]”  (Galvez
v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420.)
 
Standard
of Care
 
Defendant Erfan
provides the declaration of Dr. Barry Vilkin, an endodontist (root canal
specialist) as evidence in making his argument. Erfan suggests that Dr. Vilkin
opined to a reasonable degree of medical probability that the root canal
treatment performed by Erfan on February 5, 2019 and her limited post-operative
care were appropriate and within the standard of care. Defendant Erfan, also
filed her own declaration concurrently with this motion. In his declaration, Dr.
Vilken went on to note that the root canal on tooth no. 9 was indicated and
appropriate based upon the pre-operative radiographs and the plaintiff’s
continuing pain complaints in tooth no. 9. (SSUMF No. 9.) Dr. Vilkin also
pointed to the working and post-operative radiographs of tooth np. 9
demonstrate that the root canal performed by Erfan on February 5, 2019 was
performed within the standard of care because he appropriately accessed and
cleaned the canal of tooth no. 9 and did not cause any perforation or
iatrogenic event during the treatment. (SSUMF No. 10.) Moreover, Dr. Vilkin
further opined that, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, the working
post-operative radiograph of tooth no. 9 evidence that Erfan’s filing of the
canal during the root canal procedure on February 5, 2019 was within the
standard of care. (SSUMF No. 11.) Finally, Dr. Vilkin proceeded to opine to a
reasonable degree of medical probability that Erfan’s root canal treatment did
not cause Plaintiff to suffer a root fracture in tooth no. 9 and that based upon
plaintiff’s surgical history it was more likely that the root fracture had been
caused by her jaw fracture repair surgery in 1991. (SSMUF nos. 19, 24.)
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that triable issues of material fact exist and first argues
that Defendant Erfan’s expert witness provided ultimate facts without reasoned
explanation and does not satisfy the standard for summary judgment motions. Specifically,
Plaintiff contends that Dr. Vilkin’s declaration is conclusory, unsupported by
evidence, and omits entries in the PCH Smiles chart that are not favorable to
Dr. Erfan. For example, Plaintiff contends that Dr. Vilkin’s declaration omits
entries in the chart such as his omission of the entry on September 27, 2018,
by endodontist Nguyen that Plaintiff had reversible pulpitis, and that no
treatment was required, which contradicted Dr. Erfan’s recommendation on July
19, 2018 (two months earlier) for a root canal treatment on tooth no. 9. Plaintiff
argues that by omitting this entry, Dr. Vilkin did not have to explain it,
whereas, he explained the entry on January 22, 2019, by endodontist Magar
Mathew recommending root canal on tooth no. 9. Amongst other omissions,
Plaintiff also contends that Dr. Vilkin speculated that any filing material extruding
beyond the apex of the tooth, seen on the June 8, 2020 CT scan, and mentioned
in the report done by UCLA Dentistry “would be related to the re-treatment root
canal performed by Dr. Choi.” Plaintiff also complains that the report Dr.
Vilkin refers to is not attached to either his declaration or the evidence
submitted by Dr. Erfan with her motion. 
 
Plaintiff also
notes that she has submitted a declaration from expert witness Stephen Howard,
DDS, MSCD, FASDC, FIAO to support her contention that Defendant Erfan breached
the standard of care in numerous ways. First, Dr. Howard contends that both Dr.
Erfan and Vilikin are Endodontic Specialists, and as such, Dr. Howard believes
that viewed the treatment of Plaintiff strictly as a root canal treatment
problem, but that tere are several aspects to the diagnosis and treatment of
Plaintiff that neither Dr. Erfan nor Dr. Vilkin evaluated. (Declaration of
Stephen Howard, DDS, MSCD, FASDC, FIAO (“Howard Decl”), ¶ 21.) However, Dr.
Howard opines that there were numerous breaches in the standard of care: (1)
There is mention of multiple fillings on the front teeth. Defective margins on
teeth will exhibit cold sensitivity. There is no mention of a referral to
Plaintiff to her GP dentist for an evaluation of these fillings, and if
defective, how they contributed to the level of sensitivity being experienced;
(2) There is mention of recession of gum tissue. The first symptom of exposed
root surfaces is cold sensitivity. A referral to a Periodontist (dentist who
specializes in gum treatment) was not made. Therefore, it is unknown the extent
of sensitivity that was caused by exposed root surfaces; and (3) The presence
of the metal splint apical to the roots of the maxillary teeth was initially
missed by Dr. Erfan. As the presence of this splint is atypical, an evaluation
by an oral surgeon would have ben appropriate with respect to the pain complex
Plaintiff was experiencing.  Based on the
above, amongst other notes by Dr. Howard, he opined to a reasonable degree of
medical probability, Dr. Erfan did not evaluate, nor provide the treatment
necessary, to remedy Plaintiff’s complaints which included the Trigeminal
Neuralgia that she still suffers from today.  
 
In her reply
brief, Dr. Erfan argues that Plaintiff’s expert witness is not qualified to
rebut the fact that the root canal treatment provided by Dr. Erfan was within
the standard of care and did not cause the Plaintiff to suffer any injury. Defendant
Erfan contends that in his declaration, Plaintiff’s expert notes that he is an
orthodontist with specialty certifications in pediatric dentistry and
orthodontics. Defendant points out that there is no indication anywhere in his
declaration that Dr. Howard has any expertise in the performance of root canals
or endodontic treatment. Defendant also argues that Dr. Howard’s declaration does
not opine to any reasonable degree of medical certainty that Plaintiff’s
alleged nerve damage was caused by any negligent root canal treatment of Dr.
Erfan, and instead only alleges breaches that Dr. Howard opines are pertaining
to the referral of Plaintiff to specialists. 
 
The Court disagrees
as to Defendant’s narrow view of what the standard of care implicated here is,
and the Court disagrees that on a Section 437c motion the Court can weigh the qualifications
of competing expert witnesses.  Even
though it appears that Defendant’s expert appears to have more relevant qualifications
and expertise, Plaintiff’s expert meet the minimum level of qualifications for
an expert witness.  It will be for the jury
to decide as to what weight they will give to the competing experts’ qualifications
and those of the moving defendant, and whose opinion the jury determines to be the
more persuasive. Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that Dr. Erfan negligently failed to
render proper dental care by performing a root canal of tooth no 9 that was
done in a negligent manner and not in accordance with the standard of care for
a licensed dentist practicing in the community, causing a root fracture of
tooth no. 9 and/or a root canal perforation and/or a root canal sealant
overfill, and permanently damaging the tooth. (FAC, ¶ 56.) Based on this, it is
not the Court’s view that Dr. Howard had to provide testimony as to whether the
root canal itself was done properly, or whether the circumstances surrounding the
performance of the root canal fell below the standard of care. 
 
            The Court
finds that triable issues of fact have been raised by the Declaration of Dr.
Howard as to the standard of care.
 
Causation 
 
            Defendant
Erfan also argues that there are no triable issues of fact that she caused
Plaintiff’s injuries. As to this issue, Defendant Erfan relies on Dr. Vilkin’s
declaration in which he opined that, to a reasonable degree of medical
probability, that Dr. Erfan’s root canal procedure did not cause any alleged
root fracture in Plaintiff’s no. 9 tooth. (SSUMF No. 24.) Instead, Dr. Vilkin
points to Plaintiff’s history of jaw fracture and jaw repair surgery in the
area around tooth no. 9, and opines that if there was a fracture of the root
present on tooth no. 9, then to a reasonable degree of medical probability,
such a fracture would have occurred during the previous fall and jaw injury,
due to the location of that injury (SSUMF No. 19.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff notes that Dr. Howard opined that in his expert opinion,
to a reasonable degree of medical probability, that Dr. Erfan’s substandard
treatment of Plaintiff caused her injury, and symptoms, including but not
limited to the loss of tooth no. 9, and the Trigeminal Neuralgia that she still
suffers from today, as well as the unremitting pain, and other symptoms – such
as cold sensitivity, pressure sensitivity, palatal numbness/tingling that
Plaintiff has experienced for several years after the root canal done by Dr.
Erfan, and still experiences today. (Howard Decl., ¶ 27.) 
 
            Based on
the differing expert opinions, the Court notes that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the causation element of Dental Malpractice. 
 
Fraudulent Concealment 
 
Defendant Erfan also argues that Plaintiff’s
claim for fraudulent concealment does not have triable issues of material fact.
“The elements of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment are: (1)
concealment of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose; (3)
the defendant intended to defraud by failing to disclose; (4) plaintiff was
unaware of the fact and would not have acted as it did had it known the fact;
and (5) damages.” (Butler America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance Company, LLC (2020)
55 Cal.App.5th 136, 144.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be
alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy
of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
In Plaintiff’s FAC, she alleges that Dr. Erfan
knew that the root canal treatment provided by her on February 5, 2019 had
failed, but that Dr. Erfan intentionally failed to disclose such “fact” to
Plaintiff. Defendant Erfan argues that Dr. Vilkin establishes, to a reasonable
degree of medical probability that the root canal treatment of tooth no. 9 by
Dr. Erfan had not failed and the working and post-operative radiographs and
records did not reflect any perforation or overfill of the canal. (SSUMF Nos.
10-12.) Defendant Erfan also contends that there is no evidence of scienter or
knowledge of the falsity of a material fact by Dr. Erfan since Dr. Erfan, and
the evidence, demonstrate that the root canal performed by her was performed
within the standard of care. Defendant Erfan also argues that Plaintiff has no
evidence to support her allegation that the purpose of the concealment was to
induce the plaintiff to remain a patient of PCH Smiles and also that the
concealment prevented her from seeking “proper dental treatment” for almost two
years. Defendant Erfan argues that Plaintiff’s own evidence shows that she
treated with outside providers which evidences the fact that in spite of
Defendants’ representations and/or claimed concealments about the status of the
Plaintiff’s root canal, the Plaintiff, subjectively, did not believe the
representations and sought second opinions and consultations elsewhere. Erfan
argues that there additional consultations demonstrate that Plaintiff did not
suffer any injury from any alleged misrepresentation or concealment, because
the alleged fraud by the Defendants did not prevent the plaintiff from seeking
second opinions and did not prevent her from brining her lawsuit. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant Erfan
has not met her burden of proof in showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact because: (1) Dr. Vilkin’s statements in his declaration are
disputed by Plaintiff’s expert’s declaration, and thus, there are triable
issues of material fact as to whether or not Dr. Erfan concealed material facts
from Plaintiff; and (2) Dr. Erfan had a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff to
disclose, including “the risk of bodily harm, problems of recuperation, an
explanation of complications which might possibly occur in complex surgery,”
and beyond that minimal disclosure, such additional information as a skilled
practitioner of good standing would provide under similar circumstances. 
 
Here, expert testimony aside, the only piece of
evidence that the Court has to work with is the declaration from Dr. Erfan to
which she stated she did not have any subjective belief that the root canal
treatment had failed and attempted to determine other causes for the
plaintiff’s discomfort at her subsequent appointments. (SSUMF Nos. 14, 16.)
Even if this Court were to determine that Dr. Erfan’s treatment fell below the
standard of care, this would not evidence that she knew her treatment fell
below the standard of care and misrepresented to Plaintiff that she – in fact –
did not fall below the standard of care. 
 
On a Motion for Summary Adjudication, the Court
is required to consider inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
presented by the declarations for and against the motion, and to deny the motion
unless the only reasonable inferences to be drawn in favor of the moving party are
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence. 
Here, there is no reasonable inference that could be drawn of
intentional or deliberate concealment of a risk of bodily harm or recuperative
problems after Dr. Errfan’s procedures had been completed.  There is no chart entry and no radiograph and
no other evidence from which a reasonable jury could infer that Dr. Erfan fraudulently
concealed anything.  Accordingly, the Court
GRANTTS summary adjudication as to the concealment cause of action.  
 
Intentional Misrepresentation 
 
Defendant Erfan argues that there are no
triable issues of material fact as to the cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation. “The elements of a cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its
falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The facts constituting
the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every
element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will
not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud
against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
Defendant Erfan contends that Plaintiff’s cause
of action for intentional misrepresentation is based upon the allegation that
Dr. Erfan misrepresented to her that there was nothing wrong with the root
canal performed by her and the pain would resolve on its own, when in fact the
root canal had allegedly failed. Defendant Erfan argues that this claim fails
because Plaintiff is unable to show that she misrepresented to Plaintiff, a
material fact that she knew was false. As evidence, Defendant again points to the
Declaration of Dr. Vilkin, however Defendants also point to the declaration of
Dr. Erfan. In her declaration, Dr. Erfan contends that she had no subjective
belief that the root canal treatment had failed and attempted to determine
other causes for the plaintiff’s discomfort at her subsequent appointments.
(SSUMF Nos. 14, 16.)
 
Instead of providing any evidence at all under
this argument heading, in opposition, Plaintiff merely argues that fraud is a
question of fact to be decided by a jury, and thus this motion should be
denied. Although this is true, Plaintiff’s lack of any evidence, besides its
expert opinion shows that Plaintiff has no evidence of Erfan’s scienter/knowledge
that the root canal failed. Even if Plaintiff were to show that Defendant fell
below the standard of care, this would not be sufficient to show that Defendant
Erfan knew the root canal failed, and still suggested it did not to Plaintiff.
In this case, the Court finds that Defendant Erfan has carried her initial
burden, but that Plaintiff was unable to carry the shifted burden. As such, the
Court GRANTS summary adjudication as to this issue. 
 
Elder Abuse 
 
Next, Defendant Erfan argues that there are no
triable issues of material fact as to Plaintiff’s cause of action for Elder
Abuse. To state a cause of action for elder abuse and neglect, Plaintiff must
allege “[p]hysical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other
treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering.” (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a)(1).) Acts which are prohibited under
the Elder Abuse Act provisions of the Welfare and Institute Code “do not
include acts of simple professional negligence, but refer to forms of abuse or
neglect performed with some state of culpability greater than mere negligence.”
(Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
32 Cal.4th 771, 781 (Covenant Care).)
To constitute abuse and neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act,
thereby triggering the enhanced remedies available under the Act, Plaintiff
“must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of
something more than negligence; he or she must show reckless, oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious conduct,” with recklessness referring “to a subjective
state of culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been described
as a “deliberate disregard” of the “high degree of probability” that an injury
will occur,” and “[o]ppression, fraud and malice [involving] intentional or
conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 81, 88-89, quotation marks omitted.) 
 
Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that she was
financially, mentally, and emotionally abused for the entirety of her treatment
at PCH Smiles. (FAC, ¶117.) She contends she was lied to about the failure of
the root canal procedure and her prognosis, was continually lied to that the
pain in tooth no. 9 would resolve on its own when defendants knew that was not
true causing her pain and suffering for almost two years and stopping her from
seeking proper dental treatment by other dentists. (FAC, ¶ 117.) Defendant
Erfan argues that Plaintiff’s sole basis for elder abuse as to moving defendant
is the alleged continual lying about the cause of her pain and condition of her
root canal. However, Defendant argues that Plaintiff only say Dr. Erfan twice
after February 5, 2019 root canal treatment and plaintiff believes she only saw
Dr. Erfan once after the root canal treatment. 
 
As noted above, a claim for elder abuse need
show more than mere professional negligence. Instead, clear and convincing evidence
that defendant is guilty of something more than negligence; he or she must show
reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct,” with recklessness
referring “to a subjective state of culpability greater than simple negligence,
which has been described as a “deliberate disregard” of the “high degree of
probability” that an injury will occur,” and “[o]ppression, fraud and malice
[involving] intentional or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious
nature.” (Sababin, supra, 144
Cal.App.4th at 88-89.)
 
Defendant Erfan relies on the declaration of
Dr. Vilkin to show that not only was there an absence of a heightened standard
of abuse and neglect, but that there was no baseline negligence either.
Although, as noted above, the issue of professional negligence is still in
question and may present triable issues of material fact, evidence proffered by
Defendant Erfan indicates that Dr. Erfan contends that she had no subjective
belief that the root canal treatment had failed and attempted to determine
other causes for the plaintiff’s discomfort at her subsequent appointments.
(SSUMF Nos. 14, 16.) As such, the Court finds this evidence enough to carry
Defendant Erfan’s initial burden. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff provides her own
declaration, to allege that the acts taken by Dr. Erfan were well above acts of
simple negligence. But, as noted above, the Court has sustained evidentiary
objections to Plaintiff’s own declaration to which she relies on under this
section. Based on this lack of evidence, this Court finds that Plaintiff has
failed to provide evidence, let alone state facts that meet the heightened
standard of pleading for elder abuse and neglect as to Defendant Erfan. (See Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 790 [“statutory causes of action must be
pleaded with particularity”].) As such, this Court GRANTS summary adjudication as
to this cause of action. 
 
Punitive Damages 
 
            Here,
Defendant Erfan argues that Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim against moving
Defendant fails because Dr. Erfan’s conduct was not willful, malicious, or
oppressive. Defendant relies on Dr. Erfan’s declaration that she did not
objectively, nor subjectively believe that the root canal failed. Instead, she
believes, as Dr. Vilkin, that the root canal was performed within the standard
of care. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that she alleged punitive damages under causes of
action 2, 3, and 5, and that if this Court found triable issues of fact as to
any of these causes of action, it would have to deny the motion as to punitive
damages. However, as noted above, the Court GRANTED summary adjudication as to
each of these causes of action. As such, the Court also GRANTS Motion for
Summary Adjudication as to punitive damages. 