 Case Number:  23TRCV01422    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 24, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01422
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Rosemary
Pineau v. Centinela Hospital Medical Center, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Rosemary Pineau 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
Centinela Hospital Medical Center (No
Opposition)
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None Set.¿
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Leave of Court to
File First Amended Complaint
¿
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.  Plaintiff
is ordered to file the FAC as a stand-alone document within 5 court days.
                                                (2)
CMC set for 11/2/23 is continued on the Court’s own motion to February 6, 2024
at 8:30 a.m.
¿¿ 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff,
Rosemary Pineau (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Centinela
Hospital Medical Center, Wai Tan Di, M.D.., Steven L. Scott, PA.C. and DOES 1 through
20. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligence
per se; and (3) Medical Malpractice. 
 
Plaintiff now files a Motion for
Leave to file First Amended Complaint. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed this Motion Leave of Court to File First Amended Complaint. To date, no
opposition has been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
Leave to amend is permitted under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .. [citation]. 
A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a
pleading must also comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth
explicitly what allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating
what new evidence was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment
was not made earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed
and numbered amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the
allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and
reasons for delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)  
 
B.     Discussion
 
Plaintiff
alleges bodily injuries sustained while she worked as a nurse at Defendant
hospital.  She claims she was injured by
a patient, but that Defendant’s negligence created conditions that could have
been avoided or prevented.  Plaintiff’s moves
to amend her Complaint and file a First Amended Complaint (FAC) which removes
one cause of action for medical negligence and also removes defendants Wai Tan
Di, M.D., and Steven L. Scott, PA.C.. Further, Plaintiff asserts that given the
stage of this case, no party will be prejudiced by Plaintiff’s amendment to her
complaint. 
 
Here,
although the Court agrees that Plaintiff’s motion could be granted without
prejudice to the Defendant, Plaintiff’s motion fails to meet the requirements
of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324.  While Plaintiff’s motion attaches her Proposed
First Amended Complaint, there are no specifications by reference to pages and
lines the allegations that would be added and deleted, nor did Plaintiff attach
a declaration specifying the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments,
date of discovery and reasons for delay. But because Defendant has no
opposition to the amendment on procedural grounds, and because Defendant
intends to demur to the FAC, the Court will take this as a teaching opportunity
for future cases Plaintiff’s counsel may have as to Rule 3.1324’s
requirements.  The Unopposed motion is
therefore granted.  