 Case Number:  23TRCV00947    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 24, 2022¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00947
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Lauren
Hogan, Armando Hogan v. South Park Doggie, Inc., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant,
South Park Doggie, Inc.
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Lauren Hogan and Armando Hogan (No Opposition)
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿ 
                                                (2)
Case Management Conference
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED
as to the strict liability (1st) cause of action, possibly with leave
to amend, and SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the NIED (3rd) cause
of action. 
                                                (2)
For the CMC, the Court will inquire of Plaintiff’s counsel if there are
additional defendants yet to be served
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
March 29, 2023, Plaintiff Lauren Hogan and Armando Hogan (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, South Park Doggie, Inc. aka
South Park Doggie – Waterland, Doggieworld Enterprises, LLC, Garegin
Khachatryan, M.J. Silva, Aimee Varguez, Ericka Varguez, Elizabeth “Liz”
Varguez, Amir Nayebdadash, and DOES 1 through 20. The Complaint alleges causes
of action for: (1) Strict Liability – Dangerous Animal; (2) Negligence; and (3)
Negligent Infliction of Severe Emotional Distress. 
 
Defendant,
South Park Doggie, Inc. now filed a demurrer to the Complaint. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 27, 2023, Defendant filed
a Demurrer. To date, no opposition has been filed. On October 17, 2023,
Defendant, South Park Doggie, Inc. filed a Notice of Non-Opposition.
 
¿II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS
¿ 
Defendant demurs to the First and
Third Causes of Action on the grounds it argues the causes of action fail to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against the demurring
defendant. 
 
 
¿III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Legal Standard 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
B. Discussion  
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint alleges several causes of action arising from a
tragic set of circumstances where Plaintiffs’ beloved Yorkshire Terrier named
Skye was allegedly attacked, mauled, and killed by a pair of Besenjis who were
placed in the same room or enclosure as Skye at the South Park Doggie pet care
facility.  While Plaintiffs allege that
Skye was “a close and intimate member of Plaintiffs’ family,” (Complaint para.
17), under California tort law even the most beloved of pets are not treated in
the same way as human members of a family. 
The Complaint further alleges that even though Plaintiffs informed Defendants
about Skye’s age, fragility, and need for observation and monitoring, no reasonable
steps were taken to protect Skye from unleashed, unmuzzled, vicious dogs that
might be placed in the same enclosure as Skye. 
Plaintiffs had access to video of the enclosure, and witnessed the
Basenjis’ attack on Skye via remote video. 

 
Strict
Liability 
 
            Civil Code section 3342
provides a cause of action for a person injured from a dog bite. Section 3342
provides: “The owner of any dog is liable for the damages
suffered by any person who is bitten by the dog
while in a public place or lawfully in a private place, including the property
of the dog owner, regardless of the former viciousness of the dog or the
owner’s knowledge of such viciousness.” However, to impose liability on someone
other than the owner, even a keeper, “ ‘ previous knowledge of the dog’s vicious
nature must appear.’” (Buffington v. Nicholson (1947) 78 Cal.App.2d 37,
41-42.)  Section 3342 applies to create a
cause of action in favor of a PERSON who is bitten, not the owner of a dog who
is bitten and thereby suffers indirect injury, damage, or loss.  
 
            In Defendant’s demurrer, they argue that
Plaintiffs have alleged the requisite knowledge of viciousness on the part of
the South Park Doggie defendants in the Second Cause of Action for negligence.
However, Defendant argues that as to the First Cause of Action for Strict
Liability only lies against the Defendant Dog Owner, and not against the
demurring Defendant. Paragraph 10 of the Complaint alleges that the owner of the
Basenjis was an individual defendant, not South Park Doggie.  Accordingly, in the Court’s view, there is no
statutory cause of action under Section 3342 that applies to the facts of this case
even if the Dog Bite Statute applied to owners of a dog that is bitten as distinguished
from a directly injured plaintiff who is a person bitten by the allegedly
vicious dog.  
 
Under
Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Strict Liability, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants,
and each of them, knew, or, in the exercise of reasonable care, should have
known, of the viciousness and dangerousness of the two African Hunting Dogs and
of their inclination and habit of aggressively charging toward, attacking and
biting other dogs that came onto or near their enclosure or space on the
premises. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Those allegations are allegations of negligence, not
strict or absolute liability.  Several
published decisions under Section 3342 discuss the availability of the doctrine
of strict liability in tort, but none of those cases involve a canine rather
than a human who is the direct victim of a vicious dog bite.  Plaintiff did not oppose the Demurrer but the
Court would invite citation to any authority that might permit a strict
liab8ility cause of action rather than a negligence or intentional tort claim
in this factual context.  
 
            Based on this, Defendant’s demurrer
as to the First Cause of Action for Strict Liability is SUSTAINED.  The Court will invite Plaintiff’s counsel to
argue as to whether any amendment could cure the pleading defect. 
 
Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
            Defendant
also demurs to the Third Cause of Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress. “The law of negligent infliction of
emotional distress in California is typically analyzed by reference to two
theories of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and the ‘direct victim’ theory.
The negligent causing of emotional
distress is not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The
traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply.
Whether a defendant owes a duty of care is a question of law.” (Spates v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 208, 213, ellipses, quotation marks, brackets, and paragraph breaks
omitted.) The California Supreme Court continues to adhere to the distinction
between “direct victim” and “bystander” claims for emotional distress arising
from negligence. (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal. 4th 965, 984.)
“The distinction between the ‘bystander’ and the ‘direct victim’ cases is found
in the source of the duty owed by the defendant to the plaintiff.” (Id.
at 1072.) “Bystander” claims are typically based on breach of a duty owed to
the public in general (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d
868, 884), whereas a right to recover for emotional distress as a “direct
victim” arises from the breach of a duty that is assumed by the defendant or
imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of the
defendant's preexisting relationship with the plaintiff. (Burgess, supra,
2 Cal.4th at pp. 1073–1074.) 
            Since “bystander” claims could be limitless, the Supreme
Court has set forth limits for a “bystander” claim. (See Thing v. La Chusa
(1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 647 [stating that “bystander” liability arises where
there is a close relationship between the victim and plaintiff, the plaintiff
witnessed the injury to the victim, and it was foreseeable that as a result of
the injury to the victim, the plaintiff would suffer emotional distress].)
There is no duty to avoid negligently causing emotional distress to another.” (Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984.) Moreover,
plaintiff bystanders must prove “serious emotional distress—a reaction beyond
that which would be anticipated in a disinterested witness and which is not an
abnormal response to the circumstances … [S]erious mental distress may be found
where a reasonable person normally constituted would be unable to adequately
cope with the mental distress engendered by the circumstances of the case.” (Thing
v. La Chusa, 48 Cal.3d at 667-8, n. 12; see also Wong v. Tai Jing
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1377 [evidence of losing sleep, upset stomach and
anxiety did not constitute severe emotional distress of such lasting and
enduring quality that no reasonable person should be expected to endure].)
            Here, the Complaint alleges that as a direct and
proximate result of the Defendants’ negligence Plaintiffs sustained severe
emotional injury including, but not limited to, nightmares, restlessness,
depression, crying spells, loneliness, and sever emotional distress.
(Complaint, ¶ 34.) Further, Plaintiffs assert that the injuries caused, and
continue to cause injury to their health, strength and emotional well being.
(Complaint, ¶ 34.) Here, the Court notes the Fourth District has expressed that
when deciding on whether plaintiffs can recover emotional distress damages for
harm to a pet, it shares the sentiment of the court in Johnson v. Douglas (N.Y.Sup.Ct.2001)
187 Misc.2d 509, 510, which observed: “There is no doubt that some pet owners
have become so attached to their family pets that the animals are considered
members of the family. This is particularly true of owners of domesticated dogs
who have been repeatedly referred to as ‘Man’s Best Friend’ and a faithful
companion…Although we live in a particularly litigious society, the court is
not about recognize a tortious cause of action to recover for emotional
distress due to the death of a family pet. Such an expansion of the law would
place an unnecessary burden on the ever burgeoning case loads of the court in resolving
serious tort claims for injuries to individuals.” (McMahon v. Craig
(2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1502, 1514.) This Court agrees. Moreover, even if this
Court were to acknowledge the relationship between a pet owner and their pet as
a Plaintiff being “closely related to the injured victim,” Plaintiffs have
still failed to allege that they witnessed the injury to their dog. As such,
the Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
¿¿¿ 
¿
 
 