  Case Number:  22STCV19850    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No. 
Manaiza, Jr.  vs. Tahiti Marina Apartment & Docks, LLC,
et. al., Case No. 22STCV19850 
 
Tentative Ruling re:  Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration
  
Plaintiff Jose Angel Manaiza, Jr. moves
for reconsideration of the order sustaining Defendant Tahiti Marina Apartments & Docks LLC’s demurrer to TAC without leave to amend
and dismissal of the action with prejudice. The motion is denied. 
The moving party must present
new facts, circumstances, or law to grant a motion for reconsideration. (See
Code Civ. Pro., § 1008, subd. (a); see also Mink v. Super. Ct. (1992) 2
Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.) “The party seeking reconsideration of an order shall
state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Pro., § 1008, subd.
(a).) Further, “…the party seeking reconsideration must provide not only new
evidence but also a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that
evidence at an earlier time.” (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th
1441, 1457.) The legislative intent was to restrict motions for reconsideration
to circumstances where a party offers the court some fact or circumstance not
previously considered and some valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) 
Plaintiff filed the instant action on June 17,
2022.  Plaintiff was representing himself
at the time.  He then filed a First
Amended Complaint on March 22, 2023. 
Counsel Mr. Folke substituted in on behalf of Plaintiff on May 19, 2023.  Defendant demurred to the first amended
complaint.  At the hearing on September
12, 2023, Plaintiff did not appear and had not opposed the demurrer.  The demurrer was sustained with ten days
leave to amend.  Plaintiff, while still
represented by Mr. Folke, filed the second amended complaint, in propria
persona.  On November 22, 2023 Mr. Folke
was substituted out and Plaintiff began representing himself again.  Defendant filed another demurrer, which
Plaintiff opposed.  On November 28, 2023,
that demurrer was sustained and leave to amend was granted.  Plaintiff filed the third amended complaint
on December 8, 2023.  On December 19,
2023 Counsel Mr. Davis substituted in on behalf of Plaintiff.  Thereafter, on January 5, 2024 Defendant
filed a demurrer to the third amended complaint.  Plaintiff did not oppose the demurrer and on
February 8, 2024 the Court sustained the demurrer without leave to amend and
dismissed the action with prejudice.
Here, Plaintiff provides the
declaration of his counsel of record, Travone Davis, in support of his motion
for reconsideration. Davis attests that after the Court’s ruling, he “conducted
a comprehensive review and identified new evidence and legal arguments that
were not previously considered by the Plaintiff while self-represented.”
(Declaration of Travone Davis, ¶ 3.) “The nature of the claims
involves the application of maritime law, which presents complexities that
require specialized legal expertise. The Plaintiff, while diligent, did not
have the legal background to fully appreciate these intricacies. (Id. at  ¶ ¶  4, 7.) According to counsel, “[t]he failure to produce
evidence and arguments at an earlier stage was not due to any lack of diligence
on the part of the Plaintiff, but rather a consequence of the need for
professional legal analysis and strategic guidance, which I now provide.” (Id. at  ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiff does not state by
affidavit “new or different facts, circumstances, or law” to support a motion
for reconsideration. (Code Civ. Pro., § 1008, subd. (a).)  Rather, Counsel makes general and conclusory
statements that he “identified new evidence and legal arguments” after the
Court’s ruling. Similarly, counsel merely asserts that maritime law had to be
researched but this is hardly new law.  Plaintiff
also fails to provide “a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce
that evidence at an earlier time.” (Glade v. Glade, supra, 38 Cal.App.4th 1441 at 1457.) The information
must be such that the moving party¿could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered or produced it at the hearing. (See New York Times Co. v. Super.
Ct. (Wall St. Network, Ltd.)¿(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.)  While Plaintiff states that the failure to
provide evidence and arguments at an earlier time was due to the recent
engagement of legal counsel, Plaintiff disregards the fact that Plaintiff was
previously represented by counsel before current counsel of record assumed
responsibility.  And Plaintiff, while
represented, twice failed to oppose demurrers, and therefore failed to carry
his burden to show that amendment was possible.
This matter was pending for eighteen
months.  Plaintiff was represented by Mr.
Folke for six months and Mr. Davis for two months. Plaintiff was granted leave
to amend twice but failed to correct the defects identified in the demurrers.  Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is
without merit and is denied.