 Case Number:  23GDCV01545    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  D                TENTATIVE RULING Calendar:  4 Date: 1/3/2024 Case No:  23 GDCV01545 Trial Date: August 4, 2025Case Name: Melkonyan v. California Department of Transportation, et al.  MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENAMoving Party: Plaintiff Artur Melkonyan   Responding Party: Defendant California Department of Transportation        RELIEF REQUESTED:Orders quashing deposition subpoenas for production of records issued by defendant California Department of Transportation    FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Artur Melkonyan alleges that in July of 2022, plaintiff, who is an avid bicyclist, was riding his bicycle downhill on Angeles Crest Highway.  After coming around a turn, plaintiff suddenly encountered a long defect in the roadway that he could not avoid riding over.  The complaint alleges that plaintiff lost control of his bicycle and was thrown in the air, landing violently on the asphalt, and that as a result plaintiff sustained a fractured hip and road rashes all over his body, among other injuries, and has undergone hip replacement surgery. Plaintiff alleges that defendants California Department of Transportation and County of Los Angeles owned public property on which a dangerous condition existed, and had actual and constructive notice of the existence of the dangerous condition in sufficient time prior to the injury to have corrected it, and the condition was created by employees of the defendants public entities. The operative complaint, the First Amended (form) Complaint (FAC), alleges a cause of action for Premises Liability, Count Three—Dangerous Condition of Public Property. ANALYSIS:ProceduralUntimely Motion Defendant California Department of Transportation (Caltrans)  in the opposition argues that plaintiff’s motion to quash is untimely.    Defendant relies on CCP section 1985.3 (g), which provides, in pertinent part:“(g) Any consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for improper release of records.” Defendant argues that here the date of the production stated on the subject subpoena was October 16, 2024.  The subject motion was filed and served on November 6, 2024, which was not prior to the date set for production, and notice was not given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production.  Defendant argues that while plaintiff states that he did not immediately file a motion to quash because Kaiser stated it would not produce the medical records, this does not absolve plaintiff from the statutory deadline imposed by CCP section 1985.3 (g). Defendant relies on Thai v. Richmond City Center, L.P. (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 282, in which the court of appeal construed another portion of CCP section 1985.3 (g), which permits a any other consumer or non-party to serve written objection to the subpoena, and establishes a motion deadline for enforcing the subpoena of 20 days after service of the written objection:“Any other consumer or nonparty whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum may, prior to the date of production, serve on the subpoenaing party, the witness, and the deposition officer, a written objection that cites the specific grounds on which production of the personal records should be prohibited.No witness or deposition officer shall be required to produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been brought by a consumer, or after receipt of a written objection from a nonparty consumer, except upon order of the court in which the action is pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected.The party requesting a consumer's personal records may bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to enforce the subpoena within 20 days of service of the written objection. The motion shall be accompanied by a declaration showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution of the dispute between the party requesting the personal records and the consumer or the consumer's attorney.”CCP section 1985.3 (g), emphasis added. The court of appeal, in denying a motion brought after the deadline in CCP section 1985.3 (g), but pursuant to CCP section 2025.480, which sets a longer deadline, found that section 1985.3 (g) controlled.   The court of appeal noted that “We are not aware of any cases that have squarely addressed this issue” concerning the deadline in section 1985.3 (g) and expressly rejected an argument that since CCP section 1985.3 (g) uses the word “may,” the 20-day deadline is permissive, stating:“Plaintiff's argument is unpersuasive. The use of “may” within section 1985.3, subdivision (g), does not mean the 20-day time limit is permissive. It indicates the subpoenaing party's decision whether to bring a motion to enforce the subpoena is permissive.”Thai, at 288. The court of appeal also observed:“Further, it would be unnecessary for section 1985.3, subdivision (g), to establish a 20-day time limit to bring a motion to enforce if a party could simply move to compel under section 2025.480 after those 20 days lapsed. Plaintiff's interpretation of the statutes at issue would render superfluous the 20-day time limit set forth in section 1985.3, subdivision (g). This would violate the canon of statutory interpretation that “the Legislature does not engage in idle acts, and no part of its enactments should be rendered surplusage if a construction is available that avoids doing so.” (Mendoza v. Nordstrom, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1074, 1087 [216 Cal.Rptr.3d 889, 393 P.3d 375].)Thai, at 290.  It would follow under the analysis in Thai that the legislature’s use of the word “may” in the earlier part of the same subdivision of the statute would not be permissive with respect to the use of that word with respect to a motion deadline, in this case, that a consumer “may, prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum.”   This motion was not brought within that deadline.   Defendant argues that the time deadline of “prior to the date for production” is set in the subpoena, and not arbitrarily set by any agreement between plaintiff and the third party facility, as such a rule would create an open-ended extension of time for plaintiff to choose to pursue such motion, which does not comport with the plain language of the statute nor the legislative intent behind the statute.  The court is persuaded under the analysis and precedential authority of Thai that the motion here is untimely, and it will not be considered by the court. It would appear that plaintiff had the opportunity to serve written objection and did not do so, and that if plaintiff believes that there was good reason the motion deadline was not met, plaintiff’s remedy would have been to seek relief from the deadline and permission to file the motion from this court prior to filing the untimely motion. The motion accordingly is not considered as untimely, but this order is without prejudice to plaintiff seeking relief from the deadline, if appropriate. SanctionsBoth sides seek sanctions for the expense of having brought or opposed the motion. Under CCP section 1987.2, the court may award sanctions in making an order pursuant to Section 1987 or 1987.1:“In making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) or Section 1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” The motion here involves relief sought under CCP section 1987.1.  The court under the all of the circumstances here does not find the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification. Hence, no sanctions are awarded to either side. RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Quashing Subpoenas Duces Tecum for Kaiser Records is NOT CONSIDERED BY THE COURT as untimely.  See CCP section 1985.3 (g), and interpretation of the language of that subdivision in Thai v. Richmond City Center, L.P. (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 282. Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Production of Business Records directed to the Custodian of Records of Kaiser Permanente Central ROI Unit issued by defendant The People of the State of California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation remain outstanding. Monetary sanctions sought by both sides are DENIED.DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 