 Case Number:  24NNCV02087    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  D                                      TENTATIVE RULING MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO  DISCOVERY (2)Calendar:    6 Date:         1/3/2024  Case No:    24 NNCV02087 Trial Date:   None Set Case Name: Mageno v. Lokal, Inc. Moving Party:  Plaintiff Perla Mageno   Responding Party: Defendant Lokal, Inc.    RELIEF REQUESTED:Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Number One, Interrogatories Nos. 2, 7-13, 16-18 and 21  Further Responses to Request for Production, Set One, Requests Nos. 1-23 and 26-26CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served : August 5, 2024Date Responses served:  September 6, 2024Extensions to Further Respond to: October 19, 2024       Date Motion served:   October 30, 2024  ext.  timely     Meet and Confer? Ok, Para. 4 Ex. C  FACTUAL BACKGROUND: Plaintiff Perla Mageno alleges that plaintiff is a visually impaired and legally blind person who requires screen-reading software to read website content using a computer, and that she has visited the website offered by defendant Lokal, Inc. ,www.lokalsandwichshop.com, and that during visits to defendant’s website, using plaintiff’s screen-reader, plaintiff encountered multiple accessibility barriers which denied plaintiff full and equal access to the facilities, goods and services offered to the public and made available to the public on defendant’s website.  The complaint alleges a cause of action for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, Civil Code § 51, et seq.ANALYSIS:ProceduralOppositions Untimely Defendant has filed with the court untimely oppositions to the motions.  Under CCP §1005(b):“All papers opposing a motion…shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days… before the hearing.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1300(d), “If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.”  Here, the oppositions were filed on December 20, 2024 for a January 3, 2024 hearing date, only eight court days prior to the hearing, so were one court day late.   However, it appears from the proofs of service filed that the oppositions were served on December 18, 2024, timely, permitting moving party sufficient time to respond and file a timely reply.  The court will consider the oppositions, but defendant is cautioned that in the future the court may refuse to consider papers not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. Interrogatories Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action...if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The section specifically provides that “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery may be obtained “of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”CCP § 2030.300(a) provides that if the party propounding interrogatories deems that an objection “is without merit or too general” or that “an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete,”  “the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response...”If a timely motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully respond to discovery.  Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.  The granting or denial of a motion to compel is in the discretion of the trial court.  Coy, at 221-222.   A court should generally consider the following factors:The relationship of the information sought to the issues framed in the pleadings;The likelihood that disclosure will be of practical benefit to the party seeking discovery;The burden or expense likely to be encountered by the responding party in furnishing the information sought.Columbia Broadcast System, Inc. v. Superior Court (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19. The special interrogatories at issue seek information such as a description of how the website was designed to be equally enjoyed for blind users, facts supporting contentions, technical requirements and criteria used in measuring compliance with accessibility standards, software programs used to measure accessibility, dates of testing, test results, details concerning testing, persons and documents related to testing, changes to the website since the filing of this lawsuit, and changes that are not readily achievable.  The responses are objections that the requests are overbroad, burdensome, and intended to harass, and then some variation of either “Defendant is unable to respond to this interrogatory as the request is best reserved for an expert,” or that defendant is unaware of the information because “Defendant uses the WIX platform.”  These responses are not appropriate, and defendant does not in the opposition even attempt to justify the boilerplate objections.  Defendant primarily argues that the information is equally available to plaintiff and plaintiff’s experts, and that the interrogatories seek irrelevant information, and improperly attempt to shift expert discovery obligations.  The objections which have been asserted are not proper and are overruled. The objections asserted for the first time in the opposition, such as that the information is equally available, do not appear in the responses, and therefore have been waived.  In addition, although the statute provides for an objection that the information is “equally available” to the propounding party, such an objection usually applies when a propounding party seeks to force another party to search public records equally available to both.   See Alpine Mutual Water Co. v. Superior Court (1968) 259 Cal.App.2d 45, 53.  Moreover, as previously pointed out to defendant, it is not an appropriate response to discovery that response to the requests are best reserved for an expert.  As argued by plaintiff, the requests do not require an expert to answer, and, in any case, it is held improper to deny a request where the information is known to the party’s expert witness.  Chodos v. Superior Court (1963, 2nd Dist.) 215 Cal.App.2d 318, 323-324 (finding improper objections to requests for admissions that the parties had no “independent information” or called for “an opinion”), Bloxham v. Saldinger (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 729, 752 (“Since requests for admissions are not limited to matters within personal knowledge of the responding party, that party has a duty to make a reasonable investigation of the facts before answering items which do not fall within his personal knowledge,” quoting Chodos, at 322.).    To the extent the argument is that defendant utilized a particular platform, it is not clear that defendant made appropriate inquiry to locate the information from sources available to defendant. As argued by plaintiff, the responses are clearly incomplete, and not Code compliant.  CCP § 2030.210 provides, in pertinent part:“(a) The party to whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of the following:(1) An answer containing the information sought to be discovered.(2) An exercise of the party's option to produce writings.(3) An objection to the particular interrogatory.”Under CCP § 2030.220:“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.(c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”  Defendant is ordered to fully comply with the Code. Requests for ProductionCCP § 2031.310 provides that a party demanding a document inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that:“(1)   A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.  (2)   A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3)   An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  Under CCP § 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”  The burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and specific facts justifying discovery.   Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior Court (1997, 2nd Dist.) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.   Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure.   See Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996, 2nd Dist.) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.The requests here seek documents supporting responses to Special Interrogatories, the subject matter of which is set forth above, concerning subject such as testing, and compliance with accessibility standards, and documents concerning communications between defendant and persons who designed the website, analysis’ performed, policies, changes to the website, franchisor agreements, and communications regarding the website accessibility.   The responses are “After a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry, Defendant is unable to produce documents relative to this request because no such documents have ever existed or been in Defendant’s possession.”  As to only two of the requests, Nos. 18 and 26, there are objections stated that requests are overbroad, vague, ambiguous and not likely to lead to admissible evidence, intended to harass and an invasion of privacy.  Plaintiff has established that the requests call for information necessary for plaintiff to establish her claims and explore defendant’s defense, which is stated again in the opposition, that the website was fully accessible.  Defendant in the opposition does not justify the objections to the two requests to which objection was made, which call for communications within the last two years, a reasonable timeframe, with persons who designed the website, and for communications for persons defendant identified in responses to special interrogatories.   Defendant argues that the documents called for are not relevant, and that the accessibility and structure and details about the website can be independently analyzed by plaintiff’s experts without requiring input from defendant. Defendant did not make a relevancy objection in response to the requests, so that such an objection has been waived.  Instead, defendant has made representations of inability to comply, some of which are of questionable correctness, as defendant, for example, in response to Request No. 25, very likely has or did have communications regarding the accessibility of the website in the last two years from plaintiff.   Moreover, as argued in the moving papers, the responses are not Code-compliant.  Under CCP section 2031.210, a response shall either be a statement of compliance, a representation that the party lacks the ability to comply, or an objection. With respect to a statement of compliance, CCP section 2031.220 requires:“A statement that a party to whom an inspection demand has been directed will comply with the particular demand shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being make will be included in the production.”With respect to a statement of inability to comply, CCP section 2031.230 requires:“A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonably inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.   This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been , or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party.   The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.”Plaintiffs are ordered to serve further responses to the subject discovery which fully comply with these sections.  Again, as discussed above, the court does not find acceptable a response that plaintiff or plaintiff’s experts have sufficient information to analyze the website’s accessibility without defendant’s internal records.  Plaintiff is entitled to all responsive internal records.    Further responses to each of the subject requests for documents are ordered to be served, without objections, and which provide a statement of compliance or inability to comply with each request according to Code.  Sanctions  Both sides seek sanctions.  CCP § 2030.300 (d) provides that the court “shall impose a monetary sanction...against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” A similar provision applies to motions to compel further responses to document demands.  CCP § 2031.310 (h).    Under CCP § 2023.010, misuse of the discovery process includes “(e) Making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery”; and “(f) Making an evasive response to discovery.”    Where there has been misuse of the discovery process, under Section 2023.030(a),  the court “may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436. Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”In this case, defendant has made evasive responses to discovery, interposed objections defendant has failed to justify, and has made these motions necessary. Defendant has unsuccessfully opposed these motions, and in the oppositions makes an incomprehensible argument that sanctions be awarded to defendant for plaintiff making evasive responses to discovery.  This proceeding is not a motion concerning plaintiff’s discovery responses, but defendant’s.  No sanctions are awarded to defendant. Defendant in the oppositions does not meet any burden of showing that defendant’s discovery conduct here was substantially justified or that circumstances would make the imposition of sanctions unjust. The court will award sanctions in favor of the moving party, plaintiff.  The sanctions sought are $1,000.00 for each of the two motions.  It appears that time is sought only for preparation of the motions; no time to attend the hearing or prepare replies is claimed.  The request is reasonable. Also, there is no opposition, so no challenge to the sum of sanctions being sought.  The sanctions are awarded in full as requested. RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Lokal, Inc.’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories Set Number One:The Court notes that the opposition to the motion was filed only eight court days prior to the hearing, so one court day late, in violation of CCP §1005(b).  The Court in its discretion has considered the untimely opposition, only because the opposition was evidently timely served.  However, defendant is cautioned that in the future that defendant must comply with both service and filing deadlines, and that the Court may refuse to consider papers not filed in compliance with the applicable rules, statutes, and deadlines. Motion is GRANTED. Defendant Lokal, Inc. is ordered to serve further verified responses to Special Interrogatories, Set No. One, Interrogatories Nos. 2, 7-13, 16-18 and 21, which provide all information requested.  All further responses are to fully comply with the requirements under the Discovery Act, including, under CCP § 2030.210 (a)(1) answers “containing the information sought to be discovered.”  The responding party must also comply fully with CCP § 2030.220:“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.(c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”The court does not find acceptable a response that the information is known and equally available to plaintiff and plaintiff’s experts, as this objection was not clearly raised as an objection in the responses, so it has been waived. In any case, there is no recognized objection that the information is already known to the other party. The same available objection usually applies when a propounding party seeks to force another party to search public records equally available to both.   Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 218 (“’no rule or authority is cited which authorizes refusal to answer an interrogatory simply on the ground that the answer is known to the party seeking the information,’” quotation citation omitted;  Alpine Mutual Water Co. v. Superior Court (1968) 259 Cal.App.2d 45, 53. To the extent the responses refer to the use of a “WIX platform,” compliance with the Code would require inquiry to locate information from third parties.   All further responses are to be without objection, as the Court has reviewed the objections. The court finds that defendant has failed to justify its objections. Also they are without merit or have been waived. Hence the objections are overruled. Further responses to be served within ten days.  Monetary sanctions requested by moving party: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $1000(2 hours @ $500/hour) [2 hours requested] [Amount Requested $1,000.00], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Perla Mageno, and against defendant Lokal, Inc. and defendant’s counsel of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days. CCP §§ 2030.300(d), 2023.010 (e) and (f), and 2023.030(a).Monetary sanctions requested in the opposition are DENIED. Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Lokal, Inc.’s Further Responses to Requests for Production, Set Number One:The Court notes that the opposition to the motion was filed only eight court days prior to the hearing, so one court day late, in violation of CCP §1005(b).  The Court in its discretion has considered the untimely opposition, only because the opposition was evidently timely served.  However, defendant is cautioned that in the future that defendant must comply with both service and filing deadlines, and that the Court may refuse to consider papers not filed in compliance with the applicable rules, statutes, and deadlines. Motion is GRANTED. Defendant Lokal, Inc. is ordered to serve further complete verified responses to Requests Nos. 1-23 and 25-26 and to permit inspection and copying of all responsive documents within ten days.   The further responses must fully comply with CCP §§  2031.210, 2031.220 and 2031.230, including for each request either 1) a statement that responding party will comply with the particular demand, including a statement that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of defendant and to which no objection is being make will be included in the production, or 2) a statement of inability to comply, which statement shall specify whether any inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party, and which sets forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.  Further responses are to be without objection, as defendant has failed to justify objections, or has waived then, and the Court finds the objections asserted to be without merit, so objections are overruled.   Further responses to be served within ten days. Monetary sanctions requested by moving party: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,000(2 hours @ $500/hour) [2 hours requested] [Amount Requested $1,000.00], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Perla Mageno, and against defendant Lokal, Inc. and defendant’s counsel of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2031.310(h), 2023.010 (e) and (f), and 2023.030(a).Monetary sanctions requested in the opposition are DENIED.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 