 Case Number:  24NNCV00781    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULING Calendar:         5  Date:          1/3/2025  Case No:     24 NNCV00781  Trial Date: 08/17/2026 Case Name: McShea, et al. v. Horton, et al.MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY (3 Motions) Moving Party:  Plaintiff Brian McShea     Responding Party: Defendant Derek Horton  Defendant Audrey Nichols Horton   RELIEF REQUESTED:Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One by defendant Audrey Nichols Horton Responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One by defendant Audrey Nichols Horton Responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One by defendant Derek Horton CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served :     August 25, 2024 Extension to Respond to: October 10, 2024 (Ex. 3)Date Responses served:  NO RESPONSES SERVED Date Motion served:     October 28, 2024    Timely ANALYSIS:Under CCP § 2030.290, “If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,” that party “waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings...as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product...”  Under subdivision (b), “The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.”   A similar provision applies to failure to serve a timely response to document demands.  CCP § 2031.300.  In this case, interrogatories and document demands have been directed to defendants and defendants failed to serve properly verified responses.  Defendants in the oppositions indicate that defendants served verified responses to the subject discovery on November 14, 2024, after the filing of this motion on October 28, 2024.    Proofs of service along with copies of the verifications are submitted. [Rabago Decl., para. 8, Ex. B].  The motions are accordingly moot. SanctionsThis leaves the issue of sanctions, which are sought by moving parties.  With respect to interrogatories, under CCP § 2030.290(c), “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” A similar provision applies to document demands. CCP § 2031.300(c) (“the court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling…”). Under CCP § 2023.010, misuse of the discovery process includes “(d) failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where there has been a misuse of the discovery process, under Section 2023.030(a),  the court “may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a):“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  In this case, defendants failed to properly respond to authorized methods of discovery and made the motions necessary. Plaintiff has submitted evidence showing that plaintiff has incurred expenses as a result of the conduct. The oppositions argue that the sanctions requested should be denied because the notices are procedurally flawed, as they do not include the total amount of sanctions requested.  CCP section 2023.040 provides, in pertinent part:“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.”The oppositions argue that there is no mention of sanctions in the notices of motion and no designation of the amount sought.  This is not correct; the notices state some variation that plaintiff “will further move this court for an order requiring Defendant and/or Defendant’s counsel…to pay a monetary sanction to Plaintiff.”  [Motions, p. 2].  This sufficiently specifies the “type” of sanction sought, “monetary.”  There is no statutory requirement that the sum being sought be identified in the notice.  The statute requires that a request for sanctions be “accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought.”  CCP section 2023.040.  This was done here.  [See Liebrech Decls., paras. 10, 11].  Sanctions will not be denied based on this procedural argument.The oppositions also argue that sanctions should be denied because plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good faith.  The motions are for responses to discovery, for which there is no requirement to meet and confer at all.  Defendants have pointed to no statutory authority requiring a meet and confer in such a circumstance, and the argument repeatedly concedes that defendants were aware of deadlines and failed to seek court intervention or a protective order if such was necessary due to the volume of the discovery or reassignment to a new attorney within the same firm.   Sanctions are not denied for failure to meet and confer. The oppositions argue that defendants were substantially justified in responding to the requests, and in actually serving proper verified responses after the motions were filed.   The sanctions are awarded to shift the expense of preparing the motions which defendants’ conduct made necessary. Defendants also argue that the sanctions should be denied because they are unreasonable in amount.  The court does not find this a valid argument for denying sanctions altogether in this case, but will consider the argument in determining what reasonable amounts should be awarded. The sanctions requested are $1,830.00 for each of three motions.  As pointed out in the oppositions, these appear high for a motion of this nature, particularly at the $500 per hour billing rate.  The motions are quite brief, and, as pointed out in the opposition, are similar to motions previously heard seeking initial discovery responses, for which sanctions have been previously awarded.  One hour is sought in each motion for reviewing opposition and preparing a reply, but since the oppositions indicate the motions are substantively moot, any time to prepare a reply should be minimal.  The fees awarded are adjusted accordingly as follows: 1.5 attorney hours and 2 for hours awarded once for the court appearance for $1,250.00 in attorney fees and 2 hours attorney time for the other motion for $1,000.00 in attorney fees.    RULING:Plaintiff Brian McShea’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is MOOT in light of the service of verified responses to the subject discovery by defendant Derek Horton on November 14, 2024.   Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $ 1,250.00 (2.5 hours @ $500/hour) (3.5 hours requested) plus filing fees of $80.00 [Amount Requested $1,830.00], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Brian McShea, and against defendant Derek Horton, and defendant’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2030.290(c), 2023.010(d), 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. Plaintiff Brian McShea’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is MOOT in light of the service of verified responses to the subject discovery by defendant Andrey Nichols Horton on November 14, 2024.   Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $ 1,000.00 (2 hours @ $500/hour) (3.5 hours requested) plus filing fees of $80.00 [Amount Requested $1,830.00], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Brian McShea, and against defendant Audrey Nichols Horton, and defendant’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2030.290(c), 2023.010(d), 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. Plaintiff Brian McShea’s Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One (1) is MOOT in light of the service of verified responses to the subject discovery by defendant Audrey Nichols Horton on November 14, 2024.  Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,000.00 (2 hours @ $500/hour) (3.5 hours requested) plus filing fees of $80.00 [Amount Requested $1,830.00], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Brian McShea, and against defendant Audrey Nichols Horton, and defendant’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2031.300(c), 2023.010(d), 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).  Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 