 Case Number:  23STCV23243    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
FORD MOTOR
  COMPANY    
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV23243 ` 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 21, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion for a protective order is GRANTED. 
 
            On
9/26/2023, Plaintiff Roberto Rodriguez and Veronica Cervantes (collectively,
Defendants) filed suit against Ford Motor Company, alleging breach of express
warranty. 
 
            On
4/02/24, Defendant moved for entry of a protective order. 
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
argues good cause exists to grant Defendant’s protective order. In opposition,
Plaintiffs do not dispute the need for a protective order, but seek entry of
the standard LASC Model Order.
 
            As
such, the dispute here is not whether or not a protective order is appropriate,
but what form the protective order should take. 
 
            Defendant’s
proposed order used the Model Order as a working draft but makes modifications
to three paragraphs—Nos. 7, 8 and 21. 
 
Specifically,
Ford seeks to modify Paragraph 7 to clarify in sub-section (b) that the term
“affiliated attorneys” mean attorneys in the same firm and that Plaintiffs’
counsel’s office personnel who have access to Ford’s confidential documents
must sign Exhibit A; to include videographers and litigation support companies
with court reporters in sub-section (d); to preclude mock jurors from accessing
Ford’s confidential documents because Ford has no ability to identify such
persons or ensure (or confirm) their compliance, as set forth in sub-section
(f); and to include non-attorneys along with experts in paragraph (g), and
confirm that Ford’s confidential documents may not be shown to competitors of
Ford.
 
Ford also
seeks to modify Paragraph 8 to prohibit the receiving party from posting Ford’s
confidential documents to any website or advertising Ford’s documents for sale.

 
Ford further
seeks to modify Paragraph 21 to clarify the process for Plaintiffs’ counsel to
return or destroy Ford’s confidential documents at the conclusion of the case,
and to require the return of all confidential documents.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that no good cause exists because Ford previously
proposed and agreed to the model protective order in another case that was
litigated between Plaintiffs’ counsel and Ford, and Ford did not raise any of
the issues that exist now. 
 
However,
whether or not a standard LASC Model Order was used in previous litigation does
not indicate that good cause does not exist here to grant the requested relief.

 
After review,
the Court finds good cause exists to rant the proposed order. As noted by
Defendant “there is nothing in Ford’s proposed order that limits Plaintiffs’
use of documents and information that are subject to the order for their own
preparation and prosecution of this case.” (Motion, 9: 25-27.) Moreover, the
proposed adjustments present reasonable limitations on the use and maintenance
of confidential materials.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for a protective order is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 
 