 Case Number:  23STCV27581    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior  Court of California County  of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT 17   TENTATIVE RULING      LANCE    HARA pka VICKY VOX                                      vs.   NETFLIX,    et al.                                                  Case No.:     23STCV27581          Hearing    Date: May 21, 2024      Defendant’s  special motion to strike is GRANTED.    On 11/9/2023, Plaintiff Lance Hara pka Vicky Vox  (Plaintiff) filed suit against Netflix, Inc., Titmouse, Inc., Lol Send, Inc.,  Gabe Liedman, Fremulon, LLC, Michael Schur, Universal Television, LLC, Hazy  Mills Production, Inc., Sean Hayes, Todd Milliner, Ben Beins, 2 Arts Entertainment,  LLC, David Miner, and Max Silverstri.   Legal  Standard   On a  special motion to strike pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section  425.16, also known as an anti-SLAPP motion, moving parties have the initial  burden to demonstrate that a cause of action is subject to a special motion to  strike. (Martinez v. Metabolife Inter.  Ins. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 186; Fox  Searchlight Pictures Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 304.)  First, the court must determine whether moving parties have  made a prima facie showing that the attacked claims arise from a  protected activity, including defendants’ right of petition, or free speech,  under a constitution, in connection with issues of public interest. (Healy  v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp., (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th  1, 5; Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006)  39 Cal.4th 260, 278; Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.  (e).) Moving parties can satisfy this burden by showing (1) statements made  before legislative, executive or judicial proceedings, or made in  connection with matters being considered in such proceedings, or (2) statements  made in a public forum, or other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the  constitutional rights of petition or free speech, in connection with issues of  public interest. (Code Civ. Proc.,­ 425.16, subd. (e); Equilon Ent.,  LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 66.)    If the  court finds this showing has been made, it must dismiss the cause of action  unless the plaintiff meets its burden to demonstrate a probability of  prevailing on the claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.  (b)(1); Balzaga v.  Fox News Network, LLC (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1325, 1336.)  This means that the plaintiff must state a legally sufficient claim and  must then present evidence that substantiates or sustains the claim. (Equilon Enterprises  v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61; see also Wilson  v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002)  28 Cal.4th 811, 821 [plaintiff “must demonstrate that the complaint is both  legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts  to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is  credited”].)    Discussion                 As for the first prong of the  anti-SLAPP analysis, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim is protected  activity as speech “made in … a public forum in connection with an issue of  public interest,” and as “conduct in furtherance of the exercise of … the constitutional  right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public  interest.” (C.C.P. § 425.16(e)(3); C.C.P. § 425.16(e)(4).)    As for the second prong, Defendant argues that Plaintiff  cannot show a probability of prevailing because the First Amendment bars claims  arising from expressive works, the alleged depiction is transformative, and  because Plaintiff has not alleged actual malice.    As for the first prong, Defendant argues that Q-Force  (the Series) is speech in connection with a matter of public interest because  an issue of public interest has been interpreted to be “any issue in which the  public is interested,” and creations of popular entertainment are matters of  public interest.    In support, Defendant cites cases like Brodeur v.  Atlas Ent., Inc. (2016) 248 Cal. App. 4th 665, 677-78, where the Court held  that defendants’ “conduct in writing and broadcasting” a specific scene in the  movie American Hustle was protected activity within the meaning of the SLAPP  statute and noted that “the public interest in the movie as a whole” was  “conceded and undeniable”).    In Brodeur, the challenged speech concerned  dialogue in a screwball farce set in the 1970s, which directly referenced  plaintiff, an environmentalist, by name, and an article he had published on  microwave ovens:   “[IRVING]: I told you not  to put metal in the science oven, what did you do that for?   “[ROSALYN]:  Don't make such a big deal! Just get another one.   “[IRVING]: I don't want  another one, I want the one that Carmine [the New Jersey mayor whom Irving is  conning] gave me . “[ROSALYN]: Oh, Carmine! I  want the one that Carmine gave me! Carmine! Carmine! Why don't you just marry  Carmine? Get a little gold microwave and put it on a chain around your neck!  You wanna be more like Carmine? Why don't you build something, like he does?  Instead of all your empty deals; they're just like your fuckin' science oven.  You know, I read that it takes all of the nutrition out of our food! It's  empty, just like your deals. Empty! Empty!   “[IRVING]:  Listen to this bullshit.   “[ROSALYN]: It's not  bullshit! I read it in an article, look: By Paul Brodeur. [Rosalyn hands Irving  an article.]   “[ROSALYN]: Bring something  into this house that's gonna take all the nutrition out of our food and then  light our house on fire? Thank God for me.”   (Brodeur, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at p.  670, emphasis added.)    Plaintiff Paul Brodeur sued for libel, defamation, slander and false light, asserting that he had  never made the quoted statement (i.e., that microwaves take all the nutrition  out of our food), and that by misquoting him, defendants “have suggested to the  movie audience that Mr. Brodeur made a scientifically unsupportable statement,”  damaging his reputation.   The Court’s determination that the speech was protected  turned, in large part, on the fact that that the plaintiff was “a public figure, a prolific, ‘well-known author in the  environmental field,” and the article expressly referenced in the movie  reflected views about the health hazards associated with exposure to microwave  radiation which were “plainly a matter of public interest in the 1970's.”  (Brodeur, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th  at p. 676.)    The Brodeur Court also emphasized  the need for a connection between the dispute and the discernible public  interest.  In its analysis, it  distinguished the facts there from the facts in Dyer v. Childress (2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 1273, writing:   Dyer involved a film addressing  “the issues facing Generation X in the 1990's,” in which Ethan Hawke portrays a  rebellious slacker named Troy Dyer, who was a classmate of the defendant  screenwriter. Mr. Dyer sued for defamation and false light invasion of privacy  “based on the allegedly unflattering representation of Troy Dyer in the movie.”  (Dyer,  supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1276–1277, 55  Cal.Rptr.3d 544.) Dyer affirmed the denial of the defendants'  SLAPP motion, concluding that “the assertedly false portrayal of Dyer's persona  in the movie” was not protected activity. (Id. at p. 1276, 55 Cal.Rptr.3d 544.)  The court said that “not all speech in a movie is of public significance” and  the “issue turns on the specific nature of the speech rather than generalities  abstracted from it.” (Id. at p. 1280, 55 Cal.Rptr.3d 544.)              In Dyer, the court found “the specific  dispute” concerned the alleged misuse of Mr. Dyer's persona, in which there was  “no discernable public interest.” (Dyer, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 1280, 55 Cal.Rptr.3d 544.) “Although  [the film] may address topics of widespread public interest, defendants are  unable to draw any connection between those topics and Dyer's defamation and  false light claims.” (Id.) Dyer distinguished other cases, where the  plaintiffs “voluntarily thrust themselves into a discussion of public topics,”  while Mr. Dyer “did not interject himself into any public debate” and was not  “a public figure in any defined subculture” (Id. at p. 1281, 55 Cal.Rptr.3d 544)  and “was not connected to any [public] discussion” (Id. at p. 1283, 55 Cal.Rptr.3d 544).   This case is nothing like Dyer.  Here, plaintiff is, by his own evidence, a public figure—not a private figure  like Mr. Dyer, who did nothing to insert himself into the discussion of any  public topic or debate. (Cf. Jewett v. Capital One Bank (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 805, 814, 6 Cal.Rptr.3d 675 [“[a]  public issue is implicated if the subject of the statement or activity  underlying the claim ... was a person or entity in the public eye”].) That  distinction alone renders Dyer inapplicable here. In  addition, as Tamkin points out, Dyer is  distinguishable because the Dyer court “did not address  whether there was any public interest in the creative process underlying the  production of the film.” (Tamkin, supra, 193 Cal.App.4th at p. 144, 122 Cal.Rptr.3d 264.)              (Brodeur, supra, 248  Cal.App.4th at p. 676.)    Here, the Series is “an animated television series that  subverts the traditional ultra-masculine spy genre and instead focuses on a  cast of misfit LGBTQ spies who come together to fight international crime while  simultaneously navigating queer life in West Hollywood, California.” (Motion,  9: 3-6.) Plaintiff, by her own admission is a well-known Drag Queen in  Hollywood, and “[i]n addition to hosting drag events, including at the  Roosevelt Hotel in Hollywood and Hamburger Mary’s in West Hollywood, Plaintiff  is allegedly well known for her drag band DWV.” (Motion, 11: 7-9.)    Accordingly, unlike Dyer, Plaintiff is a public figure in  a defined sub-culture and her alleged depiction in the Series, like the  reference to Mr. Brodeur in American Hustle, has some bearing on the Series’  depiction of modern-day LGBTQ culture in West Hollywood, and there is a  connection between the topics of the Series and the alleged depiction of  Plaintiff within the Series. (Brodeur, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th  at p. 677.)    While the Court appreciates the difference between the  speech in Brodeur and Plaintiff’s non-speaking role, the Court still  concludes that Plaintiff is a public figure in a defined subculture, and her  alleged inclusion in the series was connected to a matter of public interest. “In general, ‘[a] public issue is implicated if the  subject of the statement or activity underlying the claim ... was a person or  entity in the public eye.”) (Jackson v. Mayweather (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th  1240, 1254.)     Accordingly, the Court turns to the second prong of the  anti-SLAPP analysis. As part of the second prong, the  burden shifts to Plaintiff to establish a probability of prevailing. C.C.P. §  425.16(b)(1). Plaintiff “must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally  sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to  sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence ... is credited.” (Gilbert v.  Sykes (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 13, 31 (citation omitted); see also Taus  v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal. 4th 683, 714.)   Appropriation  of a plaintiff’s name or likeness has two aspects, the difference between which  stem from “the nature of the plaintiff’s right and the nature of the resulting  injury.” (Dora v. Frontline Video, Inc. (1993) 15 Cal. App. 4th 536, 541.)  The first type of appropriation is the right of publicity. “The right of  publicity protects an individual’s right to profit from the commercial value of  his or her identity.” (Ross v. Roberts (2013) 222 Cal. App. 4th 677,  684.) California recognizes both a common law and statutory right of publicity.  (Ibid.) The second type “is the appropriation of the name and likeness  that brings injury to the feelings, that concerns one’s own peace of mind, and  that is mental and subjective.” (Dora, supra, 15 Cal. App. 4th at  p. 542 (citing Stilson v. Reader’s Digest Ass’n, Inc. (1972) 28 Cal.  App. 3d 270, 273); see Compl. ¶ 129 (“Defendants’ appropriation of Plaintiff’s  likeness has caused Plaintiff injury to her human dignity and self-esteem and  has caused her mental distress.”).   To state a  common law cause of action for right of publicity, a plaintiff must allege  facts showing: “(1) the defendant’s use of the plaintiff’s identity; (2) the  appropriation of plaintiff’s name or likeness to defendant’s advantage, commercially  or otherwise; (3) lack of consent; and (4) resulting injury.” (Stewart v.  Rolling Stone LLC (2010) 181 Cal. App. 4th 664, 679, as modified on denial  of reh’g (Feb. 24, 2010).) California’s statutory right of publicity likewise  prohibits any person from “knowingly us[ing] another’s name, voice, signature,  photograph, or likeness, in any manner, on or in products, merchandise, or  goods, or for purposes of advertising or selling, or soliciting purchases of,  products, merchandise, goods or services, without such person’s prior  consent[.]” (Civ. Code § 3344(a).)   Defendant  contends that Plaintiff cannot establish a right of publicity claim because:  (1) the First Amendment bars claims arising from expressive works; (2) the  alleged depiction is transformative; and (3) Plaintiff has not alleged actual  malice.    As to the  first contention, Defendant argues that because the Series is an expressive  work, Plaintiff’s right of publicity claims are barred by the First Amendment.  In support, Defendant cites cases like  Sarver v. Chartier (9th Cir. 2016) 813 F.3d 891, 903 and De Havilland  v. FX Networks, LLC (2018) 21 Cal. App. 5th 845, 856-57. In De Havilland,  the Court wrote:   Books, films, plays, and television shows often portray  real people. Some are famous and some are just ordinary folks. Whether a person  portrayed in one of these expressive works is a world-renowned film star — ‘a  living legend’ — or a person no one knows, she or he does not own history. Nor  does she or he have the legal right to control, dictate, approve, disapprove,  or veto the creator’s portrayal of actual people.               (21 Cal. App. 5th at p. 850.)               However, the context in which the  expression is used determines whether or not the expression enjoys First  Amendment protection. Otherwise, all depictions of public figures would be per  se protected by the First Amendment.                As such, “when the context into which a literal celebrity depiction is placed  creates “ ‘something new, with a further purpose or different character,  altering the first [likeness] with new expression, meaning, or message,’ ” the  depiction is protected by the First Amendment. (No Doubt v. Activision Publishing Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1034; see also Comedy III Productions, Inc. v.  Gary Saderup, Inc. (2001) 25 Cal.4th  384 work is insulated by First Amendment only where “added creative  elements significantly transform the celebrity depiction. [original  emphasis].)                As such, this leads us to the  question of whether or not the alleged depiction of Plaintiff here is sufficiently  transformative as to be protected by the First Amendment.    In applying  the “transformative use” test, the Ninth Circuit has held that “merely  merchandising a celebrity’s image without that person’s consent, the prevention  of which is the core of the right of publicity, does not amount to a  transformative use.” (Hilton v. Hallmark Cards (9th Cir. 2010) 599 F.3d  894, 910.)   However, “[W]hen an artist is faced with a right of  publicity challenge to his or her work, he or she may raise as [an] affirmative  defense that the work is protected by the First Amendment inasmuch as it  contains significant transformative elements or that the value of the work does  not derive primarily from the celebrity’s fame.” (Winter v. DC Comics  (2003) 30 Cal. 4th at 890 (quoting Comedy III Prods., Inc. v. Gary Saderup,  Inc. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 387, 407.)    Here,  Plaintiff’s depiction was part of an animated creative work of fiction, rather  than in a tangible object. Plaintiff’s inclusion in the Series consisted only  of a single brief scene in which several unnamed and non-speaking animated Drag  Queens are sitting at a West Hollywood gay bar with one of the Series’ main  characters. However, Plaintiff alleges that she was featured prominently in the  advertisements, with Plaintiff’s likeness, image, and identity remaining on  screen for more than 12% of the duration. (Compl., ¶ 84). Plaintiff also alleged  that her image and likeness is prominently featured in the stills, taking up  more than 20% of the frame. (Id., ¶¶ 97-98).    Plaintiff  argues that her likeness was not transformative because “Defendants simply  recreated Plaintiff’s likeness as a cartoon and plugged her into the very  setting in which Plaintiff worked to achieve her renown: a West Hollywood gay  bar.” (Opp., 17: 27-18:1.) As such, Plaintiff compares her depiction to those  in cases like Hilton v. Hallmark Cards (9th Cir. 2010) 599  F.3d 894, 910 and No Doubt, supra.    However, the  important distinction between those cases and the facts here is that those  cases concerned instances in which the individual(s) likenesses were not part  of a larger expressive story. Hilton concerned greeting cards which used  Paris Hilton’s likeness on greeting cards, and No Doubt features video game  avatars which were exact likenesses of the members of the band No Doubt.    Here, by  contrast, Plaintiff was included as a background character within a larger  television series.    Accordingly,  the Court finds the facts more comparable to those in De Havilland, supra.  That case involved an FX show which explored the historic Bette Davis and Joan  Crawford feud. The series included a fictitious interview in which Catherine  Zeta-Jones, as de Havilland, talked about Hollywood’s treatment of women and  the Crawford/Davis rivalry. De Havilland sued for right of publicity. The Court  of Appeal held that the television series was sufficiently transformative, and  thus was entitled to First Amendment protection because the series’  “marketability and economic value” did not “derive primarily from [celebrity’s]  fame” but rather “‘[came] principally from … the creativity, skill, and  reputation’ of [the series’] creators and actors.” (21 Cal. App. 5th at 864.) (“While  viewers may have ‘tuned in’ to see these actors and watch this Hollywood tale,  there is no evidence that de Havilland as a character was a significant  draw.”). In concluding this, the Court noted that the De Havilland role  constituted only about 4.2 percent of Feud.    Here,  similarly, the animated drag queen alleged to resemble Plaintiff appears on  screen briefly in one scene, in one episode of the 10-episode Series. Plaintiff  has not submitted any evidence which could show that that the “marketability  and economic value” of the Series comes principally from her depiction on the  show as opposed to “the creativity, skill, and reputation,” of the creators,  celebrity actors, and the novel concept of the Series as a whole. Moreover,  like in de Havilland, even if some viewers may have been drawn to view  the Series in part because its settings and characters are evocative of  familiar West Hollywood locales and personas, Plaintiff has not adequately  shown that a fleeting depiction of an animated drag queen resembling Plaintiff  was a significant draw, particularly where, as Plaintiff admits, the animated  drag queen has no dialogue and remains in the background of the Scene. As such,  the Court concludes that the Series is itself transformative. Moreover, “[i]f  the challenged work is transformative, the way it is advertised cannot somehow  make it non-transformative.” (Winter, 30 Cal. 4th at 891.)      Based on the  foregoing, Defendant’s special motion to strike is granted.    It is so ordered.    Dated:  May     , 2024                                                                                                                                                                Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.                           