 Case Number:  24PSCV02015    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Daniel  Romero Jr. v. Vilma G. Romero, et al.  Plaintiff’s  Motion to Determine Value, and Send Buyout Notice  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS the motion in part and orders an appraisal of the  subject property per Code of Civil Procedure section 874.316, subdivisions (a)  and (d). The Court otherwise DENIES the motion without prejudice.  The Court will set a Status Conference re Appointment of  Appraiser.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is an action for partition of real property. On June 24, 2024,  plaintiff Daniel G. Romero Jr. (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants  Vilma G. Romero, individually, and as trustee of the Vilma Gladiz Romero Trust  dated May 11, 2020 (Vilma), Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc.  (MERS), and Does 1 through 10, alleging the sole cause of action for partition.  On August 19, 2024, Plaintiff moved to determine the value of the  subject property and to send buyout notices. The motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  (a) Except as otherwise provided in subdivisions (b)  and (c), the court shall determine the fair market value of the property by  ordering an appraisal pursuant to subdivision (d).  (b) If all cotenants have agreed to the value of the  property or to another method of valuation, the court shall adopt that value or  the value produced by the agreed method of valuation.  (c) If the court determines that the evidentiary  value of an appraisal is outweighed by the cost of the appraisal, the court,  after an evidentiary hearing, shall determine the fair market value of the  property and send notice to the parties of the value.  (d) If the court orders an appraisal, the court shall  appoint a disinterested real estate appraiser licensed in the State of California to determine the  fair market value of the property assuming sole ownership of the fee simple  estate. On completion of the appraisal, the appraiser shall file a sworn or  verified appraisal with the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 874.316,  subds. (a), (c), (d).)  DISCUSSION  Plaintiff  seeks a determination of the value of the subject property, 1710 East McKinley  Avenue, Pomona, CA 91767 (the Property). Plaintiff contends a determination of  value and a buyout notice is proper here. Plaintiff contends the Partition of  Real Property Act applies here because Plaintiff filed this complaint on June  24, 2024, i.e., after January 1, 2023. Plaintiff also contends there is no  agreement in the record that governs the partition of the Property between the  parties, the parties hold title as tenants in common, and Plaintiff owns a 1/3  interest in the Property while Vilma owns the other 2/3 interest. Plaintiff asks  the Court to issue a valuation under Code of Civil Procedure section 874.316,  subdivision (c), which permits the Court, after an evidentiary hearing, to  determine the fair market value of the Property if the Court finds that the  evidentiary value of the appraisal is outweighed by the cost of the appraisal. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 874.316, subd. (c).) Plaintiff contends a buyout notice is appropriate,  which would permit any cotenant to buy all of the interest of the cotenant who  requested partition by sale under Code of Civil Procedure section 874.317,  subdivision (b). Plaintiff then requests the Court to determine the fair market  value of the Property by ordering an appraisal per Code of Civil Procedure  section 874.316, subdivision (a), and then the Court sends a buyout notice  under subdivision (d) of the same code section. (Id., § 874.316, subds.  (a), (d).)  Plaintiff  further seeks an interlocutory judgment based on his 1/3 ownership interest in  the Property and Vilma’s 2/3 ownership interest, in the event Vilma fails to  comply with Sode of Civil Procedure section 874.317. Plaintiff seeks a  partition by sale since the Property is a single-family home, the physical  division of which is not practical since it would diminish the value of the  Property compared to selling the Property as a whole. Plaintiff contends also  it would be costly and would substantially diminish the value of the parties’  respective interests in the Property.  The  Court finds that the most appropriate measure to take at this time would be to  order an appraisal under Code of Civil Procedure section 874.316, subdivision  (a). (Code Civ. Proc., § 874.316, subd. (a).) Plaintiff’s motion fails to  present any evidence to show why the cost of the appraisal would outweigh the  evidentiary value of the appraisal. (Id., § 874.316, subd. (c).) The  Court is not inclined to rely on valuations from various websites. (Romero  Decl., Exs. A-C.) Moreover, the Court can only make a fair market value  determination in lieu of an appraisal after holding an evidentiary hearing. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 874.316, subd. (c).) No such hearing has occurred yet, nor has  Plaintiff requested one.  Accordingly,  the Court will order an appraisal of the Property per Code of Civil Procedure  section 874.316, subdivision (d). (Code Civ. Proc., § 874.316, subds. (a), (d).)  The Court will need to appoint a disinterested real estate appraiser licensed  in the State of California. However, Plaintiff did not submit any appraisers  for the Court to appoint. Once the appraisal is completed and filed with the  Court, the Court will proceed as required by Code of Civil Procedure section  874.316, subdivisions (e), (f), and (g). (Id., § 874.316, subds. (e),  (f), (g).) All other issues raised in Plaintiff’s motion will be addressed at a  later point in time.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS the motion in part and orders an appraisal of the  subject property per Code of Civil Procedure section 874.316, subdivisions (a)  and (d). The Court otherwise DENIES the motion without prejudice.  The Court will set a Status Conference re Appointment of  Appraiser.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.