 Case Number:  23PSCV02476    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Weijun
Zhang v. Bolun Zhang, et al. 
Plaintiff
Weijun Zhang’s Motion for Leave to Amend Second Amended Complaint and File
Third Amended Complaint of Plaintiff Wendy Zhang 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Weijun Zhang’s motion for leave to
amend without prejudice. Plaintiff must file and serve an amended complaint,
limited to the causes of action set forth in the Court’s ruling on September
11, 2024, within 20 days of the Court’s order. Defendants All Good Escrow,
Bolun Zhang, and Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc. must file a responsive pleading
within 30 days’ receipt of the amended complaint. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a
real property dispute. On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Weijun Zhang (Plaintiff)
filed this action against Defendants Bolun Zhang (Bolun), Jinghan Zhang
(Jinghan), All Good Escrow, Inc. (All Good), Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc. (Taikoo)
(collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 20. On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against the same Defendants,
alleging causes of action for promissory fraud, breach of oral contract,
rescission of contract pursuant to Civil Code § 1689(b), breach of covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, conversion, actual fraudulent conveyance,
constructive fraudulent conveyance, quiet title, common count: money had and
received, breach of fiduciary duty, imposition of constructive trust, and civil
theft under Penal Code section 496(c). 
On
September 11, 2024, the Court sustained All Good’s demurrer to the Third Cause
of Action without leave to amend, and sustained All Good’s demurrer to the
Fourth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Causes of Action with leave to amend.
The Court also granted in part and denied in part All Good’s motion to strike
portions of the SAC. On the same date, the Court sustained Bolun and Taikoo’s
demurrer to the Third Cause of Action without leave to amend, and sustained
their demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action with leave to amend. The Court
also granted Bolun and Taikoo’s motion to strike the Eighth Cause of Action
with leave to amend. 
On September 5, 2024, Plaintiff moved for leave to file a Third
Amended Complaint (TAC). On September 13, 2024, All Good opposed the motion, as
did Bolun and Taikoo. Plaintiff did not reply.
PRELIMINARY
ISSUES
            The deadline for Plaintiff to file
this motion based on the September 26, 2024, hearing date was September 4,
2024. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) Plaintiff filed the motion on
September 5, 2024, and it is therefore untimely. The Court exercises its
discretion to still consider the motion, but admonishes the parties to comply
with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. (See Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.) 
            The Court also notes that Plaintiff’s
opening memorandum of points and authorities does not include a table of
contents or table of authorities. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113, subd.
(d).) The Court exercises its discretion to still consider the motion, but
admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the California Rules of Court going
forward. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Under Rule
3.1324, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court, a motion to amend a
pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) 
Under Rule
3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subd. (b).)
DISCUSSION
            Summary of Arguments
Plaintiff seeks leave to file the TAC to add causes of action for
negligent nondisclosure, negligence, constructive fraud, declaratory relief,
money paid, accounting, unfair business practices, establish resulting trust,
breach of common law of disclosure, equitable indemnity, breach of relationship
of trust and confidence, and unjust enrichment. Plaintiff contends that she
discovered All Good and Danny Hao were involved in the underlying deception in
this case by failing to disclose material facts about the transfer to Bolun, and
that her prior counsel failed to include these causes of action. 
All Good contends in opposition that the proposed TAC continues to
lack merit. All Good contends the Court has already ruled on the Third, Fourth,
Fifth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Causes of Action, and these ones in
the proposed TAC are identical to the SAC. All Good then contends there is no
legal duty of care between All Good and Plaintiff, so many of the new proposed
causes of action fail. All Good also notes that the proposed TAC still fails to
attach or set forth the escrow instructions, which are necessary to impose
liability against an escrow company like All Good. All Good contends it is not
implicated in the civil theft cause of action because there are no allegations
that All Good knowingly bought or received stolen property. All Good also
contends the cause of action for common count – money paid is duplicative of
the prior failed claim for common count money had and received, the proposed
TAC does not allege All Good engaged in an unlawful or unfair business
practice, resulting trust is a remedy and not a cause of action, All Good is
not a joint tortfeasor in the proposed TAC for purposes of equitable indemnity,
there are no allegations that All Good retained any interest in Plaintiff’s
money or the subject property, and there is no cause or controversy
necessitating declaratory relief. 
            Bolun and Taikoo contend in their
opposition that the proposed TAC is moot after the Court sustained the demurrer
to the SAC. Bolun and Taikoo note that the proposed TAC contains a cause of
action for rescission which the Court already sustained demurrers to without
leave to amend. Bolun and Taikoo then contend that the delay in bringing this
motion is prejudicial to Defendants by significantly increasing the amount of
attorney fees incurred in this action by forcing Defendants to demur to the SAC
when it seemed Plaintiff was never going to move for leave to amend. 
            Analysis 
“[T]the failure of a proposed amendment to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action or defense may support an
order denying a motion to amend. [Citation.]” (California Cas. Gen. Ins. Co.
v. Superior Ct. (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280, disapproved on other grounds by Kransco v. Am. Empire Surplus
Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend
problematic. Plaintiff filed this motion with the proposed TAC before the Court
ruled on the respective demurrers of All Good on the one hand and Bolun and
Taikoo on the other, so the proposed changes in the TAC fail to account for the
defects the Court found in the SAC. (See Order re Tentative Ruling (9/11/24).) For
example, the proposed TAC does not attach or set forth the
escrow instructions, which the Court made clear at the hearing on the demurrers
to the SAC that Plaintiff needs to provide the escrow instructions with the
TAC. (See Hoodack Decl., Ex. A.) Escrow instructions are crucial for imposing
liability against an escrow company like All Good. (See Tribeca Companies,
LLC v. First Am. Title Ins. Co. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1114; Alereza
v. Chicago Title (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 551, 561.) The lack of escrow
instructions in the proposed TAC would yet again undermine Plaintiff’s claims
against All Good. 
Moreover, as the oppositions noted, the Court twice sustained
demurrers to the Third Cause of Action for rescission without leave to amend, and
yet the proposed TAC still contains a Third Cause of Action for rescission.
(See Id.; Hoodack Decl., Ex. A, ¶¶ 66-73.) This already renders the
proposed TAC defective in that regard. The Court also sustained All Good’s
demurrer to the Fourth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Causes
of Action with leave to amend, sustained Bolun and Taikoo’s demurrer to the
Fourth Cause of Action with leave to amend, and granted Bolun and Taikoo’s
motion to strike the Eighth Cause of Action with leave to amend. (Order re Tentative Ruling (9/11/24).) All of these causes of action in the proposed TAC appear to
be the same as those in the SAC. (See Hoodack Decl., Ex. A.) Additionally, although
not mentioned in the oppositions, the Court notes that the proposed TAC is not
verified, nor is there any proposed verification attached to it, which would yet
again render the Eighth Cause of Action for quiet title subject to a motion to strike.
(See Order re Tentative Ruling (9/11/24); Hoodack Decl., Ex. A.) 
            While leave
to amend is usually liberally granted, the Court finds the proposed TAC
contains too many obvious deficiencies undermining the claims stated therein.
(See (California Cas. Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Ct., supra, 173
Cal.App.3d at p. 280, disapproved on other grounds by Kransco v. Am. Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co., supra, 23
Cal.4th 390.) The Court therefore will deny the motion without prejudice. 
            Nevertheless,
the Court notes that it granted leave to amend on September 11, 2024. (Order re
Tentative Ruling (9/11/24).) While Plaintiff may not add any new parties or
causes of action here as a result of this motion, Plaintiff does have leave to
amend as previously stated in the Court’s ruling on September 11, 2024, but
only as to the causes of action set forth therein. (See Id.) Plaintiff
must file and serve the appropriate amended complaint within 20 days of the
Court’s order, to which All Good, Bolun, and Taikoo must file a responsive
pleading per the code. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Weijun Zhang’s motion for leave to
amend without prejudice. Plaintiff must file and serve an amended complaint,
limited to the causes of action set forth in the Court’s ruling on September
11, 2024, within 20 days of the Court’s order. Defendants All Good Escrow,
Bolun Zhang, and Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc. must file a responsive pleading within
30 days’ receipt of the amended complaint. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five days of this order.