 Case Number:  23STCV21504    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
TYLER DEWEESE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MAJCO LLC, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV21504
  Hearing Date:  January 10, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff Tyler
Deweese filed this employment discrimination action against Defendant Majco
LLC, asserting causes of action under FEHA, as well as wrongful termination in
violation of public policy. 
            On October 9, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff filed his opposition on
December 28, 2023, one day late. Nonetheless, Defendant was able to file a
substantive reply on January 3, 2024. Therefore, the Court will proceed on the
merits. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) states
that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing a transaction involving
commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such
contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) The term “involving commerce” is interpreted to mean
simply “affecting commerce” to give the FAA the broadest reach possible, and
does not require a transaction that is actually “within the flow of interstate
commerce.” (See
Allied-Bruce Terminix Co. v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 273-74; Citizens
Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S. 52, 56.) Moreover, parties may agree
to apply the FAA notwithstanding any effect on interstate commerce. (Victrola
89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy
and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….”
(Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration
bears the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Plaintiff’s objections are
overruled. 
DISCUSSION
“Because arbitration is a matter of
contract, ‘generally one must be a party to an arbitration agreement to be
bound by it or invoke it.’” (DMS Services, LLC v. Superior Court (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1346, 1352.) However, “[n]onsignatory defendants may enforce
arbitration agreements ‘where there is sufficient identity of parties.’” (Marenco
v. DirecTV LLC (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1417.) 
            On January 5, 2022, Plaintiff signed
an “Employee Acknowledgment and Agreement” containing an arbitration clause
covering “all disputes that may arise out of or be related in any way to my
employment.” (Verma Decl., Ex. 1.) The agreement covers disputes between
Plaintiff and ATV, Inc. “or its owners, directors, officers, managers,
employees, or agents.” (Ibid.) Defendant MAJCO is the owner of ATV
Canter, LLC, formerly known as ATV, Inc. (Id., ¶ 2.) Defendant acquired
ATV Canter, LLC in December 2021. (Ibid.) 
            Plaintiff points out that ATV, Inc.
is a “converted out” corporation that has been inactive since November 2021.
(Plntf.’s RJN, Ex. 1.) This means ATV, Inc. was inactive by the time Defendant
acquired ATV Canter, LLC and before Plaintiff signed the arbitration agreement.
Plaintiff argues that he has not entered into a binding arbitration agreement
with Defendant by way of signing an agreement with the inactive ATV, Inc. 
            The court in Marenco
addressed the issue implicated here: “whether a nonsignatory defendant may
enforce an arbitration agreement between a signatory plaintiff and a
corporation that was acquired by the nonsignatory defendant, which assumed all
of the rights and obligations of the acquired corporation.” (Marenco, supra,
233 Cal.App.4th at p. 1417.) In Marenco, the plaintiff was originally
employed by and entered into an arbitration agreement with a company called 180
Connect. (Id. at p. 1413.) 180 Connect was subsequently acquired by
DirecTV, which was not a signatory to the original agreement and did not
execute a new agreement with the plaintiff. (Id. at p. 1414.) When the
plaintiff sued DirecTV on claims arising from his employment, DirecTV sought to
enforce the arbitration agreement that the plaintiff had entered into with 180
Connect. (Ibid.) 
The court held that DirecTV could enforce
the arbitration agreement after finding that “DirecTV acquired all of 180
Connect's assets, employees, rights, and liabilities. There is no
indication that the original terms of Marenco's employment were modified,
superseded, revoked, canceled, or nullified in any manner. The record thus
supports a reasonable inference that the 180 Connect employees who continued
working after the merger implicitly accepted DirecTV's decision to maintain
their existing terms of employment, including the arbitration agreement.” (Marenco,
supra, 233 Cal.App.4th at p. 1420.) 
Here, the evidence establishes that ATV,
Inc. converted to ATV Canter, LLC, which was then acquired by Defendant MAJCO.
(Verma Decl. ¶ 2; Plntf.’s RJN, Ex. 1.) “An entity that converts into another
entity pursuant to this chapter is for all purposes . . . the same entity that
existed before the conversion.” (Corp. Code, § 1158(a).) MAJCO owns 100% of ATV
Canter, LLC and succeeded to all rights held by ATV Canter, LLC. (Hahn Reply
Decl. ¶ 5.) Therefore, there is sufficient identity of the parties, and Defendant
is a successor entity entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement. Like the
plaintiff in Marenco, Plaintiff here signed the arbitration agreement as
a term of his employment, clearly agreeing “to arbitrate any and all disputes
that arise out of [his] employment.” (Verma Decl. ¶¶ 6-9, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff also
began and continued his employment without objecting to the arbitration
agreement. (Id., ¶¶ 10-12.) As in Marenco, there is no indication
that the requirement to arbitrate was extinguished or superseded by Defendant’s
acquisition of ATV Canter, LLC. As an “owner” of ATV, Defendant is an intended
third-party beneficiary under the terms of the agreement. (See Nguyen v.
Tran (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1032, 1036.) 
Plaintiff does not dispute signing the
arbitration agreement and thereby consenting to arbitrate all disputes arising
from his employment. Plaintiff also does not dispute that he signed the
arbitration agreement as part of his employment with Defendant. Defendant
instructed Plaintiff to review the onboarding documents carefully and then met
with Plaintiff to go over the documents. (Verma Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.) Plaintiff
provided the signed arbitration agreement to Defendant after the meeting. (Id.,
¶ 9.) This shows that Plaintiff was aware he was agreeing to arbitrate disputes
arising from his employment with Defendant. Under these circumstances, the fact
that Defendant is not a signatory does not serve as a sufficient basis to invalidate
the agreement.   
 
 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The case is stayed in its entirety pending the outcome
of arbitration. 
             