 Case Number:  23CHCV01384    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  F51 MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Special
Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV01384

 
Motions
filed: 3/18/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Catherine Horger (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
FCA US LLC (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: Orders
compelling Defendant’s further responses to the following discovery requests:
·        
Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Request Nos. 45–48.
·        
Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set One, Request Nos. 45
and 46.
Plaintiff
also seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant and its attorneys in the total
amount of $5,240.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s further responses
to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, is denied. 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One, is
continued. The parties’ counsel are ordered to meet and further confer either
telephonically or in-person within 60 days, to resolve and/or narrow all
outstanding discovery issues. Plaintiff’s counsel is to file a declaration with
the Court which confirms compliance with this order or explains why no
meaningful meet and confer occurred.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff brings this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.) for a vehicle she purchased on or
around 1/31/21, for which Defendant issued the manufacturer’s express warranty.
(Compl. ¶¶ 7, 15.) Plaintiff alleges that “defects and nonconformities to
warranty manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period,” and
Defendant “was unable to conform the Subject Vehicle to the applicable express
warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts.”  (Id. at ¶¶ 16, 18.) 
 
On 5/11/23, Plaintiff filed her complaint, alleging against the
Defendant and the dealership the following causes of action: (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of of Song-Beverly Act Section
1793.2; and (4) Negligent Repair (against the dealership defendant). On 9/5/23,
Defendants filed their answers.
 
On 12/13/23, Plaintiff served her first set of Special
Interrogatories and RFPs on Defendant. (Decl. of Armando Lopez ¶ 3.) On 1/5/24,
Defendant served its responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 4.)
 
On 3/18/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motions to compel further
responses to her first set of Special Interrogatories and RFPs. On 7/24/24,
Defendant filed its oppositions thereto. On 7/26/24, Plaintiff filed her
replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to
compel Defendant’s additional responses to the subject discovery requests, arguing
that the matters sought are relevant to Plaintiff’s claims, and that Defendant’s
objections thereto are without merit.
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion to compel further
discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares
that on 2/8/24, he sent Defendant’s counsel a meet-and-confer letter raising
the issues discussed herein. (Lopez Decl. ¶ 5.) On 2/16/23, Defendant’s counsel responded, but
the parties were unable to resolve the issues informally. (Id. at ¶¶
7–8.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary
meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300,
subdivision (b)(1) and 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2).
 
B.    
Special
Interrogatories
 
“The party to whom interrogatories have been propounded
shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of
the following: (1) An answer containing the information sought to be
discovered; (2) An exercise of the party’s option to produce writings; or (3)
An objection to the particular interrogatory.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.210,
subd. (a).) “Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete
and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding
party permits.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.220.) “If an objection is made to an
interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground for the
objection shall be set forth clearly in the response.” (Code Civ Proc. §
2030.240, subd. (b).)
 
A propounding party may move for an order compelling
further responses to interrogatories if any of the following apply: “(1) An
answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) An exercise
of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the
required specification of those documents is inadequate; or (3) An objection to
an interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to compel Defendant’s further
responses to her Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 45–48. “Interrogatories
45-48 seek repair rates for 2021 Chrysler Pacifica vehicles including the top
five symptoms and components replaced.” (Pl.’s SPROG1 Mot. 4:12–13.) Defendant
responded to each of the subject interrogatories as follows: “FCA US
objects to this interrogatory because it is not limited to any claim of defect
or nonconformity in this case and therefore it seeks information that is not
relevant to the subject matter of this litigation or reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. FCA US further objects to this
interrogatory because it lacks foundation and is overly broad.” (Pl.’s SPROG1 Sep. Stmt.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s responses are evasive and
its objections are meritless because “the information sought is relevant
because it would tend to show whether a widespread defect or nonconformity—of
the same type that Plaintiff experienced—exists in these types of vehicles.”
(Pl.’s SPROG1 Mot. 4:17–19.) “The information sought by Plaintiff would show
how many repairs FCA anticipated with the 2021 Chrysler Pacifica vehicles and
to what degree the repairs exceeded those expectations. When combined with
information showing the top five components and symptoms at issue,—and assuming
that they are the same as the problems experienced by Plaintiff—Plaintiff could
show that FCA had knowledge about a widespread defect or nonconformity and
failed to act despite this knowledge.” (Id. at 5:3–8.)
 
Defendant argues in opposition that “these interrogatories
broadly seek data without narrowing the scope to the same or similar nature of
reported defects by Plaintiff.” (Def.’s SPROG1 Opp. 4:18–19.) “Plaintiff here
make requests without limitation to the actual complaints made by Plaintiff
that might support Plaintiff’s claims in this matter.” (Id. at 6:24–25.)
 
Plaintiff argues in reply that “Interrogatories 45-48 would
be probative of whether FCA had reason to know that its 2021 Chrysler Pacifica
vehicles were experiencing an abnormally high number of warranty repairs
regarding the same problems that Plaintiff experienced with their vehicle. Not
only would this information be relevant to demonstrating that a defect likely
exists in Plaintiff’s vehicle, but it would also show that FCA failed to
provide remedy to Plaintiff even though it knew that these vehicles were
suffering from widespread warranty problems.” (Pl.’s SPROG1 Reply 2:12–17.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the subject
interrogatories are overbroad and not relevant to Plaintiff’s instant claims in
this straightforward Song-Beverly Act case. As Defendant observes, the subject
interrogatories are not sufficiently tailored to the specific defect
experienced by Plaintiff. To the extent that Plaintiff seeks to discover
evidence of Defendant’s prior knowledge of the subject defect, the Court finds
that Plaintiff’s other discovery requests sufficiently seek the same information.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to her
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 45–48, is denied.
 
C.   
Requests for
Production of Documents
 
California law requires a responding party to respond to
each request for production of documents with either a statement of compliance,
a representation that the party lacks the ability to comply, or an objection to
the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210, subd. (a).) If the response includes
an objection to the demand in part, it must also include a statement of
compliance or noncompliance as set forth above. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240,
subd. (a).) Additionally, the response must (1) identify the particular
document that falls within the category of the request to which the objection
is being made, and (2) expressly set forth the extent of, and specific ground
for, the objection. (Id. at subd. (b).)¿A propounding party may move for an
order compelling further response to a discovery request if it decides that “an
objection in the response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to compel Defendant’s further
responses to her RFPs, Set One, Nos. 45 and 46. RFP No. 45 seeks “All
DOCUMENTS evidencing complaints by owners of the 2021 Chrysler Pacifica vehicle
regarding any of the complaints that the SUBJECT VEHICLE was presented to YOUR
or YOUR authorized repair facilities for repair during the warranty period.”
(Pl.’s RFP1 Sep. Stmt.) RFP No. 46 seeks “All DOCUMENTS evidencing warranty
repairs to 2021 Chrysler Pacifica vehicles regarding any of the components that
YOU or YOUR authorized repair facilities performed repairs on under warranty.”
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant
objected to the subject RFPs on the bases that they are “vague, ambiguous,
overly broad and seeks information neither relevant nor reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence or proportional to the needs of
this case.” (Ibid.) Defendant further objected to the subject RFPs in
the bases of attorney-client privilege and the attorney work product doctrine.
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that “here, requests 45 and 46—seeking similar complaints and warranty
repairs—seek relevant information.” (Pl.’s RFP1 Mot. 5:10–11.) “The information
sought is relevant because it would tend to show whether a defect or
nonconformity exists in these types of vehicles and when this defect or
nonconformity first arose. Information about other similar vehicle complaints
may also refute FCA’s affirmative defenses claiming that Plaintiff and/or
others misused or abused the vehicle or engaged in unauthorized or unreasonable
use. If other owners of the same type of vehicles experienced the same defects
and nonconformities on a wide scale, this information would tend to prove that
the defects found in Plaintiff’s vehicle were not caused by misuse, abuse, or
unreasonable use.” (Id. at 5:15–21.) Plaintiff argues that her “requests
are reasonably particularized because they seek documents narrowly tailored to
a specific subject matter,—warranty repairs and customer complaints—are further
narrowed by a specific model vehicle, and are limited to those defects that
FCA’s authorized repair facilities repaired on the subject vehicle during the
warranty period.” (Id. at 7:23–26.)
 
In
opposition, Defendant states that the motion is moot because Defendant served
supplemental responses to the subject requests on 7/19/24. (Decl. of Michael A.
Tudzin ¶ 3.) In these supplemental responses, Defendant states the following: “FCA
US conducted a reasonable search and diligent inquiry in the areas of the
company where such information was likely to be found, and will comply and
produce documents relating to other customer concerns/complaints and warranty
claims data for the alleged issues identified in the repair orders of the
subject vehicle in other 2021 Chrysler Pacifica Limited vehicles in the State
of California.” (2:21–25.)
 
Plaintiff
argues in reply that the motion should be granted because Defendant’s supplemental
responses are not verified. (Pl.’s RFP1 Reply 1:6–9.) Based on the foregoing, the
Court continues Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to
Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One. The parties’ counsel are ordered to meet and further
confer either telephonically or in-person within 60 days, to resolve and/or
narrow all outstanding discovery issues. Plaintiff’s counsel is to file a
declaration with the Court which confirms compliance with this order or
explains why no meaningful meet and confer occurred.
 
D.   
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand [or
interrogatory], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd.
(h).)
 
The Court declines to impose
sanctions.  
 
The issue of sanctions is
deferred as to Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, is denied. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One, is continued. The parties’ counsel are
ordered to meet and further confer either telephonically or in-person within 60
days, to resolve and/or narrow all outstanding discovery issues. Plaintiff’s
counsel is to file a declaration with the Court which confirms compliance with
this order or explains why no meaningful meet and confer occurred.