  Case Number:  22AHCV01410    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ZVI KRIPLE, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HOLLY
   HAWK,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV01410
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 25,
  2024



 
On December
 22, 2022, plaintiff Zvi Kriple (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendant Holly Hawk (“Defendant”). Plaintiff seeks an order
compelling Defendant to serve responses to Form Interrogatories – General (Set
One). The proof of service included with the form interrogatories is incomplete
because it does not include the date of service in Item 3c. The only date on
the proof of service is the date of execution by Louis Francis on December 5,
2023. The proof of service is also defective because it shows that Tiffany Buda
(“Buda”) was electronically served on Defendant’s behalf. However, Buda did not
file a substitution of attorney until June 13, 2023. Therefore, Buda was not
counsel of record for Defendant until that day and there is no evidence that
Buda was authorized to accept service on Defendant’s behalf. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is
DENIED. Because Plaintiff’s motion is denied, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
in the amount of $240 for researching and preparing this motion is DENIED. The
Court additionally notes that even if Plaintiff’s motion were successful, Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions would be denied as unsubstantiated because Plaintiff does
not identify any particular expenses that he incurred, such as photocopying,
computer-assisted legal research, or transportation. (Kravitz v. Superior Court (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1015, 1021.) 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 25th
day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as he final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 