 Case Number:  23AHCV00379    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE RIVERA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CALIFORNIA
   STATE LOTTERY COMMISSION,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00379
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT EDWIN CASTRO’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST
   AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 25,
   2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         Plaintiff Jose Rivera alleges that he
purchased a winning lottery ticket for the $2.04 billion Powerball Lottery draw
scheduled for November 7, 2022. Plaintiff contends that he is entitled to the
lottery winnings which were paid to defendant Edwin Castro (“Defendant”) because
his lottery ticket was stolen by co-defendant Urachi F. Romero (“Romero”), who
“thereafter provided the [ticket] to others.” (Compl., ¶ 33b.) On February 29,
2024, Defendant filed this demurrer to the sole cause of action asserted
against him for declaratory relief. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
          “A complaint
for declaratory relief must demonstrate: (1) a proper subject of declaratory
relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating
to the rights or obligations of a party.” (Brownfield
v. Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410.) “The
‘proper subjects’ of declaratory relief are set forth in Code of Civil
Procedure section 1060 and other statutes.” (Ibid.) “The ‘actual controversy’ requirement concerns the existence
of present controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the
respective parties pursuant to contract (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060), statute or
order.” (Ibid.) 
Defendant argues that no “actual
controversy” between the two parties exists. Plaintiff alleges that an actual
controversy has arisen “as to the ownership of the [lottery ticket] and whether
plaintiff must be awarded the $2.04 billion Powerball lottery prize for the
draw on November 8, 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) Plaintiff notably does not allege
that Castro was ever in possession of the ticket purchased by Plaintiff. Instead,
Plaintiff alleges that Romero “asserted stories of how the ‘lost’ winning
ticket found its way to [Defendant].” (Compl., ¶ 28.) Therefore, there does not
appear to be a controversy between Defendant and Plaintiff regarding the
ownership of Plaintiff’s ticket. Furthermore, no “actual controversy” exists
between Defendant and Plaintiff as to the lottery winnings because a bettor’s right
to a share of the winnings “accrues solely from possession of a winning ticket,
not from the mere purchase of a ticket.” (Brown
v. California State Lottery Com. (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1335, 1340.)
Accordingly, the bettor “possesses no enforceable right as to the other
participants, absent a winning ticket.” (Ibid.)
Instead, Plaintiff alleges that Romero “asserted stories of how the ‘lost’
winning ticket found its way to [Defendant].” (Compl., ¶ 28.) 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED.
As the demurrer is unopposed, the Court declines to grant leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 25th
day of July
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 