 Case Number:  23AHCV01466    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



NELSON ENRIQUE VANEGAS TORO, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ABERCROMBIE
   & FITCH STORES, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01466
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ORDER REQUIRING UNDERTAKING
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July
   25, 2024



          
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Defendants Abercrombie & Fitch Stores, Inc.
and Hollister Co. California, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”) move for an
order requiring plaintiff Nelson Enrique Vanegas Toro (“Plaintiff”) to file an
undertaking in the amount of $21,649.81 to secure an award of costs and
attorneys’ fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1030. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
Where a plaintiff in an action resides out of the
state, the defendant may, at any time, apply to the court for an order
requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to secure an award of costs and
attorney’s fees which may be awarded in the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030,
subd. (a).) The motion shall be made on grounds that the plaintiff resides out
of the state and there is a reasonable possibility that the moving defendant
will obtain judgment in their favor. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (b).) The
motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit in support of the grounds for the
motion and setting forth the nature and amount of costs and attorney’s fees the
defendant has incurred and expects to incur. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd.
(b).) “The purpose of [CCP § 1030] is to enable a California resident sued by
an out-of-state resident to secure costs in light of the difficulty of
enforcing a judgment for costs against a person who is not within the court’s
jurisdiction.” (Alshafie v. Lallande
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 421, 428.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendants argue that an undertaking should be
posted because Plaintiff is an out-of-state resident because he stated in
discovery that he resides in “Bogota Columbia” (which the Court assumes is a
misspelling of Bogota, Colombia). (Motion, Ex. A, p. 4.)  Defendants also argue that there is a
reasonable possibility that they will prevail at trial because Plaintiff
admitted in his discovery responses that he “attempted to steal items” from
Defendants’ store on the date of the alleged incident, June 25, 2021;
therefore, under Penal Code section 459.5, they were entitled to detain him. Defendants
argue that Plaintiff will not be able to show that they were negligent in training,
monitoring or supervising its security guards or that their loss prevention
officers assaulted Plaintiff using excessive force because police reports state
that Plaintiff used force to flee custody after being apprehended the first
time, and then was apprehended a second time in a nearby parking structure. 
In his opposition brief, Plaintiff first argues that
he is indigent and should not be required to post an undertaking. Where
an out-of-state plaintiff establishes that he or she is indigent, the trial
court may exercise its discretion to waive the requirement of posting an
undertaking. (Alshafie, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 429.) The plaintiff may make a prima facie
showing of indigency by showing he has unsuccessfully attempted to obtain the
required undertaking or that he is unable to furnish it. ((Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1427, 1434.) 
Plaintiff declares that he is unable to pay the
costs of these proceedings or to give security “because of [his] poverty..) ”
(Opp., Toro Decl., ¶ 3.) He declares that he is self-employed as a painter and
currently earns a total income of $1,800 a month, on average, while his
expenses are $1,200 per month. (Id.,
¶¶ 4-5.)  He also states that he does not
own any real property or vehicles and has no bank savings or other assets. (Id., ¶ 6.) Further, he is not entitled
to any public benefits, pension schemes, stocks, bonds, annuities, gift or
inheritance or life insurance payments. (Id.,
¶ 7.) He also has no dependents and has never filed yearly income taxes. (Id. ¶¶ 8-9.)     
Plaintiff fails to establish that he is unable to
obtain an undertaking of $21,649.81. He does not include any documentation of
his income or expenses to support the figures stated in his conclusory
declaration. He also fails to state that whether he has made any attempts to
obtain an undertaking and whether they were unsuccessful. Additionally, Plaintiff’s
expense history also belies his claim of indigency. In November 2023, Plaintiff
objected to Defendants’ deposition notice in Westlake Village on the grounds
that it was unduly burdensome since he lived in West Covina, California.
(Reply, Ex. 1.) In January 2024, he objected to Defendants’ deposition notice and
stated that he lived in Mexico and is available only “by zoom.” (Reply, Ex. 2.)
On May 31, 2024, he stated in discovery responses that he lived in West Covina.
Then, on June 12, 2024, Plaintiff amended his discovery responses to state that
he lived in Colombia. Given this evidence of travel, the Court is not persuaded
that Plaintiff cannot afford to post an undertaking. 
Plaintiff also argues that he should not be
required to post an undertaking because he was a resident of California when he
filed his action and employed in California. Plaintiff does not dispute that he
currently lives in Colombia and Plaintiff cites to no case law supporting the
proposition that his present residence bears no impact on whether he is a
“nonresident” of California for purposes of section 1030. 
Last, Plaintiff argues that his action is “not
frivolous” because there is evidence that he was beaten and detained by
Defendants’ agents and sustained serious injuries. Plaintiff also argues that
Defendants exceeded the scope of their “shopkeepers’ privilege” because he had
already exited the store and was in the parking lot at the time that he was
apprehended. Whether Plaintiff’s claim is “frivolous” is not the correct
standard; rather, it is whether Defendants can show that it was reasonably possible that they would win
at trial. With Plaintiff’s discovery responses, the Arcadia Police Department’s
reports, and the photos in those reports, Defendants have met their burden to
do so. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion is
GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to file an undertaking of $29,649.81 no later
than 30 days after service of this Order. Failure to do so will result in the
dismissal of this action against Defendants. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd.
(d).)
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 25th
day of July
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to
submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you
submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing
party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt
the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calen