  Case Number:  23AHCV00301    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO DISMISS                         
I.         
INTRODUCTION
Specially Appearing Defendant Hilton
Worldwide Holdings, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves for an order quashing service of
the summons and complaint by Plaintiff Chris Szajner (“Plaintiff”) for lack of
personal jurisdiction. (Notice of Motion, p. 2; CCP §§418.10, 581(h).)
Background of Action
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendant
and Defendants Park Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (“Park Hotels”), Hilton Garden
Inn Arcadia/Pasadena Area (“Hilton Garden”), Pedro Figueroa (“Figueroa”), and
Does 1 through 20, inclusive.   
Plaintiff initiated this action on
February 9, 2023. The next day, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint
naming Arbor Lodging Partners LLC (“Arbor”) as fictitiously named defendant DOE
1.  On February 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant, Park Hotels,
Hilton Garden Inn, Figueroa, and Arbor (jointly the “Defendants”) alleging the
following causes of action: (1) Battery, (2) Negligence, (3) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4) Fraudulent Concealment, (5) Private
Nuisance, (6) Public Nuisance, and (7) Breach of Contract for injuries
Plaintiff sustained from bedbug bites while staying at a hotel owned and operated
by Defendants. 
Plaintiff was a guest at the Hilton Garden
Inn, located at 199 N 2nd Avenue, Arcadia, California, 91006 (the
“Hotel”) from February 9, 2021, to March 9, 2021. (FAC, ¶¶ 16-22.) Around
February 12, 2021, Plaintiff began to experience rashes caused by bedbug bites,
as confirmed by a physician on March 10, 2021. (FAC ¶ 23.) Plaintiff suffered
personal and emotional injuries and incurred medical expenses and additional
costs in replacing his infested belongings. (FAC, ¶26.)
Procedural History
On March 5, 2024, the Court granted Park
Hotels’ motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.  On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of
service of summons indicating Defendant had been personally served with the
summons and FAC on March 4, 2024.  On
April 3, 2024, Arbor, Figueroa, and Hilton Garden Inn filed a joint answer to
the FAC. 
Defendant filed the instant motion to quash
service of summons and to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction on April 2,
2024, alleging that the Court lacks specific and general jurisdiction over them.

Plaintiff filed an Opposition on April 30,
2024.
Defendant filed a Reply on June 4, 2024.    
                       
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
CCP §418.10(a)(1) provides that, “A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion… To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”
When a defendant moves to quash service of
process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial burden of
demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. Once facts showing
minimum contacts with the forum state are established, however, it becomes the
defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable. (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th
434, 449.)
Personal jurisdiction may be either
general or specific. A nonresident defendant may be subject to the general
jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts in the forum state are
‘substantial…continuous and systematic.’ In such a case, ‘it is not necessary
that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the defendant's
business relationship to the forum.’ Such a defendant’s contacts with the forum
are so wide-ranging that they take the place of physical presence in the forum
as a basis for jurisdiction. (Vons Companies, Inc., at 445-446.)
If the nonresident defendant does not have
substantial and systematic contacts in the forum sufficient to establish
general jurisdiction, he or she still may be subject to the specific
jurisdiction of the forum, if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits, and the ‘controversy is related to or ‘arises out
of’ a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’(Id. at 446.)
CCP Section §581 provides that an action
may be dismissed without prejudice as to a defendant if the motion is made
pursuant to CCP § 418.10. (CCP §581.)
                    
III.         
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s counsel
made no attempt to meet and confer prior to filing the instant motion. (Opp’n.,
p. 1.) There is no procedural rule requiring parties to meet and confer prior
to filing a motion to quash.
In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel argues
that based on his own experience in previously serving Defendant, Defendant
accepts service of process in California at 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California 95833. (Opp’n. p. 2.)  However, Plaintiff’s counsel’s claim is
unsupported. Plaintiff submits no evidence or declaration identifying previous
cases in which Defendant accepted service of process.  Plaintiff also argues that he understood that
Defendant had, at the time of the incident, at least minimum contacts and/or
systemic and continuous contacts in the State of California given that the
subject hotel owned by Defendant is in California and given that Defendant
conducts business and advertising in California.  (Opp’n. p. 2.)  Plaintiff requests time to dismiss any potentially
improper entities, including Defendant, or that the Court deny the motion. (Opp’n.
p. 2.) 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has not met
his initial burden of submitting evidence to support the conclusion that the Court
has jurisdiction over Defendant.
Citing Von’s Companies Inc., Defendant
argues that Plaintiff is improperly attempting to have the Court exercise
personal jurisdiction and argues it is not subject to general or specific
jurisdiction in California. (Motion, pp. 3-4.) Defendant is a Delaware
corporation with its principal place of business in Virginia. (Motion, p. 4.)
Defendant’s Vice President and Secretary, James O. Smith, stated that Defendant
does not own, lease, occupy, manage, or control the Hotel. (Smith Decl., ¶3-
4.)
Plaintiff did not meet his burden of
establishing his claims arise from Defendant’s contacts in California.
Plaintiff is amenable to meeting and conferring with Defendant to stipulate as
to which Defendants should be joined in this litigation if jurisdiction over
Defendant is improper. The Court finds that based on the evidence submitted,
Defendant is entitled to an order quashing service of summons for lack of
personal jurisdiction. 
Based on the foregoing, the Motion to
Quash and to Dismiss for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction is GRANTED as to Hilton
Worldwide Holdings, Inc.  Hilton
Worldwide Hotels Inc. is ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
Dated:
June 25, 2024
 




 


 




 


JUDGE JARED D. MOSES




