 Case Number:  22STCV10763    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 29, 2022, Plaintiff Keily Almendares (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Scott Calder Warren (“Warren”),
Linda Calder (“Calder”), and Does 1-50 for negligence, negligence per se,
negligent entrustment, and respondeat superior. 
On
October 25, 2022, Warren and Calder (“Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
November 2, 2023, Defendants filed a motion for leave to file an amended answer,
to be heard on December 22, 2023.  The
Court continued the hearing to January 19, 2024.  On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On December 15, 2023, Defendants filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 31, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
request leave to file and serve the proposed first amended answer. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse
party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be
made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.  [Citations.]’”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“Courts
usually display great liberality in allowing amendments to answers because ‘a
defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a defense.’”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:643, p. 6-189 (Cal.
Practice Guide), quoting Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150,
1159.) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
In
addition, “it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the
opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:656,
p. 6-193.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
In
her complaint, Plaintiff alleges the following: 
On
or about April 7, 2020, Plaintiff was driving westbound on Melrose Avenue while
Warren was driving eastbound on Melrose. 
Defendants negligently owned, operated, maintained, controlled, and
entrusted Defendants’ vehicle, causing it to veer into Plaintiff’s lane of
travel and collide into Plaintiff’s vehicle, injuring Plaintiff.  Warren was acting in the course and scope of
his employment with the Doe defendants. 
B.  
Defendants’
answer 
In Defendants’ answer, Defendants denied the
allegations of the complaint and asserted affirmative defenses. 
D.      Defendants’ motion to amend the answer 
Defendants
seek leave to amend their answer to add an affirmative defenses based on the
sudden emergency doctrine.  Citing the
traffic collision report, Defendants contend that the accident occurred when
Warren swerved to avoid hitting a dog who ran in front of his vehicle.  Defendants also wish to add an affirmative
defense asserting their right to amend their answer. 
Plaintiff
argues that the motion is untimely because trial is scheduled for May 31, 2024.  But even if Defendants unreasonably delayed in
filing their motion to amend, “it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to
amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”
(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045,
1048.)  “Prejudice exists where the
amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:656,
p. 6-193.)  
Here, Plaintiff has ample time to conduct discovery on the sudden emergency affirmative defense before the trial. 
Plaintiff
also argues there is no evidence to support the new affirmative defense. The
Court does not evaluate the truth or strength of pleadings when deciding whether
to grant leave to amend. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion for leave to file an amended answer filed by Defendants
Scott Calder Warren and Linda Calder. 
Defendants Scott Calder Warren and Linda Calder are
ordered to file and serve the first amended answer to the complaint filed by
Plaintiff Keily Almendares within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.