  Case Number:  23STCV19517    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




MIGUEL ESPARZA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GOLDSILVER LLC, A NEW YORK ENTITY,                                                                             
  
                        Defendant.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV19517
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
8:30 a.m.
February 23, 2024
Dept. 56



 
On
August 16, 2023, Plaintiff Miguel Esparaza (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendant Goldsilver, LLC for violation of the California Invasion of
Privacy Act (“CIPA”), arising out of Defendant’s alleged installation of
spyware to eavesdrop on Plaintiff’s private conversations.
 
            On December 28, 2023, Defendant
filed the instant motion.  On February 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On
February 15, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
Defendant brings a Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings as to the entire complaint, arguing that there are no facts to
sate a claim under California Penal Code sections 631 or 632.7.  We deny Clark's September 1, 2016 and
September 9, 2016 requests for judicial notice of a total of 10 federal court
orders and opinions arising out of the Fernwood property litigation.  
 
The Court DENIES the parties’ requests for
judicial notice because the requested orders and opinions are not necessary to
the resolution of the instant motion.  
 
1.     Section 631 Claim
 
Defendant asserts that the alleged conduct
is not prohibited by section 631 because this statute does not apply to
internet communications.  Defendant cites
to the following cases in support: Williams v. What If Holdings, LLC
(N.D. Cal., Dec. 22, 2022, No. C 22-03780 WHA) 2022 WL 17869275, at *2
(determining “the first clause of Section 631(a) concerns telephonic
wiretapping specifically, which does not apply to the context of the
internet”); In re Google Assistant Privacy Litigation (N.D. Cal. 2020)
457 F.Supp.3d 797, 825-26 (the first clause “expressly requires that the
unauthorized connection be made with any telegraph or telephone wire, line,
cable, or instrument”) (internal citations omitted).)  Defendant also relies on the party exemption
rule, where a party to a conversation cannot run afoul of eavesdropping on a
communication to which they are a party.  Additionally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails
to state facts establishing that any alleged eavesdropping, or interception,
occurred while the communication was “in transit.”  Defendant explains that the creation of a
transcript, such as the chat transcript alleged by Plaintiff, does not entail
the interception of a communication.  Defendant
also claims that Plaintiff did not and cannot allege unlawful wiretapping
(clause 1), interception (clause 2) or unlawful aiding conduct (clause 4).  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the “surreptitious
collection of user data to create targeted advertising has been recognized as
actionable under CIPA.”  (Opp. p. 10, fn
1.)  Plaintiff cites to decisions in which
he alleges a third-party provider software can be liable under section
631(a).  (See Opp. p. 11-21.)  Specifically, in Nationwide, Plaintiff
states that the court pointed to the fact that “at least two federal District
Courts have held that a software vendor hired by a party to a conversation, and
acting for that party’s benefit, is not itself a party and therefore is not protected
by the party exception.”  (Valenzuela
v. Nationwide Mutual Ins. Co., 2023 WL 5266033, at *7 (C.D. Cal.
Aug. 14, 2023) (Frimpong, J.).) 
Plaintiff also argues that a smartphone is a telephone instrument within
the meaning of the first clause, and that the statute focuses on the
unauthorized connection, rather than the specific function of the device.  Plaintiff asserts that the second clause
applies to intercepted communications sent from or received at any place within
California.  Finally, Plaintiff claims
the fourth clause is actionable against Defendant because it enabled the third
party’s wrongdoing by embedding the chat provider’s software code into
Defendant’s website without obtaining its users’ informed consent.  
 
            In reply, Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff concedes that Defendant cannot be directly liable under the first
three clauses of section 631 because it fails to address the argument that
Defendant cannot wiretap its own conversation. 
As to derivative liability, Defendant argues that it cannot be
derivatively liable because Plaintiff (1) fails to allege the requisite direct
violation by third-party chat service provider, Zendesk; (2) alleges Zendesk
operated as an extension of Defendant; and (3) fails to allege Defendant had
the requisite mental state.  
 
            As to the requisite underlying
violation, Defendant argues that Plaintiff did not use a telephone line, and
the communications were limited to internet communications.  Defendant also states that there are
insufficient allegations to conclude that a third party intercepted Plaintiff’s
messages in transit.  Furthermore,
Defendant states that Plaintiff impliedly consented to being recorded because
recording would be reasonably expected with a text transmission.  Defendant also points out that Plaintiff fails
to allege any facts showing that Zendesk independently uses data from
Defendant’s webchats to profit itself, rather the Complaint alleges that
Zendesk operated as an extension of Defendant. 
Finally, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff fails to allege the requisite
knowledge or intent requirement as there are no facts to show that Defendant
intended to facilitate the violation.  
 
The Legislature enacted the Invasion of Privacy Act “to
protect the right of privacy of the people of this state.”  (Tavernetti v. Superior Court (1978)
22 Cal.3d 187, 193.)  California Penal
Code section 631(a), “prescribes criminal penalties for three distinct and
mutually independent patterns of conduct: intentional wiretapping,
wilfully attempting to learn the contents or meaning of a communication in
transit over a wire, and attempting to use or communicate information obtained
as a result of engaging in either of the previous two activities.”  (Id. at p. 192.)  Section 631(a) creates four avenues for
relief:
(1)
where a person “by means of any machine, instrument, or contrivance, or in any
other manner, intentionally taps, or makes any unauthorized connection ... with
any telegraph or telephone wire, line, cable, or instrument”;
 
(2)
where a person “willfully and without consent of all parties to the
communication, or in any unauthorized manner, reads, or attempts to read, or to
learn the contents or meaning of any message, report, or communication while
the same is in transit”;
 
(3)
where a person “uses, or attempts to use, in any manner, or for any purpose, or
to communicate in any way, any information so obtained”; and
 
(4)
where a person “aids, agrees with, employs, or conspires with any person or
persons to unlawfully do, or permit, or cause to be done any of the acts or
things mentioned above.”
(Swarts v. Home
Depot, Inc. (N.D. Cal., Aug. 30, 2023, No. 23-CV-0995-JST) 2023 WL
5615453, at *5.)  
 
            As to the first clause, “[c]ourts
have uniformly interpreted this clause as applying only to communications
transmitted over telephones and not those transmitted over the internet. See Williams
v. What If Holdings, LLC, No. C 22-03780 WHA, 2022 WL 17869275, at *2 (N.D.
Cal. Dec. 22, 2022) (determining “the first clause of Section 631(a) concerns
telephonic wiretapping specifically and does not apply to the context of the
internet”).”  (Swarts, 2023 WL
5615453, at *6.)  Plaintiff alleges that
he “visited Defendant’s website [and] shared personal data and personally
identifying information with Defendant via the website chat feature… us[ing] a
smart phone.”  (Compl. ¶ 23.)  The Court finds this to be insufficient as
the Court disagrees with Plaintiff’s assertion that a smartphone is a telephone
instrument within the meaning of the first clause.  In Swarts, the court rejected the
plaintiff’s argument that “CIPA’s plain language envisions broad application to
evolving technology and its interpretation should be broadly construed to cover
a wide range of privacy concerns.” (Swarts, 2023 WL 5615453, at *6.)  The court reasoned that this argument “ha[d]
been consistently rejected by numerous courts, and the Court s[aw] no reason to
depart from the plain terms of the statute.” 
(Id.)  Thus, the Court
finds that Plaintiff fails to allege a claim under clause one of section
631(a). 
 
            As to the second clause, “[t]his
statute has three requirements relevant here: (1) the absence of consent; (2)
the party exception; and (3) the ‘while ... in transit’ requirement.”  (Valenzuela v. Keurig Green Mountain, Inc.
(N.D. Cal., May 24, 2023, No. 22-CV-09042-JSC) 2023 WL 3707181, at *3.)  Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant did not
obtain Plaintiff’s effective consent for the preceding intrusions, nor did
Plaintiff know at the time of the conversation of Defendant’s conduct.”  (Compl. ¶ 26.)  The Court finds that Plaintiff sufficiently
pleads lack of consent.  Defendant fails
to establish that there was consent as a matter of law; Defendant states:
“parties to a written communication over the internet ‘may reasonably expect
that the communication may be overheard or recorded,’ Cal. Penal Code §
632(c).”  (Reply p. 4.)  This is insufficient to prove that Plaintiff
impliedly consented.  
 
In
considering whether Defendant is exempted from liability as a party to the
communication, the Valenzuela court explained: “the question is whether
the unnamed ‘third-party’ here is a third-party eavesdropper (like Clark in Ribas)
or a tape-recorder in Defendant’s control (as in Rogers). Put another
way, the question is whether the third party has ‘the capability to use its
record of the interaction for [another] purpose.’ [Citation.]”  (Valenzuela v. Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. (N.D.
Cal., May 24, 2023, No. 22-CV-09042-JSC) 2023 WL 3707181, at *4.)  There are no facts to show that Zendesk used
the recordings for another purpose, rather it appears that its services were
solely for Defendant’s benefit and within Defendant’s control.  Thus, Plaintiff fails to establish an
eavesdropper existed and fails to state a claim under section 631(a)’s second
clause.  
 
As
to Plaintiff’s satisfaction of the timing requirement for interception, the Valenzuela
court expressly rejected Plaintiff’s argument that the second clause
applies to intercepted communications sent from or received at any place within
California.  The court explained: “ ‘while’
is the critical word. The statute applies to messages intercepted ‘while the
same ... is being sent from, or received at any place within this state.’ ‘While’
implies the interception must occur contemporaneous with the sending or receipt
of the message. Thus, Plaintiff cannot avoid the simultaneity argument merely
because she sends or receives a message in California.” (Valenzuela, 2023
WL 3707181, at *6.)  Thus, the Complaint fails
to state a claim under the second clause of section 631(a).
 
            As to the third clause, “[a]
violation under the third clause of § 631(a) is contingent upon a finding of a
violation of the first or second clause of § 631(a).”  (Swarts, 2023 WL 5615453, at *6.)  Since Plaintiff fails to allege a claim under
the first or second clause of section 631(a), his claim under the third clause
necessarily fails. 
 
            Plaintiff’s claim under the fourth
clause also fails because he fails to allege the requisite underlying violation
by Zendesk.  
 
2.     Section 632.7
Claim
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s section 632.7 claim fails because the alleged
communication is not prohibited by section 632.7, which regulates
communications between two telephones.  Defendant
explains that Plaintiff’s utilization of his smartphone’s integrated computer
that enabled web browsing to communicate with Goldsilver is not within the
scope of the statute.  Defendant explains
that section 632.7 only applies to the specifically enumerated permutations of
phone communications, and not to internet chat communications.  
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Complaint sufficiently alleges a claim
under section 632.7 because the undefined term “landline telephone” may be
broadly construed to include communications transmitted by “data,” “image,” or
“facsimile.”  Plaintiff requests that the
Court follow Adler v. Community.com, Inc., 2021 WL 4805435 (C.D. Cal.
Aug. 2, 2021) (Blumenfeld, J.), where there was no analysis as to the precise
communication device used by the defendants to transmit text messages to the
plaintiffs.  There, the plaintiffs
received automated messages from the defendant, likely generated by a
computer.  Accordingly, Plaintiff
concludes that phone communications are not necessary for the application of this
statute.  Plaintiff also argues that
Defendant’s reference to Plaintiff’s other lawsuits constitutes improper
character evidence that is prejudicial to Plaintiff, and that there is no
prohibition against suing multiple parties in different lawsuits for separate
and distinct CIPA violations.   
 
In
reply, Defendant reasserts his arguments made in the moving papers — that
Plaintiff’s section 632.7 claim fails because (1) that section applies only to
communications between two telephones; (2) he impliedly consented to any
recording; and (3) Goldsilver lacked the necessary mens rea.  
 
            Under § 632.7,
[e]very person who, without the
consent of all parties to a communication, intercepts or receives and
intentionally records ... a communication transmitted between two cellular
radio telephones, a cellular radio telephone and a landline telephone, two cordless
telephones, a cordless telephone and a landline telephone, or a cordless
telephone and a cellular radio telephone, shall be [guilty of a crime.]
Cal. Penal Code § 632.7(a). 
(Valenzuela,
2023 WL 3707181, at *6.)  In Valenzuela,
the court dismissed Plaintiff’s claim under this statute because “Plaintiff
fail[ed] to allege how Defendant receive[ed] the messages sent via its chat
feature.”  (Id.)  The court reasoned: “No plausible allegation
exists here that Defendant received Plaintiff’s message on a ‘cellular radio
telephone,’ a ‘landline telephone,’ or a ‘cordless telephone[.]’”  (Id.)  Plaintiff requests that the Court broadly
construe the undefined term “landline telephone,” but the Valenzuela
court rejected a similar argument, stating: “Plaintiff again invites the Court
to engage in statutory re-writing to update § 632.7 for the internet era by
interpreting ‘landline’ broadly. But that is not this Court’s role. The statute
has clear terms. These allegations do not fall within them.”  (Id.) 
Like the plaintiff in Valenzuela, here, Plaintiff argues that internet
communications should be covered within the statute’s “voice, data, or image,
including facsimile” definition of “communications.”  However, the Valenzuela court
referenced that provision, explaining that it only defines communications and
“does not modify the devices regulated under § 632.7,” rather “§ 632.7
unambiguously limits its reach to communications between various types of
telephones.”  (Valenzuela, 2023
WL 3707181, at *6.)  The Court finds that
Plaintiff fails to make a sufficient argument that “the statute contemplates
internet communications between a smart phone and an unspecified device on
Defendant’s end.”  (Id.)  Thus, Plaintiff’s claim under section 632.7
fails as a matter of law. 
 
Plaintiff
requests leave to amend but fails to set forth an example of how he would amend
the Complaint.  While the Court does not
find it likely that Plaintiff will be able to successfully amend any of his
claims, the Court will not deny leave to amend without a full briefing on
Plaintiffs’ potential amendments.  
 
In
sum, the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED, with twenty days
leave to amend.  Plaintiff should be
aware that if he is unable to overcome the deficiencies in his pleading in any
first amended complaint, the Court will consider sustaining a demurrer thereto
without leave to amend.
 
Defendant
Goldsilver, LLC is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 


 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMCDEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
          
Dated this 23rd day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 