 Case Number:  23STCV25666    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TOM OF FINLAND
  FOUNDATION, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CULTUREEDIT, LLC; JOAKIM
ANDREASSON; and DOES 1-35, inclusive,
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV25666
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION AND STAY PROCEEDINGS
 
Date: 
  February 2
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants CULUTUREEDIT, LLC and Joakim Andreasson 
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Tom of Finland Foundation, Inc.
 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 20, 2023, Plaintiff Tom of Finland Foundation, Inc. filed a complaint.  On January 9, 2024, Plaintiffs Tom of Finland
Foundation, Inc. and Effenberger Couture filed a First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”)
against Defendants Cultureedit LLC, Joakim Andreasson, and Does 1-35, inclusive
(collectively “Defendants”) alleging: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of
Duty of Loyalty; (3) Tortious Interference with Contract; (4) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (5) Unfair Competition in
Violation of Business & Professions Code section 17200, et seq; (6) Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (7) Conversion; and (8)
Accounting for Damages and Declaratory and Injunctive Relief.  In relevant part, the FAC alleges that Plaintiff
entered into contracts with Defendant Cultureedit as its agent in securing
licenses for the use of the intellectual property owned by Plaintiff, but
Cultureedit stopped providing information about the licensing arrangements or
providing an accounting of money received and how it was to be
distributed.  (FAC ¶¶ 10-11.)  
 
On
January 26, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration and stay
proceedings on the grounds that a valid and enforceable arbitration agreement
exists between Defendants and Plaintiff. 
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On February 15, 2024, Defendants filed a
reply.  The hearing was originally set
for February 21, 2024, but was continued to February 23, 2024.
  
DISCUSSION  
The
purpose of the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) is to move the parties in an
arbitrable dispute out of court and into arbitration as quickly and easily as
possible.  (Moses H. Cone Memorial Hosp. v. Mercury Constr. Corp. (1983)
460 U.S. 1, 23.)  The FAA is consistent with the federal policy to ensure
the enforceability, according to their terms, of private agreements to
arbitrate.  (Mastrobuono v. Shearson Lehman Hutton, Inc. (1995) 514
U.S. 52, 57.)  CCP section 1281 provides that a written agreement to
submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter
arising is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist
for the revocation of any contract.  California law, like federal law,
favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.  (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) 
On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement
refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy unless grounds exist not to compel
arbitration.  (CCP § 1281.2.)   
 
Agreement to Arbitrate
In
support of the Motion, Defendants cite to Paragraph 9 of the Agreement entered
by the parties which provides that “all disputes arising hereunder [are] to be resolved
by binding arbitration in accordance with the JAMS Streamlined Arbitration
Rules and Procedures.”  (Andreasson Decl.
¶ 4, Exhib. A.)  
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that there is no
contract to arbitrate.  In support of its
argument, Plaintiff points out that the language is in smaller than 10-point
font and buried in a prolix of legal terms. 

 
            Plaintiff’s arguments are an attack on the
unenforceability of the agreement due to unconscionability.  The Court notes that arguments are focused on
procedural unconscionability because Plaintiff claims the terms were buried and
in small font.  “The prevailing view is
that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in
order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or
clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, emphasis added, quoting
Stirlen v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1533.)  “But they need not be present in the same
degree. ‘Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at
114, emphasis added.)  “ ‘Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the factors of surprise and oppression
[citations], with surprise being a function of the disappointed reasonable
expectations of the weaker party.’ ”  (Higgins
v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1252 (“Higgins”),
quoting Harper v. Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1406.)  
 
            Here, the arbitration agreement is contained in one large
block of text with words printed in a small font.  The paragraph itself has nothing segmenting or
highlighting its various sections. The only areas that are set apart are the underlined
paragraph titles.  While the small font
in the arbitration agreement is not illegible, the poor formatting and lack of
substantial highlighting or conspicuous features make the agreement difficult
to read.  Accordingly, the Court finds
these facts show at least a moderate degree of procedural unconscionability.  Plaintiff, however, fails to show any
substantive unconscionability.  Thus, the
Court finds that the contract is not unconscionable. 
 
            Plaintiff also states that there is no arbitration
agreement with Plaintiff Effenberger Couture. 
In reply, Defendants assert they do not seek to compel arbitration of
Effenberger’s single cause of action for conversion, which does not relate to
the parties’ agreement or Plaintiff Tom of Finland Foundation, Inc.’s
claims.  Since Defendants seek to compel
arbitration of only Tom of Finland Foundation, Inc.’s claims, the Court finds
the request to be proper.  
Scope of Agreement
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claims fall within the
scope of the agreement because the parties agreed to arbitrate all disputes
arising out of their contractual relationship. 
Plaintiff counters by claiming that the agreement is limited solely to
disputes as to the contract itself, thus precluding Plaintiff’s third cause of
action for tortious interference of contract and fourth cause of action for
intentional interference with prospective advantage because these claims
include conduct outside the contract.  Plaintiff
also argues that the Second Contract does not include an arbitration clause,
but Plaintiff’s claims arise out of the second contract.  
 
Under
“both federal and state law, the threshold question presented by a petition to
compel arbitration is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396 (citing Cheng-Canindin v. Renaissance Hotel Associates
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 676, 683).  A party
moving to compel arbitration bears the threshold burden of establishing the
existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate by a preponderance of the
evidence.  (Engalla v. Perinanente
Med. Group, 18 Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)  “If the trial court finds an enforceable
arbitration agreement between the parties, the court must then determine the
second gateway issue:  whether
respondent's claims are covered by the agreement.”  (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  “The burden is on
the party opposing arbitration to show the agreement cannot be interpreted to
apply to the dispute.  (Balandran v.
Labor Ready, Inc.¿(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1527.)  “Whether an arbitration agreement applies to
a controversy is a question of law…Although ‘[d]oubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration’¿[citation], there exists no public
policy favoring arbitration of disputes which the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.¿[citation].”  (American
Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees v. Metropolitan Water
Dist.¿(2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 247, 257.)
 
The
relevant arbitration provision provides that “all disputes arising
hereunder...[shall] be resolved by binding arbitration.”  (Andreasson Decl. ¶ 4, Exhib. A.)  The Court agrees with Defendants in that this
clause is broad enough to cover Plaintiff’s claims arising from the parties’
contract.  Although Plaintiff argues that
the third and fourth causes of action involve Defendant’s interference with
Plaintiff’s relationship with third parties, such that they are outside the
scope of arbitration, the Court disagrees. 
“[A]ny dispute ... concerning the interpretation of any of the terms of
[the contract] and the application and effect of such terms encompassed tort claims
stemming from the parties’ contractual relationship.”  (Buckhorn v. St. Jude Heritage Medical
Group (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1407.)  Because Plaintiff “failed to demonstrate his
tort claims were ‘wholly independent’ of the employment agreement, and any
doubts must be resolved in favor of arbitration.”  (Id. at p. 1408.)  Thus, the claims are arbitrable.  
 
The
Court therefore GRANTS the Motion to Compel Arbitration and STAYS all
proceedings pending the completion of arbitration and sets a Status Conference
for August 30, 2024 at 8:30 a.m., with the parties ordered to file a Joint
Status Report on the state of the arbitration seven court days before the
Status Conference.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
         
Dated this 23rd day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 