  Case Number:  22STCV16300    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DAMON
  ZIELINSKI,  
  
         vs.
 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV16300
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 22, 2024



 
Plaintiff Damon
Zielinski’s motion for leave to file a first supplemental and third amended
complaint is granted.  Plaintiff may file
the proposed first supplemental, third amended complaint with the Court.
 
          Plaintiff Damon
Zielinski (“Zielinski”) (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
granting leave to file a first supplemental and third amended complaint (“FSTAC”)
on the basis the proposed change adds an incident of discrimination and
retaliation that took place after the second amended complaint (“SAC”) was
filed.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)
          
          Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed his initial Complaint on Mary 17, 2022, alleging two causes of action:
(1) discrimination on the basis of veteran status in violation of FEHA; and (2)
failure to prevent discrimination on the basis of veteran status in violation
of FEHA.  (See Complaint.)
          On December
7, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) pursuant to a
stipulation with Defendant County of Los Angeles (“County”) (“Defendant”),
wherein he added additional causes of action for a total of five causes of
action: (1) discrimination on the basis of veteran status in violation of FEHA;
(2) harassment on the basis of veteran status in violation of FEHA; (3)
retaliation in violation of FEHA; (4) failure to prevent discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation on the basis of veteran status in violation of
FEHA; and (5) retaliation in violation of Labor Code §1102.5.  
          On April 12,
2023, this Court heard Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC and overruled the
demurrer as to the 1st and 3rd causes of action and sustained the demurrer with
20 days’ leave to amend as to the 2nd, 4th, and 5th causes of action.  (4/12/23 Minute Order (Ruling on Submitted
Matter).)
          On April 28,
2023, Plaintiff filed the operative SAC.
          Plaintiff
filed the instant motion on January 5, 2024. 
Defendant filed its opposition on April 9, 2024.  Plaintiff filed his reply on April 15, 2024.
 
          Motion for Leave to Amend
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (C.C.P.
§473(a)(1).) 
“Trial
courts are vested with the discretion to allow amendments to pleadings ‘in
furtherance of justice.’ That trial courts are to liberally permit such
amendments, at any stage of the proceeding, has been established policy in this
state since 1901.”  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d
486, 488-489.) 
CRC
Rule 3.1321(a) requires that a motion to amend must: “[i]nclude a copy of the
proposed . . . amended pleading . . . [and] state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be [deleted and/or added], if any, and where,
by page, paragraph, and line number, the [deleted and/or additional]
allegations are located.” 
CRC
Rule 3.1324(b) provides, as follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1) [t]he effect of the amendment; (2) [w]hy the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) [w]hen the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) [t]he reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” 
Plaintiff’s
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(a).  The motion
includes a copy of the proposed FSTAC.  (Decl. of Baisch ¶2, Exh. A.)   Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration sets forth the allegations proposed to be added and
deleted, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number.  (Decl. of Baisch
¶4.) 
Plaintiff’s
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).  Plaintiff submitted a separate declaration of
his counsel that specifies the effect of the amendments and explains why the
amendments are necessary and proper.  (Decl. of Baisch ¶5.)  Plaintiff
asserts the amendments are necessary because an additional incident of
discrimination/retaliation occurred after the SAC was filed, and the amendment
is necessary and proper in that it allows Plaintiff to proceed with this case
with a full and correct statement of his claims.  (Decl. of Baisch ¶5(2).)
Plaintiff’s
counsel states when the facts giving rise of the amended allegations were
discovered and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  Plaintiff’s counsel declares, “[In] October
2023, Plaintiff was not selected to the County’s paramedics program, despite
having seniority over many prospective applicants, Plaintiff subsequently filed
DFEH charges and a Government claim. On December 28, 2023[,] Plaintiff’s
counsel requested Defendant stipulate to the filing of the proposed amendment.
Defendant’s counsel has yet to agree to a stipulation, wanting more facts in
the complaint. Plaintiff therefore has filed this motion after the refusal to
stipulate.”  (Decl. of Baisch ¶5(3).)  Plaintiff’s counsel further declares, “The
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier because the incident
had not yet occurred and Plaintiff received his right to sue letter on the
amended claim on December 21, 2023. Exhibit 3 to the First Supplemental and
Third Amended Complaint is the Right to Sue Letter from the Department of Fair
Employment and Housing. Plaintiff has not yet received a response to his
Government Claim filed December 21, 2023, which is attached as Exhibit 4 to the
First Supplemental and Third Amended Complaint.”  (Decl. of Baisch ¶5(4).)
Defendant’s
argument that Plaintiff’s proposed amendment is frivolous and would be futile
is unavailing.  The policy favoring
amendment is so strong that denial of leave to amend can rarely be justified:
“If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where
the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a
meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but
an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan v. Superior Court
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)
It
is improper for this Court to consider the validity of the proposed amended
pleading on the instant motion; after leave to amend is granted, Defendant will
have the opportunity to attack the validity of the amended pleading.  (See Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045,
1048; Atkinson v. Elk Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 760 [“[T]he better course of action would have been
to allow [plaintiff] to amend the complaint and then let the parties test its
legal sufficiency in other appropriate proceedings”].)
Defendant’s
argument that it will be prejudiced if this Court grants the instant motion is
noted, but not sufficient to overcome the policy of liberality in permitting
amendments to the complaint at “any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial,” absent prejudice to the adverse party.  (Atkinson, 109
Cal.App.4th at pg. 761.)  Prejudice
exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of
critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery,
etc.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488; see P & D Consultants, Inc. v. City
of Carlsbad (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1345; Fisher v. Larsen
(1982) 138 Cal.App.3d 627, 649, [leave to amend properly denied where P knew
for over five months claims had not been properly pleaded and took no action to
amend until after summary judgment granted against it].)
Defendant’s
argument that it will be prejudiced by having to expend further time and incur
further expense to investigate and defend against Plaintiff’s amended
allegation of retaliation by interviewing additional witnesses, engaging in
further written discovery, taking depositions, and researching, preparing, and
arguing a motion for summary adjudication as to the new allegation of
retaliation, does not outweigh the abovementioned policy of liberality.  (Opposition, pg. 8.)
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend his SAC and file the
proposed FSTAC is granted.  
 
          Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend his SAC is granted. 
Plaintiff may file the proposed FSTAC with the Court.
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  April _____, 2024
                                                                             





  