 Case Number:  23STCP04121    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



NORTH LIGHT
  SPECIALTY INSURANCE COMPANY,  
  
         vs.
 
RIGO EK-CHAN.


 Case No.: 
  23STCP04121
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 22, 2024



 
Petitioner
North Light Specialty Insurance Company’s unopposed motion to compel
Non-party Insomnia Medical Center, Inc. to comply with a deposition subpoena
for the production of business records is denied.  
Petitioner’s
request for sanctions is denied.
 
Petitioner
North Light Specialty Insurance Company (“North Light”) (“Petitioner”) moves unopposed
for this Court to compel Non-party Insomnia Medical Center, Inc. (“Insomnia”) to
comply with its Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records.  (Notice of Motion, pgs. 2; C.C.P. §§1987.1,
2020.220.)
Petitioner
also requests sanctions in the amount of $875.00.  (Notice of Motion, pgs. 2; C.C.P. §§1992,
2023.030(a).)  Petitioner also states it
is entitled to forfeiture of monies in the statutory amount of $500.00.  (Notice of Motion, pgs. 2; C.C.P. §1992.)
 
Background
          This matter arises out a motor vehicle
accident (“Incident”), which allegedly occurred on or about July 14, 2021, on Washington
Boulevard and La Brea Avenue in Los Angeles, California.  Respondent Rigo Ek Chan (“Ek Chan”)
(“Respondent”) was driving for Lyft at the time of the Incident when a third-party
driver made a left turn into his vehicle.  As a result of the collision, Respondent
sustained personal injuries and is claiming medical specials in the amount of
$315,929.42.
Respondent
settled with the third-party driver and subsequently made a UIM claim against
Petitioner.  Since making the claim,
Respondent has made a demand for arbitration and the parties are currently in
the process of selecting an arbitrator.
During
this time, the parties have exchanged written discovery and Respondent has
provided deposition testimony.  Through
discovery, Petitioner learned that Respondent presented to Insomnia for medical
evaluation in regard to complaints for lower back pain. Specifically, the
injury arose from a workers compensation claim where injuries included the
following: back muscles, spine, and spinal cord. Respondent’s medical specials
are in the amount of $315,929.42, which includes a surgery for hernia repair
and multiple epidural injections to the back and spine.
On
January 17, 2024, Petitioner issued a Deposition Subpoena for Production of
Business Records to the Custodian of Records for Insomnia. All responsive
documents were to be produced by February 14, 2024.  Respondent and his counsel were provided
notice of the deposition subpoena and did not object to the production of
records.
Petitioner
filed the instant motion on March 25, 2024. 
As of the date of this hearing no opposition has been filed.
Court
rules require that a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question
or to compel production of a document or tangible thing and all supporting papers be personally
served on nonparty deponents. Service by mail alone is not sufficient,
“unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic
service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition
record.”  (CRC, Rule 3.1346.)
Here,
Petitioner’s proof of service indicates Insomnia was served with the instant
motion via U.S. Mail and by electronic service, not by personal service, and
there is no indication that Insomnia agreed to accept service by mail or
electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on the
deposition record.
Therefore,
Petitioner’s motion is defective and must be denied.
 
Conclusion
Petitioner’s
unopposed motion to compel Insomnia to comply with Petitioner’s
Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records is denied.
Petitioner’s
request for sanctions is denied.
Moving Party is to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Dated: 
April _____, 2024
                                                                             





  