  Case Number:  22VECV00728    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  W ALBERT BOYAJIAN V.
SURGE GLOBAL BAKERIES PARTNERS GP, ET AL.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND APPLICATION
FOR STAY BY DEFENDANTS/CROSS-COMPLAINANTS SURGE PRIVATE EQUITY LLC, THOMAS
BEAUCHAMP, LEWIS SHARP, AND SURGE GLOBAL BAKERIES PARTNERS LP
 
Date of Hearing:        January 2, 2025                                 Trial Date:       January 26, 2026   
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV00728
 
Moving Party:            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Surge
Private Equity LLC, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis Sharp and Surge Global Bakeries
Partners, LP
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Albert Boyajian
and Global Chips, Inc. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 31, 2022,
Plaintiff Albert Boyajian filed a complaint against Defendants Surge Global
Bakeries Holdings LLC, Surge Global Bakeries Partners LP, Surge Global Bakeries
Partners GP, LLC, Surge Private Equity LLC, Surge Private Equity, McLarty
Capital Partners SBIC II, LP, The Firmament Group, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis
Sharp, Lauren Steel, Parris Boyd, Tobias Keller, Andy Burchfield, and Ashur
Aghasi for (1) Limited Partner Derivative Suit; (2) Limited Partner Derivative
Suit; (3) Fraudulent Concealment; (4) Breach of Contract; and (5) Breach of
Contract. On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. 
 
This action involves
shareholder derivative and direct claims by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges he
sold his profitable bakery for an equity position in a parent entity, a place
on the board of directors of his former bakery (now a wholly-owned subsidiary),
and a Consulting Agreement. However, Plaintiff alleges he did not know, when he
sold his company, that the purchase was merely the first step of a lender’s
scheme to exploit the company for the lender’s benefit, entirely contrary to
the best interests of the equity holders. Plaintiff contends after the
purchase, the company unwarrantedly acquired an additional two companies and
took on additional dramatic debt, during periods of mismanagement by inept
managers and the lender who controlled the board. Moreover, since the takeover,
Plaintiff alleges the lender has not given plaintiff any information on the
companies; and has not called a meeting of the board. 
 
On October 1, 2024,
Surge Private Equity LLC, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis Sharp and Surge Global
Bakeries Partners LP filed a Cross-Complaint against Albert Boyajian and Global
Chips for breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, fraud and deceit, and negligence. On December 11, 2024, Surge Private
Equity LLC, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis Sharp and Surge Global Bakeries Partners LP
filed a First Amended Complaint. 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Application for Stay by
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Surge Private Equity LLC, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis
Sharp, and Surge Global Bakeries Partners LP is DENIED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiffs request this court take judicial notice of certain documents
filed in this action (RJN, Exhs. A-D). The court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for
judicial notice. (Evid. Code §452(d).)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Surge Private Equity LLC, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis Sharp and Surge Global
Bakeries Partners, LP move to compel arbitration of Plaintiffs’ Second Amended
Complaint on the grounds a written agreement for arbitration is attached to
each of Plaintiffs’ complaints as Exhibit “A” and is signed by Plaintiff Albert
Boyajian in his individual capacity and on behalf of his company Global
Bakeries, Inc. now called Plaintiff Global Chips, Inc. 
 
Parties may be
compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a
valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers
the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (CCP § 1281.2; Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) Because the right
to arbitration depends upon contract, the party seeking arbitration bears the
initial burden of proving that the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
instant dispute.  (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.)  If the moving party does so, the burden
shifts to the opposing party to show that the subject agreement is
unenforceable.  (Id. at 761.)  The court “sits as a trier of
fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)¿¿ 
 
Defendants point to
Paragraph 8.12 of Exhibit A of the initial complaint. There, the paragraph
provides:
 
(a) Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating
to this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall be settled by arbitration administered
by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with its Commercial
Arbitration Rules, and judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may
be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.
 
Because there is a
written arbitration agreement and Defendants have asserted claims arising out
of the agreement like fraudulent concealment of the assets purchased,
Defendants maintain the court should grant Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue the motion must fail because the Surge Defendants have waived
their right to arbitrate. Moreover, the motion should be denied to avoid
inconsistent and conflicting rulings involving multiple parties. Specifically,
Plaintiffs argue the Surge Defendants have unreasonably delayed seeking
arbitration. The initial complaint in this matter was served on Surge
Defendants in March 2023; however, Surge Defendants had the agreement
(including the written arbitration provision) in their possession since
November 2018 when they signed the agreement. As a result, Surge Defendants
waiting over a year and a half to bring their motion is unreasonable and should
be denied. (See Quach v. California Commerce Club, Inc. (2024) 16
Cal.5th 562, 573.) Moreover, there are other defendants in this action who are
not signatories to the Asset Purchase Agreement and therefore cannot be
compelled to participate in arbitration. As a result, there is a high
probability of inconsistent rulings. 
 
The Firmament
Defendants filed a notice of non-opposition to the Surge Defendants’ Motion to
Compel Arbitration. The Firmament Defendants first maintain while Plaintiffs
are correct the Firmament Defendants cannot be compelled to arbitrate claims, under
the FAA, when a party “has two substantive disputes” with two parties, one of
which is subject to an arbitration agreement and one of which is not, it “will
be forced to resolve these related disputes in different forums” because
“relevant federal law requires piecemeal resolution when necessary to give
effect to an arbitration agreement.” (Moses H. Cone Memorial Hosp. v.
Mercury Constr. Corp. (1983) 460 U.S. 1, 19–20; see also Dean Witter
Reynolds, Inc. v. Byrd (1985) 470 U.S. 213, 217.) In other words, the FAA
applies and if the arbitration provision is otherwise enforceable, the court
cannot refuse to compel arbitration just because Plaintiffs’ non-arbitrable
claims against the Firmament Defendants would separately continue in
litigation. The Firmament Defendants also argue the general California choice
of law provision in the agreement does not incorporate Section 1281.2’s arbitration
specific rules over the AAA arbitration rules and (2) the FAA preempts the provision
of Section 1281.2 allowing the Court to refuse to enforce an arbitration
provision.

The court finds the
Surge Defendants have waived the right to compel arbitration. As noted by
Plaintiffs, “[t]o establish waiver under generally applicable contract law, the
party opposing enforcement of a contractual agreement must prove by clear and
convincing evidence that the waiving party knew of the contractual right and
intentionally relinquished or abandoned it.” (Quach, supra, 16
Cal.5th at p. 584.) Similar to the defendants in Quach, Surge Defendants
argue they did not propound discovery or conduct depositions and did not file a
motion for summary judgment. However, the evidence is clear that Surge
Defendants had this agreement, which contained the arbitration provision, at
least for over a year when the initial complaint was filed and affirmatively
indicated its intent to go to trial by posting jury fees, demurred to the FAC,
contested discovery, including a motion to compel, and filed their own
cross-complaint in the instant matter. Notably, in their answer and in their
opposition to the motions to compel, defendants did not indicate that the case
was subject to binding arbitration.  Such
conduct is inconsistent with the intent to arbitrate. Even noting that Surge
Defendants in May of 2024 indicated the existence of an arbitration provision
(CMC ¶6b), they waited until seven months later to seek an order from the court.

 
Accordingly, the Motion to Compel Arbitration and Application for
Stay by Defendants/Cross-Complainants Surge Private Equity LLC, Thomas
Beauchamp, Lewis Sharp, and Surge Global Bakeries Partners LP is DENIED. 
 