 Case Number:  24VECV00971    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  W PAOLA
GARCIA ALEJANDRE, ET AL. VS ROBERTO CALDERON, ET AL.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE 
 
Date
of Hearing:        January 2, 2025                                             Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:
             W                                                                    Case No.:        24VECV00971
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff Paola Garcia
Alejandre    
Responding
Party:     Defendants Roberto Calderon and
Rebar Placing Service, Inc. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action involves a motor vehicle collision.
Plaintiffs Paola Garcia Alejandre, Gaspar Garcia and Vihany Garcia Alejandre
filed a complaint against Defendants Roberto Calderon and Rebar Placing
Service, Inc. for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence on March 1,
2024. 
 
On October 25, 2024, this action was related to Case
No. 24VECV02984. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Consolidate Matters is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff
Paola Garcia Alejandre moves the court for an order consolidating the instant
matter with Case No. 24VECV02984, entitled Paola Garcia Alejandre v. Galpin Motors,
Inc. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds that the cases are
non-complex and share common questions of fact and/or law. 
 
“When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.” (CCP § 1048(a).) The purpose of consolidation is to enhance trial court
efficiency by avoiding unnecessary duplication of evidence and the danger of
inconsistent adjudications. (See Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants
Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-979.)
 
The
motion to consolidate must list all the named parties in each case, contain the
captions of all cases sought to be consolidated, and be filed in each case.
(Rules of Ct., Rule 3.350) Additionally, “[c]ases may not be consolidated
unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more
cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different
departments, have been related into a single department, or if the cases were
already assigned to that department.” (LASC Local Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1).)
 
Plaintiff
argues the two cases should be consolidated on the grounds the issue here is
not “complex” and while they involve two separate motor vehicle collisions, the
two accidents caused injury to Plaintiff in substantially the same body parts.
Moreover, if the court were to not consolidate the matters, it is highly likely
that the respective juries could assign inconsistent values regarding causation
of injuries for the two accidents even though Plaintiff’s injuries from the
March 12, 2024 auto accident largely involve aggravation and exacerbation of
injuries from the April 11, 2022 accident. Counsel also provides a declaration
indicating they have fully complied with Code of Civil Procedure section 403
and California Rules of Court, Rule 3.500. 
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue the motion should be denied because it is
procedurally defective and Plaintiff has failed to establish that consolidation
of these two cases is warranted. The court finds the noticed motions sufficient
in both cases. Although the caption contains a different reservation number,
the papers and included declaration are the same. Plaintiff did file and serve
a Motion to Consolidate in the related case (Case No. 24VECV02984) on December
12, 2024. 
 
However,
the court agrees the two actions do not have significant common facts or issues
regarding plaintiff’s claimed injuries and damages. The actions do not arise
from the same accident nor do they involve the same defendants. While there may
be some overlap regarding issues of causation and damages for some of
Plaintiff’s alleged injuries, the facts are distinct. One accident occurred in 2022
allegedly by Defendants Roberto Calderon and Rebar Placing Service, Inc.’s
negligence and the other two years later in 2024 allegedly by Defendants Galpin
Motors Inc. and Noel Ponce’s negligence. Nowhere in the allegations does
Plaintiff even allege the injury was exacerbated in the second accident. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Consolidate Matters is DENIED. 
 
 