 Case Number:  22AHCV00114    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



VIOLETA MARTIN, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
WELCH
   LAW FIRM, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00114
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   14, 2024




 


 


 



 
          On December
14, 2023, Chris Prussak of Prussak, Welch, & Avila filed this motion to be
relieved as counsel for defendants Welch Law Firm, Donald Rance Welch, and Sara
Welch (collectively, the “Welch Defendants”). Mr. Prussak declares that his
firm mistakenly filed an answer on the Welch Defendants’ behalf even though the
Welch Defendants did not retain his firm. (Prussak Decl., ¶ 4-5.) Mr. Prussak
also states that Donald Rance Welch has passed away, he has not had contact
with Sara Welch in 10 years, and he has never had any business relationship
with the Welch Law Firm. In opposition, plaintiff Violeta Martin (“Plaintiff”)
argues that the motion is procedurally deficient because Mr. Prussak did not
serve his clients with notice of this motion and did not originally file a
declaration with his motion. Plaintiff also opposes the motion to be relieved
on the grounds that Mr. Prussak is attempting to avoid discovery sanctions for
his clients’ failure to respond to discovery. 
          A motion to
be relieved typically must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051, with a
declaration on Form MC-052, and include a proposed order on Form MC-053. (CRC
rule 3.1362.) Those forms and rule 3.1362 serve to ensure that a party is kept
apprised of upcoming dates and proceedings and to establish an appropriate
record for service of process; they do not seem suitable or applicable in these
unusual circumstances where the attorney seeking to be relieved was never
actually retained by a client in the first place and had no authority to file
any pleadings on their behalf. Therefore, relieving counsel will not cause any
prejudice to clients who never retained them in the first place. 
          Accordingly,
notwithstanding these procedural “deficiencies”, the motion to be relieved is
GRANTED. Plaintiff’s desire to sanction Mr. Prussak and his firm for failing to
respond to discovery on behalf of parties he does not represent is not grounds
to deny the motion. 
 
          
Dated
this 14th
day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 