 Case Number:  23AHCV00202    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SUZANNA DUNAIANS, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
TRANSAMERICA
   OCCIDENTAL LIFE INS. COMPANY,
  et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00202
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: LEISURE WERDEN & TERRY AGENCY’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO
   STRIKE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   14, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
January 30, 2023, plaintiffs Suzanne Dunaians and Deanne Bilemjian (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action asserting claims for breach of insurance
contract, bad faith breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
conversion, and negligence against Transamerica Life Insurance Company
(“Transamerica”).  On March 21, 2023,
Plaintiffs added Leisure Werden & Terry Agency (“Defendant”) as Doe 1.  
          On
September 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”). 
          Plaintiffs
allege that their parents, now deceased, purchased a life insurance policy from
Transamerica for Plaintiffs’ benefit. (FAC, ¶ 10.) After their parents passed
away, Transamerica refused to tender the policy proceeds and claimed that the
proceeds needed to be paid to an irrevocable trust created in 1990 that allegedly
does not exist.  Plaintiffs allege that
they are beneficiaries of a different trust that was amended in 2004 and that
they were unaware of a trust formed in 1990. (FAC, ¶¶ 17-24.) Transamerica paid
the life insurance proceeds on April 11, 2023, but Plaintiffs assert a claim
for tortious breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing for
unreasonably delaying and withholding the proceeds in bad faith. Plaintiffs
also assert a claim for negligence against Defendant because their parents
purchased the life insurance policy through Defendant. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant had a duty to request, obtain and secure a copy of any irrevocable
trust for which a policy was issued since the life insurance policy dictated
the manner in which proceeds were to be distributed in the case of irrevocable
designations. (FAC, ¶ 51.) Plaintiffs allege Defendant breached this duty by
failing to obtain a copy of the necessary documents and that Plaintiffs have
been damaged in an amount to be determined at trial. (FAC, ¶¶ 52-53.)  
          On
November 3, 2023, Defendant filed this demurrer and motion to strike. Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action on the grounds that it fails to state a
cause of action and is uncertain. Defendant further moves to strike Plaintiffs’
requests for bad faith damages, consequential damages, and attorneys’ fees.  
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be
brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there is
a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
III.    DISCUSSION
The necessary
elements for a claim of negligence are “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a
breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause
of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th
913, 917 (internal quotations omitted).) 
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant “had a duty to request, obtain and secure a copy of any
irrevocable trust for which a policy was issued since the life insurance policy
dictated the manner in which proceeds were to be distributed in the case of
irrevocable designations.” (FAC, ¶ 51.) Plaintiffs also allege that Defendant, “whether
agent and/or insurance broker owed a duty to both decedents and Plaintiff’s
[sic] herein to use reasonable care, diligence, and judgment in procuring the
insurance requested by an insured and obtain and preserve any and all documents
material and necessary to determine the proper payment of policy proceeds upon
the event and/or date set forth in the policies.” (FAC, ¶¶ 52-53.) Defendant
disputes the existence of any duty, which is a matter of law. (Ky. Fried
Chicken of Cal. v. Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 819.)
Defendant
argues that the FAC is devoid of any allegations that demonstrate a
relationship between Plaintiffs and Defendant which would impose an independent
duty in tort upon Defendant. Defendant states that it is a “noncaptive general
agent – essentially a wholesaler of insurance policies acting as the middleman
between insurers and independent insurance sales brokers/agents – that deals
directly with various independent insurance sales brokers, not potential
insureds.” (Demurrer, p. 7.) Defendant explains that “[a]s a noncaptive general
agent, [it] is free to work with multiple insurance carriers and not tied
solely to one insurance company, including, among others, TransAmerica.”
Defendant emphasizes that it “did not sell the Policy to the Decedents nor to Plaintiffs”
and that Plaintiffs fail to allege otherwise. 
Plaintiffs do
not allege facts establishing a client relationship; instead they allege that they
were the beneficiaries of the policies and that their parents were the insureds
who purchased the policies which were issued by TransAmerica. However, cases
cited by Defendant in their brief show that even if Defendant were an insurance
broker (which it is unclear whether Plaintiffs are asserting), it would owe no
duty to Plaintiffs, who are the beneficiaries. (Demurrer, pp. 14-15; The
Mega Life and Health Insurance Company v. Sup. Ct. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th
1522, 1525.) 
The Court
previously granted leave to amend for Plaintiffs to include allegations
demonstrating Defendant’s involvement in the transaction and any legal duty
which would arise from their involvement. Plaintiffs contend that additional
discovery is needed to determine the relationship between TransAmerica and
Defendant to determine whether additional causes of action based on fiduciary
duty and negligent misrepresentation exist. Plaintiff state that they have been
provided with “at least one audio recording where someone, relationship not yet
identified, called TransAmerica to discuss the policy at issue in this action.”
(Opp., p. 6.) However, Plaintiffs do not explain how they would have standing
to assert any claim for negligent misrepresentation because any
misrepresentations would have been made to their parents. Also, it is unclear
how Defendant would owe a fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs, the insurance policy
beneficiaries, based on the authorities cited by Defendant in its demurrer. 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend  
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend. Defendant’s motion to strike is taken off calendar as moot. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 14th
day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 