  Case Number:  20STCV01711    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



CYNTHIA DAWSON, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
ARMANDO
  AGUILAR, et al.,
 
                   Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20STCV01711
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
  14, 2024



 
On January 14, 2020, plaintiff Cynthia
Dawson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Armando Aguilar
(“Aguilar”) and A and A Trucking. Plaintiff alleges that on April 15, 2019, she
and Aguilar were involved in an automobile collision on the I-210 westbound
freeway at the Fair Oaks exit in Pasadena, California. 
On August 4, 2020, Plaintiff amended
the complaint to add Lee Ramirez (“Ramirez”) as Doe 1. 
On January 15, 2021, and April 13, 2021,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint and again amended it to add Ramirez
as Doe 1. 
On January 17, 2024, Aguilar, A and A
Trucking, and Ramirez (collectively, “Defendants”) filed this motion to reopen
discovery. Defendants argue that they must depose Plaintiff a second time as
well as other witnesses which they contend were not identified until after the
discovery cut-off. Defendants also state that there is a need to obtain
Plaintiff’s medical records because she has continued to treat after discovery
closed. 
Trial is currently scheduled for March
11, 2024. It was most recently continued on July 27, 2023, when the Court was
informed by Defendants’ counsel at the time that they would be substituting out
of the case. Current defense counsel filed an association of attorney on
October 4, 2023, and trial was scheduled for March 11, 2024, at a trial setting
conference held on October 19, 2023. The trial date has previously been continued
eight times. 
Except as otherwise provided, any party
shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or
before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial of the action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).) 
On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been
set.  This motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal
resolution. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)  
The court shall take into consideration
any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to: (1)
the necessity and the reasons for the discovery, (2) the diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier, (3) any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party, and (4) the length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)
Defendants argue that good cause exists
to reopen discovery because new witnesses have been identified. Defendants list
14 different individuals, including Plaintiff’s friends, family members,
children, the investigating officer, and non-retained physicians. Defendants provide
no evidence that these individuals were not disclosed earlier and notably does
not state when they were identified, other than to say that it was “after the
discovery cut-off.” (Motion, p. 3; Reply, p.  3.) 
Defendants also argue that discovery
should be reopened because Plaintiff is continuing treatment and was last
deposed on August 17, 2020. Defendants request the opportunity to depose
Plaintiff about any treatment she may have received, including treatment
through at least May 2023. Plaintiff’s continuing treatment is not unexpected
in a personal injury case such as this one and it is unlikely that trial will
be able to commence as planned if discovery is reopened. 
Defendants have failed to show that
they acted with diligence. After filing a notice of association on October 4,
2023, Defendants waited two months to file an ex parte application to reopen
discovery in December. When informed that a noticed motion was required, Defendants
waited another month to file this motion, which is unsupported by any
substantive evidence. Moreover, as Plaintiff points out, it is implausible that
Defendant will be able to complete 15 depositions and obtain records through
deposition subpoenas without needing another trial continuance. Given that
trial has already been continued eight times, the Court is not inclined to
grant a ninth continuance. 
Defendants’ motion is DENIED. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 14th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 