  Case Number:  23AHCV01447    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 






RUTH MONTURY, by and through her Power of
    Attorney, Frank Montury Jr.;
 
                                           
    Plaintiffs,
vs.
 
GEM
    HEALTHCARE, LLC. dba GEM TRANSITIONAL CARE CENTER; SAINT CABRINI HEALTHCARE
    SERVICES LLC. and DOES 1 through 100; 
 
                                           
    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
    )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.:
    BC617479 (related case no. BC616980)
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
    ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
    AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
Date:   December 19, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P






)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case
  No.: 23AHCV01447
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
 
Date: March 12, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept.: P



 
          I.        INTRODUCTION
 This litigation stems from a stay at a skilled
nursing facility (SNF). Plaintiff Ruth Montury (Ruth), 93 years old, was
admitted to Defendant Gem Transitional Care Center (Gem) on February 11, 2022.
Defendant Saint Cabrini Healthcare Services LLC is the management company of
the Gem facility. Ruth alleges she experienced a dramatic decline in condition
over the course of her stay at Gem. Specifically, it is alleged that she fell
during her stay at Gem, fracturing her hip. She alleges that she left the facility
with a fractured hip and incontinence, which left her reliant on pain
medication and requiring   significant
assistance with activities of daily living. Her complaint alleges three causes
of action: (1) elder abuse and neglect under WIC Section 15600, (2) violation
of residents’ bill of rights under HSC Section 1430(b) and (3) negligence. 
Defendants
Gem and Saint Cabrini (collectively Defendants) filed a motion to compel
arbitration on August 14, 2023. The Court granted the motion to compel arbitration
on December 15, 2023.
Before
the Court is Plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration filed on January 30, 2024. Plaintiffs
argue that: (1) in light of the recent Haydon decision, the arbitration
agreement at issue in this case is substantively and procedurally
unconscionable; and (2) Defendants have not been diligent in selecting a
mediator. Defendants filed an opposition on February 28, 2024. Plaintiffs filed
a reply on March 5, 2024.
After
consideration of the papers, the Court DENIES the motion for reconsideration.
 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1008 provides, in pertinent part: 
“(a) When an application for
an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in
part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by
the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make an application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party
making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. 
 
(b) A party who originally
made an application for an order which was refused in whole or in part, or
granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the
same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it
shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with
this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or
set aside on an ex parte motion. 
… 
(e) This section specifies
the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its
orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to
reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous
motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or
final. No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous
motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this
section.” (CCP § 1008(a), (b), (e).) 
A
motion for reconsideration under § 1008 requires that the moving party present
new or different facts that were not previously considered by the Court. 
(New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206,
212-13.)  However, the burden under CCP Section 1008 “is comparable to
that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence:
the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.”  (Ibid.; Even
Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that § 1008 imposes the special requirement
of having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but
also to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the
new or different information earlier…”].)  Reconsideration cannot be
granted based on claims that the court misinterpreted the law in its initial
ruling because this is not a "new" or "different"
matter.  (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494,
1500.) 
          
 
 
III.     ANALYSIS
A.
Timeliness of the Motion for Reconsideration
In their
opposition, Defendants urge that the instant motion for reconsideration is not
timely. Per CCP Section 1008, a motion for reconsideration must be brought
within 10 days of notice of the ruling the party wishes to be reconsidered.
(CCP § 1008(a).)
Here,
the notice of ruling of the 12/15/23 Order compelling arbitration was e-served
that same day, giving 10 days from that date in which to file this motion. This
motion was filed over a month later, on January 30, 2024. 
In
reply, Plaintiffs urge that the motion was timely, as it was “Defendants’
dilatory acts of unilaterally rejecting Plaintiff’s arbitrator proposals and
only suggesting arbitrators who set arbitration at their initial case
management conference” that gave rise to this motion. (Reply p. 3: 9-11.) This
is not a valid excuse for filing a motion for reconsideration. 
Notwithstanding
the untimeliness of the motion, the Court shall proceed to consider the
substantive merits of the arguments advanced by the parties. 
B.
Discussion of the Haydon v. Elegance at Dublin case
Plaintiffs
urge that the December 15 order granting the motion to compel arbitration
should be reconsidered. In support, Plaintiffs cite Haydon v. Elegance at
Dublin (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 1280, a new decision on substantive and
procedural unconscionability in arbitration agreements that was issued 4 days
after this Court’s December 15 ruling. The standard for procedural
unconscionability, per Haydon, is “whether circumstances of the
contract's formation created such oppression or surprise that closer
scrutiny of its overall fairness is required.” (Id. at 1287, internal
citations omitted.) Oppression in this context is “where a contract involves
lack of negotiation and meaningful choice . . . and surprise involves the
extent to which . . . the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a
prolix printed form.” (Id., internal citations omitted.) Haydon also
involved a child with an unwell parent and an arbitration agreement with a
nursing facility. (Id. at 1284-1285.) However, unlike the instant case,
the arbitration agreement was signed by the parent, who had aphasia and
cognitive decline, not the child. Relying on the declaration of the daughter,
the Court of Appeals concluded that there was a high level of procedural
unconscionability as “[the] mother was under enormous pressure to sign the
agreement and arbitration provision because her condition was declining, she
had limited financial resources, and the facility was offering a discount
contingent on her signing up quickly.” (Id. at 1288.) The Haydon court
also found surprise as the arbitration provision was “a long, dense agreement
interspersed with several confusing signature blocks,” the provision was buried
within the packet the mother was asked to sign, was not contained in a separate
document, and did not alert Haydon to the JAMS rules. (Id.)
Further,
the Haydon court concluded that the arbitration agreement was
procedurally unconscionable despite the presence of an opt-out provision, and
language that an agreement to arbitrate was not a pre-requisite to admission at
the facility. (Id. at 1288-1289.)
Plaintiff
argues that similar circumstances are present here. In support, they provide
the declaration of their attorney, Christopher W. Peterson. (Peterson Decl.) He
attaches Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion to compel in support of this
argument. (Peterson Decl. ¶ 3, referencing Exh. B.) Similarly to the plaintiff
in Haydon, Frank Montury was allegedly presented with the arbitration
agreement, along with other papers, when his mother was admitted to Defendant
Gem. (Montury Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs urge that “Frank Montury, Jr. was in a
vulnerable position at the time of his mother’s admission since his mother
needed to find a facility to provide for her needs.” In contrast, the plaintiff
in Haydon was vulnerable in that it was the elderly mother who signed
the agreement herself, after the facility was told by the daughter that the
mother was cognitively impaired. 
Further,
Plaintiffs urge that “Additionally, Frank Montury, Jr. likely felt pressure
since Defendants requested he sign the Agreement while also requesting he sign
numerous other admissions documents.” (Motion p. 6: 14-16.) This alleged pressure
is significantly different from “enormous pressure” the elderly, impaired plaintiff
in Haydon faced. Simply being presented with the separate arbitration
agreement while his mother was being admitted to Defendants’ facility is not
enough for this Court to conclude that there is procedural unconscionability,
and thus to reconsider its December 15 ruling. (See Opposition p. 9: 24- p. 10:
22.)
Secondly,
Plaintiffs urge that the agreement was substantively unconscionable as there
was surprise, by the Haydon standard. However, the document in question
here is two pages, which is relatively short. It contains two signature blocks,
below two notices in all capital letters. There is one place for initials on
the prior page. Additionally, the individual signing filled out the form
correctly, unlike the plaintiff in Haydon. The arbitration agreement is
a separate document, clearly labelled, and included a notice that the
arbitration was subject to the Federal Arbitration Act. Under the Haydon standard,
the elements of surprise are not clearly met here. Accordingly, the Court
declines to reconsider its December 15, 2023 ruling compelling arbitration
based on surprise. (See Opposition p. 10: 6-22.)
Relying
on the high level of procedural unconscionability, the Haydon court
required only a small amount of substantive unconscionability and found three
provisions of the arbitration agreement substantively unconscionable: (1) a
confidentiality provision, (2) limitations on discovery, and (3) a provision
providing that Plaintiff bear her own costs. (Haydon, supra, at 1290-1292.)
Notably, in ruling that the cost provision was unconscionable, the court noted
that “JAMS charges up to $10,000.00 per day for a single-arbitrator arbitration
and this would be unaffordable for Haydon, who is on Social Security and has no
retirement funds.” (Id. at 1291).
Here,
Plaintiff urges that there are limitations on discovery. The Court does not
find this argument convincing. The arbitration agreement at issue does not have
a provision limiting discovery. Likewise, the FAA rule that parties have to
agree to discovery, and parties’ inability so far to agree to an arbitrator,
does not demonstrate that discovery is limited in any manner. (See Motion p.8:
1-8.)
Secondly,
Plaintiffs urge that the provision requiring both parties to bear half of the
arbitration costs is substantively unconscionable. Here, Defendants have
provided the names of some arbitrators who work for JAMS, the company
referenced in Haydon as charging $10,000 per arbitration. (See Haydon,
supra, at 1291.) Specifically, Plaintiffs urge “[t]his is an excessive amount
which is highly unaffordable for an elderly plaintiff, who is still incurring
skilled nursing care costs.” (Motion p. 8: 18-19.) However, as noted above, the
conclusion that the cost provision was substantively unconscionable is based on
that plaintiff's specific financial straits (e.g., social security and no
retirement funds). (Haydon, at 1291.) Here, even assuming arguendo that
Ruth is still incurring skilled nursing care costs, there is insufficient
evidence to demonstrate she cannot afford half of the JAMS fee, if selected, as
there is no other evidence or assertion as to her financial condition. (See
Opposition p. 11: 23-25.) Additionally, Defendants point out in the opposition that
JAMS arbitrators were not the only ones proposed by Defendants -- they also
offered names of arbitrators who work with Judicate West. (Opposition p. 10:26-
p. 11: 4.)
Accordingly,
the Court declines to reconsider its December 15, 2023 ruling compelling
arbitration.
C.
Diligence in Selecting an Arbitrator
Lastly,
Plaintiff urges that the Defendants have not been diligent in selecting an arbitrator
and, on that basis, the Court should reconsider its December 15, 2023 ruling. Plaintiffs
attach emails between their counsel and Defense counsel, indicating that an
arbitrator has not yet been selected. (Motion Exhs. G-K.) There is no case law
or statutory law cited supporting this proposition, just the general purpose of
arbitration and Plaintiffs’ off-calendar motion for trial preference. It is
unclear to the Court as to why meeting the standard for a different motion,
trial preference, demands that arbitration occur within 4-6 months. To the
extent the Court considers the argument that Ms. Montury is elderly and has
several serious health conditions, the Court urges parties to meet and confer in
an effort to resolve this issue.
To
the extent that the Court considers this motion to be a petition for the court
to select an arbitrator under CCP Section 1281.6, the Court declines to do so
on two grounds: (1) the parties have only had a little over two months to
select an arbitrator, so it is premature to say conclusively that they cannot
do so without court intervention; and (2) a CCP 1281.6 motion requires a list
of no less than five (5) potential arbitrators supplied jointly by both
parties, where here Plaintiffs propose only three names on their own.
          
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is denied. 
Defendants
are ordered to give notice.
 
          
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
 