Here is the YAML summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 22AHCV00467
Plaintiff's Name: William Zhang
Defendant's Name: Kemi Cai, Zexian Li, Nick Chui
People Names: William Zhang, Kemi Cai, Zexian Li, Nick Chui, Jeffrey Bell, Melanie Yang, Andrew L. Ellis
Company Names: C&W William Auto Repair, Inc., Law Offices of Jeffrey T. Bell, Law Offices of Andrew L. Ellis
Places: California, Los Angeles, Northeast District
Dates: July 15, 2022, December 6, 2022, May 23, 2024, July 1, 2024, July 26, 2024
Events: Plaintiff's motion to disqualify counsel, Ellis Action, Law Offices of Andrew L. Ellis v. Melanie Yang, et al.
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to disqualify Bell from representing the defendants due to a conflict of interest.
Facts: Plaintiff alleges that Bell previously represented him in the Ellis Action and now represents the defendants in the instant case.
Disputes: Whether Bell's representation of the defendants creates a conflict of interest due to his previous representation of the plaintiff.
Acts: Plaintiff filed a motion to disqualify Bell from representing the defendants.
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.9
Case Citations: Law Offices of Andrew L. Ellis v. Melanie Yang, et al. (LASC Case No. BC397363), Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, Wutchumna Water Co. v. Bailey (1932) 216 Cal. 564, Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 698, Fiduciary Trust Internat. of California v. Superior Court (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 465, River West, Inc. v. Nickel (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1297
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles:
  - Judge: William A. Crowfoot
  - Plaintiff: William Zhang
  - Defendant: Kemi Cai, Zexian Li, Nick Chui
  - Counsel: Jeffrey Bell
Significant Statements:
  - The court grants the plaintiff's motion to disqualify Bell from representing the defendants due to a conflict of interest.
  - The court finds that the instant case and the Ellis Action are "substantially related" due to the information material to both cases, namely the plaintiff's credibility and business practices.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge grants the plaintiff's motion to disqualify Jeffrey Bell from representing the defendants due to a conflict of interest. The court finds that Bell's previous representation of the plaintiff in the Ellis Action creates a conflict of interest in the instant case, where the plaintiff is suing the defendants for alleged fraudulent inducement and breach of contract. The court concludes that the instant case and the Ellis Action are "substantially related" due to the information material to both cases, namely the plaintiff's credibility and business practices. The court rules that Bell's representation of the defendants would create a risk of violating the attorney-client privilege and would give Bell access to confidential information about the plaintiff. Therefore, the court disqualifies Bell from representing the defendants.