  Case Number:  22AHCV00467    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



WILLIAM ZHANG, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
KEMI
   CAI et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00467
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 26,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On July 15, 2022, plaintiff William
Zhang (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Kemi Cai and Zexian Li
(collectively, “Defendants”) and Nick Chui (“Chui”). Plaintiff filed his
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on December 6, 2022. 
Plaintiff alleges that around April of
2015, Defendants induced him to invest in and purchase an auto repair services
business. (FAC, ¶ 6.) Plaintiff alleges he and Cai agreed to be co-owners and
equal shareholders in C&W William Auto Repair, Inc. (“C&W”), a newly
formed corporation, and would each contribute half the purchase price and
initial capital investment and share all profits equally. (FAC, ¶ 7.) 
On May 23, 2024, Defendants filed a
notice of association of attorney indicating their representation by Jeffrey
Bell and the Law Offices of Jeffrey T. Bell (collectively, “Bell”). On July 1,
2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for an order disqualifying Bell from
representing Defendants. Plaintiff argues that Bell’s representation presents a
conflict of interest violating California Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule
1.9, which governs an attorney’s duties to former clients, because Bell
previously represented him in an action entitled Law Offices of Andrew L. Ellis v. Melanie Yang, et al. (LASC Case
No. BC397363) (the “Ellis Action”) in which Plaintiff was a defendant.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Rule 1.9 of
the Rules of Professional Conduct states, in relevant part:
(a)        
A lawyer who
has formerly represented a client in a matter shall not thereafter represent
another person in the same or a substantially related matter in which that
person’s* interests are materially adverse to the interests of the former
client unless the former client gives informed written consent.
 
(b)        
A lawyer who
has formerly represented a client in a matter shall not thereafter represent
another person in the same or a substantially related matter in which that
person’s* interests are materially adverse to the interests of the former
client unless the former client gives informed written consent.
 
Two matters are “the same or substantially related”
if they involve “a substantial risk of a violation of one of the two duties to
a former client” which prohibit a lawyer from: (i) doing anything that will
injuriously affect the former client in any matter in which the lawyer
represented the former client, or (ii) at any time using against the former
client knowledge or information acquired by virtue of the previous
relationship. (Comment [1], Rule 1.9 [citing Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811; Wutchumna Water Co. v. Bailey (1932) 216
Cal. 564.) Comment [3] to Rule 1.9 provides the following description as
examples: 
 
(i) if the
matters involve the same transaction or legal dispute or other work performed
by the lawyer for the former client; or (ii) if the lawyer normally would have
obtained [information protected by the attorney-client privilege, work product
doctrine, and ethical standards of confidentiality] in the prior representation
. . . and the lawyer would be expected to use or disclose that information in
the subsequent representation because it is material to the subsequent
representation.
 
If there is a
direct relationship between the attorney and the former client, it is “presumed
that confidential information has passed to the attorney and there cannot be
any delving into the specifics of the communications between the attorney and
the former client in an effort to show that the attorney did or did not receive
confidential information during the course of that relationship.” (Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co.
(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)  In
this circumstance, “disqualification will depend upon the strength of the
similarities between the legal problem involved in the former representation
and the legal problem involved in the current representation.” (Ibid.) Successive representations will also
be substantially related when “information material to the evaluation,
prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the former representation given
its factual and legal issues is also material to the evaluation, prosecution,
settlement or accomplishment of the current representation given its factual
and legal issues.” (Fiduciary Trust
Internat. of California v. Superior Court (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 465, 480
[citing Jessen, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at p. 712].) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff
argues that a conflict of interest exists because this action and the Ellis
Action are “substantially related.” (Motion, p. 4.) In the Ellis Action,
Plaintiff was accused of fraud and breach of contract. (Motion, p. 4.) Plaintiff
contends that his veracity and credibility “were among the central issues of
the case” and that he shared personal, sensitive and confidential information
with Bell while the attorney-client relationship existed. (Motion, p. 4.) 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that the Ellis Action is not “substantially
similar” to the instant case because the Ellis Action involved a legal fee
agreement dispute whereas here, the dispute involves questions of ownership and
of an automobile repair business. Defendants additionally emphasize that Bell’s
involvement in the Ellis Action ended nearly 14 years ago in January 2011,
which is 4 years before C&W existed, and that he withdrew before
substantial discovery and the arbitration hearing took place. 
Defendants
also point out that Plaintiff’s relationship with Mr. Bell predates his
representation in the Ellis Action. Bell and Plaintiff had known each other for
about 5 years before he represented Plaintiff in the Ellis Action. (Opp., Bell
Decl., ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff was also previously
employed by Mr. Bell from 2008 to the end of 2010, but his employment was
terminated “after a series of events . . . called into question [Plaintiff’s]
veracity and fitness to work for [him]”, including referring matters to outside
firms (and the same conduct alleged in the Ellis Action). (Bell Decl., ¶¶
11-12.) Mr. Bell also declares that although he ceased all direct contact with
Plaintiff in January 2011, he has since encountered other individuals who have
made derogatory comments about Plaintiff’s character, suggesting that any
information about Plaintiff’s reputation is not actually “confidential.” 
“Where an
attorney acquires knowledge about the former client's ‘attitudes,’ practices,
business customs, ‘litigation philosophy,’ strengths, weaknesses or strategy,
disqualification may be required for that reason alone. (Jessen, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at p. 712.) Plaintiff persuasively
argues that while the instant case is not factually similar to the Ellis
Action, there is a rational relationship between the two matters due to the information
material to both; namely, Plaintiff’s credibility and business practices.
(Reply, pp. 5-6.)  
Last,
Defendants argue that this disqualification motion should be denied as untimely
because it was filed six weeks after Plaintiff found out about Defendants’
representation by Bell. “‘[M]ere delay’ in making a disqualification motion is
not dispositive. The delay must be extreme in terms of time and consequence.” (River West, Inc. v. Nickel (1987) 188
Cal.App.3d 1297, 1311.) Here, there was little to no delay in filing the motion
and Defendants identify no extreme consequences from any such delay. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. 
 
Dated
this 26th
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 