  Case Number:  23STCV29938    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff alleges that he was
terminated in retaliation for reporting other employees’ complaints of sexual
harassment by his supervisor.
            Defendant Richemont North America
Inc. moves to compel arbitration and stay or dismiss this action.
TENTATIVE RULING
The
hearing on the motion to compel arbitration is CONTINUED to August 2, 2024 at
8:30 a.m. Defendant is to submit a supplemental declaration by July 19, 2024 to
satisfy the evidentiary standard set forth in Ruiz, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at 843-44, 846. 
ANALYSIS
Motion To Compel Arbitration and Stay or Dismiss Action
            Defendant Richemont North America
Inc. moves to compel arbitration and stay or dismiss this action.
Existence
of Agreement To Arbitrate
            Under
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract. (Cable Connection, Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1343; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving by a
preponderance of evidence any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356.) The court may weigh the evidence by
considering affidavits, declarations, documents and oral testimony. (Id. at 357.)
 
            Defendant submits an arbitration
agreement purportedly signed by Plaintiff electronically on October 4, 2021.
(Declaration of Monica Holmes, ¶ 5; Exh. A.)
            In the Opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant has not demonstrated that Plaintiff’s electronic signature is
authentic. Plaintiff states in his declaration that he did not use the
electronic signature to sign an Arbitration Agreement. (Rimer Declaration, ¶¶ 3
– 5, 8.) 
If an employee denies signing, or even
indicates a failure to recall electronically signing the agreement, the moving
party has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the
electronic signature is authentic. (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group,
Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846.)
An employer may do this by
explaining how the employees name could only have been placed on the
arbitration agreement by a person using the employee’s unique login ID and
password, that the date and time of the signature is accurately reflected next
to the electronic signature, that all employees were required to use their
unique login ID and password when they logged into the HR system and signed
electronic forms and agreements, and thus, the electronic signature on the
arbitration agreement was apparently made by the employee. (Ruiz, supra, 232
Cal.App.4th at 844.) 
Civil Code section 1633.9 addresses how a proponent of
an electronic signature may authenticate the signature—that is, show the
signature is, in fact, the signature of the person the proponent claims it is.
The statute states: “(a) An electronic record or electronic signature is
attributable to a person if it was the act of the person. The act of the person may be shown in any manner,
including a showing of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to
determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic
signature was attributable.” (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a), italics
added.)
     (Id.
at 843.) 
Here,
Defendants offer the Declaration of Monica Holmes, Human Resources Business
Partner for Richemont North America, Inc., which does not satisfy the above
evidentiary standard. Rather, the Holmes Declaration only states:
3. In my
capacity as a Human Resources Business Partner, I am familiar with the process
by which Cartier provides on-boarding documents, including dispute resolution
agreements, to its prospective or newly hired employees. Specifically, as part
of the hiring process, Cartier provides new employees with new hire paperwork,
which includes among other documents, a Dispute Resolution Agreement.  Employees are then permitted to review,
complete, return the new hire paperwork at their earliest convenience. 
 
4. In my
capacity as a Human Resources Business Partner, I also have access to personnel
records Cartier maintains, including personnel files pertaining to Cartier
boutiques employees. Personnel files for Cartier employees are maintained in
the ordinary course of business electronically. 
In this case, Plaintiff, JONATHAN RIMER’S (“Plaintiff”), personnel was
maintained electronically. 
 
5. In
connection with signing this declaration, I reviewed Plaintiff’s personnel
file. began working for Cartier as a Sales Experience Manager on June 28, 2021.
Cartier implemented its Dispute Resolution Agreement after Plaintiff was
already employed with the boutique.  As
such, Cartier provided Plaintiff with a copy of the agreement, for his review
after he was already hired. In Plaintiff's personnel file, I reviewed a copy of
the Dispute Resolution Agreement that he signed on October 4, 2021. A true and
correct copy of Plaintiff's signed Dispute Resolution Agreement is attached
hereto as Exhibit A. 
 
The Court
will continue the hearing to permit Defendant to satisfy the evidentiary
standard set forth in Ruiz, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at 843-44, 846.) 
The hearing
on the motion to compel arbitration is CONTINUED to August 2, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
Defendant is to submit a supplemental declaration by July 19, 2024.