  Case Number:  23STCV12661    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MISSION VILLAGE II, L.P. 
  
        
  vs.
 
MARISOL PERALTA MACIAS 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV12661  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: December 4, 2023



 
            Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
            On
6/2/2023, Plaintiff Mission Village II. L.P. filed an unlawful detainer action
against Marisol Peralta Macias (Defendant). 
 
            Now,
in pro per Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
            While
Defendant’s filing also lists a motion to strike, no such motion was included
in the moving papers, and thus is not considered here. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has failed to state a claim because: (1) the person who
filed the pleading does not have the capacity to sue; (2) the Complaint lacks
sufficient facts to state a claim; and (3) the pleadings are uncertain,
ambiguous, and or unintelligible. 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Defendant’s memorandum of points and authority consists
almost entirely of recitations of law with no analysis to the underlying facts.
Going forward, Defendant must not only identify the applicable law, but must
also set forth argument as to how that law applies to the underlying facts.
 
            The
only substantive argument advanced by Defendant is that Plaintiff “does not
have capacity to sue because Plaintiff is in violation of local black letter
law and regulations. Plaintiff’s complaint is in violation of the Los Angeles
City Ordinance 186606 because the Plaintiff’s complaint with a non-payment
cause of action. The Complaint’s sole cause of action is illegal within the
jurisdiction of the City of Los Angeles and the Complaint has failed to state
any other legal cause of action and as such the complaint has failed to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendant brings forth this
demurrer because the Plaintiff’s complaint is facially defective and cannot
sustain the unlawful detainer complaint.” (Demurer, 2: 1-9.)
 
            However,
Defendant’s demurrer is not accompanied by any discussion as to why Plaintiff’s
Complaint is illegal nor does it set forth facts or law that could show that
Defendant lacks capacity to sue based on this provision. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff contends that it has alleged sufficient facts to state a
claim, that its claim is not uncertain, and that it has the capacity to sue.
 
            As
to the first contention, Plaintiff notes that the unlawful detainer complaint
is pled on the judicial council form for unlawful detainer complaints. All the
appropriate and relevant sections of the unlawful detainer form complaint have
been checked-off, as well as attaching as exhibits the Three-Day Notice to Pay
Rent or Quit (Compl. Exh 2) and the Declaration of Service of the Notice
(Compl. Exh 3). As such, the Court sees no basis to conclude that Plaintiff has
not alleged sufficient facts to state a claim. Defendant did not file a reply
addressing or refuting any of these assertions. 

 
            As
to the second contention, a demurrer for uncertainty will only be sustained
where the complaint is so poorly pled that a defendant cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are
directed against him or her. Here, Plaintiff contends that the Complaint
clearly advises Defendant what must be admitted and/or denied. The Court
agrees.
 
            As
to the third contention, Plaintiff notes that it has alleged that it is the
owner of the premises. The Court accepts this as true at the pleading stage.
Accordingly, Plaintiff has alleged facts which could show it has legal capacity
to pursue this suit. 
 
            Finally,
as to City Ordinance 186606, codified as LAMC section 49.99.2, this provision
creates an affirmative defense, and is not a prohibition on filing an unlawful
detainer. (See LAMC §49.99.6, which states “[t]enants may use the
protections afforded in this article as an affirmative defense in an unlawful
detainer action.”) As such, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that section 49.99.2
does not make this lawsuit unlawful. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. Defendant is directed to
file an answer within 5 days of entry of this order. (CCP § 1167.3)
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
             