

 
            This is an
action for breach of contract arising from real estate commissions. In the
Complaint, Plaintiff
Anderson Real Estate Group (Plaintiff) alleges that Defendant KJ Ticehurst (Ticehurst)
owes Plaintiff $67,729.75 in commissions arising from her Team Member Agreement
– Buyer Specialist (Agreement) with Plaintiff. Plaintiff further alleges
Defendants Coralyn Wahlberg, Claudia Pardon, and Think RE Management, Inc.
(collectively, Defendants Think) engaged in fraudulent actions to prevent
Plaintiffs’ collection of these real
estate commissions. The Second Amended Complaint contains causes of
action for (1.) breach of contract, (2.) fraud (concealment), (3.) tortious
interference with contract, (4.) misappropriation of trade secrets, and (5.)
tortious interference with prospective economic advantage. 
 
            Defendants Coralyn Wahlberg, Claudia
Pardon, and Think RE Management, Inc. (collectively, Defendants Think) now demur
to the second, third, and fifth causes of action in the Second Amended
Complaint. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer.[1]

 
            The
demurrer is sustained as to the second and fifth causes of action and overruled
as to the third cause of action.  
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a);
see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of
a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading by raising questions
of law. (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280,
286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to
substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . . .”
’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In
applying these standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v.
Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
 
Second Cause of Action for Fraud:
 
            Defendants
Think demur to the second cause of action for fraudulent concealment on the
grounds that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts sufficient to state a claim. 
 
            Fraud
requires an express or implied false representation, concealment of a material
fact that the defendant had a duty to disclose, or a promise made without the
intention to perform. (Pearson v. Norton (1964) 230 Cal.App.2d 1, 7.)
 
Here, the second cause of action is
ill defined. Despite labeling this cause of action as claim for concealment,
the SAC alleges “Defendants, and each of them, represented to Plaintiff that
they understood the terms of the Agreement, and would abide by them.” (SAC ¶
45.) Further, the SAC alleges “Plaintiff relied on these representations in
providing marketing information and leads on potential sales to Defendants, as
part of the Agreements entered into with Defendants.” (SAC ¶ 47.) Thus, to
some extent, the second cause of action relies on certain affirmative representations
for the basis of the fraud. 
 
The elements
of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are: (1) a
misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to defraud or induce
reliance; (4) actual reliance by the plaintiff; and (5) resulting damage. (Conroy
v. Regents of University of California (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1255; Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 173; Civ. Code, § 1709.)
Further, fraud, unlike most claims in tort, requires that each element must be
pled with specificity. (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59,
73.) That is,
generally, “[i]n California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading
facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
 
In this case, the SAC alleges “the
defendants” made the statement, with no particularities of “ ‘how, when, where,
to whom, and by what means.’” (Stansfield v. Starkey, supra, 220
Cal.App.3d at p. 73.) As such, the cause of action alleges representations but
lacks the requisite specificity. 
 
            Additionally,
the allegations as to concealment and promise
without intent to perform are no more specific. In fact,
these allegations appear to be a conflation of a duty to disclose and promise
without an intent to perform. (SAC ¶ 35.) 
 
 To state a claim for fraudulent
inducement-concealment, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) the defendant “concealed or
suppressed a material fact,” (2) the defendant was “under a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant “intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff,” (4) the
plaintiff was “unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–11.) 
 
As to the
requisite specificity, some cases suggest a “softening” of the requirement that
all claims for fraud must be pled with the same high level of specificity where
the allegations of the complaint make clear the defendant already has “ ‘full
information concerning the facts of the controversy.’ “ (Committee on
Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
217, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Californians for
Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation
of the specificity requirement is particularly appropriate
in concealment case -- where unlike intentional misrepresentation
which requires some affirmative act like an assertion or promise -- a
fraudulent concealment is the absence of something, the suppression
of a fact. (Civ. Code § 1710.) 
            
            However,
even acknowledging the lessened specificity requirement for fraudulent
concealment, the Court finds Plaintiffs have failed to state a claim against
Defendants Wahlberg and Pardon – and, by extension, THINK. The entirety of the
fraudulent concealment claim is based on Plaintiff’s conclusory allegations
that Defendants entered into the Agreements but never intended to comply with
the terms of their Agreements. (SAC ¶¶ 43-51.) 
 
This theory of a failure to disclose
the wrongful intent fails as matter of law. “The general duty is not to warn of
the intent to commit wrongful acts, but to refrain from committing them.” (LiMandri v.
Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 338.) 
 
Lastly, the SAC does not allege facts
showing a lack of intent to perform the Agreement because the SAC is unclear
how Defendants Wahlberg and Pardon failed to “abide by their signed Agreements
. . ..” (SAC ¶ 34.) The SAC only alleges that Defendant Wahlberg and Pardon “recruited
numerous active [Plaintiff] Team Members as well as past members.” (SAC ¶ 35.) There
is no explanation as to what legal duty they had not to undertake these actions
or to disclose this intent not to undertake these actions. 
 
This claim fails as a matter of law.
The demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained. The Court is dubious
that Plaintiff can state a claim on this theory, but will permit a final
opportunity to do so.
 
Third Cause of Action for Tortious Interference with
Contract:
 
            Defendants
Think also demur to the third cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has
failed to state a claim.
 
“The elements
which a plaintiff must plead to state the cause of action for intentional
interference with contractual relations are (1) a valid contract between
plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant's knowledge of this contract; (3)
defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v.
Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126.)
 
Here, the SAC alleges Defendants
Think served “as broker for the eleven transactions at issue, keeping funds
they knew needed to be shared with Plaintiff under the Agreement, and taking actions
to disrupt payments on that contractual relationship.” (SAC ¶ 55.) The SAC
further alleges that Defendants Think “enticed [Defendant Ticehurst] to close
transactions with them with the promise of higher commission payment and to
help deny the fees that were owed to Plaintiff.” (SAC ¶ 56.) These allegations
are sufficient to show Defendants’ intent to induce a breach of Plaintiff’s
contract with Defendant Ticehurst.  
 
Contrary to the argument on
demurrer, a claim for intentional interference with contractual relations
does not require a showing that “THINK’s conduct that either prevented performance or made
performance more expensive or difficult.” (Dem. 4:21-22.) Rather, this showing
is merely an alternative to demonstrating an actual breach. (See Pacific Gas
& Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1129
[“Plaintiff need not allege an actual or inevitable breach of contract in order
to state a claim for disruption of contractual relations. We have recognized
that interference with the plaintiff's performance may give rise to a claim for
interference with contractual relations if plaintiff's performance is made more
costly or more burdensome.”].) Here, Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ conduct
induced Defendant Ticehurst’s actual breach of a contract. 
 
Moreover, Defendants’
reliance on Diodes,
Inv. v. Frazen
(1968) 260 Cal.App.2d 244 is not well taken. The court in Diodes, Inc. v.
Franzen reiterated the so-called privilege of competition, as applied in
the context of employment relations, as follows: 
 
“Even though the relationship
between an employer and his employee is an advantageous one, no actionable
wrong is committed by a competitor who solicits his competitor's employees or
who hires away one or more of his competitor's employees who are not under
contract, so long as the inducement to leave is not accompanied by unlawful
action. [¶]
However, if either the defecting
employee or the competitor uses unfair or deceptive means to effectuate new
employment, or either of them is guilty of some concomitant, unconscionable
conduct, the injured former employer has a cause of action to recover for the
detriment he has thereby suffered.” (Id. at 255.) 
 
This case did not discuss a breach
of contract, actions to induce a breach of contract, or otherwise suggest that the
“privilege of competition” permits causing a breach of another parties’
contract. 
 
            The demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled.



Fifth Cause of Action for Tortious Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage:
 
            Defendants
Think also demur to the fifth cause of action on grounds that Plaintiff has
failed to allege facts sufficient to state a claim.
 
“The tort of
intentional or negligent interference with prospective economic advantage
imposes liability for improper methods of disrupting or diverting the business
relationship of another which fall outside the boundaries of fair competition.
[Citation.] It is premised upon the principle, ‘ “[e]veryone has the right to
establish and conduct a lawful business and is entitled to the protection of
organized society, through its courts, whenever that right is unlawfully
invaded.” ’ ” (Settimo Associates v. Environ Systems, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 842, 845.) The elements of the tort include “(1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the
defendant.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th
1134, 1153, 1164–1165.)
 
            To
meet the third element, a plaintiff must demonstrate intentional acts by the
defendant, that are wrongful apart from the interference itself, designed to
disrupt the relationship; this element requires a showing that the defendant
“engaged in conduct that was wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact
of interference itself” such as “conduct that is recognized as anticompetitive
under established state and federal positive law.” (Della Penna v. Toyota
Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 393; see also S
Products, Inc. v. Matsushita Electric Corp. of America (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 168.) An act is not made independently wrongful merely because of
improper motives. (Korea Supply Co., supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 1158.)
 
            Here, the SAC
fails to allege independently tortious conduct to support the interference
element. (SAC ¶ 73, 75.) First, Plaintiff alleges all Defendants interfered
with Plaintiff’s business “by making use of marketing work, resources, trade
secrets, and client information gathered by Plaintiff.” (SAC ¶ 73.) However,
these allegations of Defendants purportedly using trade secrets and Plaintiff’s
other property is too vague and conclusory to demonstrate independently
wrongful conduct.[2]  
 
Further, the allegations that Defendants
THINK “enticed” Defendant Ticehurst to use them as broker for the eleven transactions
at issue by offering “an exceptionally low commission on these transactions”
also does not satisfy the independently wrongful element of this tort where
Plaintiff has not demonstrated that offering Ticehurst a more competitive
commission structure was wrongful.  
 
            The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained.
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer
is sustained as to the second and fifth causes of action and overruled as to
the third cause of action. Plaintiff shall have leave to amend. The amended
complaint shall be served and filed on or before March 7, 2024. 


