  Case Number:  23STCV23596    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



NKMD
  MGMT, LLC 
                           
         vs.
 
MANIFAITH,
  LLC
 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV23596 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 9, 2024



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This action is stayed pending the
completion of arbitration. 
 
            On
9/28/2024, Plaintiff NKMD MGMT, LLC filed suit against Manifaith, LLC, Brandon
Esparza, Shelby Harvey, and Seung Song, alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2)
breach of confidence; (3) fraud and deceit; and (4) declaratory relief. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel arbitration of its own Complaint, and to stay
proceedings. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that on 6/22/2022[1],
Plaintiff and Defendant Manifaith entered into a Work for Hire Agreement (WFH
Agreement) which contained an arbitration clause. (Mhtar Decl., Exh. 1.)
Defendant Esparza accepted the agreement on behalf of Defendant Manifaith. 
 
            The
arbitration clause provided:
 
Any dispute
arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or any breach thereof, shall be
resolved by binding arbitration in Los Angeles, California accordance with the
Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect, and
judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court
of competent jurisdiction. All costs and expenses, including attorney's fees,
relating to the resolution of any such dispute shall be borne by the party
incurring such costs and expenses. Notwithstanding their promise to arbitrate
all disputes, the Parties acknowledge that either of them may seek emergency or
temporary injunctive relief, but absolutely no other relief, in any court of
competent jurisdiction. All other disputes, claims and remedies shall be
settled by arbitration 
 
            (Exh.
1.) 
 
Plaintiff
submitted evidence that on 1/20/2023, Plaintiff and Defendant Harvey entered
into a Severance Agreement which contained an arbitration clause. (Mhtar Decl.,
Exh. 2.) 
 
The
arbitration clause provided:
 
Except for
claims for emergency equitable or injunctive relief which cannot be timely
address through arbitration, the Parties agree to submit any claim or dispute
arising out of the terms of this Agreement to private and confidential
arbitration by a single neutral arbitrator through Judicial Arbitration and
Mediation Services, Inc. (“JAMS”)….
 
            (Exh.
2.) 
 
Plaintiff
submitted evidence that on 1/28/2023, Plaintiff and Defendant Song entered into
a Severance Agreement which contained an arbitration clause. (Mhtar Decl., Exh.
3.)  
 
The
arbitration clause provided:
 
Except for
claims for emergency equitable or injunctive relief which cannot be timely
address through arbitration, the Parties agree to submit any claim or dispute
arising out of the terms of this Agreement to private and confidential
arbitration by a single neutral arbitrator through Judicial Arbitration and
Mediation Services, Inc. (“JAMS”)….
 
            (Exh.
3.) 
 
      Here, Plaintiff’s claims arise out of
allegations that while Defendants were working for Plaintiff pursuant to the
Work for Hire Agreement, they disclosed and used “certain confidential, proprietary,
and trade secret information exclusively owned by Plaintiff NKMD to provide
similar services to TIEV.” (Complaint ¶ 18.) Plaintiff further alleges that
Defendants breached the terms of their severance agreements by engaging in
competition against Plaintiff and using Plaintiff’s “confidential, proprietary,
and trade secret information in order to solicit the same vendors, partners,
patients, and any former and current employees connected to Plaintiff.”
(Complaint ¶ 25.)  
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s substantial invocation of
litigation machinery is inconsistent with an intent to arbitrate and has
prejudiced Defendants. 
 
First, as
evidence of waiver, Defendants note that Plaintiff waited nearly a year after
filing its complaint to seek arbitration, it has actively litigated this case
and served discovery on all defendants. Moreover, Defendants contend that
Manifaith and Esparza have filed a Cross-Complaint, expended resources
responding to NKMD’s discovery requests, and prepared their defense in
litigation. (DVN ¶ 5.) 
 
Waiver can be
established where the delay and participation in litigation cause prejudice to
the opposing party. (Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC
(2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 375). Prejudice is shown where the opposing party
expends significant time and resources in litigation, including filing
responsive pleadings, such as the Cross-Complaint, and conducting discovery. (Carmona
v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 86).
 
Second, Defendants
argue that the majority of Plaintiff’s claims—including the noncompete and
confidentiality claims—are based on a Non-Compete Agreement (NC Agreement)
which does not contain an arbitration clause, rather than the WFH Agreement which
does. Moreover, a Cross-Complaint has been filed in this case which names
parties—Most Favored Nations LLC, NakedMD, Inc., Justin Ha, and Jane Ha—who were not parties to the WFH
Agreement and did not sign any arbitration agreement.
 
However, as to the issue of waiver, Plaintiff’s counsel
first raised the issue of arbitration in December 2023, and sought a
stipulation from the parties to arbitrate. Since December 2023, no further
actions in the matter have been taken to further the underlying action,
including the filing of Plaintiff NKMD's First Amended Complaint, in
consideration of potential arbitration. (Mhtar Decl. 7.)  Accordingly, while the Court notes that
Plaintiff has engaged in conduct inconsistent with a right to arbitrate, it is
insufficiently inconsistent to constitute waiver. (St. Agnes Medical Center
v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1196.)
 
As to the
second point, Exhibit 2 of Plaintiff’s motion makes clear that the Separation
Agreements, which contain non-compete and trade-secret protection clauses, do
contain arbitration clauses. As such, the Court finds Plaintiff’s noncompete
and confidentiality claims fall within the scope of the arbitration agreements.

 
Finally,
Defendants argue that even if the arbitration agreements are enforceable, there
are other issues which render arbitration unnecessary or impractical. However,
to the extent that there are issues not subject to arbitration, the Court
orders arbitration to proceed, and stays this action pending the outcome of
arbitration.  
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  


