 Case Number:  23LBCV01317    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
On July 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Heirs
and Estate of Jerrell Lee Williams Jr. and Darlene McCarty filed this action against
Defendants VeoRide, Inc. (Veo); City of Long Beach; County of Los Angeles; the
City of Long Beach Police Department; the Bull Bar; Mlouks, LLC; the Good Bar;
Nicholas Mlouk; and Does 1 through 200 for (1) general negligence, (2) products
liability, (3) dangerous condition of public property, (4) wrongful death, and
(5) survival.  On October 16, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed an operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Veo and
Does 1 through 200 for (1) general negligence, (2) products liability, (3)
wrongful death, and (4) survival.
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

Evidentiary Objections

In their opposition papers, Plaintiffs
submit evidentiary objections to Veo’s evidence. The Court OVERRULES objection
number (4) and SUSTAINS objections numbered (1), (2), and (3).

Request for Judicial
     Notice

In their opposition papers,
Plaintiffs request judicial notice of (1) the City of Long Beach’s 2024 Shared
Micromobility Program Regulations, (2) the Long Beach Municipal Code, and (3) two
reports issued by the City of Long Beach Department of Public Works.  Because the Court may take judicial notice of
the regulations of public entities pursuant to Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (b) and the reports of a municipal government’s executive
department pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c), the Court
GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request.  (See
Geraghty v. Shalizi (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 593, 602, fn. 4 [taking judicial
notice of report from city budget analysts].)

Legal Standard for
     Summary Judgment or Adjudication 

A motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a
mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether,
despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  It must be granted “if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the opposing party must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ “A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)¿

Undisputed Material
     Facts

The following facts are undisputed
by the parties. XDS Technology Limited manufactures the Veo Astro 3 scooter for
Veo.  (Defendant’s Separate Statement
(DSS), ¶ 1.)  On July 17, 2021, Williams
left a bar in the early hours of the morning and accessed one of these scooters
(the Veo scooter) without signing in on its mobile application.  (DSS, ¶ 2.) 
At approximately 3:30 AM, Williams drove the Veo scooter at the
intersection of 7th Street and Ohio Avenue in Long Beach when a vehicle struck
and killed Williams.  (DSS, ¶ 3.)  When the collision occurred, the Veo scooter
was not connected to Veo’s network. 
(DSS, ¶ 9.)

General Negligence

             
i.       
Defendant’s Moving Arguments
Veo argues Plaintiffs cannot
establish a negligence clam against Veo because Veo did not owe a duty of care
to Williams.  Veo contends they do not have
a duty to control the conduct of third persons or warn those endangered by such
conduct in absence of a special relationship to the third person or the victim.  Here, Veo maintains there was no special
relationship between Veo and Williams or any involved third party.  While Williams utilized one of Veo’s scooters,
Veo argues Williams cannot be considered a customer as Williams was an
unauthorized user of a scooter that had been disconnected from Veo’s network.  And even if Veo was in a special relationship,
Veo contends the factors in Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108 (Rowland)
weigh against finding a duty.    
            
ii.       
Opposition Arguments
Plaintiffs argue Veo owed a duty to
Williams and members of the public as Veo was required by city regulation to
report missing scooters.  Plaintiffs also
contend Veo owed a duty as a result of its misfeasance in failing to report the
missing scooters which placed Williams and members of the public in greater
danger.  
           
iii.       
Analysis
Essential to a cause of action for
negligence is the legal determination that the defendant owed a duty of care.  (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11
Cal.5th 204, 213.)  “[G]enerally a person
has no duty to control the conduct of a third person, nor to warn those
endangered by such conduct, in the absence of a ‘special relationship’ either
to the third person or to the victim.”  (Pamela
L. v. Farmer (1980) 112 Cal.App.3d 206, 209.)  But this rule “has no application where the
defendant, through his or her own action (misfeasance) has made the plaintiff’s
position worse and has created a foreseeable risk of harm from the third
person.  In such cases the question of
duty is governed by the standards of ordinary care.”  (Ibid.)  Furthermore, “[u]nder the doctrine of
negligence per se, compliance with the standard of conduct established by the
relevant statute, ordinance, or regulation is adopted as the duty of care.”  (Jones v. Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th
1200, 1210.)  Negligence per se requires
that “(1) the defendant violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a
public entity; (2) the violation proximately caused death or injury to person
or property; (3) the death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature
of which the statute, ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4)
the person suffering the death or the injury to his person or property was one
of the class of persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or
regulation was adopted.”  (Galvez v.
Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420.)
In this case, there can be no doubt
that Veo owed a duty of care in providing scooters to authorized users.  But to the extent Veo claims they do not owe
a duty to Williams because Williams was an unauthorized user, the authorities
they have cited do not support this proposition.  In Robinson v. Bird Rides, Inc. (N.D.
Ga. May 5, 2020, No. 1:19-cv-05295) 2020 WL 2129241, a federal district court found
a scooter company did not owe a duty under Georgia law to protect third-party cyclists
from scooters that were abandoned in the street.  (Id., at p. * 2.)  In Woodhouse v. Bird Rides, Inc. (W.D.
Tex. May 17, 2021, No. SA-20-CV-01113-XR) 2021 WL 1986427, a federal district
court found a scooter company did not owe a duty to protect third-party
pedestrians from scooter customers.  (Id.,
at p. *6.)  In Springsteen v. Bird
Rides, Inc. (D. Utah 2023) 666 F.Supp.3d 1170, a federal district court found
a scooter company did not owe a duty to protect a third-party pedestrian from
the tripping hazards posed by scooters that unknown persons abandoned.  (Id., at p. 1175-1175.)  And in Hacala v. Bird Rides, Inc. (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 292 (Hacala), the Second District Court of Appeal held a
scooter company owed a duty of care to a pedestrian who tripped over one of
their scooters which arose from the scooter company’s duty to use ordinary care
in the management of their property.  (Id.,
at p. 313.)
Unlike the above cases, the present
action does not involve a third-party pedestrian or cyclist attempting to hold
Veo liable for the improper placement or use of its scooters.  And to the extent Veo claims it only owes
duties to authorized users and not unauthorized users of its scooters, Veo has
failed to provide authority that supports this contention.  Furthermore, “[t]he general rule in
California is that ‘[e]veryone is responsible . . . for an injury occasioned to
another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his
or her property or person....”  (Cabral
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 764, 771, quoting Civ. Code, §
1714, subd. (a).)  As in Hacala,
this rule imposes a duty on Veo to act with ordinary care when managing their
scooters.  Veo argues Hacala is
distinguishable from the present case because Veo did not have possessory
control over the Veo scooter as Veo could not locate it, monitor its location,
or control its use.  But Veo’s separate
statement fails to establish this was the case. 
While it is undisputed that the Veo scooter was not connected to Veo’s
network at the time of the accident (DSS, ¶ 9), the effects of this lack of
connection are unclear.  Veo states that
when a scooter is “vandalized,” it goes off network and Veo loses both control
and information.  (DSS, ¶ 8.)  But Veo’s separate statement fails to address
if the Veo scooter at issue was vandalized and why it lost connection to Veo’s
network.  This is not an insignificant
omission as it leaves open the possibility that the loss of connection to Veo’s
network was an internal issue and goes directly to Veo’s duty to manage its
scooters with ordinary care.  Furthermore, while Veo’s separate statement
states Veo cannot confirm the functionality of a vehicle once it is
off-network, it does not state if Veo loses the ability to locate or track the
scooters.
Accordingly, because Veo has failed
to establish it did not owe any duty to Williams, Veo is not entitled to
summary judgment or adjudication of this cause of action.

Products Liability

             
i.       
Defendant’s Moving Arguments
Veo argues Plaintiffs cannot
establish a claim for products liability against Veo because they do not have
evidentiary support of any defect in the Veo scooter’s design.  Veo also contends they do not have any
evidence that a defect in the Veo scooter’s design played a role in Williams’s
accident.     
            
ii.       
Opposition Arguments
Plaintiffs argue they can establish
triable issues of fact with regards to defects including the claim that the Veo
scooter lacked proper warnings and could be operated in an unsafe manner.
           
iii.       
Analysis
In a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication, “a moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of
proof under the summary judgment statute: ‘The defendant may rely upon
factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued
upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and
true technique of negating (“disproving”) an essential element of the
plaintiff's cause of action.’”  (Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103, quoting Brantley v. Pisaro (1996)
42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  
Here, Veo does neither.  On the issue of alleged defects, Veo’s
separate statement first states that Plaintiffs believed the Veo scooter’s
defects included the fact that it was accessible at night without the proper
lighting, reflectors, and safety constructs. 
(DSS, ¶ 12.)  Veo’s separate
statement then states that the Veo scooter’s headlight was on at the time of
the collision.  (DSS, ¶ 13.)  But the only evidence offered in support of
this fact is Veo’s own discovery responses in which Veo states a police report
indicates that surveillance footage shows the headlights of the Veo
scooter.  (Wackman Decl., Ex. 7, p. 3:17-20,
4:21-24, 5:11-14.)  Because Veo’s
discovery response is based on police reports which constitute inadmissible
hearsay (See People v. McVey (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 405, 415), Veo’s
evidence is inadmissible and this fact is unsupported.  Thus, triable issues of fact remain with
regards to whether the Veo scooter’s headlights were operative.  
On the issue of causation, Veo argues
there is no indication the design of the Veo scooter played any role in
Williams’s accident as Williams was “struck by an intoxicated and speeding
driver.”  But no material facts in Veo’s
separate statement support this claim. 
Instead, the only fact offered states the driver that hit Williams pled
nolo contendere to vehicular homicide in violation of Penal Code section 192,
subdivision (c)(1).  No facts state if
the driver was intoxicated or speeding as suggested by Veo.  Thus, triable issues of fact also remain with
regards to whether the Veo scooter’s alleged defects were the cause of
Williams’s fatal accident.
Accordingly, because Veo has failed
to establish Plaintiffs cannot prove the elements of their products liability
claim, Veo is not entitled to summary judgment or adjudication of this cause of
action.

Wrongful Death and
     Survival Claims

Veo’s motion for summary judgment
or adjudication does not specifically address Plaintiffs’ claims for wrongful
death and survival.  Because these causes
of action are derivative of Plaintiffs’ negligence and products liability
claims, Veo is not entitled to summary judgment or adjudication of these causes
of action for the same reasons outlined above.

Conclusion

Veo has failed to carry their initial
burden of demonstrating an absence of triable issues of material fact with
regards to Plaintiffs’ causes of action. 
Veo’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication is therefore denied.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.