 Case Number:  24LBCV00100    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Davida Wright (Plaintiff) filed
this action against Ford Motor Company (Defendant) and Does 1 through 10 on
January 17, 2024. The complaint alleges causes of action for failure to
repurchase/replace, failure to complete repairs within 30 days, breach of
express warranty, breach of implied warranty of merchantability, violation of
the Magnusson Moss Warranty Act, violation of the Business and Professions
Code, and violation of a service contract. The complaint alleges Plaintiff purchased
a 2018 Lincoln MKC (the Vehicle) from Defendant and that the Vehicle began
presenting defects and nonconformities during the warranty period. The
complaint also alleges that Defendant violated the Song-Beverly Warranty Act by
failing to promptly service, repair, or replace the vehicle.
Defendant filed the instant
demurrer on March 29, 2024, challenging the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s sixth
and seventh causes of action.
 
2.     Demurrer
a.    
Meet and Confer 
On February 23, 2024, Defendant’s
counsel, Douglas A. Proudfoot, sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer
letter stating his intent to file a demurrer and outlining the legal arguments
supporting the demurrer. (Declaration of Douglas A. Proudfoot [Proudfoot Decl.],
¶ 3.) Defendant did not attach the letter to the declaration. Plaintiff’s
counsel did not reply to the correspondence. (Ibid.) Subsequently, Proudfoot
attempted to reach Plaintiff’s counsel via phone to discuss the issues raised
in the demurrer, but Plaintiff’s counsel has not responded. (Id., at ¶
4.) Plaintiff does not oppose Proudfoot’s statements.
The declaration satisfies the meet
and confer requirement. 
 
b.    
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the
form or content of the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the function of the
demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of
the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to
be true, however improbable they may be. 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan 39 (1985) Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered
(i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under Civil Procedure
Code section 430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from
which judicial notice may be taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the
entire complaint or any cause of action within]. Specifically, a demurrer may
be brought per section 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted. Per section 430.10(a), a demurrer may be brought
where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action
alleged in the pleading. Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.) And, if
the facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are
incorporated by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in
the incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label
given to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be
overruled if the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid
claim for relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction
courts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
Finally, Civil Procedure Code
section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)
 
c.    
Analysis 
 
Plaintiff’s
Sixth Cause of Action seeking injunctive relief and restitution fails to state
facts establishing no remedy at law if available.
Generally, the Song-Beverly Act
does not restrict remedies that are otherwise available. (Civ. Code, § 1790.4.)
However, because Unfair Competition Law (UCL) claims are equitable in nature, a
plaintiff seeking UCL remedies must establish that no adequate remedy at law is
available. (Knox v. Phoenix Leasing, Inc. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1357,
1368; Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 24 Cal.4th 1134,
1144; see also Prudential Home Mortgage Company v. Superior Court (1998)
66 Cal.App.4th 1236, 1249 [holding the UCL “is subject to fundamental equitable
principles, including inadequacy of the legal remedy”].)
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
does not sufficiently plead the sixth cause of action because in order to seek
injunctive relief under Business and Professions Code section 17200, Plaintiff
must establish there is no adequate remedy at law available. Specifically,
Defendant notes that Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief and restitution (Compl,
¶ 38.) even though other viable causes of action are available for breach of
express and implied warranties under the Song-Beverly Act. Plaintiff does not
oppose.
The court finds that Plaintiff does
not plead sufficient facts to establish that no other remedies at law exist. 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
sustained on this ground. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Seventh Cause of Action fails to state facts supporting a claim for service contract
violations because Plaintiff does not plead facts establishing Defendant is
subject to the service contract.
“Except as otherwise expressly
provided in the service contract, every service contract shall obligate the
service contractor to provide to the buyer of the product all of the services
and functional parts that may be necessary to maintain proper operation of the
entire product under normal operation and service for the duration of the
service contract and without additional charge.” (Civ. Code, § 1794.4, subd.
(b).) “Warranties and service contracts, though they may sometimes overlap, are
intended by the Legislature to fall into distinct categories: a warranty specifies
a product is fit and defect-free, whereas a service contract is an agreement to
provide repair services, a kind of insurance . . . generally
purchased for an additional cost. [Citation.]” (Dell, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 911, 915, quoting Gavaldon v. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004)
32 Cal.4th 1246, 1258, fn. Omitted; see Civ. Code, § 1794.4, subd. (a).)
Here, Defendant argues Plaintiff
failed to establish a service contract claim against Defendant because
Plaintiff does not allege facts establishing that Defendant was the service
contractor under the service contract. The complaint alleges that Plaintiff
purchased the service contract from Echo Park Automative (Compl., ¶ 40.), and
thus, Echo Park Automotive is the service contractor. Plaintiff does not
oppose.
The court finds that Plaintiff
failed to allege facts establishing Defendant as the service contractor liable
under the service contract. 
Accordingly, the Court sustains the
demurrer on this ground.
 
3.     Conclusion
Because Plaintiff inadequately
pleads causes of action for UCL violations and service contract violations, Defendant’s
demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend. 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email
must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the
tentative.