 Case Number:  23LBCV01651    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Daniel Kwan Haeng Lee (Plaintiff)
filed this action against JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Successor-in-Interest
for WaMu Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates Series 2008-AR12 and Does 1-25 for
quiet title, slander of title, cancellation and expungement of void instrument,
and declaratory relief. Plaintiff filed the complaint on September 6, 2023.
On October 9, 2023, JP Morgan Chase
Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank NA (Defendants) filed a demurrer and motion to strike
directed at the complaint. On March 6, 2024, prior to the hearing on the
pleading challenge, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint (FAC). The FAC
includes causes of action for cancellation and expungement of void instruments
and declaratory relief.
On September 11, 2024, the Court
sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC without leave to amend.
2.     Motion
for Reconsideration
On August 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a motion for reconsideration of the ruling sustaining the demurrer without
leave to amend. Plaintiff contends there are new or different facts,
circumstances, or law that support reconsideration per Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008 subd. (b). Specifically, Plaintiff contends he has discovered that
his revocable family trust instrument shows explicit and mutual intent by all
settlors to hold the property as a community property. Additionally, he
contends the recent court case of Haggerty v. Thornton (2024) 15 Cal.5th
729 makes clear that the community property presumption overrides the title
presumption.
            On
September 17, 2024, Defendants filed their opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration. Defendants contend Plaintiff does not demonstrate new or
different facts, circumstances, or law that were not available during the
demurrer proceedings. Further, Defendants argue that the cases Plaintiff cites are
not new authority.
            On
September 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed his reply. Plaintiff restates his argument
that his motion for reconsideration is based on newly discovered facts.
            On September
30, 2024, Plaintiff submitted an objection raising multiple arguments to the
Court’s tentative ruling denying Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration. Plaintiff
argues that he presented new evidence of Defendant’s fraudulent conduct in
addition to new evidence from the trust documents. Plaintiff argues that res
judicata does not bar Plaintiff’s FAC. Plaintiff further argues that the Court
improperly dismissed the demurrer with prejudice. Lastly, Plaintiff raises due
process concerns based on the Courts Minute Order from August 19, 2024,
regarding Plaintiff’s disability and the structure of oral arguments.
a.    
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section
1008 governs motions for consideration. “When an application for an order has
been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order
may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of
the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and
to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008
subd. (a).)
A party seeking reconsideration of
a prior order based on “new or different facts, circumstances or law” must
provide a satisfactory explanation for failing to present the information at
the first hearing; i.e., a showing of reasonable diligence. (Garcia v.
Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.) “The burden under section
1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on
the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that
the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or
produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 206, 211-23.) A motion for reconsideration is properly
denied where based on evidence that could have been presented in connection
with the original motion. (Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1452, 1460.) A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to
reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts, circumstances, or
law.” (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499.)
b.    
Motion for Reconsideration 
Plaintiff argues that new or
different facts or circumstances were discovered regarding Plaintiff’s
revocable family trust instrument. Specifically, his revocable family trust
instrument shows explicit and mutual intent by all settlors to hold the
property as a community property and there is no other explicit agreement
stating otherwise. 
Here, Plaintiff has not shown that his
revocable family trust instrument was new or previously inaccessible with
reasonable diligence. The trust instrument is not new. It was signed and dated
by Plaintiff on July 28, 2006. (Motion for Reconsideration, Exh. B.) Plaintiff
states that his discovery of the trust instrument was delayed because the trust
instrument was “stored in a remote location.” (Lee Decl., ¶ 6.) However, Plaintiff
was aware of the revocable family trust during the course of this action. Plaintiff
references the family trust in his FAC and includes the corresponding grant
deed. (FAC, ¶ 2 and Exh. 2.) Plaintiff does not explain why he could not access
the trust instrument in the remote location earlier. Plaintiff does not meet his
burden under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 subd. (a) of why this trust
instrument could not be produced earlier. (See Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.)
            Plaintiff further
objects to the Court’s tentative ruling based on the Court’s failure to
consider new evidence regarding a notice of default (NOD), notice of trustee
sale (NOTS), and fraudulent actions by Defendants. However, Plaintiff’s motion
for reconsideration does not mention any facts regarding a NOD, NOTS, or new
fraudulent actions. Plaintiff raises these for the first time in its reply to
Defendants’ opposition. (Reply, p. 2.) The Court cannot consider new facts
raised in Plaintiff’s reply. (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th
1522, 1538 [“[p]oints raised for the first time in a reply brief will
ordinarily not be considered, because such consideration would deprive the
respondent of an opportunity to counter the argument.”].) Further, Plaintiff
does not explain how this is new information and why the information was not
previously accessible. Therefore, Plaintiff has not raised new information
regarding a NOD, NOTS, or fraudulent actions.
            Next,
Plaintiff argues that new case law constitutes a basis for reconsideration.
Plaintiff provides three cases: (1) Haggerty v. Thornton (2024) 15
Cal.5th 729, (2) In Re Brace (2020) 9 Cal.5th 903, and (3) Trenk v.
Soheili (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 1033. This case law is not new. All three of
these cases were decided before Defendants filed their demurrer on April 5,
2024. Further, Trenk is distinguishable from the instant action. In Trenk,
the court considered whether a married couple owned their residence as
community property since they held the property as joint tenants. (Trenk,
supra, 58 Cal.App.5th at 1044-45.) Here, Plaintiff’s wife held the title
as her sole and separate property. Accordingly, Plaintiff does not provide new
or different law warranting reconsideration of the demurrer.
            Lastly, Plaintiff’s
objections regarding the structure of oral arguments based on his disability
are not properly raised in a motion for reconsideration. The standard for a
motion for reconsideration is that the Plaintiff raises “new or different facts,
circumstances, or law.” (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1008 subd. (a).) In lieu of oral
arguments, Plaintiff was permitted to provide the instant written opposition to
the tentative rulings. 
            Plaintiff
has not raised new facts, circumstances, or law warranting reconsideration of
the Court’s ruling on the demurrer. Accordingly, the Court denied Plaintiff’s
motion for reconsideration.
3.     Motion
for Leave to Amend SAC
On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint, setting the motion for
hearing on October 1, 2024. The hearing was scheduled for after the Court ruled
on the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint. 
On September 17, 2024, Defendants
filed their opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. Defendants oppose the motion on
the grounds that the demurrer was sustained without leave to amend and that
leave to amend would be futile. On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply arguing
that there are new facts, and that Defendants have not shown prejudice. 
On October 15, 2024, Plaintiff
submitted his objections to the Court’s tentative ruling on the motion for
reconsideration and motion for leave to amend. In connection with the leave to
amend, Plaintiff argues the Court’s timeline incorrectly stated that Plaintiff
filed his motion for leave to amend after the Court’s ruling on the demurrer.
a.    
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (a)(1) states: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms, as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”   
Judicial policy favors resolution
of all disputed matters between the parties, and therefore, courts have held
that “there is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler
v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura
v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are
bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the
adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].) 

Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered; and
(2) state what allegations are proposed to be deleted from or added to the
previous pleading and where such allegations are located. Rule 3.1324(b)
requires a separate declaration that accompanies the motion, stating: “(1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”  
b.    
Motion for Leave to Amend  
Plaintiff seeks leave to amend to
(1) correct party names and add parties, (2) add causes of action for fraud and
wrongful foreclosure, (3) remove a cause of action for declaratory relief, (4) fix
clerical errors, and (5) add facts to the causes of action. 
Firstly, Plaintiff’s motion for
leave to amend meets the procedural requirements articulated in California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a). Plaintiff attaches the proposed SAC and states
and locates the proposed allegations. (Motion for Leave to Amend, Exh. 1 and
Appendix.) As for California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b), Plaintiff includes
a declaration with the effect of the proposed amendments and why it is
necessary and proper. (Lee Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff states that he discovered new
facts after April 24, 2024, but does not explain why the request for amendment
was not made at that time. (Lee Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)
Next, Plaintiff argues that the
proposed amendments are warranted in furtherance of justice. However, Plaintiff
fails to show how the proposed SAC would cure the defects detailed in the
Court’s ruling sustaining the demurrer to the FAC without leave to amend. Plaintiff
seeks to replace three Does with US Bank entities. However, these added named
defendants would not cure the defects in the demurrer. Defendant US Bank was a
moving party in the demurrer. The demurrer found that the FAC did not plead the
existence of a void deed of trust because Plaintiff’s wife was the sole owner.
(Minute Order, 8/8/24.) The addition of new US Bank defendants does not alter
that finding. 
Plaintiff’s amendments further do
not cure the defects in the FAC regarding his standing to bring these claims.
Plaintiff seeks to add two causes of action for fraud and wrongful foreclosure.
However, these new causes of action still fail for the same defect with Plaintiff’s
standing. Namely, that Plaintiff was not an owner of the property on the date
of the encumbrance. These causes of action rely on the same facts and documents
as the prior causes of action which the Court found Plaintiff did not have standing
to bring. Plaintiff’s objection that dismissal without prejudice is extreme
ignores the fact that Plaintiff’s new findings do not change the core defect
regarding Plaintiff’s standing. Plaintiff’s proposed amendments do not provide
facts supporting Plaintiff’s standing.
Plaintiff further objects to the
Court’s tentative ruling on the ground that the Court misstated the timeline.
However, while Plaintiff filed the motion before the ruling on the demurrer,
the hearing on the motion was not scheduled until October 1, 2024. The motion
was scheduled to be heard after the ruling on the demurrer.
Based on the foregoing, and because
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is denied, Plaintiff’s motion for leave
to amend to file a SAC is denied. 
4.     Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration is denied. 
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend
is denied.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.