  Case Number:  22LBCV00884    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Debra Thompson Crowe
filed this action against Defendants, Walmart, Inc., Wal-Mart Associates, Inc.,
Sam’s West, Inc., and Maria Varela for age discrimination, disability
discrimination, failure to engage in the interactive process, failure to
provide reasonable accommodation, harassment, retaliation, failure to prevent
harassment/discrimination/retaliation, and wrongful termination. Plaintiff’s
original complaint, filed on 11/30/22, is her operative complaint.
 
2.     Motion
to Exclude Expert Testimony

Legal Standard

Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2034.280, “(a) Within 20 days after the exchange described in 2034.260,
any party who engaged in the exchange may submit a supplemental expert witness
list containing the name and address of any experts who will express an opinion
on a subject to be covered by an expert designated by an adverse party to the
exchange, if the party supplementing an expert witness list has not previously
retained an expert to testify on that subject. [¶] (b) This supplemental list
shall be accompanied by an expert witness declaration under subdivision (c) of
Section 2034.260 concerning those additional experts, and by all discoverable
reports and writings, if any, made by those additional experts. [¶] (c) The
party shall also make those experts immediately available for a deposition
under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2034.410), which deposition may be
taken even though the time limit for discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with
2024.010) has expired.” (Ibid.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2034.300, “on objection of any party who has made a complete and timely
compliance with Section 2034.260, the trial court shall exclude from evidence
the expert opinion of any witness that is offered by any party who has
unreasonably failed to do any of the following: [¶] (a) List that witness as an
expert under Section 2034.260. [¶] (b) Submit an expert witness declaration.
[¶] (c) Produce reports and writings of expert witnesses under Section
2034.270. [¶] (d) Make that expert available for a deposition under Article 3
(commencing with Section 2034.410).” (Ibid.)
“Failure to comply with expert
designation rules may be found to be “unreasonable” when a party's conduct
gives the appearance of gamesmanship, such as undue rigidity in responding to
expert scheduling issues.” (Staub v. Kiley (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1437,
1447.) “Failure to comply with expert designation rules may be found to be
‘unreasonable’ when a party's conduct gives the appearance of gamesmanship,
such as undue rigidity in responding to expert scheduling issues. [Citation.]
The operative inquiry is whether the conduct being evaluated will compromise
these evident purposes of the discovery statutes: “to assist the parties and
the trier of fact in ascertaining the truth; to encourage settlement by
educating the parties as to the strengths of their claims and defenses; to
expedite and facilitate preparation and trial; to prevent delay; and to
safeguard against surprise.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
Further, even where nonmonetary
sanctions, such as the exclusion of evidence, “are called for, they should be
appropriate to the dereliction…. The sanctions the court may impose are such as
are suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the
objects of the discovery he seeks, but the court may not impose sanctions which
are designed not to accomplish the objects of discovery but to impose
punishment.” (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315,
1327 (cleaned up) (internal citations and quotations omitted); see also St.
Mary v. Super. Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 783-84; Do it Urself
Moving & Storage, Inc. v. Brown, Leifer, Slatkin & Berns (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 27, 35, superseded by statute on another ground as stated in Union
Bank v. Super. Ct. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 582-83.)
 

Relevant Facts

The parties do not dispute the
following facts.
Trial for this case was originally
scheduled for August 12, 2024. 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff served
on Defendants a demand for the exchange of expert witness information, with a
deadline set for June 24, 2024. On June 24, 2024, Defendants timely disclosed Dr.
Behnush Mortimer, Ph.D., CRC, CVE as an expert witness. However, Plaintiff
failed to comply with her own deadline and served her expert witness disclosure
on June 26, 2024. (Levitskaia Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 4.)
On July 16, 2024, Defendants served
their supplemental expert designation, identifying Kristopher M. McLaughlin as
a rebuttal expert. (Myers Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. C.)
On July 17, 2024, Defendants served
deposition notices for Plaintiff’s experts. After a pre-trial video conference
on July 18, 2024, Defendants’ counsel inquired about the availability of
Plaintiff’s experts. Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email later that day proposing
an alternative date.
On July 23, 2024, Plaintiffs
inquired about Defendants’ experts’ availability. Defendants advised that both
Dr. Mortimer and Mr. McLaughlin were available for deposition during the first
week of trial. 
During this same week, and on July
26, 2024, Mr. Myers, counsel for Plaintiffs, and Ms. Wrighten, counsel for
Defendants, engaged in multiple discussions surrounding expert witness
availability and the potential for trial continuances. Due to Ms. Wrighten’s
unavailability until August 16, 2024, Ms. Wrighten proposed continuing trial to
a date in October, which would have allowed for deposition of Defendants’
experts during the week of August 12. But, due to Mr. Meyers’ unavailability in
the months of September and October, Mr. Myers refused to stipulate to a trial
extension longer than one week. 
On July 28, 2024, the time limit
for expert discovery closed.
On July 30, 2024, Defendants
applied for an ex parte trial continuance.
On July 30, 2024, Mr. Myers again
inquired about the availability of Defendants’ experts for deposition. Ms.
Wrighten refused to make Defendants’ experts available for deposition on the
basis that Plaintiff failed to timely issue deposition notices for Defendants’
experts prior to the close of discovery, stating that “[t]he onus was on
Plaintiff to serve the notices before the close of discovery. You know that. If
you failed to do so, Plaintiff is precluded from that discovery. Again, you
know that.” (Myers Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. D.) And, further, that Defendants would not
“volunteer [their] experts for deposition when Plaintiff failed to timely
notice their depositions.” (Ibid.)
On August 5, 2024, at the hearing
on Defendants’ ex parte application for a trial continuance, the Court
granted a trial continuance to December 2, 2024. Plaintiff also raised an ex
parte application to advance the hearing on Plaintiff’s instant motion,
previously set for November 26, 2024, which the Court granted and advanced to
October 24, 2024. 
In issuing its ruling, the Court
held that expert discovery deadlines would remain closed and that only
deadlines for pre-trial submissions would be recalculated from the new trial
date. 
 

Parties’ Arguments

                
i.            
Plaintiff’s Moving Arguments
Plaintiff’s central argument is
that Defendants have acted unreasonably by failing to make their experts
available for deposition. As noted above, Defendants designated Dr. Mortimer as
an expert on June 24, 2024, and designated Mr. McLaughlin as a supplemental
expert on July 16, 2024. Accordingly, Defendants were required to make both Dr.
Mortimer and Mr. McLaughlin available for deposition. (See Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2034.280(c), 2034.300(d).) However, Plaintiff contends that Defendants
effectively side-stepped this requirement by only offering Mr. McLaughlin as available
during the first week of trial.
Plaintiff further contends that the
Defendants improperly disguised their gamesmanship under purported good faith
meet and confer efforts to schedule the depositions, only to later refuse to
make the experts available for deposition and attempting to blame Plaintiff for
not unilaterally noticing the depositions during the prior meet and confer
scheduling discussions. For example, as stated in the facts section above, when
Plaintiff inquired about the availability of Defendants’ expert witnesses Ms.
Wrighten stated on July 30, 2024 8:53 pm that it was on the onus of the
Plaintiff to serve the notices “before the close of discovery. You know that.
If you failed to do so, Plaintiff is precluded from that discovery. Again, you
know that.”
However, Plaintiff contends that
such failure to present Defendants’ experts for deposition was either
unreasonable or, further, an abuse of the discovery process. First, Plaintiff
argues that, at least with regard to supplemental witnesses, the onus is on the
Defendant to “immediately” make their proposed expert witness available, and the
time limits to notice the deposition before the close of discovery explicitly
do not apply for supplemental experts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.280(c).)
Accordingly, Ms. Wrighten’s statement demonstrates an unreasonable attempt to
flip the burden of making Defendants’ supplemental expert “immediately
available” onto Plaintiffs.
Second, Plaintiff notes that it is
a misuse of the discovery process to fail to submit to an authorized method of
discovery and to fail to make a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve
informally any dispute concerning discovery. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Here,
Plaintiffs contend that Defendants failed to produce Dr. Mortimer for
deposition, and failed to act in a reasonable and good faith manner during the
parties’ meet and confer discussions because their communications did not
demonstrate “a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution.” (Townsend
v. Super. Ct. (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1438.) By way of alternative
explanation, Plaintiff contends that Defendants only started to engage in these
unreasonable and bad faith actions after Mr. Myers refused to agree to a trial
continuance beyond a one-week extension.
 
               
ii.            
Defendants’ Opposition
In opposition, Defendant contends
that Plaintiff lacks standing to bring this motion based on her own failure to
comply with the expert discovery requirements, and, even if the court finds
standing, Defendants failure to comply with section 2034.300 was not
unreasonable. 
First, Defendant notes that Plaintiff
lacks standing to bring this motion because she failed to timely comply with
expert witness disclosure requirements. Code of Civil Procedure section
2034.300 explicitly states that “on objection of any party who has made a
complete and timely compliance with Section 2034.260, the trial court
shall exclude from evidence the expert opinion of any witness that is offered
by any party who has unreasonably failed to … [¶] (d) [m]ake that expert
available for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2034.410).”
(Id. (emphasis added).) Further, Plaintiff points to case law where
court have ruled that a party’s failure to comply with Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2034.260 precludes such party from bringing a motion to exclude the opposing
party’s experts under § 2034.300. (Staub, supra, (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1446 (Holding that defendant lacked standing to exclude opponent’s expert
testimony pursuant to § 2034.300 based on defendant’s failure to strictly
comply with § 2034.260’s disclosure requirements).) Defendant notes that
Plaintiff failed to timely comply with Section 2034.260 because she served her
expert disclosures two days after the required deadline. (Myers Decl., ¶ 2,
Exh. A; Levitskaia Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1.)
Second, Defendants contend that
they did not unreasonably fail to comply with section 2034.300. Defendants
agreed to make their experts available for deposition during the first week of
trial, based on their experts’ availability. (Levitskaia Decl., ¶ 6.) Even if
these dates were not amicable, Defendants state that Plaintiff failed to notice
the expert depositions for any date before the closure of expert discovery (Id.,
¶¶ 6-9.) And Plaintiff also failed to request the Court for any extension to
the discovery deadline for the purpose of compelling Defendants’ Experts’
deposition. (Id. at ¶ 11.)
Defendant further argues that Plaintiff’s
actions demonstrate Plaintiff’s own gamesmanship of the discovery process, not
Defendant’s. As previously argued, Plaintiff failed to comply with the expert
witness disclosure deadlines and failed to notice their expert depositions.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s instant motion seems to be an attempt to shield Plaintiff
from the consequences of such failures, and to punish Defendants for holding to
the discovery cutoff date that the Court explicitly confirmed was held
unchanged.
Finally, Defendants contend that
Plaintiff’s actions demonstrate a lack of diligence, and such lack of diligence
should not be rewarded by excluding Defendants’ experts. On the one hand, Defendants
timely complied with expert witness disclosures and provided dates for the
availability of their experts for deposition. (Levitskaia Decl., ¶¶ 3, 6.) Defendants
even offered to stipulate to re-designation of experts with a reasonable trial
continuance, but Plaintiff rejected Defendants’ proposal. (Id., ¶ 8.) 
On the other hand, Plaintiff failed
to notice Defendants’ experts’ depositions, but still represented that it was
ready for trial to begin on August 12, 2024, and refusing to agree to any trial
continuance. Defendants’ proposed trial continuances would have allowed
Plaintiff the opportunity to depose Defendants’ experts during the previously
proposed dates of availability. (Levitskaia Decl., ¶ 6.) Further, Defendants
have not received any request from Plaintiff to depose Defendants’ experts
before the new trial date of December 2, 2024. (Stanchfield v. Hamer Toyota,
Inc. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1503-04; Staub, supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at p. 1447-48 (“The behavior of the party seeking to exclude the
expert testimony is relevant to the reasonableness inquiry. … Any unfairness
arising from plaintiffs’ tardy expert disclosure was exacerbated by defendants’
refusal to depose plaintiffs’ experts.”) Accordingly, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s actions demonstrate an attempt to unfairly disadvantage and unduly
prejudice Defendants.
 

Plaintiff Lacks
     Standing to Bring This Motion

Here, the Court find that Plaintiff
failed to timely comply with Section 2034.260. Code of Civil Procedure section
2034.230, subdivision (b), provides that “[t]he specified date of exchange [for
expert witness information] shall be 50 days before the initial trial date, or
20 days after service of the demand, whichever is closer to the trial date…”
unless the trial court has found good cause to modify the exchange date. (Ibid.)
Pursuant to this statutory provision, the date for timely expert witness
information disclosure was June 24, 2024, as explicitly referenced in both
Defendants’ and Plaintiff’s demand for the exchange of expert witness
information. (Myers Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A; Levitskaia Decl., ¶ 2, Exhs. 1, 2.) 
However, Defendants state, and
provide evidence demonstrating, that Plaintiff did not serve her expert witness
disclosure until two days after the disclosure deadline, on June 26, 2024.
(Levitskaia Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 4 (“Dated: June 26, 2024”).) Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s own failure to strictly comply with the expert witness disclosure
requirements of section 2034.260 precludes her from bringing this motion to
exclude Defendants’ expert testimony based on their alleged unreasonable
failure to comply with expert discovery. (See Staub, supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at p. 1446.)
 

Defendants did not
     Unreasonably Fail to Comply with Section 2034.300

Even if the Court finds that
Plaintiff may have standing to bring this motion, Plaintiff has failed to
satisfy its burden of demonstrating that Defendants’ unreasonably failed to
comply with the requirements of section 2034.300. The factual assertions of
both parties demonstrate that Defendants actually provided dates for Plaintiff
to depose their expert witnesses and, nonetheless, Plaintiff failed to submit
notices for such expert depositions until after the close of discovery. Even if
these dates were not amicable, as they were originally set for the first week
of trial, the factual evidence Plaintiff provided fails to demonstrate a
diligent effort to set a different date for the expert depositions prior to the
discovery cut off date. 
Plaintiff’s failure to set a
reasonable date for the expert depositions is compounded by the Plaintiff’s
refusal to stipulate to, and opposition to, trial continuances. Although
Plaintiff reasonably contends that he could not have stipulated to Defendants’
proposed continuance to October based on his previously scheduled arbitrations.
However, even the limited one-week continuance that Plaintiff proposed would
have provided Plaintiff the opportunity to depose Defendants’ experts during
the dates of availability that Defendants previously provided, i.e., the
first week of trial. Further, Defendants affirmatively state that Plaintiff has
failed to seek such expert depositions after this Court issued it trial
continuance. Plaintiff’s lack of diligence is explicitly relevant to the
Court’s inquiry in whether Defendants’ failure to comply was unreasonable. (Staub,
supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 1447-48 (“The behavior of the party seeking to
exclude the expert testimony is relevant to the reasonableness inquiry”); see
also Stanchfield v. Hamer Toyota, Inc. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1495,
1503-04.) Based on these facts, Plaintiff’s motion seems to be aimed at eliciting
an evidentiary sanction that would punish Defendants, rather than a sanction to
obtain the object of discovery they were not able to receive. (See Biles,
supra, 124 Cal.App.4th at p. 1327.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has failed
to demonstrate that Defendants’ failure to comply with section 2034.300 was
unreasonable. Plaintiff’s motion to exclude defendants’ expert testimony is
DENIED.
 
3.     Conclusion
In all, Plaintiff’s motion to
exclude defendants’ expert testimony is DENIED.
Moving Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email
must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the
tentative.