  Case Number:  21SMCV00579    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGCross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant XL Hog, Inc. dba Advance Building Maintenance’s Motion for an (1) Order Striking University of Southern California’s Impermisssibly Filed Roe Amendment to its Cross-Complaint; and for an (2) Order Dismissing University of Southern California’s Cross Action Against XL Hog, Inc. with Prejudice is DENIED.Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant XL Hog, Inc. dba Advance Building Maintenance to give notice. REASONINGCode of Civil Procedure section 474 provides, in relevant part, that “[w]hen the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, [she] must state that fact in the complaint, . . . and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, subdivision (b), “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: . . . [s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) “[U]nreasonable delay in filing an amendment after actually acquiring . . . knowledge [of a defendant’s name] can bar a plaintiff’s resort to the fictitious name procedure” outlined in Code of Civil Procedure section 474. (Barrows v. American Motors Corp. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 1, 8.)Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant XL Hog, Inc. dba Advance Building Maintenance (“XL Hog”) moves the Court for an order striking the Roe amendment to Defendant/Cross-Complainant University of Southern California (“USC”)’s Cross-Complaint designating XL Hog at Roe 1 in USC’s Cross-Complaint on November 30, 2023. XL Hog argues that USC was aware of and possessed actual notice of XL Hog’s existence as a named party to this lawsuit at the very latest on June 28, 2022, when Cross-Defendant Mata Plumbing filed its Cross-Complaint named XL Hog as a party. USC has made attempts to name XL Hog in amended pleadings, first in an amended Cross-Complaint that was stricken by the Court because it was filed without leave of court, and in its proposed Second Amended Cross-Complaint, which was the subject of a motion for leave to amend that was ultimately withdrawn. (Mot., Ryan Decl. ¶¶ 5-8, Exs. D, E.) USC waited until November 30, 2023 to file the Roe amendment naming XL Hog, and XL Hog argues that this delay compels the Court to strike the amendment. USC has not filed an opposition to the motion.The Second District Court of Appeal case A.N. v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1058, is instructive here. In that case, the plaintiff filed a complaint for damages in May 2005, and in August and September 2007, less than a month before trial, the plaintiff served five defendants with the summons and complaint, naming them in place of Doe defendants. (Id. at pp. 1060, 1063.) The defendants filed motions to quash the amendments, arguing the plaintiff “had known their identity for a significant period of time but had nonetheless unreasonably delayed in naming and serving them as Doe Defendants under section 474,” and “they had been prejudiced by the delay.” (Id. at p. 1063.) The trial court granted the defendants’ motion to quash on that ground, and the appellate court affirmed the trial court’s ruling. (Id. at pp. 1060, 1063.) In so doing, the appellate court concluded (1) Code of Civil Procedure section 474 “includes an implicit requirement that a plaintiff may not unreasonably delay his or her filing of a Doe amendment after learning a defendant’s identity,” (2) “a defendant named in an action by a Doe amendment under section 474 may challenge the amendment by way of an evidence-based motion, which argues that the plaintiff unreasonably delayed his or her filing of the challenged amendment,” and (3) unreasonable delay “includes a prejudice element, which requires a showing by the defendant that he or she would suffer prejudice from plaintiff’s delay in filing the Doe amendment.” (Id. at pp. 1066-1067, quotation marks omitted.)The facts tend to indicate that USC unreasonably delayed in filing the Roe amendment, as it was aware of XL Hog’s identity since June 28, 2022 at the latest, and it waited over a year to file the Roe amendment naming XL Hog as a party to its cross-complaint. However, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that XL Hog will suffer substantial prejudice from the amendment. This case is one seeking to determine who is responsible for damage incurred as a result of an overflowing toilet, and USC’s cross-action is one for indemnity and contribution from the party determined to be responsible for the water damage either in whole or in part. XL Hog is not required to prepare any new evidence, conduct any new discovery, or prepare anything substantially different than what it has already prepared for the cross-complaints brought by other parties. XL Hog has provided no more than a statement that it has been defending itself as to other indemnity claims rather than the underlying action to support its claim of prejudice, and the Court lacks a basis to conclude this is enough to warrant denying USC the opportunity to litigate its potential claims against XL Hog, despite the delay in filing the Roe amendment. Accordingly, Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant XL Hog, Inc. dba Advance Building Maintenance’s Motion for an (1) Order Striking University of Southern California’s Impermisssibly Filed Roe Amendment to its Cross-Complaint; and for an (2) Order Dismissing University of Southern California’s Cross Action Against XL Hog, Inc. with Prejudice is DENIED.