 Case Number:  BC668362    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant City of Culver City’s Motion for Protective Order Regards [sic] Deposition of William Neumann is DENIED.Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant City of Culver City to give notice. REASONINGDefendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant City of Culver City (“the City”) moves the Court for a protective order regarding the deposition of Plaintiffs Treasure Quarker, Kamare Brazie, Ariyon Quarker, Amir Quarker, and Arion Quarker (“Plaintiffs”)’s retained road design expert William Neumann; specifically, the City contends that Plaintiffs’ counsel denied the City the opportunity to effectively depose and cross-examine Neumann because counsel repeatedly interrupted the City’s counsel and unnecessarily increased the length of the deposition and defense costs. Plaintiffs oppose the motion on the ground that Plaintiffs offered to continue the deposition with a discovery referee, but the City declined to use a referee, a second deposition took place, and the present motion is now moot.“Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).) “The court for good cause shown may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).) The protective order may provide that a deposition not be taken at all, be taken at a different time or place, or other certain limitations. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)The Court finds that a protective order is not warranted here. The Court has reviewed the subject deposition transcript and finds that the initial deposition consisted of lengthy discussions by both parties’ attorneys, and it is not simply Plaintiffs’ counsel’s statements that cut down the time to ask questions in the deposition. Further, Plaintiffs’ counsel offered a second deposition session with the use of a discovery referee, but the City’s counsel declined to use one. Put simply, Plaintiffs’ counsel was entitled to assert objections, lengthy or not, to avoid questions outside the scope of the expert’s purview. The Court is not inclined to oversee a deposition, as requested by the City’s counsel, and the City’s request that the Court order a referee to monitor another session is not well taken when Plaintiffs’ counsel already agreed to this solution, but the City declined to employ a referee. For these reasons, Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant City of Culver City’s Motion for Protective Order Regards [sic] Deposition of William Neumann is DENIED.Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (h), provides that the Court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” The Court finds that the City’s motion was made with substantial justification, as Plaintiffs’ counsel made lengthy objections, despite the fact that the Court finds they were warranted under the circumstances. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.