  Case Number:  20STCV43681    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Flintridge Riding Club’s Motion
for Summary Judgment, or Alternatively, Summary Adjudication of Issues
Defendant Flintridge Riding Club
moves for summary judgment of this action by plaintiff David Johnston or, in
the alternative, summary adjudication of each cause of action.
Summary
judgment should be granted where no triable issues of fact exist and the moving
party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (CCP § 437c(c); Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)  Courts use a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
Defendant
establishes it is entitled to summary judgment of plaintiff’s first amended
complaint.  Plaintiff alleges nine causes
of action: (1 – 6) Labor Code violations including failure to pay overtime and
minimum wages and failure to provide meal and rest periods, (7) violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200, (8) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy, and (9) a claim under the private Attorneys General
Act.  All nine causes of action require
that plaintiff establish defendant employed him as an employee.  Defendant presents sufficient evidence to
negate that element of plaintiff’s action. 
The undisputed facts establish plaintiff worked as an independent
contractor under either of two different legal standards.
Referral Agency and Borello
Test
            Defendant
contends it constitutes a referral agency under Labor Code section 2777, so the
legal standard under S. G. Borello & Sons, Inc. v. Department of
Industrial Relations (1989) 48 Cal.3d 341 (Borello) applies.  “A ‘referral agency’ is a business that
provides clients with referrals for service providers to provide services under
a contract.”  (§ 2777(b)(2)(A).)  Defendant presents evidence it provides club
members with referrals to equestrian instructors under contracts with the
instructors.  (Basham Decl., ¶¶
3-5.)  Plaintiff and defendant entered a
contract titled a “Trainer’s Agreement” in March 2017.  (Id., ¶ 7; Johnston Depo., vol. 2, ex.
14.)  
A. Referral
Agency  
A referral
agency must meet all 11 criteria enumerated under Labor Code section
2777(a).  Of those criteria, (2), (3),
and (4) only apply conditionally.  They
do not apply here.
            Defendant
meets its burden of showing criteria (1) and (5) through (11) apply.  Defendant shows plaintiff was “free from the
control and direction of the referral agency in connection with the performance
of the work for the client, both as a matter of contract and in fact.”  (§ 2777(a)(1).)  At his deposition, plaintiff testified that Flintridge
did not control numerous specific manners of his work.  (UMF No. 8.) 
Defendant’s executive director, Kevin Basham, further testifies that instructors
who provide services at Flintridge’s riding club do so free from defendant’s control
and direction.  (Basham Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.)  
            Defendant
shows plaintiff “deliver[ed] services to the client under the service
provider’s name, without being required to deliver the services under the name
of the referral agency.”  (§ 2777(a)(5).)  At deposition, he testified that he formed a
limited liability company called Gold River Equestrian Training to provide the
same services.  (Johnston Depo., vol. 1,
32:14-22.)  He directly billed clients,
and they directly paid him.  (Id.,
146:9-20.)  He also placed advertisements
using his own name.  (Johnston Depo.,
vol. 2, exs. 12-13.)  
Defendant
shows plaintiff “provide[d] [his] own tools and supplies to perform the
services.”  (§ 2777(a)(6).)  He testified that he had clients bring their
own equipment, including saddles, tack, and other riding gear.  (Johnston Depo., vol. 2, 230:9-232:24.)  
Defendant
shows plaintiff “was previously engaged, in an independently establishes
business or trade of the same nature as, or related to, the work performed for
the client.”  (§ 2777(a)(7).)  As discussed above, plaintiff testified he previously
formed a limited liability company called Gold River Equestrian Training to
provide the same services.  (Johnston
Depo., vol. 1, 32:14-22.)  After he began
performing services at defendant’s riding club, plaintiff also maintained his
own website, “DavidJohnstonDressage.com.” 
(Id., 34:8-18.)  
Defendant
shows it did “not restrict the service provider from maintaining a clientele”
and that plaintiff “was free to seek work elsewhere.”  (§ 2777(a)(8).)  He testified Flintridge never attempted to
stop him from training clients elsewhere. 
(Johnston Depo., vol. 1, 83:2-85:1.)     
Defendant
shows plaintiff set his “own hours and terms of work or” negotiated those terms
“directly with the client.”  (§
2777(a)(9).)  He testified that he and
his clients determined the scheduling and content of training sessions.  (Johnston Depo., vol. 2, 228:7-20.)  
Defendant
shows that, “[w]ithout deduction by the referral agency,” plaintiff set his “own
rates.”  (§ 2777(a)(10).)  He negotiated fees with his clients.  (Johnston Depo., vol. 2, 233:3-235:14.)  He testified Flintridge did not “take a
portion of [his] fees.”  (Id.,
234:5-7.)    
Finally,
defendant shows plaintiff was “free to accept or reject clients and contracts,
without being penalized in any form by” defendant.  (§ 2777(a)(11).)   Basham testifies instructors were free to accept
or reject clients.  (Basham Decl., ¶
14.)  Plaintiff also testified at
deposition that defendant did not require him to train a certain number of
clients.  (Johnston Depo., vol. 1,
87:2-21.) 
Because
defendant shows it was a referral agency, the Borello test applies.    
B. Borello Test
            Defendant
establishes plaintiff was an independent contractor under the Borello
test.  Under that standard, the principal test of an employment
relationship is whether the person to whom service is rendered had a right to
control the manner and means of accomplishing the result desired.  (Borello, supra, 48 Cal.3d at p. 350.)  Courts also consider other factors including
“(a) whether the one performing services is engaged in a distinct occupation or
business; (b) the kind of occupation, with reference to whether, in the
locality, the work is usually done under the direction of the principal or by a
specialist without supervision; (c) the skill required in the particular
occupation; (d) whether the principal or the worker supplies the
instrumentalities, tools, and the place of work for the person doing the work;
(e) the length of time for which the services are to be performed; (f) the
method of payment, whether by the time or by the job; (g) whether or not the
work is a part of the regular business of the principal; and (h) whether or not
the parties believe they are creating the relationship of
employer-employee.”  (Id. at p.
351.)
            The same
evidence discussed above establishes the principal factor: plaintiff had the
right to control the manner and means of instructing equestrian students.  Defendant also shows plaintiff and other
instructors who offer services at Flintridge engage in distinct
businesses.  (Basham Decl., ¶ 3.)  Equestrian instruction requires specialized
skill.  (Ibid.)  As discussed above, clients provided their
own equipment and directly paid plaintiff for lessons.  Defendant’s regular business includes
providing the facilities and referring members to instructors, but not
providing instruction itself.  (Basham
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, 5.)  Finally, plaintiff
entered a contract expressly stating he was not an employee.  (Johnston
Depo., vol. 2, ex. 14.)  
            After
considering all relevant factors, defendant meets its burden of showing
plaintiff was an independent contractor under the Borello test.  Plaintiff did not timely oppose this
motion.  Plaintiff did not dispute any of
defendant’s evidence.
ABC Test
            Assuming
the ABC test applies, defendant also meets its burden of establishing plaintiff
was an independent contractor under that standard.  The defendant must show “(A) that the worker
is free from the control and direction of the hiring entity in connection with
the performance of the work, both under the contract for the performance of the
work and in fact, (B) that the worker performs work that is outside the usual
course of the hiring entity’s business, and (C) that the worker is customarily
engaged in an independently established trade, occupation, or business.”  (Dynamex Operations West, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 903, 959; see also Labor Code section 2775,
codifying Dynamex.)
            The
same undisputed evidence discussed above establishes elements A, B, and C.  
Disposition
            Defendant Flintridge Riding Club’s
motion for summary judgment is granted. 
Defendant shall submit a proposed judgment of dismissal for the court’s
signature forthwith. 