 Case Number:  23STCP03806    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Steve Yoonsoo Kim’s Motion for Order Recognizing
Foreign Judgment        
Plaintiff Steve Yoonsoo Kim, also known as Kim Steve Yoon
Soo, moves for an order recognizing a foreign judgment against defendant Chris
Au.
This motion is procedurally improper.  The Uniform Foreign–Country Money Judgment
Recognition Act “requires an action, and does not provide for any procedures
other than those procedures applicable to actions.”  (Hyundai Securities Co., Ltd. v. Lee
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 682, 693.)  “[A]
plaintiff, in order to obtain recognition of a foreign-country money judgment
must proceed in accordance with the normal procedures applicable to actions and
not by way of a motion or petition to recognize the foreign-country money
judgment.”  (Ibid.)  If a
plaintiff “wishes to have its contentions dealt with summarily, it must do so
by way of a motion for summary judgment or judgment on the pleadings [citation].
 If it does not succeed in a summary
judgment motion or a judgment on the pleadings, the issues will require a
trial.”  (Id. at p. 694.)
Plaintiff did not follow the
procedures required when moving for summary judgment.  Plaintiff also did not move for judgment on
the pleadings, which “is equivalent to
a demurrer.”  (Mack v. State Bar of
California (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 957, 961.)  Plaintiff relies on evidence extrinsic to the
complaint: the exchange rate of Hong Kong dollars to United States
dollars.  (Vakili Decl., Ex. C [copy of a
webpage from “www.exchangerates.org.uk”].) 
Determining the exchange rate for foreign currency may require resolving
disputed facts.  (See Farmer v. Orme
(1933) 131 Cal.App. 628, 631 [remanding action “solely for the purpose of
taking evidence on” the exchange rate of Canadian to US dollars].)  
Moreover, plaintiff submits evidence
of an exchange rate published as of April 24, 2024.  (Vakili Decl., Ex. C.)  That is not the relevant date for the
exchange rate.  “[A] California court,
when enforcing a foreign judgment rendered in foreign currency, must ordinarily
convert the foreign currency to American dollars using the exchange rate that
was in effect at the time of the foreign judgment.”  (Pecaflor Construction, Inc. v. Landes
(1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 342, 350.)  
Plaintiff Steve Yoonsoo Kim’s motion
for order recognizing foreign judgment is denied. 