 Case Number:  23LBCV00788    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  S27 Defendant propounded RPDs on
Plaintiff on 7/21/23.  Defendant filed
this motion to compel on 3/29/24, contending Plaintiff had failed to serve any
responses to the RPDs and had failed to serve any responsive documents.  Defendant set the hearing on the motion for
8/08/24.  Defendant continued the hearing
on the motion multiple times, ultimately to 1/07/25.  
 
On 12/26/24, Plaintiff filed
untimely opposition to the motion.  Per
CCP §1005(b), opposition was due nine court days prior to the hearing, which
fell on 12/23/24.  Plaintiff, in opposition
to the motion, contends he “timely” served responsive documents on 6/21/23 and
11/15/23, and served verified responses to the subject discovery on
4/03/24.  He contends the motion is
therefore substantively moot.  Plaintiff
provides evidence, through his attorney’s declaration, that the reason for the
tardy formal response was because all documents had been produced and the
parties were discussing informal methods of resolution of the case between
them.    
 
The Court has not received any
reply papers.  The Court will consider
late-filed reply papers, if they are ultimately filed, because the opposition
was late-filed.  In light of the lack of
reply, the Court is inclined to find Plaintiff showed good cause and
substantial justification for the failure to timely respond to the RPDs, such
that sanctions are not appropriate.  
 
The motion is substantively moot
because responses have been served.  The
request for sanctions is denied in light of the opposition.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 