 Case Number:  22LBUD00487    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, U.S. Bank NA, etc.,
filed this action against Defendant, Yuri I. Lee on 4/22/22.  The complaint is for unlawful detainer.  On 6/13/22, Defendant, using the name Yuri-Imuta:
Lee filed a motion to quash service of the summons and complaint.  On 6/29/22, the Court, Honorable Michael P.
Vicencia presiding, denied the motion. 
On 8/03/22, Defendant filed a demurrer to the complaint.  On 9/07/22, the Court overruled the
demurrer.  On 9/12/22, Defendant filed an
answer to the complaint.  
 
On 11/01/22, Plaintiff filed a
motion for summary judgment on the complaint. 
On 11/18/22, Defendant filed opposition to the motion.  On 11/22/22, the Court, Judge Vicencia presiding,
granted the motion.  
 
The same day, Defendant filed an
appeal.  The appeal was heard by the
appellate division of the Superior Court, which denied the appeal on 11/17/23
and affirmed the original order granting summary judgment.  On 2/08/24, the appellate division issued a
remittitur, indicating the judgment was now final and Plaintiff was to recover
its costs on appeal.
 
2.     Prior
Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment
On 7/25/24, the Court heard Defendant’s
motion to set aside and vacate the judgment pursuant to CCP §§473(b), 473.5,
and 473(d).  The crux of Defendant’s
motion was that she was erroneously sued and served in this action as Yuri I.
Lee, when her name is Yuri Imuta.  The
Court denied the motion, ruling, in pertinent part:
To the extent the motion is filed
per CCP §473(b) or §473.5, it is not procedurally improper.  These sections can be used to attack a
default or default judgment, but Plaintiff obtained judgment after hearing on a
summary judgment motion, not via default or default judgment.  See Las Vegas Land & Development Co., LLC
v. Wilkie Way, LLC (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1086, 1091, holding that
this type of relief is not available after hearing on a contested
judgment.  
 
Defendant also argues the judgment
against her is void because she was never served with the summons and
complaint.  Her contention is that the
summons and complaint were served on Yuri I. Lee, but she is Yuri Imuta.  
 
The complaint in this action was
filed against Yuri I. Lee.  The judgment,
entered on 11/22/22, is against Yuri I. Lee aka Yuri-Imuta Lee.  Defendant fully adjudicated this issue during
the course of the proceedings, including the appeal, and has made no showing
that she lacked notice of the proceedings against her.  
 
3.     Renewed
Motion to Vacate Judgment
On 8/06/24, Defendant filed a
renewed motion to vacate the judgment entered against her.  On 12/09/24, she filed an addendum to the
motion.  Defendant contends new or
different facts exist, specifically, that Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. is
now claiming to be the lender on the loan secured by the subject deed of
trust.  Additionally, Defendant contends
Homeward Opportunities Fund I Trust 2019-2 v. Taptelis (2023) H049791
constitutes new law that requires the prior motion to be granted.
 
Defendant’s addendum is not
entirely clear, but appears to add a request that the case be reclassified as
an unlimited jurisdiction civil case.
 
Plaintiff filed timely opposition
to the motion.  Plaintiff argues there
are no new or different facts, circumstances, or law, and there are no grounds
for vacating the final judgment that has been entered.
 
Defendant filed timely reply
papers.  She contends her newly
discovered evidence supports renewal of her motion to vacate the judgment,
which should be granted.
 
The motion is denied.  As the Court noted in connection with its
prior ruling on Defendant’s motion to vacate the summary judgment entered
against her, a motion to vacate is not procedurally proper after summary judgment
is entered.  If a motion to vacate is not
procedurally proper in the first instance, then a renewed motion to vacate is
also not procedurally proper, regardless of whether there are new facts,
circumstances, or law.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.