  Case Number:  21STCV19312    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Claudia and Josue
Morales filed this action against Defendants, Long Beach Memorial Medical
Center, Memorial Health Services, Praveen R. Jonnala, M.D., and Ali Khoynezhad,
M.D., PhD for negligence, hospital negligence, and loss of consortium.  Plaintiff added Ivana Radeva, M.D. as Doe 1
and California Anesthesia Associates Medical Group, Inc. as Doe 5.  The complaint arises out of Defendants’ care
and treatment of Claudia Morales for cardiothoracic surgery.  
 
Claudia ultimately passed away, and
Josue, along with Plaintiffs’ two children, filed 24LBCV19312, an action for
wrongful death.  The Court consolidated
the two actions.  On 8/09/24, Plaintiffs
filed their amended consolidated complaint. 
The consolidated complaint includes causes of action for negligence,
hospital negligence, loss of consortium, corporate negligence, fraud by
concealment, breach of fiduciary duty, and willful and wanton misconduct.  
 
2.     Motion
to Bifurcate
a.     Parties’ Positions 
Khoynezhad (referred to by
Defendants as “Dr. K”) and LBMMC move to bifurcate the case for trial
purposes.  Specifically, they seek an
order that the jury will hear the medical negligence cause of action against
Dr. K before it hears the corporate negligence cause of action against
LBMMC.  They contend they will be
prejudiced if the case is not bifurcated. 
They contend this is so because Plaintiffs intend to prove their case
for corporate negligence by submitting prejudicial evidence about Dr. K’s
treatment of other patients, and by using his pejorative nickname, AK-47.  They contend none of this evidence is
relevant to the medical negligence cause of action, and the corporate
negligence cause of action will be moot if Dr. K is not found to have engaged
in medical negligence.  They also contend
hearing the medical negligence cause of action prior to the corporate
negligence cause of action could potentially shorten the trial time.
 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion.  They argue Defendants have not met their
moving burden to show they are likely to prevail on the medical negligence
claim.  They note that Defendants have
not indicated whether and when the intentional tort claims should be tried
against them.  They contend the issues in
the two causes of action sought to be bifurcated are necessarily intertwined,
such that bifurcation is not proper. 
Finally, they contend Defendants’ claims of prejudice are unsupported
hyperbole.    
 
Defendants, in reply, contend they
have sufficiently shown prejudice, they do not have to show they will prevail
on their medical negligence claim in order to be entitled to bifurcation, and
the intentional tort causes of action are not properly pled and do not preclude
bifurcation.  
b.     Law Governing Bifurcation
Bifurcation is the procedure whereby the court may order separate trials
of issues of parties joined in a single action. 
The objective of bifurcation is to avoid wasting time and money on the
trial of damages issues if the liability issue is resolved against the
plaintiff.  Also, the procedure is not
limited to separate trials of liability and damages; nor is it limited to
dividing a case into only two parts.  A
party seeking bifurcation should request such relief as soon as the need
becomes apparent.  Delay may be a factor
affecting the court’s exercise of discretion. 
Generally, the court has the inherent power to regulate the order of
trial and, therefore, can entertain a motion to bifurcate at any time, even
during the trial.  However, where
bifurcation is sought pursuant to CCP §598 (e.g., to obtain bifurcation of
liability issue), the order must be made no later than 30 days before
trial.  (I.e., the motion must be heard
and order made more than 30 days before trial.)
 
Pursuant to CCP §1048(b), “The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of the state or of the United
States.”
 
c.     Analysis
The motion is denied for two
reasons.  First and foremost, as
Plaintiffs correctly note in opposition to the motion, the operative
consolidated complaint includes causes of action for fraud, breach of fiduciary
duty, willful and wanton misconduct, and battery against the moving
defendants.  Defendants, in reply,
contend these causes of action do not change the analysis because they are
improper.  The causes of action, however,
have been challenged on demurrer and remain in the operative pleading.  Defendants’ moving papers do not explain when
they contemplate having these causes of action tried.  The moving papers contemplate ONLY a trial on
the medical negligence cause of action and then a subsequent, if necessary, trial
on the corporate negligence cause of action. 

 
Second, the Court finds any
prejudice to Defendants is outweighed by the efficiency of having the causes of
action tried together.  The Court finds
any potential prejudice can be managed by way of motions in limine and/or jury
instructions.  
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.   
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.