

 
            Plaintiff Los Angeles Police
Protective League (LAPPL), an employee organization, commenced this action
against Defendants Lillian Carranza (Carranza) and Marc Reina (Reina).
Plaintiff alleges Defendants Carranza and Reina both attempted, through
fraudulent and unlawful means, to complete surveys and receive emailed
communications from the LAPPL that both knew they were not entitled to receive.
The operative pleading, the First Amended Complaint (FAC), alleges causes of
action for (1.) violations of Penal Code section 502, (2.) unfair competition,
(3.) fraud, (4.) violations of Penal Code section 502, (5.) unfair competition,
(6.) fraud, and (7.) conspiracy. 
 
            In October 2024 Defendants filed separate
Special Motions to Strike the Complaint under the anti-SLAPP statute, Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16. On December 17, 2024, the Court heard argument
on both motions.  The special motions to
strike were denied. 
 
            Now, Defendants Carranza and Reina separately demur
to the Complaint. Plaintiff opposed both demurrers. 
 
            The
demurrers are sustained in their entirety. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Discussion
 
Subject Matter
Jurisdiction:
 
Defendants
argue the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction to adjudicate the claims in
the FAC because they involve the collective bargaining process under the
Meyers–Milias–Brown Act (MMBA) and must first be adjudicated by Public
Employment Relations Board (PERB). As such, they maintain, the FAC is barred. 
 
Government Code section 3509 is the statute governing
PERB’s exclusive jurisdiction. Subdivision (b) of section 3509 provides in
part, “A complaint alleging any violation of this chapter or of any rules and
regulations adopted by a public agency pursuant to Section 3507 or 3507.5 shall
be processed as an unfair labor practice charge by the board. The initial
determination as to whether the charge of unfair practice is justified and, if
so, the appropriate remedy necessary to effectuate the purposes of this
chapter, shall be a matter within the exclusive jurisdiction of the board.”
 
The general scope of PERB's exclusive jurisdiction has
been described by the California Supreme Court as follows: “The administrative
agency authorized to adjudicate unfair labor practice charges under the MMBA is
[PERB]. Subject to certain exceptions, local public agencies and their
employees must exhaust their administrative remedies under the MMBA by applying
to PERB for relief before they can ask a court to intervene in a labor
dispute.” (City of San Jose v. Operating Engineers Local Union No. 3
(2010) 49 Cal.4th 597, 601.)
 
Where, as here, the issue is whether the superior
court or PERB has exclusive initial jurisdiction over a labor dispute, “what
matters is whether the underlying conduct on which the suit is based—however
described in the complaint—may fall within PERB’s
exclusive jurisdiction. [Citations.]” (El Rancho Unified School Dist. v.
National Education Assn. (1983) 33 Cal.3d 946, 954, fn. 13.)
 
Defendants
argue that the FAC presents a labor issue implicating collective bargaining
agreements between the City of Los Angeles, the Plaintiff, and the Defendants. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff disputes this characterization, arguing that the FAC alleges
violations of the Penal Code, the Business and Professions Code, and fraud, all
of which exist independent of, and are distinct from, any potential unfair
labor practice claim. 
 
Contrary
to Plaintiff’s argument, the label of the cause of action does not control.
However, importantly, the substance underlying these causes of action do not fall within PERB’s exclusive jurisdiction.
That is, Plaintiff does not assert that Defendants’ conduct violates the MMBA
or any labor practice. Rather,
the allegations involve unlawful access to LAPPL’s private
emails and participation in surveys for the purely personal interests of Defendants.
That Plaintiff is an employee association and Defendants are employers/managers
is incidental to the claims alleged.
 
The demurrers on the grounds of lack of jurisdiction
and exhaustion are overruled. 
 
First
and Fourth Causes of Action for Violation of Penal Code Section 502:
 
            Defendants argue that the first and
fourth causes of action for violation of Penal Code section 502 fails because
the allegations do not state a claim, the claims are barred by governmental
immunities, and the statute of limitations.
 
Penal Code section 502 of the Computer
Data Access and Fraud Act (CDAFA) broadly
prohibits accessing, use, or copying of computerized data, but requires that
such conduct be “without permission.” (Pen. Code, § 502, subd. (c).)
 
            Specifically, Penal Code section
502, subdivision (c), describes multiple offenses related to the use of
computers and computer data. An offender under this expansive provision
includes one who “(1) Knowingly accesses and without permission alters,
damages, deletes, destroys, or otherwise uses any data, computer, computer
system, or computer network in order to either (A) devise or execute any scheme
or artifice to defraud, deceive, or extort, or (B) wrongfully control or obtain
money, property, or data. [¶] (2) Knowingly accesses and without permission takes,
copies, or makes use of any data from a computer, computer system, or computer
network, or takes or copies any supporting documentation, whether existing or
residing internal or external to a computer, computer system, or computer
network. [¶] (3) Knowingly and without permission uses or causes to be used
computer services. [¶] (4) Knowingly accesses and without permission adds,
alters, damages, deletes, or destroys any data, computer software, or computer
programs which reside or exist internal or external to a computer, computer
system, or computer network. [¶] (5) Knowingly and without permission disrupts
or causes the disruption of computer services or denies or causes the denial of
computer services to an authorized user of a computer, computer system, or
computer network. [¶] (6) Knowingly and without permission provides or assists
in providing a means of accessing a computer, computer system, or computer
network in violation of this section. [¶] [or] (7) Knowingly and without
permission accesses or causes to be accessed any computer, computer system, or
computer network.” 
 
First, Defendants argue that there are no allegations
in the FAC that Defendants took, copied, used
or accessed any specific data in Plaintiff LAPPL’s computers or networks. 
 
Not
so. The FAC alleges that Defendants accessed Plaintiff’s computer data without
permission; it is alleged that they completed at least one survey and
transmitted it to the LAPPL after utilizing false credentials. 
 
            Next, Defendants next contend that that the allegations
do not show a violation of Penal Code section 502 because Plaintiff LAPPL has
not alleged that it sustained an injury as defined by the statute. 
 
            Section 502
defines “injury” as “any alteration, deletion, damage, or destruction of a
computer system, computer network, computer program, or data caused by the
access, or the denial of access to legitimate users.”
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the FAC alleges that Defendants
submitted survey results utilizing false credentials, thereby altering the
survey results and damaging their effectiveness. Plaintiff argues that these allegations
meet the statutory definition of altering or damaging the data compiled by the
LAPPL from its members.
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to
allege the requisite injury. The
only “injury” alleged as result of Defendants’ actions under Section 502 are
that they participated in the survey which produced “data” after completion,
but is not in itself deletion of or damage to data as defined by the statute.[1]
 
Courts have held
that “damage or loss” under this statutory scheme “contemplates some damage to
the computer system, network, program, or data contained on that computer, as
opposed to data generated by a plaintiff while engaging with a defendant's
website.” (See Heiting v. Taro Pharm. USA, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2023) 709
F. Supp. 3d 1007, 1021 [emphasis added] [rejecting the argument that the
plaintiff's loss of data, including “IP address information and other
identifying information,” is “damage” or “loss” under the CDAFA]; see also In
re Google Inc. Cookie Placement Consumer Privacy Litigation (3d Cir. 2015)
806 F.3d 125, 148-149, 152 [rejecting the plaintiffs' argument that they
suffered loss under the CDAFA through the defendants' “capturing and making
economic use of [the plaintiffs' personally identifiable information]” thus
“depriving the plaintiffs of their own ability to sell their internet usage
information”); Cottle v. Plaid Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2021) 536 F.Supp.3d 461, 488
[holding damage or loss under the CDAFA did not include “loss of the right to
control [the plaintiffs'] own data, the loss of the value of their data, and
the loss of the right to protection of the data”]; Doe v. Meta Platforms,
Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2023) 690 F.Supp.3d 1064, 1081-1083 [holding the
plaintiffs' allegations that their protected information was diminished in
value did not qualify as damage or loss under the CDAFA]; Pratt v. Higgins
(N.D. Cal., July 17, 2023, No. 22-CV-04228-HSG) 2023 WL 4564551, at *9 [finding
the defendant's access to the plaintiff's communications, notes and medical
information did not create the type of loss contemplated by the CDAFA's private
cause of action].)


            The demurrers to the Penal Code
section 502 causes of action are sustained. 
 
Defendants
also argue that the claim fails because a defendant cannot face a civil
lawsuit for violations of Section 502 until he or she has been criminally
prosecuted and convicted. Defendants cite no legal authority for this proposition,
aside from the California State Administrative Manual, section 5300.2. Importantly,
however, the plain language of the statute does not support Defendants’
interpretation. Section 502 does not require – as a condition precedent to civil
liability – a criminal conviction. 
 
The
demurrers on this ground are overruled.  


Governmental
Immunities:
 
Defendants
also argue that their statements in completing the subject surveys are
protected by the prosecutorial and discretionary immunities provided in
Government Code Sections 818.2, 820.4, 821 and 821.6. Defendants provided legal
analysis only with respect to Government Code section 821.6.
 
            Government Code section 821.6
provides that public employees are not “liable
for injury caused by his instituting or prosecuting any judicial or
administrative proceeding within the scope of his employment, even if he acts
maliciously and without probable cause.” (Gov. Code, § 821.6; Richardson-Tunnell
v. Schools Ins. Program for Employees (SIPE) (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1056,
1062.) “California courts construe section 821.6 broadly in furtherance of its purpose
to protect public employees in the performance of their prosecutorial duties
from the threat of harassment through civil suits.” (Gillan v. City of San
Marino (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1048.) “Investigations are considered
to be part of judicial and administrative proceedings for purposes of section
821.6 immunity.” (Richardson-Tunnell v. Schools Ins. Program for Employees
(SIPE), supra, 157 Cal.App.4th at 1062.)
 
Defendants argue that, as
commanding officers, Defendants completed the subject surveys as a means of
addressing complaints within the department and furthering policies of fairness
and integrity within the LAPD; as a result, Defendants’ actions are protected
by discretionary immunity. 
 
This
argument is not well taken. Defendants point to no specific allegations in the
FAC that support Defendants’ assertion that their participation in the surveys
were part of either an ongoing judicial or administrative proceeding. While
such facts may be developed through discovery (although it seems unlikely that
the acts alleged in the complaint fell within Defendants’ job duties with
respect to an official proceeding), they are not alleged in the complaint. At
the pleading stage, Defendants’ immunity argument fails.
 
The
demurrers based on immunity are overruled. 
 
Statute
of Limitations:
 
Defendants
also argue that causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations. First,
Defendants argue that the alleged conduct falls outside of Penal Code section
502’s three-year statute of limitations. The section specifically states that
no plaintiff may bring an action under Penal Code section 502 “unless it is
initiated within three years of the date of the act complained of, or the date
of the discovery of the damage, whichever is later.” (Pen. Code, § 502, subd. (e)(5).)

 
The
statute of limitations for fraud is also three years. (Code Civ. Proc., § §
338, subd. (d).) Lastly, the statute of limitations for liability under Business
and Professions Code section 17200 is four years. (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17208.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants began accessing its emails in or around 2016,
more than eight years before Plaintiff brought this lawsuit and far outside the
statute of limitations for any of the causes of action. (FAC ¶¶ 10-13
[Carranza], ¶ 17 [Reina].)
 
Plaintiff
argues that the surveys were intended to be anonymous and thus, there are no
allegations or inferences that would establish that completing the survey would
be sufficient to give notice to LAPPL of the fraud Defendants were
perpetrating. While the FAC indicates the survey was anonymous (FAC ¶ 15), the
FAC remains barred by the statute of limitations on its face. Plaintiff has
alleged no facts supporting a theory of delayed discovery. 
 
The
demurrers based on the actions being time-barred are sustained. 
 
Third and Sixth Causes
of Action for Fraud:
 
            Defendants argue that that the FAC fails to allege how Defendants
intended to defraud Plaintiff and how Plaintiff relied on the representation to
its detriment. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff contends that it has had to
expend fees to identify the intrusion by Defendants and ensure the security of
its systems, including the confidentiality of its surveys and their result. (FAC
¶¶ 25, 34, 48, 57.) 
 
This
alleged injury, however, was not the result of reliance on the representation.
It was an action to prevent further injuries in the future. That is, there is
no specific allegation that Plaintiff relied on the content of misrepresentation
in the survey to its detriment. Rather, in discovering that the integrity of
the survey had been compromised, Plaintiff took steps to ensure it would not
recur. This is not detrimental reliance. 
 
The
demurrers to the fraud claim are sustained. 
 
Second and Fifth Cause
of Action for Violation of Business and Professions Code Section 17200: 
 
Business
and Professions Code section 17200 prohibits “any unlawful, unfair, or
fraudulent business act or practice ….” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A business practice need only satisfy one of the three
criteria—unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent—to be considered unfair competition. (McKell
v. Wash. Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1470-1471.)
 
            Here,
the FAC alleges a violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200
based on same facts supporting the violation of Penal Code section 502 and the
fraud cause of action. (FAC ¶¶ 30-35, 53-58.)
 
            This claim is derivative of Plaintiff’s
previous claims. As such, Plaintiff has failed to allege any unlawful, unfair,
or fraudulent conduct to support its claim for unfair business practices. The
demurrers to the cause of action based on section 17200 are sustained.  
 
Seventh Cause of Action
for Conspiracy:
 
            First, as argued by Defendants, “[c]onspiracy is not a
cause of action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on person who,
although not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate
tortfeasors a common law or design in its perpetration.” (Applied Equipment
Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510.) 
 
Because
this theory of liability is entirely dependent on the existence of other
cognizable claims and it cannot stand without a predicate cause of action – the
demurrers to this “cause of action” are sustained. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
Carranza’s demurrer to the FAC is
sustained. Defendant Reina’s demurrer to the FAC is also sustained. Plaintiff
shall have leave to amend. Plaintiff shall serve and file an amended pleading on
or before January 20, 2025. 


