

Hearing Date:             December
18, 2024
Case Name:                Phillips
v. Fidler
Case No.:                    24STCV05755
Matter:                        Motion
to Consolidate
Moving Party:             Plaintiff
Emir Phillips

Responding Party:      Defendants Gary Fidler, Esq. and Gary D.
Fidler, APLC 
Tentative Ruling:      The Motion to Consolidate is denied. 

 
 
This is defamation
action. The Complaint alleges causes of action for defamation, false light,
negligent and intentional emotional distress. 
 
On March 12,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Related Case seeking to relate this action
with case number 24SMUD00429. 
 
Now, Plaintiff Emir Phillips seeks
to consolidate this action with 24SMUD00429. Defendants Gary Fidler, Esq. and
Gary D. Fidler, APLC filed an opposition. Defendants Barham 22nd Street, LLC
and Amanda Robertson filed a joinder to the opposition. 
 
The motion to consolidate is denied.

 
DISCUSSION 
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court
has not related these matters; if the matters have not been related, they cannot
be consolidated.  
 
Local Rule 3.3(g) sets forth the procedural
requirements for motions to consolidate applicable to the instant case; it
states, in relevant part: 
 
“Cases may not be
consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate
two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in
different departments, have been related into a single department, or if the
cases were already assigned to that department.”
 
Plaintiff Phillips seek to
consolidate these two cases on the grounds that they involve common questions
of law and fact. Further, Plaintiff contends there is an overlap between the
parties. Lastly, Plaintiff argues that consolidating these cases will avoid
unnecessary costs and delay, and avoid the potential of inconsistent judgments.

 
The trial court has discretion to consolidate
actions involving common questions of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048.)
The purpose of consolidation is “to promote trial convenience and economy by
avoiding duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of issues common
to both actions.” (Estate of Baker (1982) 131
Cal.App.3d 471, 485.)   
 
Consolidation is appropriate when the actions
involve common questions of law or fact and to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).) In deciding whether to grant a
motion to consolidate, the court should weigh whether the common issues
predominate over the individual issues and whether any risks of jury confusion
or prejudice to the parties outweighs the reduction in time and expense that
would result from consolidation. (Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants
Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 979.)¿ 

 
The Court declines to relate these two matters.
Even had they been related, the Court would deny the motion to consolidate. Each
case involves different parties. More importantly, there are no overlapping
legal issues and no risk of conflicting judgments or waste of judicial
resources. 
 
On February 22, 2024, Defendants Gary Fidler,
Esq. and Gary D. Fidler & Associates, APLC filed an Unlawful Detainer
action at the Santa Monica Courthouse, Case No. 24SMUD00429 (UD Action) on
behalf of their client, Defendant Barham 22nd Street, LLC, the owner of the
subject property, against Plaintiff Phillips, as well as two other defendants,
Hannah Mock and Elena Escudero. 
 
Then, on March 7, 2024, Plaintiff Phillips
filed the present civil lawsuit against Defendants Gary Fidler, Esq., Gary D.
Fidler, APLC, Barham 22nd Street, LLC and Amanda Robertson, alleging various
causes of action including defamation, false light, negligent and intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and invasion of privacy. In response,
Defendants filed an anti-SLAPP motion, which the court granted as to all causes
of action except the invasion of privacy claim.
 
As noted above, the parties are not identical
although there is some overlap. Further, the issues involved in the unlawful
detainer action and invasion of privacy cause of action do not involve similar
legal questions or underlying evidence. Thus, consolidation would not promote judicial
economy. 
 
Additionally, whereas here, the case to be
consolidated is an unlawful detainer action,  consolidation would result in removing the
summary proceeding nature of the unlawful detainer action. In Martin–Bragg
v. Moore, the court explained that an action for unlawful detainer can
co-exist with other causes of action “only ‘so long as the entire case is
treated as an ordinary civil action, not as a summary proceeding.’ ” (Martin-Bragg
v. Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367, 387; Lynch & Freytag v. Cooper
(1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 603, 608.) Because the civil action here does not involve
questions of title or ownership that would directly inform on the UD Action,
removing the summary proceeding nature of the UD action is not justified. (Cf. Martin–Bragg
v. Moore, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at 393-396.) Thus, the motion to
consolidate must be denied for these substantive reasons.
 
Conclusion
 
 Accordingly, the motion to consolidate is
denied. 