  Case Number:  21STCP03001    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  85 
Key v. Hidden Hills
Community Association, 
21STCP03001

Tentative decision on (1) motion to
vacate and/or correct arbitration award: denied; (2) petition to confirm
arbitration award:  granted




 



 
Petitioner Sarah Key (“Key”) moves the court to vacate
and/or correct the Arbitration Award issued by JAMS Honorable David Thompson (“Arbitrator”).
 Respondent Hidden Hills Community
Association (“Association”) seeks an order confirming the Arbitration Award in
its favor. 
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. First Amended Petition
Petitioner Key commenced this proceeding on September 13,
2021.  The operative pleading is the
First Amended Petition (“FAP”), filed on April 18, 2022 against Association and
Land Mark Electric, Inc. (“Land Mark”) and alleging claims for writ of mandate
and declaratory relief.  The FAP alleges
in pertinent part as follows.
Key is the owner of real property located at 24835 Eldorado
Meadow Road, Hidden Hills, California 91302 (“Key Property”) and a member of
the Association per Civil Code section 4160. 
FAP ¶5.  The Association is a
common interest development subject to the Davis Stirling Common Interest
Development Act (“Davis-Stirling” or the “Act”) under Civil Code section 4800 et
seq.  FAP ¶6.  As such, the Association is obligated to
maintain and manage common areas and separate interests that arise out of or
related to the common interest development. 
FAP ¶6.
In July 2021, Land Mark submitted development plans to the Association
proposing cut and fill 1,880 cubic yards of dirt to remove a hill on property
it owns at 5949 Spring Valley  Road,
Hidden Hills, California 91302 (“Land Mark Property”) and to construct a
driveway across the strip of land owned by Key (“Flag Strip”) without her
consent.  FAP ¶13.  In January 2022, the Association’s
Architectural Committee provided input that it did not like Land Mark’s
plans.  FAP ¶13.  Land Mark has represented in its pleadings
and declarations filed with the court that it plans to build driveways on Key’s
Property to obtain access to Eldorado Meadow Road.  FAP ¶14. 
Land Mark has represented to the court that it does not accept that Key
owns the Flag Strip between the Land Mark Property and Eldorado Meadow Road.  FAP ¶14. 
Land Mark has never conceded that there is no easement that would permit
it to build structures and/or driveways on Key’s land to get to Eldorado Meadow
Road.  FAP ¶14.
The Association violated Davis-Stirling and engaged in
unlawful conduct in violation of Civil Code section 4205 by failing to inform
Land Mark, the owner of the Land Mark Property, that building any driveways or
other structures over the Flag Strip owned by Key to access Eldorado Meadow
Road is trespass in violation of the law and will not be permitted.  FAP ¶11.
On or about July 27 and August 6, 2021, Key made demands for
record inspection from the Association pursuant to Civil Code sections
5200-5240 relating to the development project on the Land Mark Property.  FAP ¶20. 
The Association failed and refused to provide the records requested.  FAP ¶20.
On or about August 13, 2021 the Association’s General
Manager Cary Brackett sent an email stating that the records requested were in
the google link provided.  FAP ¶20.  None of the documents in the google link
related to the development project proposed for the Land Mark Property.  FAP ¶20.
The Association violated Davis-Stirling and engaged in
unlawful conduct in violation of Civil Code sections 4925(b) and 5000(b), and
the Governing Documents Bylaws section 7.8 by failing and refusing to permit Key
and other members of the Association to speak at architectural meetings.  FAP ¶¶ 21-22.
The Association violated Davis-Stirling and engaged in
unlawful conduct in violation of Civil Code section 4360 when it approved Amendments
to the Architectural Standards on October 27, 2021 (the “Amendments”) without
disclosing in writing the “purpose and effect” of the proposed grading
amendment in section 10(f).  FAP ¶23.
The Southern California Gas Company (“SoCalGas”) has two
high pressure gas transmission pipelines running directly through the Key
Property and Land Mark Property.  FAP
¶24.  At a meeting on February 16, 2021,
many members of the Association reported to the Board of Directors their safety
concerns regarding the SoCalGas pipelines. 
FAP ¶52.  The Association’s board
members voted to obtain experts to do a study independent of 2SoCalGas about
the public safety issues regarding these two ancient high pressure gas
transmission pipelines owned by SoCalGas that traverse through Hidden Hills.  FAP ¶53.
Key provided the Association Board with a list of three
independent high-pressure gas transmission pipeline experts with their resumes.  FAP ¶53. 
On March 15, 2021, Key also provided the Association Board with more
than ten pages of safety and safety related issues pertaining to the SoCalGas pipelines.  FAP ¶53. 
On March 16, 2021, the Association Board announced at a meeting, without
notice to the membership and without an agenda item, that it would not address
any of the safety issues that it had begun investigating relating to the
SoCalGas pipelines.  FAP ¶54.
In 2021, SoCalGas sent Key a safety notice stating that it
needed clear access to the high-pressure lines to inspect, maintain, repair,
and/or replace the pipelines.  FAP
¶59.  Land Mark obtained a letter from
SoCalGas regarding the safety protocols that must be followed with respect to
what development may be permitted in the vicinity of the SoCalGas
pipelines.  FAP ¶62.  The Association’s Architectural Committee
moved forward with the plans to develop the Land Mark Property.  FAP ¶62. 
Petitioner Key seeks a writ of mandamus and declaratory
relief commanding the Association, its Board of Directors, and its Architectural
Committee to (1) mandate that Architectural Standards require a permit
applicant to obtain a variance to excavate the hills and basements at Hidden
Hills; (2) refrain from declaring that a variance is not necessary for the proposed
development at the Land Mark Property to excavate, compact, and grade; (3)
observe the safety requirements set forth in the SoCalGas’ safety notice
regarding high pressure gas transmission pipelines and to comply with the
safety protocols of SoCalGas for any development at the Land Mark Property; (4)
comply with Civil Code sections 4925(b) and 5000(b) and the Governing Documents
Bylaws section 7.8 permitting Key and other members of the Association to speak
for a reasonable time at any meeting of the Architectural Committee; (5) comply
with the Association’s February 16, 2021 meeting minutes; (6) determine the
Amendments are illegal; (7) and declare Key owns the Flag Strip that borders
the Land Mark Property.  FAP at 24-25.
Petitioner Key also seeks declaratory and injunctive relief
against Land Mark that (1) declares Key owns the Flag Strip, (2) there is no
easement of any kind permitting Land Mark to build driveways or any other
structures across the Flag Strip owned by Key, (3) declares the non-exclusive
road easement is to the Hidden Hills Corporation, not the Association, (4) Land
Mark cannot traverse or build on the Flag Strip owned by Key without her prior
written permission, (5) Land Mark does not have permission to traverse or build
on the Flag Strip, and (6) Land Mark be ordered to remove its fencing from the
Key Property.  FAP at 25-26.
 
2. Course of Proceedings
On November 10, 2021, Department 86 (Judge Beckloff) heard
Petitioner Key’s application for a temporary restraining order (“TRO”) and order
to show cause re: preliminary injunction (“OSC”).  Petitioner sought to enjoin Respondent
Association from (1) implementing changes to the Association’s Architectural Standards
approved on October 27, 2021, (2) granting permission to Land Mark to traverse
or build across the Flag Strip without Key’s permission, (3) granting any applicant/owner
of real property in Hidden Hills authorization to move forward with any
construction until the Association complies with requests to produce documents
for inspection and copying documents requested under Civil Code section 5210,
and (4) granting any owner of real property in Hidden Hills authorization to
move forward with any construction without permitting Association members to
speak at meetings on the subject for a reasonable time.  
The court denied Key’s application for a TRO for lack of
exigency.  The court set an OSC hearing
why the Association should not be enjoined from (1) implementing the changes to
the Architectural Standards approved on October 27, 2021, and (2) granting
permission to Land Mark to traverse or build across the Flag Strip without
permission from Key.
On November 15, 2021, Key amended the Petition to name Land
Mark as a Respondent.  On November 17,
2021, Key served Land Mark by substituted service with the Complaint, summons,
and moving papers.
On January 10, 2022, the case was reassigned to Judge
Stroebel in Department 82.  On January
12, 2022, Judge Stroebel held a trial setting conference and stayed the
Petition’s second cause of action for injunctive relief – which is a remedy,
not a cause of action—if it was not subsumed within the mandamus claim.
On February 18, 2022, Judge Strobel directed the parties to
file supplemental briefs on the sole issue of the ownership of the Flag Strip
and whether Land Mark’s project is on the Flag Strip.  The court imposed page limits and set a
briefing schedule.
On February 22, 2022, the case was reassigned to Department
85.  
            On April 5, 2022, the
court denied Key’s application for a preliminary injunction.
On April 14, 2022,
the court ordered the case between Key and Association to arbitration and
stayed Key’s claims against the Association. 

On April 18, 2022,
Key filed her FAP.  On April 28, 2022,
the court stayed the entire case pending completion of arbitration. 
On March 27, 2024,
Key filed the instant motion to vacate and/or correct arbitration award.  The Association filed an opposition, and Key
filed a reply. 
On April 22, 2024,
the Association filed the instant petition to confirm arbitration award.  Key filed an opposition, and the Association
filed a reply. 
 
B. Applicable Law
            An
arbitration award shall “include a determination of all the questions . . . the
decision of which is necessary in order to determine the controversy.”  CCP §1283.4. 
“The neutral arbitrator shall serve a signed copy of the award on
each party to the arbitration personally or by registered or certified mail or
as provided in the agreement.”  CCP
§1283.6.  This requirement may be
satisfied by service by the arbitration, or upon proper service of the Award
with the Petition.  See Murry
v. Civil Service Employees Ins. Co. (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 796, 799-800. 
            “Any
party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court
to confirm, correct or vacate the award.  The petition shall name as
respondent all parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other
persons bound by the arbitration award.” 
CCP § 1285.  “If a petition or
response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm
the award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.”  CCP § 1286. 
            
1. Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award
A petition to
confirm arbitration award must “(a) [s]et forth the substance of or have
attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the
existence of such an agreement…(b) [s]et forth the names of the arbitrators…[and]
(c) [s]et forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of
the arbitrators, if any.”  CCP
§1285.4.  The court must confirm the
award as made, unless it corrects or vacates the award, or dismisses the
proceeding.  CCP §1286; Valsan
Partners Limited Partnership v. Calcor Space Facility, Inc. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 809, 818.
“A copy of the petition and a
written notice of the time and place of the hearing thereof and any other
papers upon which the petition is based shall be served in the manner provided
in the arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and notice…(b)
[i]f the arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such
service shall be made and the person upon whom service is to be made has not
previously appeared in the proceeding and has not previously been served in
accordance with this subdivision: (1) [s]ervice within this State shall be made
in the manner provided by law for the service of summons in an action.”  CCP §1290.4(a).
The response to a petition to confirm arbitration award must
be filed within ten days of service of the petition, unless the petition was
served in the same manner as provided for service of a summons, in which case
the response must be served within 30 days. 
CCP §1290.6.  The time to respond
may also be extended by court order for good cause.  CCP §1290.6.
 
2. Petition to Correct
or Vacate Arbitration Award
A response that
seeks to vacate or correct the award must be served and filed no later than 100
days after the date of the service of a signed copy of the award on the
respondent.  CCP §1288.2.  
The court shall
vacate the award if it determines any of the following:¿¿ 
¿¿ 

The award was
     procured by corruption, fraud or other undue means;¿¿¿ 


There was
     corruption in any of the arbitrators;¿¿¿ 


The rights of
     the party were substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a neutral
     arbitrator;¿¿¿ 


The
     arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award cannot be corrected
     without affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy
     submitted;¿¿¿ 


The rights of
     the party were substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the arbitrators
     to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor or by
     the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence material to the
     controversy or by other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to the
     provisions of this title; or¿¿¿ 


An arbitrator
     making the award either: (A) failed to disclose within the time required
     for disclosure a ground for disqualification of which the arbitrator was
     then aware;¿or (B) was subject to disqualification upon grounds specified
     in CCP section 1281.91 but failed upon receipt of timely demand to
     disqualify himself or herself as required by that provision.  ¿ CCP §1286.2(a).
     ¿ 

 
The court shall correct
the award if it determines any of the following: “(a) There was an evident
miscalculation of figures or an evident mistake in the description of any
person, thing or property referred to in the award; (b) The arbitrators
exceeded their powers but the award may be corrected without affecting the
merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted; or (c) The award is
imperfect in a matter of form, not affecting the merits of the controversy.”  CCP §1286.6.
            Except
on these grounds, arbitration awards are immune¿from judicial review in
proceedings to challenge or enforce the award. 
Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 11.  Limiting grounds for judicial review
effectuates the parties' agreement that the award be¿final.  It also reflects that arbitrators
ordinarily¿need not follow the law¿and may base their decisions on “broad
principles of justice and equity.”  Id.
at 10.  “Neither the merits of the
controversy ... nor the sufficiency of the evidence to support the arbitrator's
award are matters for judicial review.”  Morris
v. Zuckerman (1968) 69 Cal.2d 686, 691.  The court “may not substitute its judgment
for that of the arbitrators.”  Ibid.¿
            “[I]t
is presumed that all issues submitted for decision have been passed on and
resolved, and the burden of proving otherwise is upon the party challenging the
award.”  Rodrigues v. Keller (1980)
113 Cal.App.3d 838, 842.  “[T]o discharge
that burden, the party attacking the award must demonstrate that a particular
claim was expressly raised at some time before the award, and that the
arbitrator failed to consider it.”  Ibid.
(citations omitted).  However, “the
failure of an arbitrator to make a finding on even an express claim does not
invalidate the award, so long as the award ‘serves to settle the entire
controversy.”  Id. at 843 (internal
quotation mark omitted).  This is because
“the merits of the controversy are for the arbitrator, not for the courts.”  Ibid.  “[I]t is not appropriate for courts to
review the sufficiency of the evidence before the arbitrator. . . .”  Ibid.
 
C. Statement of Facts
On April 14, 2022,
the court ordered the case between Petitioner Key and Respondent Association to
arbitration.  Hanley Decl., ¶2.  
 
1. The Arbitration
Proceedings
The parties, through
their respective attorneys, signed a stipulation to submit the matter to JAMS.  Hanley Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.  On September 2, 2022, the Honorable Justice
David A. Thompson (Ret.) was appointed as sole arbitrator (the “Arbitrator”)
over the parties’ disputes.  White Pet.
Decl., ¶6.  
The Association’s
Bylaws section 14.7 provides: “Any dispute ... (not resolved internally) which
arises from the Governing Documents, (ii) any occurrence or activity within
Hidden Hills, (iii) any alleged error or omission of the Association, or (iv)
the management or operation of the community of Hidden Hills shall be submitted
for resolution to a retired Judge of the Superior Court who shall hear the case
without a jury and whose decision shall be final and binding.”  Hanley Decl., ¶4.  
The parties signed a
JAMS Stipulation which stated: “It is stipulated and agreed between the parties
to submit all disputes, claims, and controversies to neutral, binding
arbitration at JAMS, pursuant to the JAMS Administrative Policies and, unless
otherwise agreed in writing by the parties, to the applicable JAMS Arbitration
Rules and Procedures.  The Parties hereby
agree to give up any rights they might possess to have this matter litigated in
a court or jury trial.”  Hanley Decl., ¶5;
Assn. Pet., Ex. 3.
Key’s Second Amended
Notice of Claims (“SANC”) was Key’s pleading in arbitration.  Hanley Decl., Ex. 14.  
On September 28,
2022, the Arbitrator entered the first Scheduling Order stating that JAMS Rule
17 would govern the exchange of information in the arbitration.  White Opp. Decl., ¶3, Ex. B.  On November 11, 2022, the Arbitrator entered
the second Scheduling Order stating the parties had agreed the initial exchange
of information required by JAMS Rule 17(a) would occur on or before December 5,
2022.  White Opp. Decl., ¶4, Ex. C.
The Arbitrator
conducted status conferences and hearings on various motions on September 28
and November 11, 2022, and January 3, April 27, May 30, June 9, July 25, August
29, and October 27, 2023.  White Pet.
Decl., ¶7.  Key was represented at each
hearing by her counsel of record.  White
Pet. Decl., ¶7.
On December 5, 2022,
the parties exchanged information.  White
Opp. Decl., ¶5.  Key did not bring any
application to the Arbitrator regarding the Association’s disclosures or for any
enhanced discovery procedures beyond the provisions of JAMS Rule 17.  White Opp. Decl., ¶5.  Key did not notice the deposition of any
party in the arbitration or request any deposition dates.  White Opp. Decl., ¶5.
In early 2023, the
parties filed competing motions for summary disposition of Key’s claims.  White Opp. Decl., ¶6.  The Arbitrator denied both motions due, in
part, to confusion over the standards that would apply to these motions.  White Opp. Decl., ¶6.  After the parties consulted with the
Arbitrator, they agreed that the dispositive motions would be filed under CCP
section 437c standards, which was confirmed in multiple scheduling orders.  Hanley Decl., ¶25, Ex. 21; White Opp. Decl.,
¶6.  The parties then filed renewed
dispositive motions under CCP section 437c standards.  White Opp. Decl., ¶6, Ex. D.
 
2. The Final Award
On December 18,
2023, the Arbitrator made his final award.  Hanley Decl., ¶ 25, Ex. 21; White Pet. Decl.,
¶9, Ex. 5.  The Arbitrator found that the parties’ JAMS
Stipulation encompassed all disputes, claims, and controversies between the
parties as of August 25, 2022 (but not any disputes arising thereafter).  Assn. Pet. Ex. 5, pp. 27-28.  He denied all six of Key’s claims.  Ex. 5, pp. 2-6.
The first claim
sought a declaration that Key owns the Flag Strip in fee simple, that the
Association deny any request by Land Mark to construct driveways or build
structures on or across any real property owned by Key, and that there is no
easement of any kind on or over the Flag Strip that would permit the
Association to grant Land Mark the right to build driveways on the Flag
Strip.  Assn. Pet. Ex. 5, p. 2.  The Arbitrator found that it was undisputed
that Key owns the Flag Strip and that the rest of Key’s claim was moot because
Land Mark had withdrawn its plan to build a driveway across the Flag
Strip.  He granted the Association’s
summary judgment motion and denied Key’s motion.  Id.
The Arbitrator found
the second and sixth claims to be closely related.  The second claim sought a declaration that
the Architectural Standards provision adopted on October 27,2021 is illegal and
void because the written notice to members was inadequate.  The sixth claim sought a declaration that the
Association violated Davis-Stirling when it approved those same amendments. He
granted the Association’s summary judgment motion and denied Key’s motion.  Ex. 5, pp. 3-4.
The third claim
sought a declaration that the Common Interest Development Open Meeting Act (“OMA”)
applies to Architectural Committee meetings. 
The Arbitrator granted the Association’s summary judgment motion.  Ex. 5, pp. 4-5.
The fourth claim
sought a declaration that the Association has a fiduciary duty to ensure the
safety of its members, cannot defer that duty to a third party, and must comply
with a February 16, 2021 Board resolution directing the Architectural Committee
to refrain from approving plans for properties with SoCalGas lines running
through them.  The Arbitrator granted the
Association’s summary judgment motion. 
Ex. 5, p. 5.
The fifth claim
sought a declaration that Key had a right under Davis-Stirling that Key has a
right to inspect Land Mark’s construction plans submitted to the Association
Board.  The Arbitrator granted the
Association’s summary judgment motion on the fifth claim.
The Arbitrator awarded
the Association $206,351.25 in attorney fees and $48,464.28 in costs, a total
of $254,815.53.  Ex. 5, p. 7.  The Arbitrator stated that he had carefully
considered the Association’s fee motion, Key’s opposition, and the
Association’s reply, together with the evidence offered in support of the fee
motion and the other pleadings and papers on file, and exercising such
discretion as the law allows.  Ex. 5, p.
7.  He granted the $206,351.25 in
attorney fees as reasonable and reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation for the reasons articulated in the Association’s fee motion and
reply, as well as based on the Arbitrator’s own knowledge and familiarity with
the legal market, and assuming that the Association is not entitled to recover
attorney fees on the fourth and sixth claims. 
Ibid.   The Association was
awarded $48,464.28 in costs, including court costs and JAMS fees, for the
reasons articulated in the fee motion and reply.  Ibid.
 
3. Post-Award
Request to Correct or Vacate
Key filed a request
with the Arbitrator to correct and/or vacate the award.  White Pet. Decl., ¶10.  Key asserted the second through sixth claims
do not involve any claim that permits an award of attorney fees.  Hanley Decl., ¶18, Ex. 14.  Key also achieved her objective to preclude Land
Mark from building driveways across the Flag Strip that she owns.  Hanley Decl., ¶25.
On January 2, 2024,
the Arbitrator entered an order denying Key’s request to correct and/or vacate
the award.  White Pet. Decl., ¶10, Ex. 6.
The Association
seeks an additional $16,500 in fees ($550/hr. x 30 hours) and $60 in costs for
the work on the petition to confirm and the opposition to Key’s petition to
correct or vacate.  White Pet. Decl.,
¶11-12.
 
D. Analysis
Petitioner Key seeks
to vacate or correct the Arbitration Award on the grounds that (1) the
Arbitrator exceeded his powers by awarding attorney fees and costs to the Association
on claims under Davis-Stirling, (2)) the Arbitrator exceeded his powers and
authority by declaring the Association as the prevailing party on the first claim,
(3) the Arbitrator violated public policy set forth in Davis-Stirling and
exceeded  his powers by (a) denying the Key
the right to amend her claims, (b) applying summary judgment procedures in CCP section
437c contrary to JAMS Rule 18 on summary disposition of claims, and (c) denying
discovery.[1]  
Respondent Association
seeks an order confirming and the Arbitrator’s Award and entering judgment in
its favor, including fees and costs in the amount of $254,815.53, post-award
costs of $16,560, and interest per statute.
 
1. Attorney Fees
Under Davis-Stirling
Davis-Stirling
provides: “In an action to enforce the governing documents, the prevailing
party shall be awarded reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.”  Civil Code[2]
§5975(c).  
The Act defines
“governing documents” as “the declaration and any other documents, such as
bylaws, operating rules, articles of incorporation, or articles of association,
which govern the operation of the common interest development or association.”  §4150. 
The “declaration” is the document that contains the common interest
development’s legal description, states the nature of the development, and sets
forth the name of the association and the restrictions that are entitled to be
enforceable servitudes.  §§ 4135,
4250(a).  
Key relies on Retzloff
v. MoultonParkway Residents’ Assn., (“Retzloff”) (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 742,
and LNSU#1, LLC v. Alta Del Mar Coastal Collection Community Association,
(“LNSU”) 94 Cal.App.5th 1050.
 
a. Retzloff
In Retzloff, two
members sued their homeowner association under Davis-Stirling by conducting
business outside of board meetings and failing to maintain certain corporate
records.  14 Cal.App.5th at 746.  The trial court sustained the association’s
demurrer without leave to amend and awarded attorney fees and costs under
section 5235(c).  Id.  The appellate court noted that the
enforcement statute for the members’ claims was section 4955, which permits an association
to recover costs only if the court finds the action to be frivolous, unreasonable,
or without foundation.  Id. at
748-49 (citing That v. Allders Maintenance Assn., (“That”) (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1429 (plain language of now section 5145(b) did not
permit prevailing association to recover attorney fees even where action was
frivolous, unreasonable or without foundation)).  
The Retzloff
court stated that the only statute that might authorize the association to
obtain attorney fees against the members is 5235(c).  Id. at 749.  Section 5235(a) permits a member to inspect
association records and obtain reasonable costs and attorney’s fees if the
association unreasonably withheld them.  Id.  Section 5235(c) provides that a prevailing
association may recover any costs if the court finds the action to be frivolous,
unreasonable, or without foundation.”  Id.  The court found that the plain meaning of
“any costs” in section 5235(c) did not include attorney’s fees.  Id. at 750.    “Throughout
the Act, the Legislature specifically indicates when a provision awards
attorney fees to only a prevailing association or a prevailing member, either a
prevailing member or association, or neither party.”   Id. 
When it wanted to award attorney fees to either a prevailing member or
association, the Legislature used the term “prevailing party” – i.e.,
5975(c), 4225, 4705, and 5380.  Id.
at 751.  The fact that the Legislature did
not use this language in section 5235(c) indicates its intention not to include
an award of attorney fees to a prevailing association.  Id. 
Under section 5235(c), the association was entitled to costs, not
attorney fees.  Id. at 752, 754.
 
b. LNSU
In LNSU,
homeowners filed an action alleging that their association violated the OMA.  94 Cal.App.5th at 1059.  The trial court denied the claim and the
appellate court affirmed.  Id. at 1080.  The association sought attorney fees under
section 5975(c), arguing that the homeowners’ action at least in part was to
enforce the governing documents of the association.  Id. at 1081.  The court noted Davis-Stirling’s definitions
of “governing documents” and “declaration” (§§ 4150, 4135, 4250(a)) and that “in
an action to enforce the governing documents, the prevailing party shall be
awarded reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.” 
§5975(c).  Id. at 1082.  The court
added that an award of attorney fees to the prevailing party is mandatory in
such an enforcement action.  Id. (citation
omitted).
The LNSU
court stated that it must examine the allegations of the complaint to determine
whether the homeowners sought to enforce the association’s governing documents
under section 5975(c).  The complaint
made only one express reference to the governing documents in a paragraph
describing the association.  Id.  The complaint also mentioned the governing
documents when it alleged that the homeowners had repeatedly requested minutes
of all board meetings “in accordance with the Governing Laws and Rules.”  Id. 
The complaint failed to mention section 5975, the charging allegations
did not cite or quote any governing document, the prayer did not seek to
enforce any governing document, and no governing document was attached to the
it.  Id. at 1082-83.  The court stated it would have expected to
find such content in the complaint if the homeowners were seeking enforcement
of the association’s governing documents under sectioi n5975.  Id. at 1083.  
The complaint shows
that the homeowners sued the association for violating the OMA, and therefore section
4955(a), the provision of the OMA concerning costs and attorney fees, governed.  Id. 
at 1084.  That provision did not
authorize attorney fees for the association and only allowed it to recover
costs for an action that is frivolous, unreasonable, or without
foundation.  Id. at 1084.  The court held that the association could
recover neither attorney fees nor costs. 
Id. at 1086-90.
 
2. Whether the
Arbitrator Exceeded His Authority by Awarding Attorney Fees
The court shall
vacate the award if, inter alia, it determines that the arbitrator
exceeded his powers, and the award cannot be corrected without affecting the
merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted.  CCP §1286.2(a). ¿ An arbitrator exceeds
his power within the meaning of CCP section 1286.2 by issuing an award that
violates a party’s statutory rights.  Ahdout
v. Hekmatjah, (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 21, 37.  The court shall correct the award if it
determines, inter alia, that the arbitrator exceeded his powers, but the
award may be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the
controversy submitted.  CCP §1286.6.  An arbitrator has no discretion to refuse to
enforce the attorney fee and cost provisions of the Act.  Rentzloff, supra, 14 Cal.Ap.5th
at 750; LNSU, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at 1081-83; That, supra,
206 Cal.App.4th at 1429.  Pet. at 10.
 
a. Key’s Position
Key argues that the
Arbitrator exceeded his authority by awarding attorney fees.  Davis-Stirling defines when a party can
recover attorney fees and neither the JAMS Rules nor the Association’s Bylaws
can prevail over the Act.  Davis-Stirling
expressly states that it shall prevail in any conflict between the Bylaws and
the Act.  §4205(a).  Pet. at 12.
Key acknowledges
that her first claim was made to enforce the Association’s governing documents,
and therefore attorney fees could be awarded to the Association if it prevailed.  However, the Arbitrator had no authority to
award fees on the second through sixth claims, all of which arose under the Act
but were not made to enforce the governing documents.  The one-way fee shifting provisions of
Davis-Stirling that award attorney fees only to a member of the association, or
to neither party, are based on a public policy that encourages members to
actively participate in homeowner association proceedings.  The voluntary members of an association board
cannot rule like kings and queens and public participation would be chilled if
members had to pay legal fees when challenging the unlawfulness of association
mandates under the Act.  Pet. at 7-10. 
The Arbitrator
stated that he had carefully considered the Association’s fee motion, Key’s
opposition, and the Association’s reply, together with the evidence offered in
support of the fee motion and the other pleadings and papers on file, and exercising
such discretion as the law allows. 
Assn. Pet. Ex. 5, p. 7.  The
Arbitrator did not have authority or discretion to award attorney fees on the
second through sixth claims.  Pet. at 8-9.
 Key also argues that the Arbitrator
could award costs to the Association on the second through sixth claims only if
there was a finding that her action was frivolous, unreasonable, or without
foundation.  See LNSU, supra,
94 Cal.App. 5th at 1081-83.  Pet. at 11.
Key further contends
that the Association was not the prevailing party on the first claim for
purposes of section 5975(c).  “The
analysis of who is a prevailing party under the fee-shifting provisions of the
Act focuses on who prevailed “on a practical level’ by achieving its main
litigation objectives.”  Rancho Mirage
Country Club Homeowners Assn. v. Hazelbaker, (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 252,
260.  Pet. at 14.  Key was the prevailing party because she
achieved her main litigation objective that Land Mark not be permitted to build
driveway across the Flag Strip owned by her. 
After the action was filed, Land Mark withdrew its plans and submitted
new plans which do not build across the Flag Strip.  For this reason, the Arbitrator found the
claim was moot.  Pet. at 15.
As such, Key
achieved her objective and is clearly the prevailing party.  Therefore, fees cannot be awarded to the
Association on the first claim even though it was brought to enforce the
Association’s governing documents.  See
Champir, LLC v. Fairbanks Ranch Assn., (“Champir”) (2021) 66
Cal.App.5th 583, 592 (homeowners entitled to attorney fees against association
where they achieved their litigation objective of compelling the association to
comply with its CC&Rs when association complied with preliminary injunction
and the action was dismissed as moot). 
In fact, Key is entitled to her attorney fees on the first claim.  Pet. at 15.
As for the remaining
claims, the second claim sought compliance with the mandatory provisions for
association rules changes (§§ 43355, 4360) and the governing Davis-Stirling Article
5 (§§ 4340-70) contains no provision for an award of attorney fees.  Pet. at 17.
The third claim
sought compliance with the OMA requirements and the Association cannot recover
attorney fees on an OMA claim even if it was the prevailing party.  LNSU, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at
1085.  Nor can the Association recover
its costs on this claim because there was no finding that it was frivolous,
unreasonable, or without foundation.  Finally,
the Association was not the prevailing party because the Arbitrator refused to
arbitrate Key’s claim for injunctive relief by unlawfully deciding that the Architectural
Committee is not a committee of the Association.  Pet. at 18-19.
The fourth claim
sought compliance with the OMA.  The
Association is not entitled to fees or costs for the same reason as the third
claim.  Pet. at 20. 
The fifth claim
sought compliance with the record inspection provisions of the Act (§5200-240).  Only Key would have been entitled to attorney
fees under section 5235 and the Association could only recover costs if there
was a finding of frivolous, unreasonable, or without foundation.  Pet. at 20-21. 
 
b. The Arbitrator
Adopted the Association’s Position on Fees and Costs
As the Association
points out (Opp. at 3), the Arbitrator awarded attorney fees “for the reasons
articulated” in the Association’s fee motion, Key’s opposition, and the
Association’s reply, together with the evidence offered in support of the fee
motion and the other pleadings and papers on file, and exercising such
discretion as the law allows.  Assn. Pet.
Ex. 5, p. 7.[3]  The Association’s fee motion argued that
Bylaws section 14.7 created a contractual right to attorney fees under section
1717, each of Key’s claims sought to enforce the Association’s governing
documents, and while there was arguably no entitlement to fees on Key’s OMA
claims, the issue was unsettled, and those fees were negligible.  
Thus, the Arbitrator
awarded the Association attorney fees on two theories: contract fees under
section 1717 and Davis-Stirling fees.  The
Arbitrator did not award fees for the OMA (third) and record inspection (fifth)
claims.[4]  
 
c. Contract Fees
Under Section 1717
The Association
argues Bylaws section 14.7 contains a broad attorney fee provision for any
arbitration or court action which arises from “[a]Any dispute ... (not resolved
internally) which arises from the Governing Documents, (ii) any occurrence or
activity within Hidden Hills, (iii) any alleged error or omission of the
Association, or (iv) the management or operation of the community of Hidden
Hills….”  Hanley Decl., ¶4, Ex. 20
(Attachment A).  All of Key’s claims
arose from the Governing Documents, an occurrence within Hidden Hills, or
errors by the Association or its Board. 
Thus, the Association had a contractual right to attorney’s fees under
section 1717.  
Key does not address
this issue except to argue that the Association’s Bylaws cannot prevail over
the Act.  §4205(a).  Pet. at 12. 
Yet, there is no conflict such that Davis-Stirling must prevail.  Where governing documents contain an attorney
fee clause, it may be enforced under section 1717 in conjunction with a
statutory right to fees.  Deane
Gardenhome Assn. v. Denktas, (1993)0 13 Cal.App.4th 1394, 1397 (awarding
section 1717 fees to homeowner pursuant to CC&Rs); Harbor View Hills
Community Association v. Torley, (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 343, 345 (awarding
attorney fee under both sections 1717 and predecessor to section 5975).  The Association argues that no case holds
that section 1717 contractual attorney fees conflicts with Davis-Stirling
sections 4955 and 5235.  See LNSU,
supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at 1081 (“No contractual attorney fee provision is at
issue here.”).  Opp. at 4.  Key does not rebut this conclusion.
Key also argues that
it was improper for the Arbitrator to award fees on all claims under section
1717.  Reply at 4.  He did not do so.  To justify vacating an arbitrator’s award on
the basis that he exceeded his powers by violating a party’s’ statutory rights,
there must be a clear error of law.  Pearson
Dental Supplies, Inc. v. Superior Court, (2010) 48 Cal.4th 665, 670.  A decision to award fees on the open meeting
and record inspection claims (third and fifth claims) under section 1717 would
not have been a clear error of law, but the Arbitrator agreed that the Association’s
total requested fees were reasonable with the fees for the third and fifth
claims disregarded.  Opp. at 9.
 
d. Fees Under
Davis-Stirling
The LNSU
court stated that the court must examine the allegations of the complaint to
determine whether a homeowner sought to enforce an association’s governing
documents under section 5975(c).  94
Cal.App.5th at 1082.  Key did seek to
enforce the Association’s Governing Documents such that the Association had a
statutory right to fees under section 5975(c). 
The FAP expressly alleges that Key brought the action to enforce the
Association’s Governing Documents.  FAP,
¶7.  Key’s SANC prayed for attorney fees
on every claim on the theory that she was seeking to enforce the Governing Documents.  In addition to the first claim which Key
admits sought to enforce the Governing Documents, the SANC’s second and sixth
claims stated that the Association “has failed to comply with…the Governing
Documents.”  Hanley Decl., Ex. 14, ¶¶ 34,
112(a).  The fourth claim alleged that
the Association’s Board was acting “outside the scope of its authority under
its Governing documents” (Ex. 14, ¶66), and that “the failure to conduct the
study….is not in compliance with the Governing documents” (Ex. 14, ¶67(c)).  These are just the type of allegations that LNSU,
supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at 1082, required for a determination that a
homeowner sought to enforce an association’s governing documents under section
5975(c).  
Key’s arguments
about public policy are unavailing.  It
is true that the Legislature parsed those occasions in Davis-Stirling when
attorney fees and costs would be awarded to a prevailing member, to a
prevailing association, or neither.  Retzloff,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at 751 (the Legislature used the term “prevailing
party” when it wanted to award attorney fees to either a prevailing member or
association, – i.e., 5975(c), 4225, 4705, and 5380).  It is also true that the Legislature
permitted an award of attorney fees for OMA and record inspection claims only
to a prevailing member.  §§ 4955,
5235.  But section 5975(c) expressly
permits an award to the association when a member seeks to enforce the
association’s governing documents, and Key did so.  
 
e. Prevailing
Party
As for the
prevailing party, the Association clearly prevailed on the second through sixth
claims and the Association is correct that the court cannot second-guess the
Arbitrator’s decision that it is the prevailing party on the first claim.  Pierotti v. Torian, (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 17, 26.  Opp. at 10.  
Moreover, the
Arbitrator could reasonably conclude that Key did not obtain any relief against
the Association on the first claim and that the Association was the prevailing
party under both section 1717(b)(1) (party on a contract recovering greater
relief) and section 5975 (achieving main objective on a practical level).  The first claim sought a declaration that Key
owns the Flag Strip in fee simple, that the Association must deny any request
by Land Mark to construct driveways across her property, and that there is no
easement of any kind on or over the Flag Strip that would permit the
Association to grant Land Mark the right to build driveways on the Flag
Strip.  Assn. Pet. Ex. 5, p. 2.  As the Association argues, Key’s objective
was both to stop Land Mark and to compel the Association to adopt her position
that no easement exists over the Flag Strip. 
Opp. at 11.  She failed on the
latter point.  Land Mark’s decision to
withdraw its plans to build a driveway across Flag Strip is distinguishable
from the case cited by Key, Champir, supra, 66 Cal.App.5th at
590, because the association in that case complied with a preliminary
injunction obtained by the member. 
 
f. Costs 
As for costs, the
prevailing party is entitled to reasonable costs in an action to enforce the
governing documents.  §5975(c).  CCP section 1284.2 states that each party
shall bear his pro rata share of the arbitrator’s expenses and fees, together
with the other expenses of the arbitration, unless the arbitration agreement
provides otherwise.  The Association
argues that JAMS Rule 24(g), to which the parties agreed, provides that the
arbitrator may allocate expenses and interest if provided by the parties’
agreement or applicable law. White Decl., Ex. A.  The Arbitrator interpreted Bylaws section
14.7 to permit an award of costs, including the cost of the Arbitrator.  Hanley Decl., Ex. 20, p. 9.  This contract interpretation may not be
overturned by the court.  Gueyffier v.
Ann Summers, Ltd., (2008) 43 Cal.4th 1179, 1182.  The Association’s fee reply, relied on by the
Arbitrator, also argued that Key’s open meeting and record inspection claims
(third and fifth claims) were unreasonable and without foundation.  Hanley Decl., Ex. 20, pp. 7-8.  The Arbitrator adopted this reasoning, and
costs were properly awarded with respect to all of Key’s claims.
                        
E. Conclusion
            Petitioner Key’s motion
to vacate and/or correct arbitration award is denied.  Respondent Association’s petition to confirm
arbitration is granted.  The Association
is entitled to a judgment in its favor confirming the arbitration award,
$254,815.53 in fees and costs awarded by the Arbitrator, post-arbitration costs
of $60 and attorney’s fees of $16,500, and post-arbitration award, pre-judgment
interest of 7% on the $254,815.53 awarded.
The Association’s
counsel is ordered to prepare a proposed judgment, serve it on Key’s counsel
for approval as to form, wait ten days after service for any objections, meet
and confer if there are objections, and then submit the proposed judgment along
with a declaration stating the existence/non-existence of any unresolved
objections.  An OSC re: judgment as to
the Association is set for June 20, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.  Upon entry of judgment, the remaining case
against Land Mark will be transferred to Department 1 for reassignment to an
I/C court.


