 Case Number:  22STCV21763    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  BRENDA KNOX, Plaintiff(s), vs.  YIGAL SPINDLER, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV21763  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. August 31, 2023  Defendant Yigal Spindler (“Defendant”) propounded set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and request for production of documents (“RPDs”) on Plaintiff Brenda Knox (“Plaintiff”) on November 4, 2022. Plaintiff served objection responses on December 9, 2022. On January 30, 2023, defense counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel, requesting verified responses without objections on or before February 6, 2023. Defendant contends Plaintiff has not provided verified responses, without objections, to date. Plaintiff, in opposition, argues that Defendant refused to grant an extension to Plaintiff to serve responses. Plaintiff’s counsel had requested a thirty-day extension on December 8, 2022. In response, defense counsel stated they would only grant an extension if Plaintiff served responses without objections. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s counsel served objection responses. Plaintiff argues rather than a motion to compel, Defendant should have brought a motion to compel further after engaging in an informal discovery conference (“IDC”). Further, on October 4, 2023, Defendant served on Plaintiff supplemental demands for form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and RPDs. On October 14, 2023, Plaintiff served on Defendant verified responses to the supplemental requests. Plaintiff avers defense counsel stated on October 18, 2023 that they were keeping the motion on calendar for monetary sanctions only. Defendant propounded discovery on November 2, 2022 via both electronic mail and mail. Plaintiff avers there was no agreement between the parties consenting to electronic service. Therefore, by statute, Plaintiff had 30 days to respond to written discovery, and 5 days added since the discovery requests were served by mail. Thus, the due date for Plaintiff to provide responses, not counting holidays, was December 9, 2022. Plaintiff timely served responses on December 9, 2022. Objection-only responses are still responses, and do not require verification. Plaintiff is correct that the appropriate motion to bring was a motion to compel further after meet and confer efforts, with an IDC requirement.  Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motions compelling responses to discovery propounded on December 9, 2022 are improper, and therefore DENIED. For the same reasons, the request for sanctions is also DENIED.   Defendant is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 30th day of August 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   