 Case Number:  BC642674    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  73 06/26/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
SMITH, et al. v. FORSHPAN CAPITAL,
LLC, et al. (BC642674)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/moving party:  Ethan Brown (Brown
Neri Smith & Khan LLP) 
Counsel for
Defendants: Norm Rodich (Palmieri, Tyler, Wiener, Wilhelm & Waldron LLP),
Michael McCollum (McCollum Counsel)
 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY APPROVAL OF DERIVATIVE
CLAIMS SETTLEMENT (filed on 05/15/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Preliminary Approval of Derivative Claims Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 2,
2016, Plaintiffs Steven Smith,
Oscar George, Robert Margolis, and Tirso George Jr. (collectively
“Plaintiffs”), filed this shareholder derivative action. In their operative complaint,
Plaintiffs allege derivative claims for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary
duty and an accounting against Defendants Forshpan Capital, LLC and Morton
Forshpan, and nominal Defendant Mojave Square LLC. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that Forshpan Capital, as managed by Morton Forshpan, caused harm to the company by failing to pay property taxes owed
by Mojave Square, failing to prudently manage the property and ensure timely
payment of taxes, failing to file necessary corporate documents, failing to consummate
a sale of the property to limit any losses, and refusing to maintain and
provide books and records as required.
 
On May 15,
2024, Plaintiffs filed the Motion for Preliminary Approval of Derivative Claims
Settlement. No opposition was filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal
Standard
 
“A court
reviews the settlement of a derivative suit as a means of protecting the
interests of those who are not directly represented in the settlement
negotiations. In class actions, for example '[a]llthough the court gives regard
to what is otherwise a private consensual agreement between the parties, the
court must also evaluate the proposed settlement agreement with the purpose of
protecting the rights of the absent class members who will be bound by the
settlement. [Citation.] The court must therefore scrutinize the proposed
settlement agreement to the extent necessary to “ ‘reach a reasoned judgment
that the agreement is not the product of fraud or overreaching by, or collusion
between, the negotiating parties, and that the settlement, taken as a whole, is
fair, reasonable and adequate to all concerned.” [Citations.]” ’ ” (Robbins
v. Alibrandi (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 438, 449.)
 
California
Rules of Court (CRC), rule 3.769(a) requires “A settlement or compromise of an
entire class action, or of a cause of action in a class action, or as to a
party, requires the approval of the court after hearing.”  Rule 3.769(c)
establishes that “Any party to a settlement agreement may serve and file a
written notice of motion for preliminary approval of the settlement.  The
settlement agreement and proposed notice to class members must be filed with
the motion, and the proposed order must be lodged with the motion.”   
 
In
determining whether to approve a class settlement, the court’s responsibility
is to “prevent fraud, collusion or unfairness to the class” through settlement
because the rights of the class members and even named plaintiffs “may not have
been given due regard by the negotiating parties.”  (Consumer Advocacy
Group, Inc. v. Kintetsu Enterprises of America (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 46,
60.)  The class settlement should be scrutinized by the Court to assure
itself that it is not the product of fraud, overreaching, or collusion and that
“the settlement, taken as a whole, is fair, reasonable and adequate to all
concerned.”  (Wershba v. Apple Computer (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 224,
244–45.)
   
The burden is
on the proponent of the settlement to establish that the settlement is fair and
reasonable.  (Wershba, supra, 91 Cal.App.4th at 245; see also
7-Eleven Owners for Fair Franchising v. The Southland Corp. (2000) 85
Cal.App.4th 1135, 1165-66.  However, a presumption of fairness exists
where: (1) the settlement is reached through arm’s-length bargaining; (2)
investigation and discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and the court to
act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in similar litigation; and (4)
the percentage of objectors is small.  (Wershba, supra, 91
Cal.App.4th at 245, citing Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
1794, 1802.)  Importantly, though, in Clark v. American Residential
Services LLC (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 785, the Second District held that the
trial court erred in granting approval of a settlement where “the trial court
lacked sufficient information to make an informed evaluation of the fairness of
the settlement.”  (Id. at 790.)  
 
The Clark
court reiterated at length the principles applicable to a court’s final
approval of a class settlement as follows: 
 
The
trial court must determine whether a class action settlement is fair and
reasonable and has broad discretion to do so. That discretion is to be
exercised through the application of several well-recognized factors.  The
list, which “‘is not exhaustive and should be tailored to each case,’” includes
“‘the strength of plaintiffs’ case, the risk, expense, complexity and likely
duration of further litigation, the risk of maintaining class action status
through trial, the amount offered in settlement, the extent of discovery
completed and the stage of the proceedings, the experience and views of
counsel, the presence of a governmental participant, and the reaction of the
class members to the proposed settlement.’ (Citations omitted.)  “‘“The
most important factor is the strength of the case for plaintiffs on the merits,
balanced against the amount offered in settlement.” ’ ” (Citation omitted.)
While the court “‘must stop short of the detailed and thorough investigation
that it would undertake if it were actually trying the case,’ ” it “‘must
eschew any rubber stamp approval in favor of an independent evaluation.’” (Ibid.) 
 
(Clark,
supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at 799.)  In finding that the trial court
abused its discretion in approving the settlement before it, the Clark
court emphasized that “an informed evaluation of a proposed settlement cannot
be made without an understanding of the amount that is in controversy and the
realistic range of outcomes of the litigation.  (Citation omitted.)” (Id.
at 801.)  The court also emphasized that “it is the trial court’s duty,
whether or not there are objectors, to employ those [Dunk presumption of
fairness] factors to evaluate independently the fairness of a proposed
settlement.”  (Id.)   
 
Yet, the
settlement amount need not make the class members completely whole.  As
the Wershba Court stated “Compromise is inherent and necessary in¿the
settlement process.  Thus, even if the relief afforded by the proposed
settlement is substantially narrower than it would be if the suits were to be
successfully litigated, this is no bar to a class settlement because the public
interest may indeed be served by a voluntary settlement in which each side
gives ground in the interest of avoiding litigation.”  (Wershba, supra,
91 Cal.App.4th at 250.) 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Plaintiffs
move for preliminary approval of the settlement with Defendants. The parties
settled for a total of $197,350. That
payment includes a $35,000 payment for the services that Plaintiffs rendered in
this action, with $12,500 to Oscar George, $7,500 to Robert Margolis, $10,000
to Steven Smith, and $5,000 to Tirso George, Jr. The $197,350 payment, minus
the payment to Plaintiffs for their services rendered, and minus Plaintiffs’
attorneys’ fees (33%) and costs (as incurred), shall be distributed pro-rata to
all members of Mojave Square (excepting Defendants Forshpan Capital and Morton
Forshpan) based on their investment percentage as calculated after removing
those not entitled to any settlement proceeds, if the members approve.
 
The Settlement Agreement will also result in a mutual release of
any and all claims, whether known or unknown, between Plaintiffs, Mojave
Square, Forshpan Capital, and Morton Forshpan, or anyone claiming any interest
on their or of their behalf.
 
Plaintiffs
assert the settlement is fair, adequate, and reasonable. The settlement
provides for notice to the remaining shareholders with a period for
objections.  
 
a.    
Presumption
of Fairness
 
                                                   
i.     Arm’s Length Bargaining 
 
On October
27, 2023, the parties participated in a mediation before private mediator
Michael Balmages, Esq. Plaintiffs’ counsel states in a declaration that after a
full day of negotiation, the mediation ended, and Mr. Balmages sent the
mediator’s proposal to the parties later that night. (Brown Decl., ¶ 2.) The parties received the mediator’s proposal,
considered it for a few days, and accepted it on October 31, 2023. (Ibid.)
The parties drafted and edited a settlement agreement over the next couple
months, coming to a final agreement on April 19, 2024. (Id., ¶ 3.) Thus, the settlement was reached through an arm’s
length negotiation through the assistance of a private mediator. 
 
                                                  
ii.     Investigation
and Discovery
 
Plaintiffs’
counsel states that the only procedures remaining in this case were expert
discovery and trial. (Barnes Decl., ¶ 5.) The parties conducted extensive
discovery, including the exchange of thousands of pages of documents, the
depositions of each party, and one third party deposition. (Id., ¶ 3.)
Plaintiffs also served subpoenas on the County of San Bernardino’s Tax
Assessor’s office, the real estate company that represented Mojave Square, and
potential buyers for the Mojave Square property, Adeeb Hattar, Ahmed Radwan,
and Dennis Senft. (Ibid.) On June 4, 2022, Defendants moved for summary
judgment, asserting that Plaintiffs’ claims were untimely and that Morton
Forshpan was not the alter-ego of Defendant Forshpan Capital. (Ibid., ¶
4.) The MSJ was denied as to claims against Forshpan Capital and granted as to
the alter-ego claim against Forshpan. (Ibid.) The case was set for an
evidentiary hearing/trial before the Hon. Richard Stone (ret.) for August
26-30, and September 5 and 6, 2024. (Id., ¶ 5.) Thus, Plaintiffs have
sufficiently represented that the parties have conducted investigation and
discovery in this matter. 
 
                                                
iii.     Counsel’s
Class Action Experience
 
Plaintiffs’
counsel also states he is sufficiently experienced in similar litigation. (Brown Decl., ¶ 4.) He declares that he has extensive
experience in prosecuting and defending shareholder litigation in state and
federal court, brought individually, derivatively, and as a class action. (Ibid.)
In addition, he states he has prosecuted or defended at least 20 shareholder
derivative actions. (Ibid.)
 
Based on
these factors, the settlement is entitled to a presumption of fairness.    
 
b.    
 Whether the Settlement
is Fair, Adequate and Reasonable
 
Plaintiffs
contend that the main claims in this case were regarding Defendants’ failure to
timely pay taxes and Defendants’ failure to consummate the property sale to
avoid the tax loss. These claims had the greatest likelihood and size for
recovery from Defendants. (Brown Decl.,
¶ 6.)
 
Plaintiffs
state that the failure to timely pay the taxes or advance the money necessary
to pay the taxes provided for a recovery of approximately $140,000. The
non-payment of property taxes provided for a recovery of approximately $620,000
minus the approximate $140k in taxes. 
 
Here, the
parties settled for a total of $193,750: with $35,000 paid to Plaintiffs, 33% paid
to attorneys’ fees plus any costs, and the remainder being divided
proportionally among the investors of the Company, excluding Forshpan Capital
and Morty on the basis of their status as Defendants in the action.
 
Plaintiffs
contend that if its claims failed, Mojave Square would have received nothing,
and Plaintiffs would have been subject to a sizeable costs award. Defendants
had maintained that all the claims were time-barred and intended to present
that defense, among others, at trial. Plaintiffs assert that the risk, expense,
duration, and complexity of trial could have failed and provided nothing for
Mojave Square. As it stood, Mojave Square had no assets and conducted no
business since 2016. (Brown Decl., ¶ 4.) Under the circumstances, Plaintiffs
assert that having money recovered is highly beneficial compared to recovering
nothing.
 
As noted
earlier, investigation and discovery have been shown to be sufficient to allow
the parties to act intelligently.    
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court preliminarily finds that the settlement is fair, adequate,
and reasonable. The Court GRANTS the motion. 
 
c.     
 Notice of
Final Approval Hearing
 
Plaintiffs
submitted a proposed notice of the final approval hearing attached as Exhibit
2. (Motion, Ex. 2.) The notice includes the following: (1) a summary of the
litigation; (2) a neutral description of the proposed settlement; (3) the sum
that will be paid to Plaintiffs and the percentage that will be paid towards attorneys’
fees; (4) how to object to the settlement; (5) the identity of plaintiffs’
counsel; and (6) the date, time, and place of the final hearing. Further,
Plaintiffs represent that notice will be by direct mail. 
 
The Court finds the proposed notice and the
method of sending the notice appears to provide adequate means for giving
actual notice to the members of Mojave Square. 
 

DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Preliminary Approval of Derivative Claims Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
The court sets a hearing for final approval of
the settlement pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.769(e-g) for 7-30, 2024,
at 8:30 am in Department 73 of Stanley Mosk Courthouse, located at 111 N. Hill
Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012.