 Case Number:  23STCV11416    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  73 06/26/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
YANG, et al. v. WANG, et al. (23STCV11416)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party: Justin Owens (Stradling Yocca Carlson & Rauth
LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Albert Abkarian
(Albert Abkarian & Associates), Noah Green (The Green Firm)
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES BY DEFENDANT JIA QI WANG TO PLAINTIFFS’ SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET
ONE, AND FOR AN ORDER IMPOSING SANCTIONS (filed 04/30/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Defendant Wang’s response to Special Interrogatories, Set One is
GRANTED. Defendant Wang shall provide verified responses within 30 days. 
 
The Court
further GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Wang and their attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount
of $2,310. Said monetary
sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiffs within 30 days of the date
of this order. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
May 19, 2023, Plaintiffs Richard Yang and Seijoon Hwang (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Jia Qi Wang (“Wang”), Hao
Luo, Albert Abkarian (“Abkarian”), YMIP, Inc. (“YMIP”), YMENT Group Inc., and OBOA,
Inc. (“OBOA”). 
 
On
October 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
the following causes of action: 
 
C/A
1: Fraudulent Inducement 
C/A
2: Negligent Misrepresentation
C/A
3: Fraud 
C/A
4: Conversion 
C/A
5: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
C/A
6: Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty
C/A
7: Aiding and Abetting Fraud
C/A
8: California Penal Code Section 496
C/A
9: Accounting
C/A
10: Unfair Business Practices (Violation
of Business and Professions Code Section 17200)
 
The FAC alleges that Defendants induced Plaintiffs to invest more
than $1.45 million into a fraudulent investment scam. The FAC alleges that
Defendants falsely misrepresented facts about the company that Plaintiffs
invested in and falsely misrepresented that Plaintiffs’ would be paid back for
their investments. 
 
On April 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion to Compel
Further Responses by Defendant Wang to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories, Set
One, and request for sanctions. No opposition was filed. On June 18, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a notice of non-receipt of opposition. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
A motion to compel further discovery responses
must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(2);
2016.040.)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that a meet and confer
letter was sent to Defendant’s counsel on March 21 and 22, 2024. (Owens Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs’ counsel granted Defendant an extension to supplement
Defendant’s discovery responses, but no additional responses were provided.
(Owens Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that counsel has satisfied the meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.     Discussion
 
Plaintiffs
move to compel Defendant Wang’s further responses to Special Interrogatories,
Set One.
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
 
A motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories may be brought based on: (1)
incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).) 
 
It is not
necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in
evidence. “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts
show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to
prevent surprise at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court
(1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2017.010,
2019.030(a)(1) (Information is discoverable if it is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence and it is not unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is
obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or
less expensive.); Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599,
1611-1612 (noting a party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence).) 
 
If a timely
motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to
justify any objection or failure fully to answer. (Coy v. Superior Court
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses
to interrogatories]; see also Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
Furthermore,
to the extent there is any doubt in whether these records should be
discoverable, California’s liberal approach to discovery provides that doubt
should be resolved in favor of permitting discovery. (Pacific Tel. &
Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 173.) 
 
Here, Defendant Wang responded to
every Special Interrogatory request numbered 1-41 with the same objection: 
 
“Responding Party objects on the grounds that this information is
equally available to the propounding party. Responding Party objects to this
interrogatory on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to show a compelling need
for this discovery and made no showing that there is no less intrusive means of
obtaining the necessary information. [Citations.] Responding Party objects to
this request on the grounds that it is overly broad and the information it
seeks is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. This request is also harassing, oppressive, and burdensome in that
the question posed is not tailored to the circumstances of this lawsuit. 
 
Discovery is ongoing, and Responding Party reserves the right to
supplement or amend this response if and when additional information is
ascertained.”
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant Wang’s boilerplate objections are too
general and unmeritorious because they do not state how or why Defendant Wang believes
Plaintiffs’ Interrogatories are not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence or are harassing, oppressive, and burdensome.
The Court agrees, and notes that Defendant Wang has failed to oppose the
instant motion. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant
Wang’s further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
C.     Sanctions
 
“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion,
identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought,
and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of motion shall be
supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a
declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction
sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) 
 
Sanctions
may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a).
) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery
constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section
2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court
may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a
motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed.  
 
Here, the
Court finds that Defendant Wang engaged in the misuse of the discovery process
by failing to make good faith efforts to respond to Plaintiffs’ Special
Interrogatories. Plaintiffs request $5,110 in sanctions for Plaintiffs’
counsel’s work on this motion. The Court finds sanctions are warranted,
however, the amount requested is
excessive due to the type of motion at issue, the fact no opposition was filed,
and the fact counsel can appear at the hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court
awards sanctions in the total amount of $2,310 (4.2 hours of attorney time to prepare
the motion.)
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Defendant Wang’s response to Special Interrogatories, Set One is
GRANTED. Defendant Wang shall provide verified responses within 30 days. 
 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Wang and their attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount
of $2,310. Said monetary
sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiffs within 30 days of the date
of this order. 