 Case Number:  23PSCV03425    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Juan Zhao’s  Demurrer to Defendant Min Zhou’s Answer to First Amended Complaint Respondent: Defendant Min  Zhou TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Juan Zhao’s  Demurrer to Defendant Min Zhou’s Answer to First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED  with twenty (20) days leave to amend. BACKGROUND This  is a breach of contract and fraud action arising from a loan agreement. In May  2023, Plaintiff Juan Zhao entered into an agreement with Defendant Min Zhou in  which Zhao agreed to loan a total of $1,500,000 to Min Zhou in exchange for  repayment within one week. After two to three weeks later, Min Zhou told Zhao  that Min Zhou would be unable to repay the loan and claimed the money had been  lost in an online scam. On June 23, Min Zhou signed a written promissory note  that acknowledged the loan, agreed to repay it within thirty days, and listed  property in Diamond Bar as collateral for the loan. Subsequently, Zhao alleges  Min Zhou failed to make any payments on the loan. On  July 25, 2023, Zhao filed a complaint in Orange County Superior Court against  Defendants Min Zhou, Bing Zhou, and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of  action: (1) fraud, (2) promissory estoppel, (3) fraudulent transfer, (4) breach  of oral contract, (5) breach of written contract, and (6) common counts. On  October 4, 2023, the parties stipulated to the transfer of this action to the  present court. On  February 7, 2024, the court sustained Min Zhou’s demurrer to the Complaint in  part with leave to amend. On  February 27, 2024, Zhao filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same  defendants alleging the same causes of action. On May 29, 2024, the court  sustained Min Zhou’s demurrer to the FAC in part without leave to amend as to  the fifth cause of action. On  June 17, 2024, Min Zhou filed an answer to the FAC. On  July 29, 2024, Zhao filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing the present  demurrer on July 19, 2024, Zhao’s counsel telephonically met and conferred with  Min Zhou’s counsel. (Oh Suppl. Decl., ¶ 3-4.) A  hearing on the present demurrer is set for October 30, 2024, along with a  post-mediation status conference/trial setting conference and OSC Re: Notice of  Related Cases. ANALYSIS Zhao  demurs to Min Zhou’s Answer to the FAC. For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS Zhao’s demurrer. Legal Standard An  answer to a complaint must include “[t]he general or specific denial of the  material allegations of the complaint controverted by the defendant” and “[a]  statement of any new matter constituting a defense.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  431.30, subd. (b).) The same pleading of ultimate facts rather than mere legal  conclusions required in a complaint is also required in pleading an answer. (FPI  Development, Inc. v. Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.) Defenses  must be separately stated and refer to the causes of action to which they  answer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (g).) A  plaintiff can demur to an answer on the ground that “[t]he answer does not  state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20,  subd. (a).) “Generally speaking, the determination whether an answer states a  defense is governed by the same principles which are applicable in determining  if a complaint states a cause of action.” (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen  (1964) 226 Cal. App. 2d 725, 732.) “The determination of the sufficiency of the  answer requires an examination of the complaint because its adequacy is with  reference to the complaint it purports to answer.” (Id., at p. 733.) Discussion In demurring  to Min Zhou’s answer, Zhao first argues all of Min Zhou’s affirmative defenses  fail because they rely on the same insufficiently pled facts in paragraphs one,  two, and three of the answer. (Demurrer, p. 9:1-4.) Zhao argues Min Zhou’s  pleadings rely on impermissible legal conclusions in the form of “wrongful,”  “unlawful,” and “illegal.” But Min Zhou does more than merely allege Zhao  engaged in wrongful, unlawful, and illegal conduct. Min Zhou includes specific  allegations to support these conclusions by alleging Zhao was engaging in tax  evasion through concealing funds from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).  (Answer, ¶ 1-2.) Zhao  also argues Min Zhou’s pleading relies on “information and belief” without  stating the grounds for such information and belief. (Demurrer, p. 9:7-16.) A  pleading is insufficiently pled if the pleader merely asserts allegations on  information and belief “without alleging such information that ‘lead[s] [the  plaintiff] to believe that the allegations are true.’” (Doe v. City of Los  Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 551, fn. 5, quoting Pridonoff v.  Balokovich (1951) 36 Cal.2d 788, 792.) Here, Min Zhou does not allege any  facts that form a basis for Zhou’s allegation that Zhao has been engaging in  tax evasion and concealing funds from the IRS. Nor does Min Zhou allege any  facts to support Min Zhou’s belief that the funds at issue in this dispute are unlawful  proceeds or “ill-gotten-gains.” Because each of Min Zhou’s affirmative defenses  incorporate these insufficiently pled allegations, the court finds Min Zhou’s  entire answer is subject to demurrer. Accordingly,  the court SUSTAINS Zhao’s demurrer with leave to amend. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Zhao’s  demurrer to Min Zhou’s answer to the FAC is SUSTAINED with twenty (20)  days leave to amend.