  Case Number:  22PSCV01728    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Tanera Transport LLC’s Motion for Entry of  Judgment Pursuant to Terms of Stipulation Respondent: Defendant Atama  Premier Foods LLC TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Tanera Transport LLC’s Motion for Entry of  Judgment Pursuant to Terms of Stipulation is GRANTED. BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract  action arising from shipment agreements. Between February and August 2022,  Plaintiff Tanera Transport LLC (Tanera) entered into written agreements with  Defendant Atama Premier Foods LLC (Atama) in which Tanera agreed to ship goods  from Asian ports to Atama’s warehouses in exchange for payment. Tanera alleges  Atama breached the agreement by failing to pay the full price for services in  the amount of $128,987.04. On November 8, 2022, Tanera  filed a complaint against Atama, Erwan Sutanto, and Does 1-10, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) breach of written contract, (2) account stated,  (3) services rendered, (4) fraud, and (5) civil theft. On March 2, 2023, the  court sustained Atama and Sutanto’s demurrer to Tanera’s Complaint with leave  to amend. On March 21, 2023, Tanera  filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the  following causes of action: (1) breach of written contract, (2) account stated,  (3) services rendered, and (4) fraud. On April 16, 2024, Tanera  dismissed Sutanto from the present action. On April 23, 2024, the court  dismissed the present action in its entirety pursuant to Tanera’s request. On  October 3, 2024, Tanera filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion  is set for October 30, 2024. ANALYSIS Tanera  seeks an entry of a stipulated judgment enforcing the terms of a settlement  agreement between Tanera and Atama. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS  Tanera’s motion. Legal  Standard Code  of Civil Procedure section 664.6 provides a summary procedure that enables  courts to enforce a settlement agreement by entering a judgment pursuant to the  terms of the parties’ settlement. In relevant part, it provides as follows: “If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a  writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally  before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon  motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If  requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to  enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the  settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).) A  writing is considered signed if signed by the party or an attorney who  represents the party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (b).) Discussion In this case,  Tanera and Atama executed a stipulation for entry of judgment on February 22,  2024, in which Atama agreed to pay $80,000 to Tanera in monthly increments of  $4,000 on the eleventh day of each month. (Kernkamp Decl., Ex. 1-A, ¶ 3.) If Atama  defaults on any of the payments when they come due, Tanera is required to give  notice of the default by email to Atama’s counsel, William Niu, Esq. (Kernkamp  Decl., Ex. 1-A, ¶ 5.) Upon receipt of the notice, Atama has five (5) business  days to cure the default and, if Atama fails to do so, Tanera may proceed with  seeking entry of the stipulated judgment against Atama. (Kernkamp Decl., Ex.  1-A, ¶ 5.) Here, Atama  failed to make the $4,000 payment for September 11, 2024. (Tan Decl., ¶ 7.) On  September 20, 2024, Tanera’s counsel emailed a notice of breach to Atama’s  counsel. (Kernkamp Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2.) As a result, pursuant to the parties’  agreement, Atama was required to make payment by September 27, 2024, to avoid  the entry of judgment. Because Atama failed to do so, Tanera brought the  present motion seeking the entry of judgment in the amount of $92,000,  including the stipulated judgment of $118,000 minus $28,000 in credited  payments and plus $2,000 in reasonable attorney fees. (Kernkamp Decl., ¶ 6.) In  opposition, Atama does not deny failing to timely make the $4,000 payment or  receiving notice from Tanera’s counsel. (Sutanto Decl., ¶ 4.) Instead, they ask  for relief from judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,  subdivision (b) on the grounds that their default was a result of their  counsel’s mistake or advertence. Atama does not, however, provide any authority  that applies this provision to the entry of stipulated judgments.  The court finds such relief would be improper  as it would require the court to rewrite the parties’ settlement agreement to  include an exception that does not currently exist.   By agreeing  to have the notice to cure default sent to their counsel instead of them, Atama  accepted the risk that their counsel may miss the notice due to other client  obligations or trials, failing to notify Atama in time to cure. Because Atama  defaulted pursuant to the terms upon which the parties agreed, Tanera is entitled  to seek the entry of stipulated judgment against them. Accordingly,  the court GRANTS Tanera’s motion and finds their requested attorney fees  to be reasonable. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Tanera’s  motion for the entry of stipulated judgment is GRANTED.Plaintiff is ordered to prepare a judgment consistent with the court's ruling.