 Case Number:  22STCV20298    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 21, 2022, Plaintiff Alec Enciso filed this action against Defendants
Michelle Gonzalez (“Defendant”) and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and
general negligence. 
On
September 2, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
March 28, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication. The motion was set for hearing on September
19, 2024.  On September 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On
September 12, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
The Court continued the hearing to November 15, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
          Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections
                    Overruled: All 
          Defendant’s evidentiary objections                    Overruled: All 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least
one element of the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must
‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations,
admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which
judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but
need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v.
Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion
must file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to
each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed,
indicating whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are
undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other
material facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material
fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a
reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply
with the applicable separate statement requirement, that failure may in the
court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion
adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1),
(3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and inferences
in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 843.) 
B.   Negligence 
The
elements of a negligence claim are a legal duty of care, breach of that duty,
and proximate cause resulting in injury. 
(Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.) 
“The
operator of a vehicle must keep a proper lookout for other vehicles or persons
on the highway and must keep his car under such control as will enable him to
avoid a collision; failure to keep such a lookout constitutes negligence.”  (Downing v. Barrett Mobile Home Transport,
Inc. (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 519, 524.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on March 26, 2022, on
Melrose Avenue between San Vicente and N. Huntley Drive in West Hollywood, CA
90069, Defendants negligently,
carelessly, and unlawfully drove, operated, owned, entrusted, and maintained
their vehicle, causing it to collide with and injure Plaintiff. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
 The accident occurred on Melrose Avenue
between San Vicente and North Huntley Drive.  Plaintiff was
riding a bicycle.  The portion of Melrose
Avenue where the accident occurred did not have a bike lane and was slightly
down-hill heading east.  Defendant was driving her car in front of Plaintiff,
looking for a diagonal parking space. 
Defendant
turned her car into a diagonal parking space on her right without first
checking over her right shoulder.  Plaintiff
had little or no time to react.  He was
forced to slam on his brakes and almost simultaneously slammed into Defendant’s
car.  Plaintiff’s bicycle struck
Defendant’s car on its passenger side between the taillight and the middle of
the back tire. 
DISCUSSION 
Defendant
has presented evidence (including an expert declaration) about the parties’
speeds, point of impact, reaction times, and other matters.  Based on this evidence, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff was solely responsible for the accident as a matter of law.  Specifically, Defendant argues: (1) Plaintiff
is presumptively and conclusively negligent because he admitted that he
rear-ended Defendant, (2) Defendant did not owe a duty to Plaintiff because it
was not foreseeable that Plaintiff, in violation of multiple Vehicle Code
provisions, would hit the rear of Defendant’s vehicle when she was parking, and
(3) even if Defendant had a duty, Defendant did not breach the duty because the
accident was avoidable, i.e., Plaintiff “had sufficient time and distance to
perceive, react and avoid the subject incident.”  (Motion p. 1.) 
Defendant’s
evidence does not prevent a reasonable trier of fact from finding that Defendant
is partly or completely liable for the accident.  As Defendant admits, evidence that Plaintiff
rear-ended Defendant would establish at most a “rebuttable presumption” of negligence.
 (Motion p. 1.)  Defendant’s duty analysis is based on a
selective recitation of evidence which a trier of fact is not required to
accept.  And Defendant’s argument that
the collision was “avoidable” invokes the former “last clear chance” theory,
which does not prevent a finding of comparative negligence.  (See Li v. Yellow Cab Co. (1975) 13
Cal.3d 804, 829 [“The doctrine of last clear chance is abolished” and is “subsumed
under the general process of assessing liability in proportion to negligence”].) 
Therefore,
Defendant has not carried her initial burden on summary judgment or summary
adjudication. 
Even
assuming Defendant had carried her initial summary judgment or summary
adjudication burden, Plaintiff has raised triable issues of fact concerning (1)
whether Defendant checked her mirrors before turning into the diagonal parking
space (exh. 3, p. 20), (2) whether Defendant activated her turn signal before
turning into the parking space (see exh. 2, p. 43; exh. 3, p. 20), (3) whether Defendant
failed to look over her right shoulder before turning right into the parking
space (exh. 3, p. 21), and (4) whether Defendant “darted” in front of
Plaintiff, giving him insufficient time to brake before striking Defendant’s car
(see exh. 2, pp. 40-42).  
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Michelle Gonzalez’s motion for summary judgment or, in
the alternative, summary adjudication. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.