 Case Number:  23STCV08632    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Case number 23STCV08632 
On
April 18, 2023, Plaintiffs Hector Velazquez, an individual, heir and
successor-in-interest to Victor Manuel Velazquez, Jesus Gutierrez, an
individual, heir and successor-in-interest to Victor Manuel Velazquez, and
Martha Velazquez, an individual, heir and successor-in-interest to Victor
Manuel Velazquez (“Velasquez Plaintiffs”), filed an action against Defendants
Ricardo Ivan Mendez (“Mendez”), Kia Motors Downtown LA, Kia Motors Fleet, and
Does 1-100 for negligence per se (Vehicle Code section 21453, subdivision (a)),
vicarious liability (Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a)), Vehicle
Code section 17001, and wrongful death. (Case number 23STCV08632.) 
On
May 25, 2023, Defendant First Motor Group of Los Angeles LLC dba Kia Downtown
Los Angeles (erroneously sued as Kia Motors Down Town LA) (“Kia”) filed an
answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-100 for complete
indemnity, partial indemnity, equitable contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On
May 30, 2023, Mendez filed an answer. 
On
November 7, 2023, the Velasquez Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include
Defendant Evolution Automotive Group, LLC (“Evolution”), as Doe 1. 
On
February 7, 2024, Kia filed a first amended cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants William Bowers (“Bowers”), Evolution, Mendez, Maria O Rivera De Perry (“Perry”), and Roes 1-100 for
complete indemnity, partial indemnity, equitable contribution, and declaratory
relief. On March 12, 2024, Mendez and Evolution filed an answer to Kia’s first
amended cross-complaint. 
On September
16, 2024, the Court granted Kia’s motion for leave to file a second amended
cross-complaint.  On September 25, 2024,
Kia filed a second amended cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant
Bowers, Evolution, Mendez, Perry, and Roes 1-100 for complete indemnity, partial indemnity, equitable
contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On
October 25, 2024, Perry filed an answer to Kia’s second amended cross-complaint.  On October 29, 2024, Perry filed an amended
answer to Kia’s second amended cross-complaint and filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Bowers, Mendez, Evolution, Kia, and Roes 1-25 for
indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On
October 25, 2024, the Velasquez Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include
Defendant Trophy Automotive Dealer Group LLC as Doe 2. 
On
October 29, 2024, Mendez and Evolution filed an answer to Kia’s second amended
cross-complaint. 
On
November 7, 2024, the Velasquez Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include
Defendant Trophy of Carson LLC dba Kia of
Carson as Doe 3. 
B.   Case number 23STCV15805 
On
July 7, 2023, Perry filed an action against Defendants Mendez, Kia America
Inc., Kia Motors Inc., Kia Motors Downtown LA, and Does 1-50 for negligence and
negligent infliction of emotional distress. (Case number 23STCV15805.) 
On
August 8, 2023, Kia filed an answer to Perry’s complaint. 
On
March 28, 2024, Mendez filed an answer to Perry’s complaint. 
On
May 9, 2024, Evolution filed an answer to Perry’s complaint. 
C.   The Court relates and consolidates the cases 
On
February 5, 2024, the Court found that case numbers 23STCV08632 and 23STCV15805
are related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).  Case number 23STCV08632 became the lead case.
The cases were assigned to Department 28 at the Spring Street Courthouse for
all purposes. 
On
July 26, 2024, the Court consolidated case numbers 23STCV08632 and 23STCV15805
in Department 28 based on the parties’ stipulation. Case number 23STCV08632
remained the lead case. 
D.   Perry moves to quash Kia’s subpoenas for production of
documents 
On September
6, 2024, Perry filed a motion to quash subpoenas for production of documents and
to impose sanctions on Kia.  The motion
was set for hearing on November 1, 2024. 
On October 21, 2024, Kia filed an opposition and request for sanctions.  On October 25, 2024, Perry filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing to November
15, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 4, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
          Perry asks the Court to quash Kia’s subpoenas for
production of documents and impose sanctions on Kia. 
          Kia asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on Perry. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon
those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g), provides in part: 
“(g)  Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to
production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not
invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be
raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for
liability for improper release of records. 
* * *
  “No witness or
deposition officer shall be required to produce personal records after receipt
of notice that the motion has been brought by a consumer . . . except upon
order of the court in which the action is pending or by agreement of the
parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (g).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides: 
“Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making an
order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) 
For
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.
(Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
“Even
highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery if
its disclosure would impair a person’s ‘inalienable right of privacy’ provided
by [the California Constitution].”  (L.
Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: 
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 8:293, p. 8C-97 (Cal.
Practice Guide).)  The United States
constitution also guarantees the right to privacy.  (Ibid.) 
Privacy
rights provide qualified, not absolute, protection.  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:294,
p. 8C-98.)  “In each case, the Court must
carefully balance the right of privacy against the need for discovery
[citation].  The showing required to
overcome the protection depends on the nature of the privacy right asserted; in
some cases, a simple balancing test is sufficient, while in others, a
compelling interest must be shown.  ‘Only
obvious invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be
supported by a compelling interest.’ ”  (Ibid.,
quoting Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557 (Williams).)  “The burden is on ‘the party asserting a
privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion,’ and then the court must ‘weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies.’ ”  (Ibid.,
quoting Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 557.) 
“The
party seeking discovery must show a particularized need for the confidential
information sought. The broad ‘relevancy to the subject matter’ standard is not
enough here. The court must be convinced that the information is directly
relevant to a cause of action or defense, i.e., that it is essential to
determining the truth of the matters in dispute.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 8:320, p. 8C-119, emphasis omitted.) 
“
‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of
one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”
must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not
be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their
private associational affiliations and activities.’ [Citation.] Therefore, . .
. an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights encompasses only
discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair
resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833, 842; see ibid. [“On occasion [a party's] privacy interests may have
to give way to [the] opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus courts must balance
the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy
interests of persons subject to discovery”].) 
“[A]lthough
in seeking recovery for physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have
unquestionably waived their physician-patient and psychotherapist-patient
privileges as to all information concerning the medical conditions which they
have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver extends only to
information relating to the medical conditions in question, and does not
automatically open all of a plaintiff's past medical history to scrutiny.” (Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849 [trial court erred by placing
“absolutely no limit on defendant's efforts to obtain wholesale disclosure of
each plaintiff's lifetime medical history”].) “[P]laintiffs are ‘not obligated
to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific [physical,] mental or
emotional injury’; while they may not withhold information which relates to any
physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by bringing this
lawsuit, they are entitled to retain the confidentiality of all unrelated
medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they may have undergone in the past.” (Id.
at p. 864, fn. omitted.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The Velasquez Plaintiffs’ complaint 
The
Velasquez Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges in part: 
On
July 12, 2021, the Velasquez Plaintiffs’ decedent, Victor Manuel Velazquez, was
fatally injured in a vehicle collision on the Northbound 1-110 freeway in Los
Angeles.  Kia’s employee Mendez and/or
Kia and the Doe defendants caused the collision. 
B.   Kia’s second amended cross-complaint 
Kia’s
second amended cross-complaint alleges in part: 
If
Kia is liable to the Velasquez Plaintiffs “or any other party including
Cross-Defendants [Bowers, Evolution, Mendez, Perry, and Roes 1-100] as a result
of the injuries or damages, if any, suffered by [the Velasquez Plaintiffs],
these damages were proximately caused by the
acts, omissions, negligence, breach of contract, or other fault of
Cross-Defendants and each of them.”  Bowers,
Evolution, Mendez, and Perry operated their vehicles in a careless and reckless
manner, injuring the Velasquez Plaintiffs. 
C.   Perry’s complaint 
Perry’s
complaint includes the following allegations: 
On
or around July 12, 2021, on the Interstate 110 northbound (Harbor Freeway),
Mendez lost control of his vehicle, which struck and killed Perry’s partner
Victor Manual, who had exited Perry’s car to check on the occupants of another
vehicle involved in a traffic accident.  Mendez’s
vehicle also struck Perry’s stopped vehicle, injuring Perry.  Mendez was Kia’s employee, agent, or representative. 
D.   Kia’s subpoenas for medical, radiology, and billing
records 
On August 14, 2024, Kia served 42 deposition subpoenas on
18 persons and entities for production. 
According to Perry, the subpoenas seek all of Perry’s medical,
radiology, and billing records from 2016 to present regardless of the dates of
treatment or injuries at issue in this case. 
(Motion p. 2.) 
E.   Perry’s motion to quash 
Perry
has chosen to file one motion to challenge all 42 subpoenas, which are not identical.  In her motion, Perry contends that the subpoenas
violate her right to privacy and are overbroad. 
Perry asks the Court to limit the subpoenas’ scope to records concerning
her neck, back, chest, left shoulder, abdomen, left foot and ankle, left knee,
left hip, waist, ribs, and pelvis. 
According to Perry, these are the body parts she placed at issue in her
response to form interrogatory 6.2. 
(Motion pp. 3, 7.) 
F.    Kia’s opposition 
Kia
argues that Perry’s responses to form interrogatory 6.2 and other form
interrogatories were not limited to the body parts listed in Perry’s motion.  According to Kia, Perry also identified “blunt head trauma, headaches, blurry vision, loss of
balance, fatigue, anxiety/nervousness, memory impairments, depression,
post-traumatic stress disorder, difficulty concentrating, irritability and
difficulty sleeping.”  (Opposition p.
4; see exh. A to Litvak decl.)  As a
result, Kia argues, Perry “put her body from head to toe at issue . . . .”  (Opposition p. 7.) 
G.  Perry’s reply 
Perry
does not address Kia’s argument that Perry’s form interrogatory responses
listed more injuries and body parts than Perry acknowledges in her motion.  Instead, Perry states that she is “amenable
to including records related to head trauma, vision, balance, memory, fatigue,
emotional distress, and sleep disturbance.” 
(Reply p. 4.) 
H.  Analysis 
The
Court has considered the parties’ arguments and weighed Perry’s privacy rights
against Kia’s right to seek discoverable information.  The Court concludes that the subpoenas are overbroad and violate Perry’s privacy rights to the extent that they are not
limited to records concerning Perry’s neck, back, chest, left shoulder,
abdomen, left foot and ankle, left knee, left hip, waist, ribs, pelvis, blunt head trauma, headaches, blurry vision, loss of
balance, fatigue, anxiety/nervousness, memory impairments, depression,
post-traumatic stress disorder, difficulty concentrating, irritability and
difficulty sleeping. 
The
Court therefore grants Perry’s motion in part and limits the subpoenas to
records concerning
Perry’s neck, back, chest, left shoulder, abdomen, left foot and ankle, left
knee, left hip, waist, ribs, pelvis, blunt head trauma, headaches, blurry
vision, loss of balance, fatigue, anxiety/nervousness, memory impairments,
depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, difficulty concentrating,
irritability and difficulty sleeping.  In
all other respects, the Court denies the motion. 
The
Court denies both parties’ requests for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Maria
O Rivera De Perry’s motion to quash 42 subpoenas for production of
documents served by Defendant and
Cross-Complainant First Motor Group of Los Angeles LLC dba Kia Downtown on August
14, 2024.     
The
Court limits the 42 subpoenas to records concerning Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant
Maria O Rivera De Perry’s neck, back, chest, left shoulder, abdomen, left foot
and ankle, left knee, left hip, waist, ribs, pelvis, blunt head trauma,
headaches, blurry vision, loss of balance, fatigue, anxiety/nervousness, memory
impairments, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, difficulty
concentrating, irritability and difficulty sleeping.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the
motion. 
The
Court DENIES both parties’ requests for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.