  Case Number:  20TRCV00471    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                           Monday, April 22, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                         Calendar
No. 12
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Christopher Leach, et al. v. Kenton Lane, et al.
            20TRCV00471
1.      Terrence Theobald, et al.’s Motion for
Summary Judgment   
2.      Kenton
Lane’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Terrence Theobald and Maureen
Theobald’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
granted.
 
            Kenton
Lane’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication is denied.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs
Christopher Leach and Daniel Cunningham filed their Complaint on July 6, 2020.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Defendant Kenton Lane became a tenant in
Plaintiffs’ home. Defendant Lane is a marriage and family therapist. Defendant
Lane provided therapy services to Plaintiffs. However, Defendant Lane breached
his fiduciary duties and was negligent in the services provided to Plaintiffs
which resulted in Plaintiffs’ marital dissolution and Plaintiffs selling their
home. 
 
            Defendants
Terrence Theobald and Maureen Theobald are the landlords of the real property
which was rented by Plaintiff Leach after the Plaintiffs sold their home. Defendant
Lane was also an occupant on the rented property. Defendants Theobald
improperly terminated the tenancy. In addition, the property suffered from
habitability issues. 
 
            Plaintiffs
allege the following causes of action: 1. Professional Negligence; 2. Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; 3. Breach of Oral Contract; 4. Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress; 5. Premises Liability; 6. Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress; 7. Harassment.
 
            The
first, second, fourth, and fifth causes of action are alleged by both
Plaintiffs. The third, sixth, and seventh causes of action are alleged by
Plaintiff Christopher Leach only. The first through fourth causes of action are
alleged against Kenton Lane. The fifth through seventh causes of action are
alleged against Terrence Theobald and Maureen Theobald.
 
            Motion
for Summary Judgment and/or Summary Adjudication
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Defendants Terrence Theobald and Maureen Theobald
 
Defendants Terrence Theobald and Maureen Theobald move
for summary judgment of Plaintiffs’ Complaint on the following grounds: “• No
unreasonably dangerous condition existed on the defendants’ property; •
Defendants neither owed nor breached a duty of care to plaintiffs because
defendants had no actual or constructive knowledge of any unreasonably
dangerous condition on their property; • Plaintiffs were not harmed by any
unreasonably dangerous condition on defendants’ property; • Defendants’ conduct
did not cause Plaintiff LEACH to suffer severe emotional distress; •
Defendants’ conduct had a legitimate purpose and was not done with an intent to
alarm, annoy, or harass Plaintiff LEACH.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 5-10.)
 
Defendants have met their burden to show that
Plaintiffs’ causes of action have no merit by showing that one or more elements
of the causes of action cannot be established. 
(Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting Evidence, 1-43.)

 
Plaintiffs have not met their burden, pursuant to CCP
§ 437c(p)(2), to provide specific facts to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the causes of action. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for
Premises Liability
Sixth Cause of Action for
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
“To state a cause of action for negligence, a
plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2)
the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the
plaintiff's damages or injuries.” Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013)
221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62. “The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence. Accordingly, the plaintiff must
prove, legal duty to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as
the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” Jones v. Awad
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress is not an
independent cause of action. Emotional distress is a component of damages that
can be recovered in a negligence cause of action. See Burgess v. Superior
Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1072.
 
First, as to the fifth cause of action which is
alleged by both Plaintiffs, the Court notes that there is no evidence or
material dispute of fact that Plaintiff Daniel Cunningham was never a tenant of
Defendants. Thus, there is no dispute as to the elements of the causes of
action including duty, breach, causation, and damages as to Daniel Cunningham. The
motion for summary judgment as to Plaintiff Daniel Cunningham is granted.
 
As to the claims alleged by Plaintiff Christopher
Leach, there is no competent evidence submitted by Plaintiff to show the
existence of a triable issue of material fact as to any alleged damages. Even
with the latest supplemental separate statement of facts, filed on March 7,
2024, Plaintiff still states that “discovery is ongoing” with respect to
damages.  (Plaintiffs’ Response to
Separate Statement of Facts, 39-40.)  Yet,
the Court’s order of March 12, 2024, pursuant to the parties’ stipulation submitted
on March 12, 2024, confirms that discovery remains closed.
 
Harassment
 
Plaintiff fails to establish that there is a common
law cause of action for harassment. Instead, it appears that one who is subject
to harassment may seek a temporary restraining order to attempt to prohibit the
harassment.  Smith v. Silvey
(1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 400, 405; CCP § 527.6. 
 
Here, Plaintiff apparently attempts to conflate the
same allegations existing in the fifth through sixth causes of action and
rephrase them as “harassment.”  No
triable issue of material fact exists for the same reasons noted above.  In addition, to the extent that Plaintiff also
appears to allege “harassment” based on the attempt to seek Plaintiff’s eviction
of the leased premises, Plaintiff submits no competent evidence to show that
Defendants did not merely exercise its lawful right to begin eviction
proceedings after the expiration of the lease. 

 
Defendants Terrence Theobold and Maureen Theobold’s
motion for summary judgment is granted.
 
The Court notes that within the last paragraph of
Plaintiff’s supplemental opposition, Plaintiff included a request for another
continuance of the motion. The request for a continuance is denied pursuant to
CCP § 437c(h) as Plaintiff failed to set forth a declaration identifying the
specific facts essential to justify the opposition which for reasons stated
cannot be presented at this time.
 
Defendant Kenton Lane
 
Defendant Kenton Lane moves for summary judgment of
Plaintiffs’ Complaint “on the grounds that the action is barred by the
affirmative defenses of estoppel and unclean hands set forth in Defendant’s
answer to the Complaint.  In the
alternative, Defendant will and does move for summary adjudication of issues as
to: 1. [T]he Second Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty on the grounds
that Plaintiffs cannot establish that Mr. Lane owed them a duty of care and is
barred by unclean hands; and 2. [T]he Fourth Cause of Action for Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress on the grounds that Plaintiffs cannot
establish that Mr. Lane owed them a duty of care and is barred by unclean
hands.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 5-14.)
 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is denied.
Defendant’s separate statement of facts failed to address whatsoever the third
cause of action for Breach of Oral Contract. The motion for summary judgment
must be denied because neither the motion nor separate statement of facts
addressed, at all, the third cause of action. To obtain summary judgment,
Defendant must submit evidence as to each cause of action of Plaintiff’s
Complaint.  Lopez v. Superior Court
(1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 705, 714 (stating that moving defendant failed to “define
all of the theories alleged in the complaint and challenge each factually.”; See,
also, Conn v. National Can Corp. (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 630, 638 (stating
that “the initial duty to define the issues presented by the complaint and to
challenge them factually is on the defendant who seeks a summary judgment.”)  If there is one single material fact in
dispute, a motion for summary judgment must be denied.  Versa Tech., Inc. v. Superior Court
(1978) 78 Cal.App.3d 237, 240.  Here,
Defendant failed to address at all the third cause of action and no facts in the
separate statement of facts are directed to the elements of the third cause of
action. The evidence, separate statement of facts, as well as the arguments
concerning unclean hands and estoppel solely concern theories of liability
other than the breach of contract cause of action.  Thus, Defendant failed to meet his initial
burden pursuant to CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
 
“As for defense motions, we determine with respect to
each cause of action whether the defendant seeking summary judgment has
conclusively negated a necessary element of the plaintiff's case, or has
demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of a trial[.] [Defendant] bore the burden to make a prima
facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if
he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. [¶] Where
the evidence presented by defendant does not support judgment in his favor, the
motion must be denied without looking at the opposing evidence, if any,
submitted by plaintiff.”  Hawkins v.
Wilton (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 936, 940 (internal citations and quotations
omitted; emphasis in original).
 
Because Defendant’s motion for summary judgment fails
to demonstrate that Plaintiffs could not prevail on any theory raised by the
pleadings, the motion for summary judgment must be denied.
 
Generally, at this point, the Court would now determine
whether summary adjudication of the second and fourth causes of action are
appropriate pursuant to the motion for summary adjudication of the second and
fourth causes of action. However, the motion for summary adjudication is also
denied because the motion for summary adjudication is defective.
 
            Cal
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350(b) states, in relevant part: “If summary
adjudication is sought, whether separately or as an alternative to the motion
for summary judgment, the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims
for damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically in the notice of
motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed
material facts.” 
 
            Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350(d)(1) states: 
            “(1)
The Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in support of a motion must
separately identify:
            (A)
Each cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense
that is the subject of the motion; and
            (B)
Each supporting material fact claimed to be without dispute with respect to the
cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that
is the subject of the motion.”
 
            The
Court also directs the parties to Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350(h) which
provides the specific format for a motion for summary adjudication which
requires specifically stating the  issue
sought to be adjudicated and, thereafter, stating the specific facts which are
directed to each issue. 
 
            Here,
Defendant failed to repeat verbatim in the separate statement the issues sought
to be adjudicated. Defendant did not state specifically which facts are
addressed to each issue which is sought to be adjudicated. Thus, the Court
cannot determine which specific facts are directed specifically to the second
and fourth causes of action.
 
            Defendant’s
alternative motion for summary adjudication is denied.
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
        
 