 Case Number:  22NWCV00221    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  C VANG v. LEE
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00221
HEARING: 
10/12/23
 
#1
 
    
I.       
Plaintiff ABEL VANG’s unopposed Motion to Compel
Defendant CARR LEE’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (set one) is DENIED
without prejudice. Plaintiff ABEL VANG’s unopposed Motion to Compel
Defendant FILM 102 PRODUCTIONS, LLC’s Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories (set one) is GRANTED. 
 

   
II.       
Plaintiff ABEL VANG’s unopposed Motion to Compel
Defendant CARR LEE’s Further Responses to Request for Admissions (set one) is DENIED
without prejudice. Plaintiff ABEL VANG’s unopposed Motion to Compel
Defendant FILM 102 PRODUCTIONS, LLC’s Further Responses to Request for
Admissions (set one) is GRANTED. 
 
  III.       
Plaintiff ABEL VANG’s unopposed Motion to Compel
Defendant CARR LEE’s Further Responses to Form Interrogatories (set one) is
DENIED without prejudice. 
 
 IV.       
Plaintiff ABEL VANG’s unopposed Motion to Compel
Defendant CARR LEE’s Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents
(set one) is DENIED without prejudice. Plaintiff ABEL VANG’s unopposed
Motion to Compel Defendant FILM 102 PRODUCTIONS, LLC’s Further Responses to
Request for Production of Documents (set one) is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
No
Opposition(s) filed as of October 9, 2023.   
 
Plaintiffs
bring this action against Defendants CARR LEE (“Lee”) and FILM 102 PRODUCTIONS,
LLC (“Film 102”) based on Defendants’ alleged mismanagement and
misappropriation of Plaintiff UNCANNY PRODUCTIONS, LLC’s funds. The FAC asserts
causes of action for: (1) Intentional Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (2) Negligent
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Conversion; (4) Accounting; (5) Breach of Written
Contract; (6) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations; (7) Breach
of Oral Contract; (8) Defamation Per Se; and (9) Declaratory Relief. 
 
A party may
move to compel further responses to RFAs on the grounds that the answers are
evasive or incomplete. (CCP §2033.290(a).) If a timely motion to compel further
responses has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any
objection or failure to fully respond. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) “(a) Each answer in a response to requests for
admission shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits. (b) Each answer shall:
(1) Admit so much of the matter involved in the request as is true, either as
expressed in the request itself or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the
responding party. (2) Deny so much of the matter involved in the request as is
untrue. (3) Specify so much of the matter involved in the request as to the
truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.”
(CCP §2033.220.)
 
“If
the propounding party, on receipt of a response to interrogatories, deems that
(1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is…incomplete…or (3) an objection
to an interrogatory is without merit or too general, that party may move for an
order compelling further response.” (CCP §2030.300(a).) 
 
“On receipt
of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A state of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response
is without merit or too general.” (CCP §2031.310(a).) A motion to compel
further responses to a request for production “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”
(CCP §2031.310(b).) “If a party to whom a demand for inspection… fails to serve
a timely response to it…(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection… is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product….The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions
are satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently served a response that is in
substantial compliance…. (2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response was
the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (emphasis added.)”
(CCP §2031.300(a).) 
 
The Motions
are GRANTED in full as to Defendant Film 102. Plaintiff has properly put in
issue the objections and deficiencies in Film 102’s responses to the discovery
at issue. As of October 9, 2023, no Oppositions to the Motions have been filed
and the Court is unaware of whether any supplemental responses/documents have
been served. Defendant Film 102 is ORDERED to produce further documents and
further verified responses without objections to the discovery identified by no
later than 30 days from the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order.  
 
Reasonable
sanctions in favor of Plaintiff are warranted. Defendant Film 102 and is
ORDERED to pay reasonable sanctions in the amount of $3,960.00 ($495/hr. x 8
hrs.), payable within 30 days of the Court’s issuance of this Order. This date
may be extended by agreement of the parties. 
 
The
Motions are DENIED without prejudice as to Defendant CARR LEE. On September 1,
2023, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Bankruptcy re: Debtor Carr Lee. To date, no
Notice of Bankruptcy Stay has been filed in this case. Regardless, the
automatic stay is triggered by the filing of a Bankruptcy Petition and becomes
effective with or without a court order. There is a Status Conference Re:
Bankruptcy of Defendant(s) set for Hearing on March 25, 2024.  