  Case Number:  21STCV24604    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  C SOLARES v. CITY OF
NORWALK
CASE NO.: 21STCV24604
HEARING:  10/12/23
 
#3
 
Defendant CITY OF NORWALK’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
The alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
Summary Judgment is also DENIED, and the alternative
Motion for Summary Adjudication in favor of Joining Parties Defendant SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA EDISON and Defendant/Cross-Complainant HERMAN WEISSKER POWER, INC.
are also DENIED. 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
Defendant SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY (“SCE”) and
Defendant/Cross-Complainant HERMAN WEISSKER POWER, INC.’s (“HW Power”) Joinders
to Defendant CITY OF NORWALK’s Motion for Summary Judgment , or alternatively
Summary Adjudication is GRANTED. 
 
This personal injury action was filed by Plaintiff CARINA
SOLARES on July 2, 2021. On July 11, 2022, the subject Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) was filed. 
 
The SAC alleges the following pertinent facts: “On October
16, 2020… Plaintiff CARINA SOLARES (‘Plaintiff’) was a passenger in a 2016
Hyundai Sonata driven by Adriana Serrano (‘Serrano’) traveling northbound in
the number one lane on Pioneer Boulevard ... in the city of Norwalk, county of
Los Angeles.”  (SAC ¶1.)  “At that time, Lexis Granados (“Granados”) was
operating a 2005 Toyota Corolla on Alondra Boulevard traveling eastbound in the
number two lane …” (SAC ¶2.) “At
that time, Plaintiff’s vehicle entered the intersection of Alondra Boulevard
and Pioneer Boulevard on a green light. At the same time, Granados’ vehicle
entered the same intersection also on a green light.” (SAC ¶3.) 
“While both Plaintiff’s vehicle and Granados’ vehicle were in the
intersection, the traffic signals and street lights at the intersection
suddenly turned off, and a collision occurred between Plaintiff’s and Granados’
vehicle.” (SAC ¶4.) “[T]he traffic signals were not blinking red, nor were
there any posted signs prior to entering the intersection regarding a power
outage. Contrary, there had been a planned power outage at the intersection of
Alondra Boulevard and Pioneer Boulevard to occur between 11:00 p.m. and 5:00
a.m. [SAC ¶4] The traffic signals and streetlights came back on around 11:38
p.m.” (SAC ¶5.) 
 
The SAC asserts the
following causes of action: (1) Negligence; and (2) Dangerous Condition of
Public Property. 
 
Defendant CITY OF
NORWALK (“City”)  moves for summary
judgment, or alternatively summary adjudication as to the following issues: 
(1)
No
dangerous condition existed; 
(2)
There
was no substantial risk of injury when the subject intersection/roadway was
used with due care; 
(3)
The City
was not negligent; 
(4)
The City
did not cause Plaintiff’s collision. 
 
Issues 1 and 2 – Dangerous Condition/Due Care
 
The City argues that
an inoperative traffic signal is not a dangerous condition, and that the intersection
was safe when used with due care.
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff
argues that a dangerous condition did exist because the intersection where the
Subject Accident occurred was completely dark at the time of incident, and
there were no warnings for the traffic signal being inoperative, or warnings
for the change in traffic control. Plaintiff further maintains that the
intersection was unsafe even when used with due care because both traffic
signals were green at the time of the Subject Accident. 
 
“A public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if (1) the
property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury; (2) the
dangerous condition caused the injury; (3) the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was injured; and (4)
that either (a) a negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the
public entity within the scope of his employment created the condition, or (b)
the public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
in time to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” (Moncur
v. City of Los Angeles (1977) 68 Cal.App.3d 118, 123; Govt. Code §835.) 
 
A dangerous
condition is “a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is
reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (Gov. Code §830(a).)  “A condition is not a dangerous condition if
the trial…court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the plaintiff,
determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition was of
such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding
circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition
created a substantial risk of injury when such property or adjacent property
was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that
it would be used. (Gov. Code §830.2.) Therefore, in order to assert a
“dangerous condition” claim within the meaning of Gov. Code §830, a plaintiff
must show “that the condition of the public property created a substantial risk
when “used with due care” in a foreseeable manner.” (Swaner v. City of Santa
Monica (1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 789, 798.) “[I]f the injury to a plaintiff
could have occurred only by some third party’s negligence, then it must be held
that the plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege a dangerous condition
because the injury was made possible only by the failure of the third party
user to exercise due care. [Citations.]” (Id. at 801.)  A plaintiff can establish that a condition on
the property creates a substantial risk to any foreseeable user of the public
property who uses it with due care irrespective of his personal lack of due
care. (Fredette v. City of Long Beach (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 122, 131.) 
 
“A condition is not
dangerous within the meaning of the statute ‘unless it creates a hazard to
those who foreseeably will use the property… with due care. Thus, even though
it is foreseeable that the persons may use public property without due care, a
public entity may not be held liable for failing to take precautions to protect
such persons.” (Matthews v. City of Cerritos (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1380,
1384.)
 
The City argues that
the subject intersection was not a dangerous condition, citing to Chowdhury
v. City of Los Angeles (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1196 for the proposition
that “any property can be dangerous if used in a sufficiently improper manner…
[and therefore] a public entity is only required to provide roads that are safe
for reasonably foreseeable careful use.” (Id. at 1196.) In Chowdhury,
there was a blackout which caused a power outage affecting several street
signals affecting the city. City employees placed temporary stop signs at some
intersections, but not every intersection impacted by the outage. The
plaintiff’s decedent was driving and was struck by another driver who failed to
stop at an intersection and blindsided the decedent’s vehicle. The plaintiff’s
expert opined that the intersection was a dangerous condition because it was
not controlled to clearly define the right of way for motorists, and that the
other driver was trapped into believing that he had the right of way after
seeing temporary stop signs along his path but not the subject intersection. (Ibid.)
Summary judgment was denied, but the Court of Appeal reversed. 
 
The Chowdhury
Court held that a public entity does not create a dangerous condition merely by
failing to provide regulatory signals. (Id. at 1194-1195.) If traffic
signals are turned off to avoid confusion, liability does not attach, and the
same result occurs whether the signals are extinguished by accident. (Id. at
1195.) “Under the circumstances, motorists approaching the intersection were
bound not by the City’s inoperative light, but by the provisions of the Vehicle
Code, which effectively transform an inoperative signal light into a stop
sign.” (Ibid., citing Veh. Code §21800.) Once the signals failed, it was
reasonably foreseeable that motorists would obey the provisions of the Vehicle
Code to make a full stop at all intersections before proceeding when it is safe
to do so. (Id.) Importantly, the Chowdhury Court stated: “The
City cannot be charged with foreseeing that a motorist will recklessly disobey
traffic laws and speed through an intersection without heed to its inoperative
traffic lights any more than it can be charged with foreseeing that
irresponsible drivers will race at 100 miles per hour down a highway or drive
the wrong way down a one-way street, in violation of the traffic laws.” (Id.
at 1195-1196.)  
 
The City proffers the
following evidence in support of its Motion: 
·       
SCE and
its subcontractor HW Power performed work on the electrical system at the
intersection of Alondra Boulevard and Pioneer Boulevard in Norwalk, CA on the
evening of October 16, 2020, which involved a temporary power outage. (City UMF
No. 1.) 
·       
The City set the traffic signals at the Subject
intersection flashing/blinking mode at about 10:30 p.m. and SCE shut off power
to the traffic signals at the Subject Intersection between 11:05 to 11:33 p.m.
on October 16, 2020. (City UMF No. 2.) 
·       
Prior to and at the time Defendant Granados
entered the Subject Intersection while traveling eastbound on Alondra
Boulevard, the traffic signals facing Defendant Granados at the Subject
Intersection were inoperative due to the planned power outage and she observed
that the traffic signals facing her at the Subject Intersection were off. (City
UMF No. 4.) 
·       
Upon entering the Subject Intersection as she
drove eastbound on Alondra Boulevard, Defendant Granados’s vehicle collided
with Plaintiff and Defendant Serrano’s vehicle, which was traveling northbound
on Pioneer Boulevard. (City UMF No. 6.) 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff proffers the following evidence: 
·       
The City
traffic technician at the scene was responsible for physically cutting off the
power to the traffic signals and “placing them on a backup power, setting them
to flash red, or turning them off.” However, the City’s traffic technician
negligently set both the northbound and eastbound traffic lights to green.
(Opp. UMF No. 1; Plaintiff’s AMF Nos. 4-5.) 
·       
The
traffic signals were not set to flashing/blinking mode at about 10:30 p.m.
because they were still on just prior to the Subject Accident and it is unclear
what time the power at the Subject Intersection shut off. (Opp. UMF No. 2.) 
·       
The
Subject Intersection was dark at the time of the Subject Incident with no
street luminaires nor traffic signals lit. Traffic control at the Subject
Intersection did not have warnings for the traffic signal being inoperative,
warnings for the change in traffic control, reduced speed limit, stop ahead
signs, flaggers to direct/control traffic, stop signs, nor detours/closed
intersection. (Opp. UMF No. 3.) 
·       
Ms.
Granados denied being solely responsible for the Subject Incident and admitted
that she had a green light at the time of the Subject Accident. Defendant HWP
states that “the Subject Incident occurred because the City of Norwalk traffic
technician set both the northbound and eastbound traffic lights to green.”
(Opp. UMF 4.) 
·       
When
both Defendant Serrano’s and Defendant Granados’ vehicles entered the
intersection on a green signal, the traffic lights at the intersection suddenly
turned off, and a collision occurred between Defendant Serrano’s and Grandos’
vehicles. (Plaintiff AMF No. 6.) 
·       
Plaintiff
testified that the light was continuously green as her and Defendant Serrano
went through the Subject Intersection. (Plaintiff AMF No. 22.) 
·       
Plaintiff
did not know whether Defendant Granados had a red or green light at the time.
(Plaintiff AMF No. 23.) 
·       
The
impact occurred at the same time the lights turned off. (Plaintiff AMF No. 25.)

·       
Plaintiff’s
light was continuously green while approaching and entering the intersection of
Pioneer and Alondra. (Plaintiff AMF No. 26.) 
·       
Defendant
Granados testified that she was already in the Subject Intersection when the
traffic lights went off, and that she had a green light when she went through
the intersection. (Plaintiff AMF Nos 32-34.) 
 
Defendant Serrano
testified that her light was green when she approached the intersection, and
crossed the intersection. (Plaintiff Ex. B, p. 29:13-30:9.) Plaintiff testified
that the light was green for Defendant Serrano before she entered the Subject
Intersection. (Plaintiff Ex. C. p. 87:4-20.) Plaintiff testified that the
lights did not shut off until after the Subject Accident occurred. (Plaintiff
Ex. C. p. 88:7-17.) Defendant Granados testified that she was halfway through
the Subject Intersection when the traffic lights went out, and that when she
went through the Subject Intersection, she had a green light. (Plaintiff Ex. E.
p. 17:7-18; p. 18:4-23.) 
 
In Reply, Defendants
argue that no credible evidence has been presented by Plaintiff to prove that
Defendant Granados had a green light because Granados’s response to RFA No. 15
“Admit that the light was green when YOU entered the INTERSECTION” is “Deny”.
(Defendants’ Response to AMF No. 33; Plaintiff’s Ex. F., RFA No. 14.) Moreover,
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s reliance on HW Power’s response to SI No.
25 is misleading where, HW Power does not contend that the Subject Accident was
caused by the City. Rather, HW Power states: “Based on Plaintiff’s Second
Amended Complaint, [HW Power’s] understanding is that the SUBJECT INCIDENT
occurred because the City of Norwalk traffic technician set both the northbound
and eastbound traffic lights to green….” (Plaintiff Ex. H.) 
 
In viewing the
entire record in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, the Court concludes that
Plaintiff has raised triable issues of fact sufficient to defeat summary adjudication
of this issue. Plaintiff and Defendant Serrano testified that the traffic light
was green at the time they crossed the intersection, and that the traffic
lights did not shut off until after the Subject Accident occurred. “A public
entity does not create a dangerous condition on its property merely because of
the failure to provide regulatory traffic control signals, stop signs, yield
right-of-way signs, or speed restriction signs…. If, on the other hand, the
government installs traffic signals and invites the public to justifiably rely
on them, liability will attach if the signals malfunction, confusing or
misleading motorists, and causing an accident to occur. The reasoning behind
this rule is that the government creates a dangerous condition and a trap when
it operates traffic signals that, for example, direct motorists to ‘go’ in all
four directions of an intersection simultaneously, with predicable results.
[Citations Omitted.].” (emphasis added.) (Chowdhury v. City of Los Angeles
(1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1195.) Plaintiff presents evidence in Opposition to
show that the City created a dangerous condition by installing traffic signals
that malfunctioned at the time of the Subject Accident by both appearing green
at the same time, thus causing the Subject Accident. Taken as true, this fact
would make it impossible for either Ms. Granados or Ms. Serrano to proceed
through the intersection safely, even when exercising due care because all
motorists were directed to “go” at the same time. As the parties are aware, the
Court is not tasked with weighing evidence during summary adjudication
proceedings. 
 
Summary adjudication
is DENIED as to Issues 1 and 2—whether a dangerous condition existed and
whether the Subject Intersection was safe when due care was exercised. 
 
Issues 3 and 4 – Whether
Defendants were Negligent/Caused the Collision
 
The City argues that
even if there were a dangerous condition on public property, the City is not
liable because Plaintiff cannot present evidence to establish that the City was
negligent in any manner. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff
argues that Defendants were negligent because they failed to provide traffic
control and signage/warnings of the power outage at the Subject Intersection
when such were necessary due to the dangerous condition of the traffic lights. Plaintiff
proffers the following evidence in Opposition: 
·       
The City
did not have its own policies or guidelines on how to control intersections
during a planned power outage. (Plaintiff AMF No. 89.); 
·       
The City
did not meet its own standards set for in the SCE permit by failing to ensure
traffic control per the Traffic Control Plans and Caltrans MUTCD-2014.
(Plaintiff AMF No. 90.) 
·       
There
was insufficient signage, illumination, and an alternate route for traffic
despite the fact that the City was put on notice on October 6, 2020. (Plaintiff
AMF No. 91.) 
·       
Defendants
SCE and HW Power were in control of the Subject Intersection at the time of the
Subject Intersection pursuant to the SCE project. (Plaintiff AMF No. 92.) 
·       
The
traffic signal was properly operating prior to SCE’s planned power outage. (Plaintiff
AMF No. 93.) 
·       
SCE
failed to ensure proper traffic control was in place at the time of the outage.
(Plaintiff AMF No. 97.) 
·       
There
was nothing to slow traffic down, which was necessary to warn of the dangerous
condition of the lights at the time of the Subject Incident. (Plaintiff AMF No.
99.) 
·       
Defendant
HW Power could have also easily prevented the Subject Accident by providing
signage. (Plaintiff AMF Nos. 104-105.) 
 
“Even if there is a
dangerous condition on public property, a public entity is liable for injuries
caused by it only if the entity was negligent.” (Martinez v. City of Beverly
Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 518.) “A public entity may be
negligent—and hence liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition on its
property—in one of two ways. The public entity is negligent if it ‘created the
dangerous condition…. The public entity is also negligent if it did not take
‘measures to protect against a dangerous condition (that it did not create) if
it had actual or constructive notice of that dangerous condition…. Because a
public entity necessarily has notice of dangerous conditions it itself creates,
actual or constructive notice is only at issue with the latter type of
negligence. [Citations Omitted.]” (Id. at 518-519.) 
 
Summary adjudication
of Issues 3 and 4 are also DENIED. Plaintiff submits evidence to show that
Defendants had actual knowledge of the planned power outage, and failed to take
any measures to protect against the dangerous condition. 
 
The City’s
Evidentiary Objections 
 
No. 1. Sustained 
No. 2. Sustained 
No. 3. Sustained 
No. 4. Overruled
No. 5. Sustained 
No. 6. Sustained 
No. 7. Sustained
No. 8. Sustained
No. 9. Sustained 
No. 10. Overruled
No. 11. Sustained 
No. 12. Sustained 
No 13. Sustained 
No. 14. Overruled 
No. 15. Sustained 
No. 16. Sustained 
No. 17. Sustained 
No. 18. Sustained 
No. 19. Overruled
No. 20. Overruled
No. 21. Sustained
No. 22. Sustained 
No. 23. Overruled 
 
 
 
 