  Case Number:  20STCV39524    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:    June
18, 2024                                       TRIAL
DATE: July 30, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         Ratavous
Shahverdi, et al. v. Narbeh Tovmassian, M.D., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV39524
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND JOINDER

 
MOVING
PARTY:              Defendant Narbeh
Tovmassian, M.D., et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      The Estate of Ratavous Shahverdi, by and
through its Successor-In-Interest, Andre Shahverdi
 
SERVICE:                              Filed April
2, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed June 4, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   None as of 6/13/24. Due 6/13/24.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED:  Defendant Tovmassian moves for summary judgment.
 
             
MOVING
PARTY:              Elevate Health Group
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:      Plaintiffs Nora Shahverdi
and Ratavous Shahverdi
 
SERVICE:                              Filed April
2, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       None
 
REPLY:                                   None
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: Defendant Elevate Health
Group joins Defendant Tovmassian’s motion for summary judgment.
 
BACKGROUND
            The First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleges that on July 27, 2019, Ratavous Shahverdi (“Decedent”) was
struck by a vehicle and was injured. It further alleges that while his injuries
were in no way critical, Decedent suffered a great amount of pain as a result
of the accident, and immediately sought medical attention. 
The FAC further alleges that in or around August
2019, Decedent found himself in the care of Defendants, and that Decedent’s
condition began to worsen as a result of the medical services of Defendants.
The FAC alleges that Defendants prescribed and force-fed a steady regimen of
unneeded medications, including but not limited to, donepezil, depakote,
levetiracetam, risperdal, and pancrelipase, and that none of these medications
were proper, necessary, or required for Decedent’s care. 
In or around December 2020, Decedent passed away.
The FAC also alleges that as an elderly 85-year-old
layperson with limited understanding of medical terms and procedures, Decedent
required a detailed discussion of the risks and benefits of ingesting the
prescribed medications before giving his consent. Further, that Defendants
failed to ensure that Decedent was fully informed about the nature and risks of
the medications. 
            The
First Amended Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Medical Malpractice;
(2) Lack of Informed Consent, (3) Failure to Screen; (4) Loss of Consortium;
(5) Negligence; (6) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (7) Wrongful
Death and (8) Fraud.
 
On March 6, 2024, Defendant
Tovmassian’s demurrer was sustained as to the third cause of action for Failure
to Screen, fifth cause of action for negligence, sixth cause of action for
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and eighth cause of action for
fraud. As such, the only remaining causes of action against Tovmassian are for:
medical malpractice; lack of informed consent; loss of consortium; and wrongful
death.
 
On March 6, 2024, Defendant
Elevate’s demurrer was sustained as to the fifth cause of action for
negligence, sixth cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional
distress, and eighth cause of action for fraud.
            
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant
Narbeh Tovmassian’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED. Defendant Elevate
Health Group’s joinder is DENIED.
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
The court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence
to which objections have been made and sustained by the court.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c(c).)  Therefore, Defendant Elevate’s request is unnecessary
and the Court declines to rule on the request. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff’s
Objections to Defendant’s Evidence
 
The following objections are
SUSTAINED: 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8– conclusory; 4 – no foundation.
 
The following objections are
OVERRULED: 3
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
            “On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Id.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
            “When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.”  (Avivi, 159
Cal.App.4th at 467; Code Civ. Proc., §437c(c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
The elements of medical malpractice are:¿“(1) the duty of
the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of
his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.”¿¿(Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic¿(1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02 (citations omitted).)¿ “Both the standard of care and
defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a
medical malpractice case.”¿¿(Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at
467.) 
 
Thus, in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant
moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations
that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to
summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert
evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University of California¿(1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).)¿ An expert declaration, if
uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and
the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care provider.¿¿(Starr
v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿ 
Defendant submits the declaration of Michael
Eilbert, M.D., who is a physician, board certified in internal medical and
sleep medicine. (Eilbert Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3.) Based upon his education, training, experience
and review of the medical records, Dr. Eilbert opines that, per Decedent’s
medical records, Decedent had several medical issues and comorbidities. (Id.,
¶ 13.) Based upon Decedent’s
medical condition during each time he presented to Montrose Healthcare Center,
all medications ordered and or continued during his stay at the facility were
indicated and appropriate. (Id.) This includes the following
medications: donepezil, Depakote, levetiracetam, Risperdal, and Pancrelipase. (Id.)
Based upon Mr. Shahverdi’s medical history, diagnoses, and signs and symptoms,
these medications were appropriate and complied with the standard of care. (Id.)

Additionally, per the medical records from Montrose
Healthcare Center and the medication administration records, the medications
were appropriately administered based upon physician orders. (Id., ¶ 14.) Further, the medications
were discontinued appropriately. There is no evidence in Mr. Shahverdi’s
medical records that he was “force fed” medications, was provided inappropriate
medications, or that certain medications were continued for too long. (Id.)
Additionally, Decedent had a history of taking
Depakote, donepezil, levetiracetam, and pancrelipase prior to Dr. Tovmassian’s
involvement in his care. (Id., ¶ 15.)
Based upon the medications he was provided and the
care and treatment he received at Montrose Healthcare Center, to a reasonable
degree of medical probability, no alleged act or failure to act on the part of
Dr. Tovmassian was a substantial factor in causing Decedent’s death. (Id.,
¶ 17.)
“A properly qualified
expert may offer an opinion relating to a subject that is beyond common
experience, if that expert's opinion will assist the trier of fact.”  (Bushling
v. Fremont Medical Center (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 493, 510.)  “However,
even when the witness qualifies as an expert, he or she does not possess a
carte blanche to express any opinion within the area of expertise. [Citation.]
For example … when an expert's opinion is purely conclusory because
unaccompanied by a reasoned explanation connecting the factual predicates to
the ultimate conclusion, that opinion has no evidentiary value because an
‘expert opinion is worth no more than the reasons upon which it rests.’ ” (Jennings
v. Palomar Pomerado Health Systems, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 1108,
1117.) “Regarding causation, the plaintiff
must offer an expert opinion that contains a reasoned explanation illuminating
why the facts have convinced the expert, and therefore should convince the
jury, that it is more probable than not the negligent act was a cause-in-fact
of the plaintiff’s injury.”  (Sanchez
v. Kern Emergency Medical Transportation Corp. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 146,
155.)
These rules apply to expert witness declarations
submitted in connection with a motion for summary judgment. (Powell v.
Kleinman (2007) 151 Cal. App. 4th 112, 123); (Bushling, supra,
117 Cal. App. 4th at p. 510.)
Defendant
has not met its burden on summary judgment to show that he did not breach the
standard of care and that no act or omission on his part caused Decedent’s
injuries or death. Defendant’s expert’s declaration is conclusory. Dr. Eilbert
offers no reasoning for any of the conclusions he reaches. For example, Dr.
Eilbert says that the medications ordered were appropriate based upon
Decedent’s medical history but goes into no detail as to what Decedent’s
medical history is and why it would be appropriate based on that medical
history. What disease(s) did Decedent have that required these medications, and
why would the medications not cause him injury. Are there no contraindications?
He also provides no reasoning whatsoever as to why administering these
medications did not cause Decedent’s injuries or wrongful death. 
Further, Dr.
Eilbert states that Decedent had a history of taking Depakote, donepezil, levetiracetam and
pancrelipase. Setting aside the lack of foundation for this statement, he does
not mention the other medication Plaintiff alleges caused him harm, Risperdal,
or why the fact that Decedent had a history of taking these medications would
not cause him harm. Is he suggesting that Plaintiff caused himself harm? Or, is
it the opposite; could it be that Decedent have been more sensitive to these
medications if he had a history of taking them and thus, the medications
aggravated his injuries? It is unknown.
Not only that but Plaintiff also asserts a cause of
action for lack of informed consent that Defendant has failed to address in his
motion for summary judgment, and Dr. Eilbert has not opined as to whether there
was informed consent in his declaration. Defendant argues that all of the
causes of action are based on the medical malpractice of Defendant. The court
notes that while that is the case for the cause of action for loss of
consortium, the cause of action for lack of informed consent does not necessarily
rely on the medical malpractice cause of action. 
For failure to obtain
informed consent, a plaintiff must establish that: (1) defendant performed a
medical procedure on plaintiff; (2) the defendant did not disclose to plaintiff
the important results and risks of the medical procedure; (3) a reasonable person
in plaintiff's position would not have agreed to the medical procedure if he
had been fully informed of the results and risks of and alternatives to the
procedure; and (4) plaintiff was harmed by a result or risk that defendant
should have explained before the medical procedure was performed.  (CACI
No. 533.) 
Defendant has failed to present
evidence or argument as to this cause of action. The motion for summary
judgment is also denied for this independent reason. The court notes that
Defendant did not move for summary adjudication so the failure to present evidence
as to this cause of action is fatal to the entire motion.
            Because Defendant did not meet his burden, the burden does not shift to
Plaintiff. The motion is denied.
 
Elevate Health Group’s Joinder is
denied. Moreover, it could not have been granted even if this motion was
granted. There is a third cause of action for failure to screen against Elevate
that was not the subject of this motion for summary judgment. Further, this is
not a motion for summary adjudication, and thus summary adjudication as to the
causes of action that are part of this motion could not have been granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. The joinder is DENIED.
 
            Moving
party to provide notice.
 
            
Dated:   June 18, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
