  Case Number:  19STCV24527    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  39 Priscilla Caputo
v. Costco Wholesale Warehouse Corporation
Case No.
19STCV24527
 
Order #1 of 3
Motion for
Reconsideration of Defendant’s Motions in Limine
 
            Defendant’s
counsel filed a motion to compel inspection of Plaintiff’s mobile devices based
upon her discovery abuses.  Based upon
the contents of the motion, the Court noticed its own motion for
reconsideration of its rulings on Defendant’s Motion in Limine Number Eight and
Number Nine, which sought to exclude the same evidence.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated August 25,
2023.)      
 
Previously, Plaintiff sought to
introduce evidence of alleged harassment by two men, Shihan Dias and Robert
Weissman.  Plaintiff produced text
messages from Dias, and the text messages with dates were sent after she was no
longer employed at Costco. (Declaration of Nadia D. Adams, ¶¶ 2-3 & Exh.
#2.)  There was one string of texts that
were not dated.  (Id., Exh. #2.)  During her deposition on August 26, 2021,
Plaintiff was asked about the undated text messages, and she testified that she
did not know when they were sent, but she “believe[d]” she received them while
employed at Costco. (Id., Exh. #2, p. 564:7-19.)  Then, on March 24, 2022, Costco propounded
Special Interrogatories, Set One (“SROGs”) to Plaintiff, which asked Plaintiff
to state all facts in support of her cause of action for harassment. (Id., Exh.
#4.)  Plaintiff did not identify any
harassment by Dias, notwithstanding her detailed responses. (Id., Exhs. #4
& #5.)  
 
            Defendant’s
counsel filed Motion in Limine Number Eight and Number Nine, seeking to exclude
undisclosed evidence of harassment by Shihan Dias and Robert Weissman,
respectively.  With respect to evidence
of Shihan Dias, the Court granted the motion, finding that “the failure to
identify Dias or any related harassment in Plaintiff’s discovery responses or
[to] provide any additional detail other than the text messages was a willful
attempt to circumvent her discovery obligations.”  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 13,
2023, p. 4.)  The Court denied the motion
with respect to one undated Facebook text message chain, provided that
Plaintiff testified that the text message was sent before she was terminated,
i.e., on or before September 27, 2017:
 
Dias: “Think about it. It’s just
sex.” 
 
Plaintiff: “No I got a boyfriend I
can’t.” 
 
Dias: “When you don’t have any body
let me know, I want to make love to you!”
 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 13, 2023.)  After the Court ruled on this motion,
Defendant’s counsel developed evidence that this Facebook text message was sent
after Plaintiff was terminated.  (See
Declaration of Nadia Adams, ¶¶ 15 & 16 & Exh. L.)  More troubling,  Plaintiff did not produce all relevant
communications in response to Defendant’s requests for production of
documents.  (See Declaration of Nadia
Adams, ¶¶ 15 & 16.)  Although
Plaintiff alleged that Dias harassed her before her termination, Plaintiff
failed to produce a text message while she was employed at Costco to the
contrary: “Hi Shihan I got your message you’re so sweet.  It means a lot to me, you’re a good person
and good friend.  I’m ok I’ve just been
off for a while.  I hope you’re doing
ok.  You’re going through a lot, you’re a
strong man.  Get better soon sending
prayers your way.”  (See id., ¶ 16 &
Exh. L.)  Plaintiff also failed to
produce Facebook messages demonstrating that she and Dias maintained their
relationship for years after Plaintiff was terminated.  (See id., ¶ 16 & Exh. L.)  
 
            Similarly,
Plaintiff did not produce text messages between her and Robert Weissman that
contradict her allegations that Weissman sexually harassed her.  (See id., ¶ 16 & Exh. O.)  For example, Plaintiff sent Weissman a text
message on April 13, 2017, confirming that Plaintiff did not interpret Weissman
as having harassed her: “Hi, I just got your message.  I never thought you were after me at all.  I know you’re just being nice and friendly no
worries, same here.”  (Id., Exh. O.)  
 
            There is no
declaration from Plaintiff explaining why these text messages were not produced
in discovery.  Nor does Plaintiff’s
counsel’s opposition address these failures to the Court’s satisfaction.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff engaged in a willful attempt to evade her discovery
responsibilities and conceal evidence (e.g., Facebook communications) that
undermined her claims against Defendant. 
Accordingly, the Court grants its own motion for reconsideration and
hereby grants Defendant’s Motions in Limine Number Eight and Number Nine.  As an initial matter, the Court grants Motion
in Limine Number Eight, and excludes all evidence of harassment by Shihan Dias,
because the only text message at issue was sent after Plaintiff’s
termination.  Regardless, the Court
grants both motions as a discovery sanction based upon Plaintiff’s willful
attempt to evade her discovery obligations and conceal evidence that undermines
her claims.
 
Defendant’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 
 
Order #2 of 3
Motion to Compel
Further Responses to SROG
Motion to Compel
Further Responses to RPDs
 
            Defendant
moves to compel further responses to special interrogatories (“SROG”)
concerning alleged harassment by Shihan Dias and Robert Weissman.  Defendant also moves to compel further
responses to requests for production of documents (“RPDs”) relating to alleged
harassment by Shihan Dias and Robert Weissman. 
The Court has excluded all evidence of alleged harassment by Shihan Dias
and Robert Weissman.  Therefore, these
motions are denied as moot.  Defendant’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.      
            
 
Order #3 of 3
Motion to Compel
Inspection of Plaintiff’s Mobile Devices
Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Deposition
Trial Setting
Conference
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel an inspection of Plaintiff’s mobile devices.  Part of the motion is moot based upon the
Court’s decision to exclude all evidence of alleged harassment by Shihan Dias
and Robert Weissman.  Defendant’s counsel
has concerns that Plaintiff did not produce additional discovery concerning
other acts of alleged harassment.  Technically,
however, Defendant must seek to reopen discovery for this purpose, which the
notice of motion does not request.  (See
Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1568, 1588-1589.)  Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court authorizes Defendant’s
counsel to file an amended notice of motion requesting that the Court reopen
discovery for the purpose of an inspection of Plaintiff’s mobile devices.  
 
            2.         The Court continues the hearing on
Defendant’s motion to compel an inspection of Plaintiff’s mobile devices to
October 23, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.  
 
3.         Plaintiff’s
counsel may file a supplemental opposition, and Defendant’s counsel may file a
supplemental reply brief, based upon statutory deadlines.
 
            4.         The Court continues the hearing on
Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition, and the trial setting
conference, to October 23, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.
 
            5.         Defendant’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
 
 