 Case Number:  20STCV00823    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  39 Joseph Camarillo
v. City of Los Angeles, et al.
Case No.
20STCV00823
Motion for
Protective Order
 
            Plaintiff
Joseph Camarillo (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against the City of Los
Angeles (“Los Angeles” or the “City”) and the City of Riverside (“Riverside”)
after he was terminated from his employment as a Los Angeles Fire Department
officer.  Plaintiff previously worked for
Riverside, and alleges that Riverside’s employees intentionally interfered with
his employment with the City of Los Angeles by communicating false information
about him.  There is no dispute that
Plaintiff signed a waiver authorizing Los Angeles to obtain any information
pertaining to his employment history and releasing all former employers from
“any and all liability for damage of whatever kind . . . because of compliance
with this authorization and request to release information, or any attempt to
comply with it.”  (COLA 1339.)  The certification states: “I hereby
acknowledge and agree that I waive any right or opportunity to read or review
any of the information provided in response to this investigation.  I also waive any right or opportunity to read
or review any background investigation report prepared by the City.”  (Ibid.) 
The authorization was executed on October 23, 2018, and it was valid for
one year.  (COLA 1340.)  
 
            The Court previously
ruled that none of the written communications between Los Angeles and Riverside
must be produced, per Evidence Code section 1040(a).  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 29,
2023.)  Now, counsel for Los Angeles
moves for a protective order to preclude Plaintiff’s counsel from examining
Jamie Brown concerning the privileged documents or her communications with
Riverside.  The motion is granted for the
same reasons discussed in the Court’s order, dated June 29, 2023, which is
incorporated by reference.  Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that the Court has no authority to grant this motion in advance
of the deposition, “since Plaintiff has yet to ask a single question.”  Plaintiff’s counsel is incorrect. Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.420 provides, “The court, for good cause shown,
may make any order that justice requires to protect any . . . deponent . . .
from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.420.)  This motion may be filed
“[b]efore, during, or after a deposition [by] any party, any deponent, or any
other affected natural person or organization . . . .”  (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 218.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel does not oppose the motion on the merits or explain
how the potential questions would not violate Evidence Code section
1040(a).  The Court has considered
Plaintiff’s counsel’s remaining arguments and finds none to be persuasive.  Therefore, the motion is granted.  
 
            The Court
denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions because the City’s counsel
prevailed.  The Court denies the City’s
request for sanctions, too.  Although
Plaintiff’s counsel showed poor judgment in litigating this issue, technically,
the Court did not previously rule on this issue.  Moreover, the City’s counsel did not attach
the proposed stipulations to her declaration, so the Court could not ascertain
whether Plaintiff’s counsel was unreasonable in his proposed resolution to this
issue.  Finally, the Court notes that the
City still has not made Chief Brown available for a deposition.  Therefore, the City’s request for sanctions
is denied.   
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The City’s motion for a protective
order is granted.
 
            2.         The Court orders that Plaintiff’s
counsel may not examine Chief Brown concerning the following topics: (a) Chief
Brown not be examined regarding the subject matter of the Privileged Documents
during the course of her deposition in this matter; (b) Chief Brown not be
examined regarding the contents of any of the Privileged Documents during the
course of her deposition in this matter; (c) Chief Brown not be examined
regarding communications between Chief Brown and any personnel from the City of
Riverside, which refer or relate to Plaintiff Joseph Camarillo, during the
course of her deposition in this matter; and (d) Chief Brown not be examined
regarding any information requested by the City of Los Angeles from the City of
Riverside referring or relating to Plaintiff Joseph Camarillo. 
 
            3.         Both parties’ requests for sanctions
are denied.
 
            4.         Counsel for the City of Los Angeles
shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 