

 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct
Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court
Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as
of November 07, 2023              [  
] Late          [X]
None 
REPLY:                     None
filed as of November 14, 2023              [  
] Late          [X]
None 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On December 01, 2021, Judgment
Creditor Legal Support Network, LLC (“Judgment Creditor”) filed three causes of
action against Judgment Debtor Sellar Hazard and Lucia, A Professional Law
Corporation (“Judgment Debtor”) for (1) Account Stated, (2) Open Book Account;
and (3) Quantum Meruit for Services Rendered and Money Expended. 
 
            On August 31, 2022, default was
entered against Judgment Debtor. 
 
            On May 17, 2023, the Court entered
default judgment in favor of the Judgment Creditor and against Judgment Debtor.

 
            On October 31, 2023, Judgment
Creditor filed the instant Motion to Amend Default Court Judgment. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
 
Plainitff prays for the Court to amend the default
judgment, under CCP § 187, to remove Judgment Debtor named as “Sellar Hazard and
Lucia, A Professional Corporation” and properly designate the real Judgment
Debtor as “Sellar Hazard and Lucia.”
 
OPPOSITION
 
 
            No opposition has been filed. 
 
REPLY
 
 
            No reply has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
 
I.                  
Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure § 187 states: “[w]hen jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or this
Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or judicial officer, all
the means necessary to carry it into effect are also given; and in the exercise
of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not specifically pointed
out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process or mode of proceeding may
be adopted which may appear most conformable to the spirit of this code.” 
“Section 187 contemplates amending a judgment by
noticed motion.  [Citations.]  The court is not required to hold an
evidentiary hearing on a motion to amend a judgment but may rule on the motion
based solely on declarations and other written evidence. 
[Citation.]”  (Highland Springs Conference & Training Center v.
City of Banning (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 267, 280.)  “In the
interests of justice, the ‘greatest liberality is to be encouraged’ in the
allowance of amendments brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
187.  [Citation.]”  (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Weinberg (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 1, 7.) 
 
In addition, Code of Civil Procedure § 473(d), provides
that a court may correct clerical judgments to conform to the judgment
directed. 
 
 
II.        Discussion
As a preliminary
matter the Court notes that the name of the Defendant/Judgment Debtor in this
action is “Sellar Hazard & Lucia, A Professional Corporation,” and not
“Sellar Howard & Lucia, A Professional Corporation” as mentioned in
Judgment Creditor’s moving papers. Thus, the Court will continue to reference
them as “Sellar Hazard & Lucia, A Professional Corporation,”
 
On the merits,
Judgment Creditor moves to amend the judgment pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 187. 
 
“Under section 187,
the trial court is authorized to amend a judgment to add additional judgment
debtors.... As a general rule, ‘a court may amend its judgment at any time so
that the judgment will properly designate the real defendants.’.... Judgments may
be amended to add additional judgment debtors on the ground that a person or
entity is the alter ego of the original judgment debtor.... ‘Amendment of a
judgment to add an alter ego “is an equitable procedure based on the theory
that the court is not amending the judgment to add a new defendant but is
merely inserting the correct name of the real defendant... 
 
(Greenspan v.
LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 508 [citing Hall, Goodhue, Haisley
& Barker, Inc. v. Marconi Conf. Center Bd. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1551,
1554-1555].) The elements necessary to impose alter ego liability are: “ (1)
the part[y] to be added as judgment [debtor] had control of the underlying
litigation and were virtually represented in that proceeding; (2) there is such
a unity of interest and ownership that separate personalities of the entity and
the owners no longer exist; and (3) an inequitable result will follow if the
acts are treated as those of the entity alone.” (Relentless Air Racing, LLC
v. Airborne Turbine Ltd. Partnership (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 811,
815.) 
 
            Moreover, CCP § 128(a)(8) provides
that a court has the power to, “[t]o amend and control its process and orders
so as to make them conform to law and justice.” The Supreme Court of California
has interpreted, “the power to amend and control process and orders reflected
in section 128, subdivision 8, is limited to such exercise as the correction of
clerical errors.” (Bloniarz v. Roloson (1969) 70 Cal.2d 143, 148.)
Here, Judgment Creditor
provides the Court with the declaration of Judgment Creditor’s counsel.
Judgment Creditor states that the use of “Sellar Hazard and Lucia, A
Professional Corporation” was the result of an error. (Singleton Decl., ¶ 2.)
Judgment Creditor argues that the real Defendant is “Sellar Hazard and Lucia”
and is the same defendant listed in the complaint and subsequent default
judgment. (Motion p. 5:12.) “Sellar Hazard and Lucia” entered negotiations for
documentation supporting Plaintiff’s claims in this Action. (Singleton Decl.,
at ¶¶ 6, 7, 8.) Plaintiff declares that it communicated regularly with “Sellar
Hazard and Lucia” throughout the entire process. (Id.) Plaintiff
repeatedly met and conferred with “Sellar Hazard and Lucia” about responsive
pleadings and the filing of Requests for Default. (Id.) “Sellar Hazard
and Lucia” was served with Plaintiff’s Requests for Default and Requests for
Default Judgment. (Id. at ¶¶ 7, 8, 9.) “Sellar Hazard and Lucia”
knowingly and intentionally submitted to judgment in this Action. (Singleton
Decl.) 
 
The Courts finds the evidence sufficient to show that “Sellar Hazard and
Lucia” is an alter ego of Judgment
Debtor insofar as it was the actual Judgment Debtor rather than “Sellar
Hazard and Lucia, A Professional Corporation.” Sellar Hazard and Lucia’s interests were represented in this action by their
participation in the action and submission to judgment. Noting that Code of
Civil Procedure § 187 empowers the Court to carry out the default judgment by,
“all the means necessary,” and further that CCP § 128(a)(8) empowers the Court
to amend and control its orders to correct for clerical errors as evidence in
this matter, the default judgment is corrected to reflect “Sellar Hazard
and Lucia” as the true judgment
debtor under CCP § 187. 
 
Accordingly, the
Court amends the Judgment to remove Judgment Debtor named “Sellar Hazard and
Lucia, A Professional Corporation” and properly designate the real Judgment
Debtor as “Sellar Hazard & Lucia.”
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            The Motion to Amend the May
17, 2023 Default Court Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff is ordered to submit a proposed AMENDED Judgment for the 
Court’s
review/approval within 10-court days.
 
 
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice.