

 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      N/A
[X] Correct
Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      N/A 
[X] 16/21 Court
Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       N/A  
 
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as
of December 20, 2023              [  
] Late          [X]
None 
REPLY:                     None filed
as of December 27, 2023              [  
] Late          [X]
None 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
 
On August 17, 2022,
Plaintiffs Joevanny Ruiz (“Ruiz”), Kassandra Garza (“Garza”), and Jordan
Cabanilla (“Cabanilla”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a personal injury
suit against Defendants John Doe (“Doe”), Stephen Kennedy (“Kennedy”), and
Nelva Stevenson (“Stevenson”) (collectively “Defendants”) for damages stemming
from a motor vehicle collision. Defendants have not filed an answer to the
complaint.
 
On December 05,
2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion to Continue [Final Status
Conference], Trial Date, and all Related Expert Discovery Dates. No opposition
has been filed.
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
 
Plaintiffs pray for the Court to grant their motion to
continue the trial to complete expert discovery and attend mediation. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
 
            No opposition has been filed. 
 
REPLY
 
 
            No reply has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
 
I.          Legal
Standard 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only
on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Id.) 
Good cause includes the unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness,
party, or trial counsel; “the substitution of trial counsel, but only where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice;” the addition of a new party; a party’s excused inability
to obtain evidence; or a significant, unanticipated change in the case.  (Id.) 
 
Furthermore, the Court may look to the following factors in
determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: 
 
(1) The proximity of
the trial date; 
(2) Whether there
was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any
party; 
(3) The length of
the continuance requested; 
(4) The availability
of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; 
(5) The prejudice
that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
(8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; 
(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
(11) Any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application. 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).) 
  
II.        Discussion
Plaintiffs seek a
continuance of the final conference setting, trial date and all related
discoveries citing good cause because “Defendants have yet to appear in the
matter, and Plaintiffs need to investigate this claim before trial for this
matter can take place. Because Plaintiffs excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts, the
trial cannot be completed without the two Defendants who have still to join
this matter.” (Mot. p.7:26-8-8:1-2.) 
 
Moreover, Plaintiffs argue that the following circumstances support their
request to continue. Plaintiffs applied for a continuance as early as possible.
(Id. p. 8: 25-26.) The length of continuance sought, in this case one
year, would not be excessive considering what needs to occur in that time and
thus would not prolong the action unnecessarily. (Id.) The interest of
justice favors continuance of the trial because Defendants have not made an
appearance despite being served at the time the motion was filed. (Id. p.
9.) If the trial were to proceed, Plaintiffs would not be able to fully
participate and would not be able to present their case which would cause
irreparable harm to Plaintiffs. (Id.) Plaintiffs do not know of any
alternatives means of continuing without the two Defendants. (Id.)
Plaintiffs are unaware of any prejudice to Defendants. (Id.)
 
Defendants do not write in opposition
to the instant Motion. 
 
Having considered the circumstances of the instant case and
the arguments presented by Plaintiffs, the Court finds that there is good cause
to continue the trial. However, the Court notes that Plaintiffs mistake their
authority for requesting trial date continuances. Here, Plaintiffs cite to LA
Superior Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedure in Personal Injury
Hub as relevant authority. (Mot. p. 2:20-23.) However, the Eighth Amended
Standing Order only applies to Personal Injury Hub courts and not to Limited
Civil courts. LA Superior Court’s Third Amended Standing Order, which applies
to limited civil jurisdictions, provides that a trial can be continued to a
later date if service is not accomplished within six (6) months of filing the
complaint. Here, Plaintiffs served the summons and complaint on both Defendants
in October 2023. (See 10/05/23 Proof of Personal Service; See Also 10/02/2023
Proof of Service by Substituted Service.) The Court notes that the complaint
was filed on August 17, 2022, thus service was not accomplished within six
months. Moreover, the Court notes that Limited Civil courts generally do not
have final statues conferences, so the effect of this motion would be to
continue the trial date and subsequent discovery cut-off dates. 
 
Finally, the Court finds that a year extension of the trial
date is not supported based on Plaintiffs’ moving papers. Here Plaintiffs state
that around October 25, 2023, “Counsel for Defendants e-mailed Plaintiffs’ counsel
attaching ‘evidence’ showing that the vehicle belonging to Defendant Nelva
Stevenson was allegedly in a tow yard from September 7, 2020 – September 10,
2020, in Oakland, CA.” (Pius Joseph Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A.)
Acknowledging that the “evidence” from Defendants’ counsel was provided via
email on October 25, 2023, any investigation needed to locate the correct
Defendant can be done within the next few months to determine how Plaintiffs
should proceed and provide sufficient time to conduct discovery and prepare
this matter for trial. Moreover, there are alternative means to address
nonresponsive defendants.  Thus, for
these reasons, the Court is inclined to grant a continuance of the trial date
for six months rather than a year. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Continue Trial Date and
Re-Open Discovery is GRANTED in part. 
 
The
Court continues the trial date to August 14, 2024, at 8:30am in
Department 25 at the SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE.  Motion and
discovery cut-off dates are to follow the new trial date. 
 
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Plaintiffs
Joevanny Ruiz, et al.’s
Motion to Continue Trial Date and all Related Expert Discovery Dates is GRANTED
in part. 
 
The Court CONTINUES the February 14, 2024 TRIAL date to AUGUST 14, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 25 at the SPRING STREET
COURTHOUSE.  Motion and discovery cut-off
dates are to follow the new trial date of August 14, 2024. 
 
The moving party is ordered to give notice of the Court’s
ruling and to file proof of service of such notice with the Court within two
days of notice of this Court’s Order.
 