

 
SERVICE:  
 
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct
Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court
Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed as of
December 18, 2023                       [  
] Late          [   ] None 
 
REPLY:                     Filed as
of December 21, 2023                       [  
] Late          [   ] None 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
 
On July 13, 2022,
Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendant Nolan Curl (“Defendant”), alleging causes of action
for negligence due to a car accident involving Plaintiff’s insured and Defendant.

 
Defendant filed his
answer on December 06, 2022. 
 
On August 31, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Motion to Deem RFAs as admitted. The Court granted the motion
and ordered $460.00 in sanctions against Defendant. 
 
On October 26, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. Defendant
files in opposition. Plaintiff files in reply. 

 
 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
 
Plaintiff prays for the Court to grant its motion for
judgment on the pleadings and enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff. Plaintiff
argues that Defendant does not provide any defenses in his answer to the
complaint. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
 
            In opposition, Defendant argues that
the Court should deny Plaintiff’s motion because it would prejudice Defendant
from being able to file his cross-complaint against Defendant’s employer due to
facts and circumstances revealed in discovery. Since Defendant’s Employer is a
proper party, the case is not yet fully at issue. Defendant additionally
requests in the alternative for the Court to continue the hearing on the motion
so that Defendant can properly serve his Employer and that the parties may
attempt to informally resolve their issues. 
 
 
REPLY
 
 
            In reply, Plaintiff reasserts that
it meets its burden by providing the Court with Defendant’s admissions which
contradicts Defendant’s general denial and affirmative defenses. Plaintiff
additionally argues that the lawsuit is at issue because Defendant had ample
time to file a cross-complaint before Plaintiff’s filing of this motion and has
no excuse for not doing so earlier. 
Moreover, Defendant’s abandonment of the litigation would not be grounds
to deny the motion as Defendant’s non-cooperation does not justify denying the
instant motion. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
 
I.          Legal
Standard 
The standard for
ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as
that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the
pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears
that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian
v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v.
California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.)  Matters
which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part of the
complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters which
are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice of
motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.)  The motion may not be supported by extrinsic
evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the
moving party is a plaintiff, he or she must demonstrate that the complaint
states sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against the defendant
and that the answer does not state sufficient facts to constitute a defense to
the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).)  
 
Additionally, a motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in
person or by telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for
judgment on the pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.)  
II.        Discussion
A.     Evidentiary Motions 
 
The Court denies
Plaintiff’s evidentiary motion for the Court to take judicial notice of
Defendant’s answer, Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem RFAs as Admitted, and the
Court’s order deeming Plaintiff’s RFAs as admitted for the reasons specified in
Part C of the order. 
 
B.  Meet and Confer Requirement 
 
Before addressing the merits, the Court notes that the Motion is
accompanied by a “meet and confer” declaration as required by Code of Civil
Procedure Section 439(a). Plaintiff’s counsel states that on October 05, 2023,
his office served on Defendant’s a meet a confer letter. (Tristan Espinosa
Decl. ¶ 1, Ex. 1.) The letter requested Defendant’s counsel reach out to
discuss settlement or in the alternative meet and confer. (Id., Ex. 1.)
To date Plaintiff’s counsel has received no contact from Defendant. Thus, the
motion meets the “meet and confer” requirement under CCP § 439(a).
 
            C. Cause of Action
 
As a preliminary
matter, the Court notes that to the extent Plaintiff relies on admissions that
were deemed admitted, Plaintiff’s motion improperly seeks a determination of
evidentiary issues. The function of a motion for judgment on the pleadings,
similar to a demurrer, is to test the legal sufficiency of the pleadings. (See Richtek
USA, Inc. v. uPI Semiconductor Corporation (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 651,
660.) A hearing on a demurrer, and thus motion for judgment on the pleadings,
may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing through the guise of
having the court take judicial notice of documents whose truthfulness or proper
interpretation may be disputable. (Id.) A motion for judgment on the
pleadings is not the appropriate procedure for determining the truth of
disputed facts. (See id.) To the extent Plaintiff relies on Murillo
v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.Ap.4th 730, 736 for the argument that
Defendant cannot introduce contradictory evidence absent a motion to withdraw
these admissions, this would still be an evidentiary issue. The more proper
vehicle for arguments based on these admissions would be a motion for summary
judgment.
 
Plaintiff brings an
automobile subrogation action under a theory of negligence stemming from a car
accident involving Plaintiff’s insured and Defendant.
 
To have a claim for
negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal
duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in
an injury.” (McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges that around July 21, 2021, Defendant and DOE 1 (collectively
“Driver”) caused Plaintiff’s insured to incur a loss that was covered under
insured’s policy. (Complaint p. 2.) Specifically, Driver was negligently
operating a certain motor vehicle by driving inattentively or otherwise driving
without the due care required of a reasonably prudent driver, thus causing the
accident. (Id.) The negligent operation of the vehicle foreseeably and
proximately caused the insured to suffer damages. (Id.)
 
Defendant, in his
answer, denies the allegations contained in Plaintiff’s complaint. Defendant
alleges that Plaintiff’s insured’s negligence was the sole cause of the
accident and the sole cause of the injuries and/or damages alleged by
Plaintiff. (Ans. p. 2.) Moreover, Defendant affirmatively defends by alleging
that Defendant’s acts was superseded by the acts or omissions of others
including Plaintiff’s insured which were the sole proximate cause of any
alleged injury, damage, or loss to the Plaintiff and or Plaintiff’s insured. (Id.
p. 3.)
 
 Plaintiff argues that it has met its burden
and Defendant’s answer does not state sufficient
facts to constitute a defense to the complaint because upon the Court
taking judicial notice of the minute order granting Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem
RFA as admitted admissions, any issues raised by Defendant as general denials
or any affirmative defenses raised in his answer were contradicted and lack
merit or evidentiary support. However, plaintiff mistakes the purpose of the
Court taking judicial notice in motions for judgment on the pleadings. “In
ruling on a [motion for judgment on the pleadings], a court may consider facts
of which it has taken judicial notice…This includes the existence of a
document. When judicial notice is taken of a document, however, the
truthfulness and proper interpretation of the document are disputable.
[Citation.]” (Richtek USA, Inc. v. uPI Semiconductor Corp. (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 651, 660.) Thus, it would be improper for the Court to take the
RFAs deemed admitted at face value. 
 
Here, Plaintiff has
not carried its burden under CCP § 438(c)(1)(A). Here Defendant affirmatively
defends against the element of proximate cause by alleging that a superseding
act has caused Plaintiff’s damages. Defendant also alleged that Plaintiff’s insured’s
negligence is the sole cause of Plaintiff’s injury and damages. Thus, under the
state of the pleadings, since Defendant does have a defense to the complaint,
Plaintiff is not entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. 
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.
 
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice.