

 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct
Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court
Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as of December 20, 2023              [   ]
Late          [X]
None 
REPLY:                     None filed
as of December 27, 2023              [  
] Late          [X]
None 
 
BACKGROUND
A. Factual 
On May 03, 2022,
Plaintiff Monique Johnson filed four causes of action against Defendants Moss
Management Services, Inc. (“Defendant”), Dionna Naranjo, and LA Apartment Biz
(collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges that on the date of the accident
Defendant Naranjo had been storing trash on the balcony unit in which she
resided. The trash from Defendant Naranjo’s apartment had collected, was thrown
off the balcony onto Plaintiff’s vehicle causing damage to the vehicle. 
B. Procedural
On May 03, 2022,
Plaintiff filed four causes of action against Defendant for: 1) Motor Vehicle;
2) Negligence 3) Premises liability 4) Breach of Contract. 
Defendant Dionna
Naranjo filed her Answer on November 21, 2023. 
Defendant LA Apartment Biz filed its answer on December 19, 2023. 
On November 30,
2023, Defendant filed the instant Demurrer with Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s
Complaint. No opposition has been filed. 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
            Defendants pray for the Court to grant their motion to demurrer and
dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint without leave to amend. Defendant alleges
Plaintiff’s causes of action are barred under both the doctrines of res
judicata and collateral estoppel. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No opposition has been filed.
 
REPLY
 
            No reply has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
 “The
primary function of a pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may
prepare its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise
properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris
v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.) As a general
matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 128.) However, “[i]f there is
any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action,
it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v.
Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
II. Evidentiary Rulings         
            
            Defendant’s request for
Judicial Notice in support of Demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
 
 
 
 
III. Discussion 
 
            A. Meet and Confer
Requirement 
The demurring party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with
the party who filed the pleading to resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a).) 
 
Here the Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as
required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).
Defendants’ counsel, Patrick Torsney states that he attempted to conduct a
“meet and confer” with Plaintiff prior to filing. (Patrick Torsney Decl. ¶ 1.)
Counsel avers that Plaintiff did not respond to the request to the meet and
confer. As a result, the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
claims raised by the demurrer, necessitating Defendant filing of the demurrer.
(Id. ¶ 2.) Thus, the Court finds that the meet and confer requirement is
satisfied under CCP § 430.41(a).
 
B. Causes of Action
 
Plaintiff brings four causes of action for the following: (1) motor
vehicle (2) general negligence (3) premises liability (4) breach of contract. 
 
Defendant demurs on the basis that Plaintiff’s causes of action are
barred under the doctrines of res judicata and collateral estoppel. 
As generally
understood, ‘[t]he doctrine of res judicata gives certain conclusive effect to
a former judgment in subsequent litigation involving the same controversy.’
[Citation.] The doctrine ‘has a double aspect.’ [Citation.] ‘In its primary
aspect,’ commonly known as claim preclusion, it ‘operates as a bar to the
maintenance of a second suit between the same parties on the same cause of
action. [Citation.]’ [Citation.] ‘In its secondary aspect,’ commonly known as
collateral estoppel, ‘[t]he prior judgment ... “operates”’ in ‘a second suit
... based on a different cause of action ... “as an estoppel or conclusive
adjudication as to such issues in the second action as were actually litigated
and determined in the first action.” [Citation.]’ [Citation.] (Boeken v.
Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 797)‘The prerequisite
elements for applying the doctrine to either an entire cause of action or one
or more issues are the same: (1) A claim or issue raised in the present action
is identical to a claim or issue litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior
proceeding resulted in a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party
against whom the doctrine is being asserted was a party or in privity with a
party to the prior proceeding. [Citations.]’” (Boeken, supra 48 Cal.4th
788, 797, citing People v. Barragan (2004) 32 Cal.4th 236, 252–253.) A
general demurrer may be sustained where facts alleged or judicially noticed
show that plaintiff is seeking relief from the same defendant on the same cause
of action as in a prior action. 
i. Res Judicata 
First, the Court
examines if the cause of action raised in the present action are identical to
those litigated in the prior proceeding. To determine whether two proceedings
involve identical causes of action for purposes of claim preclusion, California
courts have “consistently applied the ‘primary rights' theory.” (Boeken v.
Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 797) T]he 'cause of action'
is based upon the harm suffered, as opposed to the particular theory asserted
by the litigant. ... Even where there are multiple legal theories upon which
recovery might be predicated, one injury gives rise to only one claim for
relief.” (Bay Cities Paving & Grading, Inc. v. Lawyers' Mutual Ins. Co.
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 854, 860.) 
Here Defendants
stipulate that in both lawsuits, Plaintiff sought damages for the April 19,
2019, incident in which trash had fallen onto Plaintiff’s car. (Motion p. 11,
13.) The harm, or primary right, claimed in both lawsuits is damages to
Plaintiff’s car. (Id.) Thus, the Court finds that the primary right
asserted in both actions are the same and therefore the first element is
satisfied. 
Second, the Court
looks to whether the prior proceeding resulted in a final judgement on the
merits. Here, the first action resulted in a final judgment on the merits
because the Court granted a motion for summary judgement in Defendant’s favor.
(Motion. Ex. C.) That judgment was served on Plaintiff on August 20, 2020. (Id.,
Ex. E.) Thus, the second element is satisfied. 
Finally, the Court
reviews whether the party against whom the doctrine is being asserted was a
party or in privity to the prior proceeding. Here, Plaintiff is the same party
in both proceedings. (Id. Ex. A) Thus, the third element is fulfilled. 
ii. Collateral
Estoppel
Defendant asserts
that the doctrine of collateral estoppel bars action in this suit because
Defendant is named in both lawsuits and that the second lawsuit raises issues
identical to those in the first lawsuit. (Motion p. 9.) Defendant further
argues that because summary judgement was granted in Defendant’s favor the
issue is barred by issue preclusion otherwise known as collateral estoppel. (Id.)

The Court notes that
since the complaint is barred under res judicata there is no need to reach the
issue of collateral estoppel. 
C. Leave to Amend
 
            The Court notes that in sustaining a demurrer, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.) Here the Court finds that there is no reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action that would not overcome res
judicata or collateral estoppel. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
IV.       Conclusion 
            
            Defendant Moss Management Services, Inc.’s  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Defendant Moss
Management Services, Inc.’s proposed Judgment of Dismissal to served and 
electronically
submitted to the Court within 10-court days.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.  