  Case Number:  23STCV30326    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  57 Farmers Insurance
Exchange ("the Defendant") issued an automobile insurance policy (the
"Policy") to Vladimir Khachatryan, Aneta Hakobyan, and Harutyun
Khachatryan (“the Plaintiffs”).  Plaintiffs' automobile that was insured
under the Policy was involved in a motor vehicle accident on or about May 17,
2021 ("the Accident").  Plaintiffs sought coverage under the
Policy for losses they say they incurred in the Accident.  Defendant
denied coverage to the Plaintiffs in March 2022.  The asserted basis for the denial of coverage
was Plaintiffs’ failure to comply
with the Policy’s requirement that the Plaintiffs cooperate in the Defendant's
investigation of the Plaintiffs' claim for insurance coverage related to the Accident.
 According to the Defendant, this failure
to cooperate had two components: a failure to produce documents to the
Defendant in a timely fashion and a failure to submit to an examination under
oath ("EOU") conducted by the Defendant -- both of which the Policy
required.  
On December 12, 2023,
Plaintiffs sued the Defendant for breach of the parties’ contract, namely the
Policy; tortious breach of an insurance contract; and breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
Pending before the Court is the Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
or, alternatively, summary adjudication.  
The Court is granting summary judgment for the Defendant on the
Plaintiffs’ claims.
Plaintiffs’ claims for
tortious breach of an insurance contract and breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing depend on Plaintiffs’ ability in the first instance
to prove its claim that the Defendant breached its contractual obligation under
the Policy in denying coverage to the Plaintiffs.  And to prove its breach of contract claim, the
Plaintiffs must demonstrate (1) the existence of the contract; (2) that they performed
their own obligations under the contract or that their performance was excused;
(3) the Defendant breached the contract; and (4) Plaintiffs suffered damages as
a result of the Defendant’s breach.  (Maxwell
v. Dolezal (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98.)   The linchpin
of Defendant’s motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication is that the
Plaintiffs cannot prove the second element – that they performed their
obligations or that performance was excused. 
In the Court’s view, Defendant is correct.  Thus, Defendant is entitled to summary
judgment on the Plaintiffs’ claims. 
Through
its separate statement of undisputed material facts and the corresponding
evidence contained in the compendium of exhibits submitted with its motion for
summary judgment, Defendant made a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of
triable issues of material fact on the Plaintiffs' causes of action against the
Defendants.  Specifically, Defendant's
evidence showed that the Plaintiffs did not cooperate in the Defendant's
investigation of the Plaintiffs' claim for insurance coverage as the Policy
requires by failing to produce documents to the Defendant in a timely fashion
and a failing to submit to an EOU.  This
failure to cooperate means that the Plaintiffs did not perform their
obligations under the Policy and thus they cannot prove their breach of
contract claim, which is fatal to the Plaintiffs’ other two claims.   Defendants’
evidentiary showing shifted the burden to the Plaintiffs to present evidence in
opposition to the Defendant's motion, through a response to the separate
statement, to demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of material fact on
the issue of their cooperation as the Policy requires  thereby precluding the entry of summary judgment
or summary adjudication for the Defendant. 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.  (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850-851) [discussing
burden shifting framework for analyzing summary judgment motions]; see also Diamond
v. Superior Court (2013 217 Cal.App.4th 1172, 1183.)   
Plaintiffs
did not dispute any of the material facts set forth in the Defendant's separate
statement. Plaintiffs did submit with their opposition to the Defendant's
motion a statement of material facts of their own. Plaintiffs' separate
statement contains just five purported facts.  The first four are not tied to any evidence
whatsoever – they are just blanket assertions. 
As a result, none of these purported four facts creates a disputed issue
of material fact on the issue of the Plaintiffs’ cooperation as required by the
Policy.  The fifth fact is tied to some
evidence, an email from Plaintiffs’ counsel to the Defendant. The fifth fact
states as follows about that email: "On May 16, 2023, Plaintiffs’ Counsel
emailed a correspondence to Defendant’s Counsel updating them about the
Plaintiffs ability to gather documents and scheduling an [sic] date for the
EUO.  A screen capture of the email will
be attached as Exhibit A. Neither Plaintiffs nor, their Counsel received a
response to this email correspondence." 
The
Exhibit A email referenced in this purported fact was attached as Exhibit A to
the Declaration of Plaintiffs' counsel Karapet Galajian.  The purpose of the Plaintiffs' presentation of
the email is to show that the Plaintiffs cooperated with the Defendant's
investigation of the claim.  In the
Court's view, it does not show that. 
The
email itself does not have a date on it.  As noted above, however, Plaintiffs' statement
of fact # 5 says that the email was sent on May 16, 2023.  And therein lies the problem for the
Plaintiffs. The May 16, 2023 email was sent by Plaintiffs to the Defendant more
than a year after the Defendant denied coverage of the Plaintiffs' claim in
March 2022 for failure to cooperate with the investigation.  The denial itself came more than seven months
after Defendant initially requested that the Plaintiffs submit to the EOU and
produce documents -- requests with which the Plaintiffs failed to comply.  
All
told, the May 16, 2023 email does not create a disputed issue of material fact
as to whether the Plaintiffs' performed their end of the parties’ contract (the
Policy) by cooperating in a timely manner with the Defendant's investigation
because the Defendant had long since denied coverage due to the Plaintiffs'
failure to cooperate, as demonstrated through the evidence Defendant submitted
in support of the motion. Plaintiffs failed to show in their opposition brief how
the tardy May 16, 2023 email can retroactively show timely cooperation when the
claim was denied more than a year previously precisely for Plaintiffs' failure
to do so.  Nor did the Plaintiffs argue
in their brief that Defendant had a duty under the Policy to revisit its denial
of coverage following its receipt 14 months later of the May 16, 2023 email from
Plaintiffs’ counsel. 
In
sum, because there are no disputed issues of material on the issue of the
Plaintiffs' cooperation with the Defendant's investigation, Defendant is entitled
to summary judgment on all of the claims that Plaintiffs have asserted in this
action.