 Case Number:  24STCV08515    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  73 12/11/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
DOE v. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT, et al. (24STCV08515)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party: David Ring (Taylor & Ring)
Counsel for
Defendant/opposing party:  Stephen Harber
(McCune & Harber LLP)
 
Plaintiff’s MOTION TO COMPEL defendant
los angeles unified school district’s FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE (filed 11/08/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant LAUSD’s further
responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant
shall provide verified responses within 20 days. 
 
The Court
further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant LAUSD
in the amount of $2,560. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for
Defendant LAUSD within 20 days of the date of this order. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
April 4, 2024, Plaintiff John Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) and William Webb
(“Webb”).  
 
Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action:
1.      Sexual Abuse
of a Minor (Against Defendants Webb and DOES 1 through 20)
2.      Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (Against Defendants Webb and DOES 1 through
20)
3.      Negligence (Against
Defendants LAUSD and DOES 21 through 50)
4.      Breach of
Mandatory Duty: Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse (Against Defendants
LAUSD and DOES 21 through 50)
5.      Negligence (Against
Defendants DOES 31 through 50)
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiff was fourteen years
old and a freshman in high school when he began attending Ramon C. Cortines
School of the Visual and Performing Arts ("Cortines"), part of the Defendant
LAUSD, for the 2013-14 school year. Defendant Webb, who was 49 years old, was
the Assistant Principal at Cortines at the time. Soon after meeting Plaintiff,
Webb began paying special attention to him and spending inordinate amounts of
time with him. Plaintiff alleges that during the school year, Webb drove
Plaintiff in his personal vehicle several times and sexually abused Plaintiff
on multiple occasions.
 
On November 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel LAUSD’s
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and request
for sanctions, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s discovery requests seek the information and materials
most relevant to this case, such as the names of relevant witnesses, insurance
information, background/reference checks performed on Webb prior to his hire,
and complaints about Webb’s inappropriate behavior with students. This is
foundational evidence necessary to establishing Plaintiff’s claims in this
case, which including negligent hiring/supervision/retention of Webb and
negligent supervision of the minor John Doe.
·      
LAUSD responded to each of Plaintiff’s requests for production
with boilerplate objections. 
·      
These discovery requests were propounded in June 2024 and
Plaintiff granted numerous extensions in order to receive substantive
responses. Yet to date, Plaintiff has not received an answer to a single
interrogatory or document request.
·      
Plaintiff also requests Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of
$2,560.
 
LAUSD filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
LAUSD has not waived its objections and many of plaintiff’s
requests remain objectionable. 
·      
Notwithstanding the validity of the requests, defense counsel is
continuing to make diligent efforts to obtain responsive information and
documents to provide complete responses.
o  
In order to obtain the information and documents necessary to
formulate complete and accurate discovery responses, defense counsel has made
requests to personnel at Ramon C. Cortines School of the Visual and Performing
Arts to obtain the information sought by plaintiff. However, during the summer
break from June to late-August, school personnel were not available to satisfy
discovery requests pertaining to responsive information and documents located
on site.
o  
LAUSD anticipates having complete discovery responses by
late-December
·      
Many of Plaintiff’s requests are overbroad. Moreover, the Family
Educational Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99)
(“FERPA”) protects the privacy right of students within the District and
District employees, among other third parties, when personal information is not
relevant to a particular action in which discovery is sought.
·      
Plaintiff did not adequately serve the motion to counsel and legal
secretaries assigned to this matter despite using the correct service list on
prior correspondences relating to this case. (Shaheen Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
Plaintiff filed a reply maintaining that further responses are
warranted. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
A motion to compel further discovery responses
must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(2);
2016.040.)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that he met and conferred
with Defendant’s counsel regarding the Defendant’s responses. (Reagan Decl., ¶ 5.) The Court finds that counsel has satisfied
the meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.      Service of
the Motion
 
LAUSD argues
in its Opposition that Plaintiff failed to properly serve LAUSD with its Motion
to Compel because he did not serve it on all counsel and legal secretaries
assigned to this matter. (Shaheen Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
Plaintiff
asserts that the Motion was served on lead attorney, Steven Harber, and his
assistant Melissa Alvarez. However, Plaintiff argues that defense counsel had
neglected to include other legal assistants on its updated e-service list. (Reply
p. 4; Reagan Decl., Ex. 7; Def’s Ex. A.)
 
Nevertheless,
the Court notes that LAUSD filed an opposition addressing the merits of
Plaintiff’s Motion. Thus, the Court proceeds on the merits. 
 
C.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves
to compel Defendant LAUSD’s further responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-39.
 
Under CCP §
2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that
discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.” 
 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that: 
“(1)  
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. 
 
(2)   A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
 
(3)   An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”   
 
Under CCP §
2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”   
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
It is not
necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in
evidence. “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts
show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to
prevent surprise at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior
Court (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2017.010,
2019.030(a)(1) (Information is discoverable if it is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence and it is not unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is
obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or
less expensive.); Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599,
1611-1612 (noting a party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence).) 
 
If a timely
motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to
justify any objection or failure fully to answer. (Coy v. Superior Court
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses
to interrogatories]; see also Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
Furthermore,
to the extent there is any doubt in whether these records should be
discoverable, California’s liberal approach to discovery provides that doubt
should be resolved in favor of permitting discovery. (Pacific Tel. &
Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 173.) 
 
Here, the parties do not dispute
that LAUSD responded to each request, Request Nos. 1-39, with only objections. 
 
Plaintiff argues that he seeks
relevant and discoverable information, including Plaintiff’s own student file,
documents that identify
relevant witnesses, photos that depict the Plaintiff and Defendant William Webb
on school campus, insurance information, background/reference checks performed
on Webb prior to his hire, and complaints about Webb’s inappropriate behavior
with students. Plaintiff argues this evidence is necessary to establishing
Plaintiff’s claims in this case, which include negligent hiring/supervision/retention
of Webb and negligent supervision of Plaintiff. Plaintiff contends that LAUSD’s
boilerplate objections are unmeritorious and not tailored in any way to the
documents sought by each particular request.
 
In opposition, LAUSD argues that Plaintiff’s Request Nos. 3, 4 and
32 are overbroad. LAUSD also argues the Family Educational Rights and Privacy
Act (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99) (“FERPA”) protects the privacy right of
students within the District and District employees, among other third parties,
when personal information is not relevant to a particular action in which
discovery is sought.
 
Request No. 3 states “A copy of the school yearbook from Ramon C.
Cortines School of the Visual and Performing Arts high school for the
2013-2014, 2014-2015, 2015-2016, and 2016-17 school years.”
 
Request No. 4 states “Any and all employee rosters or similar
WRITINGS that contain, set forth, or identify the names of administrators,
teachers, teacher’s assistants, coaches, supervisors, and/or staff employed by
Ramon C. Cortines School of the Visual and Performing Arts high school for the
2013-2014, 2014- 2015, 2015-2016, and 2016-17 school years.”
 
Request No. 32 states “Any and all maps of Ramon C. Cortines School of the Visual and
Performing Arts high school, depicting the locations of classrooms with teacher
assignments for the years 2013-2016.”
 
The Court finds these requests are
relevant and not overbroad. Here, Plaintiff has limited the scope of its
requests to the to the four
years in which Plaintiff was in high school and Defendant William Webb was an
employee at the Ramon C. Cortines school. Further, the yearbooks and employee
rosters are relevant in identifying potential witnesses, including which
district employees worked at the school during the relevant time period and
their job titles. The Court finds the requests are relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims and further responses are warranted.
 
LAUSD also asserts in its
opposition that it is continuing to make diligent efforts to obtain responsive information and documents from personnel at Ramon C.
Cortines School of the Visual and Performing Arts. LAUSD contends in its
opposition that during the summer break from June to late August, teachers and
school personnel were not available to handle discovery requests for
information and documents located on site. 
 
However, the Court does not find LAUSD’s argument provides
substantial justification or good cause for its delay in substantively responding
to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. LAUSD asserts that school employees were on
summer break until late August. However, LAUSD still has failed to serve
further responses at least three months later. Further, LAUSD doesn’t provide a
declaration or evidence in support of its contention that the unavailability of
any district personnel was the reason that LAUSD was unable to comply with
these discovery requests. Therefore, the Court does not find LAUSD’s
unsubstantiated argument persuasive. 
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel LAUSD’s
further responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
D.     Sanctions
 
“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of
motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is
sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of motion shall be
supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a
declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction
sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) 
 
Sanctions
may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery
constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section
2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court
may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a
motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed.  
 
Plaintiff requests
$2,560 in sanctions for counsel’s work on this motion, consisting of 5 hours of
counsel’s work at a rate of $500 an hour and the $60 filing fee. The Court
finds sanctions are warranted. Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions in the amount of $2,560.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant LAUSD’s further
responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One is
GRANTED. Defendant shall provide verified responses within 20 days. 
 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
LAUSD in the amount of $2,560. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to
counsel for Defendant LAUSD within 20 days of the date of this order. 