  Case Number:  23STCV00249    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  73 12/11/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
BOULEVARD NIGHTLIFE GROUP, LLC v. KEOPPEL
HOSPITALITY HOLDINGS, LLC
(23STCV00249)
 
Counsel for Cross-Complainants/opposing
party: Diyari Vazquez (VGC, LLP)
Counsel for Cross-Defendants/moving
party: Jonathan Gerber (Miller Miller Gerber LLP)
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT LEVIGATES, INC.’S MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS ON THE SECOND AMENDED complaint (filed 04/11/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Cross-Defendant
LeviGates, Inc.’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the
Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
This action concerns a commercial
contract dispute. On January 5, 2023, Plaintiff Boulevard Nightlife Group, LLC
("BNG") filed this action against Defendant Koeppel Hospitality
Holdings, LLC (“KHH”), asserting the following causes of action: 
 
C/A 1: Injunctive
Relief  
C/A 2: Declaratory
Relief 
 
BNG alleges that, on April 1, 2020,
it entered into a "food and beverage management agreement" with 1562
Cahuenga Blv Bar LLC (the "Company"), wherein BNG agreed to operate
as the manager and operators of the Company's restaurant and bar, 3rd Base Bar.
The decision to hire BNG rested with the Company's manager-member, Elevate
Hospitality Management, Inc. ("Elevate"), pursuant to the Company's
operative agreement, and under the agreement with BNG, "Drew Gates,"
a.k.a. Andrew Levitt, who is the principal of Elevate, was the Company's
personal representative. As of December 3, 2022, KKH, a member of the Company,
has sought to remove BNG as manager of the Company. Pursuant to this action,
BNG seeks to protect its commercial interest with the Company.
 
On August 15, 2023, KHH filed the operative second amended
cross-complaint (“SACC”) against Cross-Defendants BNG, Freddy Braidi
("Braidi”), Elevate, and Andrew Gates (a.k.a. Andrew Levitt)
("Gates") (collectively, "Cross-Defendants"), alleging the
following causes of action:
 
C/A 1: Fraud 
C/A 2: Fraudulent Concealment 
C/A 3: Conversion 
C/A 4: Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage 
C/A 5: Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage 
C/A 6: Accounting 
C/A 7: Breach of Written Operating
Agreement
C/A 8: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
C/A 9: Breach of Duty of Loyalty
C/A 10: Gross
Mismanagement/Negligence
 
As a member with an ownership interest in the Company, KHH
alleges that Elevate did not sign the written agreement with BNG, but instead,
Gates signed the agreement in his individual capacity, without having the
authority to bind the Company. In early 2022, KHH believed that Elevate was
mismanaging the Company and that BNG was mismanaging the restaurant. For this
reason, KHH requested to inspect the Company's books and records. On June 30,
2022, KHH discovered that the restaurant was being managed by Braidi through
BNG and that Elevate was a void foreign entity and was never authorized to do
business in California. Based on the operating agreement, when there is a
vacancy in the manager position of the Company, Shyon Keoppel is to be named
the next manager. It is further alleged that the Cross-Defendants conspired
with another to steal the Company's funds for their own benefit. This
conspiracy involved acquiring two loans under the Paycheck Protection Program
("PPP") under the false pretense that these funds would be used to
support the Company and its employees, and instead, Cross-Defendants obtained
these loans to pay themselves by adding themselves to the Company's payroll.
The Cross-Defendants concealed this information by refusing to provide KHH the
ability to review the Company's books and records. Moreover, KHH claims that
Cross- Defendants diluted the ownership interests of the Company's members by
awarding Class B and Class X shares in the Company to BNG with the Company's
own funds.
 
On January 16, 2024, Cross-Defendant LeviGates, Inc.
(“LeviGates”) was named as Roe 7.
 
On February 1, 2024, the Court sustained Cross-Defendants
Elevate and Gate’s demurrer to the SACC’s second and ninth causes of action
with 15 days leave to amend. The Court also overruled Cross-Defendants Elevate
and Gate’s demurrer as to the first and eight causes of action in the SACC. 
 
On April 11, 2024, Cross-Defendant
LeviGates filed the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to KHH’s
SACC on the following grounds:
·      
No cause of action in the SACC is sufficiently stated against
LeviGates. There are no allegations tying Roe 7 to this matter.
·      
The SACC is Uncertain and Unintelligible as to LeviGates
 
KHH filed an opposition arguing:
·       The motion for uncertainty as to the entire SACC must fail because
“uncertainty” is not a ground available on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings. (CCP §438(c))
·       The SACC also contains sufficient allegations against LeviGates
·       LeviGates was named as a cross-defendant in the SACC after discovery in
this matter revealed that LeviGates is the alter ego of Gates and has
inappropriately received payments and/or distributions from the Company.
Discovery has also revealed the LeviGates is fully controlled by Gates, and
LeviGates is the entity that controls Gates’ management entity, cross-defendant
Elevate.
 
LeviGates did not file a reply. 
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
A defendant
may move for judgment on the pleadings when the “complaint does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”  (Code
Civ. Proc. §438(b)(1) and (c)(1)(B)(ii).)  “A motion for judgment on the
pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at the trial
itself. [Citation.]”  (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 877.)   
 
“A motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed.  Presentation of extrinsic evidence is
therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.”  (Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 (citations
omitted).)   
 
The standard
for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as
that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the
pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears
that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian
v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322 (citing Schabarum v.
California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205,
1216).)   
 
B.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings pursuant to this chapter, the
moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
claims to be raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (C.C.P. §
439(a).) A declaration regarding meet and confer efforts must be filed with the
motion for judgment on the pleadings. (C.C.P. § 439(a)(3).) Counsel for
LeviGates has satisfied this requirement. (Gerber Decl. at ¶¶ 4-6.) 
 
C.      Uncertainty
 
First, LeviGates
asserts the Motion should be sustained as the entire SACC is uncertain as to
LeviGates.
 
In
opposition, KHH argues the SACC is not uncertain, and nevertheless, whether the
SACC is uncertain is not part of the Court’s inquiry in considering a motion
for judgment on the pleadings. The Court agrees.
 
CCP section
438(c)(1) provides a motion for judgment on the pleading may only made on one
of the following grounds:  
 
(A) “[i]f the moving party is a plaintiff, that the complaint
states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action against the
defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense to the complaint.  
(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either of the
following conditions exist: 
(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. 
 
Therefore, LeviGates’
argument that the SACC is uncertain does not appear to be a basis on which the
instant motion can be granted. Accordingly, the Court does not grant LeviGates’
motion on this basis. 
 
D.     First and
Second Causes of Action: Fraud and Fraudulent Concealment
 
The
elements of fraud are: (1) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent
to defraud-i.e., induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting
damage. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal. 4th 167, 173.)
The policy of liberal construction of the pleadings ordinarily does not apply
to causes of action for fraud, and fraud must be pleaded with particularity. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 631, 645.) “The particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which 'show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered." (Id.) In an
action against a corporation, the burden is higher, and a plaintiff must
"allege the names of the persons who made the fraudulent representations,
their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when
it was said or written." (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal. App. 4th 153, 157.)
 
"[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit based
on concealment [or nondisclosure] are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 748.)
 
LeviGates argues the SACC fails to provide a sufficient
factual basis to support the elements of fraud specifically against LeviGates.
LeviGates asserts the fraud allegations against them are nothing more than
conclusory, general statements attributing all acts and all damages to all the Cross-Defendants.
 
In opposition, KHH
asserts that the SACC defines the term “Cross-Defendants” as used throughout
the SACC to include all named Cross-Defendants, including “ROES 1 through 20.”
KHH argues all of the currently named Cross-Defendants participated in the
fraud and intentionally made material misrepresentations to KHH and the other
members of the Company in order to unjustly enrich themselves.
 
However, upon reviewing the SACC, the court agrees with
LeviGates that KHH fails to allege fraud with particularity as to LeviGates. 
 
For example, the SACC alleges the following subject
misrepresentations: (a) in or around 2019,
Gates/Elevate misrepresented to KHH and members of the Company in the Company’s
2019-2022 financial statement that the Company “loaned” $60,000 to Gates and
that the loan was repaid when it was not; (b) on April 1, 2020, Gates/Elevate and Braidi/BNG represented to KHH
and other members orally and in writing, that BNG had made a “capital
contribution” to the Company in the amount of $50,000, when BNG had not, in
order to fraudulently induce KHH and the members of the Company to consent to
Braidi/BNG becoming the manager of the Restaurant; and (c) On May
5, 2020 and March 3, 2021 Gates/Elevate represented to members of the Company
during a membership meeting their intention to apply for PPP loans to support
the Company, when in fact they actually applied for the PPP loans to use the
funds to pay themselves. (SACC, ¶ 43.) 
 
Thus, the SACC alleges
misrepresentations made by Cross-Defendants Gates/Elevate and Braidi/BNG. However,
there are no allegations specifying misrepresentations made by LeviGates. 
 
Further, KHH’s alleged concealment is based on Cross-Defendants
refusal to permit KHH an opportunity to review the Company's books and records
in order to conceal that they have been essentially embezzling money from the
Company by improperly adding themselves on the payroll. (SACC,
¶ 38.) KHH alleges that “on or around September 2019, KHH, Elevate, Gates
and the Members of the Company entered into the Company’s Operating Agreement
appointing Elevate as the manager of the Company.” (SACC ¶ 13.) KHH also
alleges that Gates is the alter ego of Elevate. (Id. at ¶ 7.) KHH argues
that as manager of the Company, Cross-Defendant Elevate/Gates had a duty to
disclose the concealed information.
 
However, the SACC fails to allege on what basis
LeviGates had a duty to disclose concealed information. 
 
Therefore, the first and second causes of action for fraud and fraudulent concealment have not been sufficiently alleged with the requisite
particularity against LeviGates. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion as to the
first and second causes of action with leave to amend.
 
E.      Third Cause
of Action: Conversion
 
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of
dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are:
(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.”  (Lee v. Hanley
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)
 
LeviGates asserts that the third cause of
action is not sufficiently stated because KHH fails to allege it owned or had the
immediate right to possession of the funds as the money was invested into the
Company, and conversion of money cannot be stated unless a specific sum capable
of identification is involved.
 
The SACC
alleges the following. The funds invested by KHH in the Company were and are
the property of KHH and were designated solely for use in legitimate Company
business. (SACC, ¶ 59.) “Cross-Defendants
intentionally and substantially interfered with the Company and thereby KHH’s
funds by taking their investment and misappropriating the funds for their own
personal use and enjoyment and to KHH’s and the Company’s detriment.
Cross-Defendants have also intentionally and substantially interfered with
distributions owed to Cross-Complainant.” (SACC, ¶
60.) “For instance, starting in at least 2020, Cross-Defendants have been
secretly distributing to BNG and Braidi profits from the Company even though
they are not members of the Company. On information and belief,
Cross-Defendants are also using for their own use approximately $300,000 of
Cross-Complainant’s contributions to the Company, while claiming that “each
member has not only received the full return of their initial investments in
the company, but are continuing to receive profit distributions on a regular
basis.” (SACC, ¶ 62.)
 
The
Court does not find the allegations in the SACC sufficient to allege
conversion. KHH does not clearly specify the sum of money involved. “Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion
unless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where an agent
accepts a sum of money to be paid to another and fails to make the payment.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.) While
the SACC alleges that Cross-Defendants are using $300,000 of KHH’s
contributions, it is not clear that $300,000 is the total sum involved. KHH references “funds” that Cross-Defendants
misappropriated as well as “profits” from the Company. However, KHH does not
clearly specify the amount of funds and profits.
 
Therefore, the Court does not find the third cause of action
has been sufficiently alleged against LeviGates. 
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion as to the third
cause of action with leave to amend.
 
F.       Sixth Cause
of Action: Accounting
 
“A cause of action for an accounting requires a
showing that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that
requires an accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can
only be ascertained by an accounting.  An
action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to
recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.”  (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 179, cleaned up.)
 
LeviGates argues the SACC fails to allege a
relationship between KHH and LeviGates that requires an accounting. 

The SACC alleges that “each and every cross-defendant was the agent, servant,
employee, joint venture, partner, subsidiary, and/or co-conspirator of the
other cross-defendants and…was acting individually as well as through and in
the foregoing alleged capacity and within the course and scope of such agency,
employment, joint venture, partnership, subsidiary and/or conspiracy, and each
cross-defendant ratified and affirmed the acts and omissions of the other
cross-defendants.” (SACC ¶ 8) The SACC further alleges that each
cross-defendant acted within “the course and scope of such authority, and, at
the same time, for their own financial and individual advantage, as well as in
the course and scope of such employment, agency and as an alter ego therein.” (Ibid.)
The SACC alleges that “each of the cross-defendants named herein as Roes 1
through 20, inclusive, is responsible in some manner for the occurrence,
injury, and other damages alleged in this Cross-Complaint.” (Id. at ¶ 9)
KHH alleges that “Cross-Defendants,” control the Company’s books and records,
and repeatedly refused to provide them to KHH..., possessed exclusive knowledge
of the falsity of these representations when making them to KHH and the other
members. (Id. at ¶ 17)
 
The Court does not find these allegations
sufficiently allege a relationship between KHH and LeviGates. While the SACC appears
to state that all Cross-Defendants acted in the course and scope of such
employment, agency and as an alter ego therein and that Roes 1 through 20, are
responsible in some manner for the occurrence, injury, and other damages
alleged in this Cross-Complaint, the Court finds these allegations vague and
conclusory. 
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion as to the sixth
cause of action with leave to amend. 
 
G.     Eighth and
Ninth Causes of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty and Breach of Duty of Loyalty
 
The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty;
and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach.  (Stanley v. Richmond
(1995) 35 Cal. App. 4th 1070, 1086.)  To plead a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must allege facts showing the existence
of a fiduciary duty owed to that plaintiff, a breach of that duty and resulting
damage.  (Pellegrini v. Weiss (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 515,
524.)  A fiduciary duty is founded upon a special relationship imposed by
law or under circumstances in which “confidence is reposed by persons in the
integrity of others” who voluntarily accept the confidence.  (Tri-Growth
Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf, Burdman, Duignan & Eisenberg (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 1139, 1150.)   
 
The elements of a cause of action for breach of the duty of
loyalty of persons employed in positions of trust are (1) the existence of a
relationship giving rise to a duty of loyalty, (2) one or more breaches of that
duty, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach. (Huong Que, Inc. v.
Luu (2007) 150 Cal. App. 4th 400.)
 
LeviGates argues the SACC fails to allege it owed a fiduciary
duty. The Court agrees. 
 
In opposition, KHH points to the same allegations in the SACC
that states “each and every cross-defendant was the agent, servant, employee,
joint venture, partner, subsidiary, and/or co-conspirator of the other cross-defendants
and…was acting individually as well as through and in the foregoing alleged
capacity and within the course and scope of such agency, employment, joint
venture, partnership, subsidiary and/or conspiracy, and each cross-defendant
ratified and affirmed the acts and omissions of the other cross-defendants.”
(SACC ¶ 8) The SACC further alleges that each cross-defendant acted within “the
course and scope of such authority, and, at the same time, for their own
financial and individual advantage, as well as in the course and scope of such
employment, agency and as an alter ego therein.” (Ibid.) The SACC
alleges that “each of the cross-defendants named herein as Roes 1 through 20,
inclusive, is responsible in some manner for the occurrence, injury, and other
damages alleged in this Cross-Complaint.” (Id. at ¶ 9)
 
However,
the Court does not find these vague and conclusory allegations sufficient to
state an alter ego relationship between Cross-Defendants and LeviGates, or a
fiduciary relationship between LeviGates and KHH.
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the motion as to the
eighth and ninth causes of action with leave to amend.
 
H.     Tenth Cause
of Action: Gross Mismanagement/Negligence
 
“Gross negligence is pleaded by alleging the
traditional elements of negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.  However, to set forth a claim for gross
negligence the plaintiff must also allege conduct by the defendant involving
either want of even scant care or an extreme departure from the ordinary
standard of conduct.  Gross negligence
connotes such a lack of care as may be presumed to indicate a passive and
indifferent attitude toward results.”  (Chavez
v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 640, cleaned
up.)  There is no distinct cause of
action for gross negligence apart from negligence.  (Continental Insurance Co. v. American
Protection Industries (1987) 197 Cal.App.3d 322, 328-30.)
 
LeviGates argues that KHH fails to allege any
duty that LeviGates owed and any facts concerning a breach of such a
duty.
 
The SACC alleges that all “Cross-Defendants
abandoned and abdicated their responsibilities and fiduciary duties to the
Company
and KHH with regard to prudently managing the assets and business of the
Company and KHH…Cross-Defendants acted without any care and/or in what is an
extreme departure from what a reasonably careful person would do to prevent
harm to the company, KHH and the members. (SACC ¶¶ 104-105)
 
KHH argues that combined with the allegations
of alter ego and agency referenced above, the cause of action is sufficiently
pled.
 
However,
as discussed above, the Court does not find that KHH has sufficiently alleged
an alter ego relationship between Cross-Defendants and LeviGates, or a
fiduciary duty owed by LeviGates.
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the motion as to the tenth
cause of action with leave to amend.
 
I.       
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action: Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage and Negligent Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage
 
The elements of a claim for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage include “(1) an economic relationship
between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future
economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the
relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of the defendant
designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.”  (Crown
Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404, cleaned
up.)  Further, “the alleged interference
must have been wrongful by some measure beyond the fact of the interference
itself. For an act to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be
unlawful, that is, it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.”  (Ibid., cleaned up.)
 
“The elements of negligent interference with
prospective economic advantage are (1) the existence of an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and a third party containing the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of
the relationship; (3) the defendant’s knowledge (actual or construed) that the
relationship would be disrupted if the defendant failed to act with reasonable
care; (4) the defendant’s failure to act with reasonable care; (5) actual disruption
of the relationship; and (6) economic harm proximately caused by the
defendant’s negligence.”  (Redfearn v.
Trader Joe’s Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 1005.)
 
LeviGates argues KHH does not allege independently
wrongful behavior by LeviGates. 
 
The SACC alleges the following. An economic
relationship exists between Cross-Complainant and the Company with a
probability of future economic benefit to Cross-Complainant. (SACC, ¶ 68.)
 Cross-Defendants had knowledge of the
relationship between Cross-Complainant and the Company. (SACC, ¶ 69.) Cross-Defendants engaged in intentional and wrongful conduct,
designed to interfere with or disrupt the relationship between
Cross-Complainant and the Company in order to unjustly enrich themselves and
steal Company funds (and thereby Cross-Complainant’s property) to distribute to
themselves. (SACC, ¶ 70.)
 
However, as discussed above, the Court does not
find that KHH has sufficiently alleged an alter ego relationship between
Cross-Defendants and LeviGates. The SACC’s allegations that all
Cross-Defendants acted in the course and scope of such employment, agency and
as an alter ego therein and that Roes 1 through 20, are responsible in some
manner for the occurrence, injury, and other damages alleged in this Cross-Complaint,
are vague and conclusory. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the motion as to the
fourth and fifth causes of action with leave to amend.
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Cross-Defendant
LeviGates, Inc.’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the Second Amended
Complaint is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend. 