  Case Number:  23STCV08364    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  57   Plaintiff's Motion to Compel Defendant Pacific Shore Property Management ("PSPM") to Provide Further Responses to Form Interrogatory ("FROG") No. 15.1 is GRANTED.   FROG No. 15.1 asks PSPM to "Identify each denial of a material allegation and each special or affirmative defense in your
pleadings and for each:
(a) state all facts upon which you base the denial or special or affirmative defense;
(b) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have
knowledge of those facts; and
(c) identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your denial or
special or affirmative defense, and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number
of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT. "In its answer to the complaint, PSPM asserted 37 affirmative defenses.  PSPM's initial responses and further responses to FROG 15.1, both of which were provided prior to the filing of the Motion, did not adequately answer the questions posed in that PSPM gave the same answer for every affirmative defense.  To be sure, some of the affirmative defenses may involve overlapping facts.  But even a cursory review of the affirmative defenses shows that many of them are separate and distinct.  In its further supplemental responses to FROG 15.1 that were provided to Plaintiff after the Motion was filed,  PSPM broke down its answers, affirmative defense by affirmative defense, from 1 to 37.  But even there, the answer given was the same for every single affirmative defense.  It cannot be the case that the same answer covers every affirmative defense, given the patent differences between the defenses. PSPM is ordered to provide to Plaintiff further responses that clarify the persons who have knowledge of facts and/or documents that are relevant to each separate and distinct affirmative defense.  The responses are due by June 10, 2024.Because PSPM's position in this discovery dispute was not substantially justified, monetary sanctions are imposed against PSPM and its counsel in the form of the reasonable attorney's fees that Plaintiff incurred in connection with the Motion. The amount of attorney's fees that Plaintiff is seeking, $1,245, is reasonable.  PSPM and/or its counsel Rey Yang and Stephanie Guerra must pay that amount to Plaintiff by  June 10, 2024.