  Case Number:  21CHCV00423    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 3-5-24
Case #21CHCV00423,
WIN Partners, LLC vs. World Tech Toys, Inc.
Trial Date: 5-5-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
WIN Partners, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendants’
further responses to certain discovery responses, as well as sanctions
 
RULING:
Motion to compel further responses is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On March 28,
2023, Plaintiff WIN Partners, LLC (Plaintiff) propounded a set of form
interrogatories on Defendants Kevork Kouyoumjian, World Tech Toys, Inc., and
World Trading 23, Inc. (Defendants), requesting that they respond only to Form
Interrogatory 15.1. After Defendants served incomplete responses, Plaintiff
filed a motion to compel further interrogatories on June 27, 2023. On July 24,
2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion and required Defendants to serve
supplemental responses and pay sanctions in the amount of $400 within 30 days.
Though Defendants failed to pay the sanctions, Defendants did serve supplemental
responses. After Plaintiff sent Defendants a meet and confer letter regarding
the deficiencies in the supplemental responses, Defendants served a second set
of supplemental responses on September 29, 2023. 
 
The following
is the interrogatory at issue:
 
Form
Interrogatory 15.1:
Identify each denial of a material
allegation and each special or affirmative defense in your pleadings and for
each: 
(a) state all facts upon which you base
the denial or special affirmative defense; 
(b) state the names, ADDRESSES, and
telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and 
(c) identify all DOCUMENTS and other
tangible things that support your denial or special or affirmative defense, and
state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each
DOCUMENT.
 
Plaintiff has
several issues with Defendants second supplemental responses. First, Defendants
failed to provide updated verifications. Defendants failed to identify the
facts, witnesses, and documents supporting each of their denials. Instead, they
grouped the denials into categories and did not separately identify the
supporting facts for each of their 33 affirmative defenses. Next, while
Defendants listed the names of some people who have knowledge of the facts,
they also listed general categories like “other employees” and
“clients/potential” rather than identifying specific individuals.
 
Plaintiff also seeks
sanctions against Defendants and Defendants’ counsel of record for costs and
attorney fees incurred in connection with this motion.
 
Plaintiff filed
this motion on October 10, 2023. No opposition has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Form
Interrogatories
To compel a
further response to interrogatories, the movant can show that: (1) the
responding party’s answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1)); (2) the responding party’s exercise of the
option to produce documents in response to an interrogatory was unwarranted or
the required specification of those documents was inadequate (CCP §
2030.300(a)(2)); and (3) the responding party’s objection to an interrogatory
is without merit or too general (CCP § 2030.300(a)(3); see, e.g., Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 550 (Williams) [defendant’s
argument that plaintiff was required to establish good cause or prove merits of
underlying claim before propounding interrogatories without merit]).
 
In this case, Defendants’
responses to Plaintiff’s interrogatory are incomplete. The first responses to
the interrogatory were simply objections. The current responses attempted to
answer the interrogatory, but they are clearly inadequate.
 
Defendants must
address the facts supporting each affirmative defense individually rather than
group them into categories. Defendant must also identify the specific witnesses
with knowledge of those facts, rather than using general terms like “client”
and “other employees”. 
 
Finally,
Defendants must identify which documents support which affirmative defenses,
and Defendants must also state who possesses the documents if they are not
already in Plaintiff’s possession. Currently, Defendants identify the documents
with broad categories such as “communications” between parties and “records/documents”
as they pertain to certain transactions or other items. Defendants must
identify the particular documents, rather than listing them as the broad
categories.
 
Sanctions
CCP § 2023.030
authorizes the Court to issue sanctions against a party engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process. Failure to respond to discovery,
evasive responses, and objections lacking substantial justification are
“misuses of the discovery process.” (CCP § 2023.010, subd. (d)-(f).)
 
Plaintiff has
requested sanctions in the total amount of $5,686.65 against Defendants and
Defendants’ counsel of record for Plaintiff’s incomplete and evasive discovery
responses. The amount was based on $3,125.00 in attorney fees (at $625.00 an
hour), $61.65 in costs, and an expected $2,500.00 for reviewing the opposition,
preparing a reply, and attending the hearing. (Bernet Decl., ¶¶ 25-26.) Because
no opposition and no reply were filed, the Court will only impose an additional
$625.00 for attorney fees for the hearing on this matter. That makes the total
amount of sanctions $3,811.65.
 
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions against Defendants and Defendants’ counsel of record is
granted in the total amount of $3,811.65.
 
            Issue, Evidence, and/or
Terminating Sanctions
Plaintiff
requested these sanctions in the alternative. The Court declines to impose any
issue, evidence, and/or terminating sanctions at this time. However, should
Defendants still fail to provide complete responses to Plaintiff’s interrogatories,
the Court would consider imposing these sanctions.
 
ORDER
1.      Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is granted.
2.      Defendants
are ordered to serve supplemental responses within thirty (30) days.
3.      Defendants
and Defendants’ counsel of record are ordered to pay sanctions in the total
amount of $3,811.65. Defendants and Defendants’ counsel of record are ordered
to pay these sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days.