 Case Number:  24STCP00232    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  86 PROFESSIONAL
PEACE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION v. COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES  
Case Number: 24STCP00232
Hearing Date: March
13, 2024
 
[Tentative]       ORDER ON APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY
INJUNCTION 
 
 
Petitioner,
Professional Peace Officers Association (PPOA), moves for a preliminary
injunction enjoining Respondents, the County of Los
Angeles, the County of Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department (Department), Sheriff
Robert Luna, the County of Los Angeles Office of Inspector General (OIG), and the
County OIG Inspector General Max Huntsman from “[p]roviding any documents,
materials, information, or otherwise to the OIG as it relates to any PPOA
represented Department employee (‘Affected PPOA members’) in response to the
OIG’s subpoena dated December 19, 2023.” (Proposed Order 2.)  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
Penal Code
Section 13670 and the Law Enforcement Gangs 
 
Enacted in 2021,
Penal Code section 13670 provides: 
 
Each law enforcement agency shall maintain
a policy that prohibits participation in a law enforcement gang and that makes
violation of that policy grounds for termination. A law enforcement agency
shall cooperate in any investigation into these gangs by an inspector general,
the Attorney General, or any other authorized agency. Notwithstanding any other
law, local agencies may impose greater restrictions on membership and
participation in law enforcement gangs, including for discipline and
termination purposes. (Pen. Code, § 13670, subd. (b).)
 
The statute
defines “law enforcement gang” as: 
 
a group of peace
officers within a law enforcement agency who may identify themselves by a name
and may be associated with an identifying symbol, including, but not limited
to, matching tattoos, and who engage in a pattern of on-duty behavior that
intentionally violates the law or fundamental principles of professional
policing. . . .  (Id. at subd. (a)(2).)
 
In enacting Penal Code section 13670, the Legislature made
the following findings: 
 
(a) Law enforcement gangs have been
identified within California law enforcement agencies, undermining California’s
movement to enhance professional standards of policing throughout the state.
Law enforcement gangs have been recognized by the Los Angeles Sheriff's
Department as damaging to the trust and reputation of law enforcement
throughout California.
. . . .
(c) Building and preserving trust between
California communities and law enforcement agencies, and protecting the
integrity of law enforcement as an institution will require agencies to
proactively root out “bad apples” including those who participate, formally or
informally, in this type of behavior.
. . . .
 
(2021 Cal. Legis.
Serv. Ch. 408 (A.B. 958) (WEST); see also Huntsman Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.)  
 
The Meyers-Milias-Brown Act (MMBA) and
the County’s Employment Relations Ordinance (ERO)
 
Employment
relations between the County and PPOA are governed by the MMBA, Government Code
section 3500 et seq. The MMBA provides that recognized employee
organizations such as PPOA “shall have the right to represent [its members] in
their employment relations with public agencies.” (Gov. Code, § 3503.)  
 
The
MMBA mandates:
 
[e]xcept
in cases of emergency as provided in this section, the governing body of a
public agency . . . shall give reasonable written notice to each recognized
employee organization affected of any ordinance, rule, resolution, or
regulation directly relating to matters within the scope of representation
proposed to be adopted by the governing body or the designated boards
and commissions and shall give the recognized employee organization
the opportunity to meet with the governing body or the boards and commissions.
(Gov. Code, § 3504.5, subd. (a).)  
 
The
MMBA provides the County:
 
shall meet
and confer in good faith regarding wages, hours, and other terms and conditions
of employment with representatives of such recognized employee organizations .
. . and shall consider fully such presentations as are made by the employee
organization on behalf of its members prior to arriving at a determination of
policy or course of action. (Gov. Code, § 3505.)  
 
In
addition, the County adopted the ERO, Los Angeles County Code[1]
section 5.04.010, which provides rules and regulations governing the
administration of labor relations in the County. The ERO provides, “it shall be
an unfair employee relations practice for the county . . . to refuse to
negotiate with representatives of certified employee organizations on
negotiable matters.” (County Code, section 5.04.240, subd. (A)(3).) (See Pet.
¶¶ 14, 72.)
 
As
discussed below, “a public employer’s ‘duty to bargain arises under two
circumstances: 
(1)
when the decision itself is subject to bargaining, and (2) when the effects of
the decision are subject to bargaining, even if the decision, itself, is
nonnegotiable.’ ” (County of Sonoma v. Public Employment Relations Board (2022)
80 Cal.App.5th 167, 179.)  
 
The November 2022
Decision of the County’s Employee Relations Commission (ERCOM) 
 
“On November 30, 2022, [ERCOM] provided a Decision and Order
directing Respondents to meet and confer over the negotiable effects of the
County of Los Angeles’ implementation of Measure R and Ordinance 20-0520
(collectively the ‘Oversight Legislation’), which together added Chapter 3.79.190
and amended Chapters 3.79.030 and 3.79.130 of the County Code to permit the
Civilian Oversight Commission (‘COC’) and the Office of the Inspector General
(‘OIG’) to access information, documents, and testimony through subpoena power,
‘in compliance with all laws and confidentiality protections,’ in order to
conduct oversight over the County of Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department . . . .
Pursuant to ERCOM’s Decision and Order, ERCOM confirmed that: ‘Members of the
employee representation units represented by [the Association for Los Angeles Deputy
Sheriffs] and PPOA shall not be required to respond to subpoenas issued
pursuant to the Oversight Legislation until the conclusion of the
meet-and-confer process. . . .’ ” (Johnson Decl. ¶ 5; see also Ex Parte App.
Exh. B.)[2]
 
OIG’s Request to Interview Deputies and the ALADS Litigation

 
In January 2022, OIG sent a letter to then Sheriff Alex
Villanueva referencing Penal Code section 13670 and requesting the sheriff
“direct all county employees under [his] supervision to cooperate with the
Office of Inspector General.” (Huntsman Decl. ¶ 41, Exh. Z.)[3]
 
On May 12, 2023, OIG sent a letter to 35 sheriff’s deputies
directing them to “appear in person to participate in an interview to be
conducted by the Office of Inspector General concerning the presence of law
enforcement gangs in the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.” (Ex Parte App.
Exh. C.) The letter specified the deputies could invoke their Fifth Amendment
privilege and the OIG would not compel an answer over a Fifth Amendment
assertion at the initial interview. (Ex Parte App. Exh. C.)
 
On May 18, 2023, Sheriff Robert Luna sent an email to sheriff’s
department employees stating: 
 
The Office of the
Inspector General issued a letter on May 12, 2023, to a number of sworn
personnel in the Department requesting their participation in an interview
process. Please be advised that all Department personnel who received such a
request are hereby ordered to appear and cooperate in such interviews. All
statements made by Department personnel shall be full, complete, and truthful
statements. (Huntsman Decl. ¶ 45; Ex Parte App. Exh. D.)  
 
The Association for Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs (ALADS), a labor
union representing sheriff's deputies, filed a petition for a writ of mandate
in this court (Hon. James C. Chalfant) seeking to enjoin the interviews.[4]
ALADS asserted claims for violations of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the
United States Constitution, California’s constitutional right to privacy, protections
under Pitchess v. Superior Court and related statutes, as well as various
labor laws. 
 
The court found ALADS had established a likelihood of success
on the merits only as to the labor law claims, and after balancing the harms,
issued an injunction in July 2023. (Ex Parte App. Exh. F.) Specifically, the
court’s order provided the preliminary injunction “shall issue that will enjoin
the OIG’s interviews of Affected Deputies until the County completes its
effects bargaining or – since effects bargaining is the sole basis for
injunctive relief – until ERCOM decides the UFC [Unfair Employee Relations Practice
Charge], whichever occurs first.” (Ex Parte App. Exh. F.) The County appealed
the court’s decision.  
 
OIG’s Subpoena to Sheriff Luna
 
On December 19, 2023, OIG issued a subpoena duces tecum to
Sheriff Luna seeking production of the following documents: 
 
a)      All Documents and
Information relating to any instances where LASD employees have been contacted
for an interview either through an attorney or representative, or contacted
directly, in any ICIB investigation and have not been interviewed from January
1, 2023, through the date of this subpoena;
 
b)      All records relating to
any instances where LASD employees have been contacted for an interview either
through an attorney or representative, or contacted directly, in any ICIB
investigation and have not been interviewed from January 1, 2023, through the
date of this subpoena which may indicate why they were not interviewed,
including the IV # and witness identifying information;
 
c)     
All Communications relating to any instances identified in
section “a” or “b” and/or the issue of compelling witness statements in
criminal cases to or from any LASD employees in 1dB, their chain of command,
Sheriff Luna, Captain Kopperud, and/or Eileen Decker (Johnson Decl. ¶ 14, Exh.
E; Huntsman Decl. ¶ 56, Exh. HH.)[5]
 
The Writ
Proceedings 
 
On January 23,
2024, PPOA filed its verified petition for a writ of mandate and complaint for
declaratory relief.  PPOA’s first cause
of action seeks a writ of mandate and alleges Respondents violated the MMBA and
the ERO. PPOA’s second cause of action is for declaratory relief. PPOA prays
for a writ of mandate:
 
1.      Compelling Respondents to act in
compliance with their ministerial duty to engage in good faith meet and confer
regarding the Oversight Legislation, consistent with ERCOM’s Decision and
Order, and regarding the OIG’s investigative efforts attempted on December 19,
2023; 
 
2.      Restraining Respondents from
authorizing compliance with the OIG’s December 19, 2023 subpoena; 
 
3.     
Restraining
Respondents from taking any punitive or disciplinary action against affected
PPOA members pursuant to OIG investigative efforts pending disposition of PPOA
and ALADS’ current Joint Unfair Employee Relations Practice Charges filed with
ERCOM. (Pet. Prayer, First Cause of Action, ¶¶ 1-3.)
 
On January 24,
2024, PPOA filed its ex parte application for a temporary restraining order
(TRO) and Order to Show Cause (OSC) re: preliminary injunction.[6]
On February 2, 2024, Respondents filed their opposition.  
 
On February 8,
2024, after a hearing, the court denied PPOA’s request for a TRO and set the
OSC re: preliminary injunction for hearing. 

 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
The purpose of a preliminary
injunction is to preserve the status quo pending a decision on the merits. (MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners Assn.
(1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 618, 623.) The court considers two factors when
considering a request for a preliminiary injunction: “(1) the likelihood that
the plaintiff will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms
that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim injunctive
relief.” (White v. Davis (2003) 30
Cal.4th 528, 553-54.) The factors are interrelated, with a greater showing on
one permitting a lesser showing on the other. (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105
Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.) However, the party seeking an injunction must
demonstrate at least a reasonable probability of success on the merits. (IT Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983) 35
Cal.3d 63, 73-74.)  The party seeking the
injunction bears the burden of demonstrating both a likelihood of success on
the merits and the occurrence of irreparable harm. (Savage v. Trammell Crow Co. (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1562, 1571.)
Irreparable harm may exist if the plaintiff can show an inadequate remedy at
law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a).) 

 
ANALYSIS 
 
PPOA’s Likelihood of Success 
 
PPOA alleges “the OIG’s December 19,
2023 subpoena implicates mandatory subjects of bargaining, both as to the
decision to implement the changes and regarding the ‘effects’ of the
implementation of Penal Code section 13670, subdivision (b) under Gov. Code
section 3500 et seq. and ERO section 5.04.090(B).” (Pet. ¶ 79.) PPOA
contends “Respondents clearly violated their duties under the MMBA to meet and
confer over the reasonably foreseeable effects of the OIG’s December 19, 2023
subpoena which impacts material terms and conditions of employment for Affected
PPOA members.” (Ex Parte App. 12:7-9; see also Pet. ¶ 84.)
 
              Applicable
Legal Test 
 
The
duty to meet and confer in good faith is limited to matters within the “scope
of representation.” (Gov. Code § 3505.)[7] “The
scope of representation shall include all matters relating to employment
conditions and employer-employee relations, including, but not limited to,
wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment, except, however,
that the scope of representation shall not include consideration of the merits,
necessity, or organization of any service or activity provided by law or
executive order.”  (§ 3504.)  
 
The
California Supreme Court has set forth the following three-part test relevant here:

 
First, we ask
whether the management action has “a significant and adverse effect on the
wages, hours, or working conditions of the bargaining-unit employees.” [Citation.] If
not, there is no duty to meet and confer. [Citations.] Second, we ask whether
the significant and adverse effect arises from the implementation of a
fundamental managerial or policy decision. If not, then, as in Building Material, the
meet-and-confer requirement applies. (Building
Material, supra, 41 Cal.3d at p. 664, [].) Third,
if both factors are present—if an action taken to implement a fundamental
managerial or policy decision has a significant and adverse effect on the
wages, hours, or working conditions of the employees—we apply a balancing test.
The action “is within the scope of representation only if the employer’s need
for unencumbered decisionmaking in managing its operations is outweighed by the
benefit to employer-employee relations of bargaining about the action in
question.” (Building
Material, supra, 41 Cal.3d at p. 660, [].) (Claremont
Police Officers Assn. v. City of Claremont (2006) 39 Cal.4th 623, 638 [Claremont];
see also Ex Parte App. Exh. A at 14-15.) 

 
PPOA has not disputed that OIG’s
issuance of the December 19, 2023 subpoena to Sheriff Luna (the Subpoena) was a
non-negotiable management decision. (See e.g., Ex Parte App. 17-18; Reply 4-5;
Pet. ¶ 78 [“non-negotiable decisions that have a foreseeable effect on
discipline”]; see also Opposition Exh. HH p. 1517-1518 [discussing authority
vested in OIG by Penal Code section 13670, Government Code section 25303.7, and
County Code section 6.44.190.I].) 
 
Reasonably Foreseeable Effects on Wages,
Hours, and Working Conditions 
 
PPOA contends “whether a PPOA member
will potentially lose their peace officer license for failing to comply with
OIG investigative efforts represent issues that have a direct and
unequivocal impact on employment affecting all licensed PPOA members.” (Ex
Parte App. 12:15-17 [emphasis added].) PPOA’s argument is not sufficiently
supported by the evidence and is speculative. The
Subpoena named only Sheriff Luna as the responding party and seeks records that
are presumably in his possession. (Ex Parte App. Exh. B.) PPOA fails to demonstrate
the Subpoena requires any action or compliance by PPOA members. To the extent PPOA
suggests its members could suffer discipline if they fail to produce records in
their possession to the sheriff (so Sheriff Luna may comply with the
Subpoena), PPOA does not support its position with evidence.  
 
More
persuasively, PPOA argues “no assurances or explanations have been provided by
Respondents regarding how any information obtained pursuant to the OIG’s
December 19, 2023 subpoena will ultimately be utilized for purposes of PPOA
members’ discipline and/or decertification.” (Ex Parte App. 13:12-15.) PPOA elaborates
in reply arguing the Subpoena is “exceedingly broad” and “PERB has held that
effects bargaining is required to address the impact of expanding certain
subpoena powers over employees of law enforcement agencies for civilian
oversight commissions.” (Reply 3 [County of Sonoma PERB Dec. No. 2772-M
(2021)].)  
 
The Subpoena seeks, among other things, “all Documents and
Information relating to any instances where LASD employees have been contacted
for an interview either through an attorney or representative, or contacted
directly, in any ICIB investigation and have not been interviewed from January
1, 2023, through the date of this subpoena. . . .” (Johnson Decl. ¶ 14, Exh. E;
Huntsman Decl. ¶ 56, Exh. HH.) 
 
The Subpoena justifies the document demand as follows: 
 
Specifically, the Office
of Inspector General is investigating the Sheriff’s Department’s failure to
implement California Penal Code 13670. Previous facts relevant to the existence
of a “Code of Silence” within the Sheriff’s Department are set forth in the OIG
2020 report on LASD’s criminal investigation of an alleged
assault by Banditos titled Analysis of the Criminal Investigation of Alleged
Assault by Banditos and in the OIG 2021 report on the internal discipline
system titled Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department: Review and Analysis of
Misconduct Investigations and Disciplinary Process, in the section entitled “Department
Policies, Procedures and Practices Condone and Effectuate the Code of Silence.” (Johnson Decl. ¶
14, Exh. E; Huntsman Decl. ¶ 56, Exh. HH.) 
 
Penal
Code section 13670, subdivision (b) provides “each law enforcement agency shall
maintain a policy that prohibits participation in a law enforcement gang and
that makes violation of that policy grounds for termination.” (Emphasis added.)
The statute continues: “Notwithstanding any other law, local agencies may
impose greater restrictions on membership and participation in law enforcement
gangs, including for discipline and termination purposes.” (Emphasis
added.)
 
The
Subpoena admits the OIG seeks disclosure of employee-related records to support
an investigation into the Department’s alleged failure to implement Probate
Code section 13670, including through a “Code of Silence.” Because of the
potential for discipline, including termination, for participation in a law
enforcement gang, PPOA has demonstrated some merit to its claim OIG’s issuance
of the Subpoena pursuant to Penal Code section 13670 and the Oversight
Legislation significantly and adversely affects the working conditions of PPOA’s
members.  
 
In
opposition, Respondents acknowledge they have an “obligation to provide notice
and a meaningful opportunity to bargain over the reasonably-foreseeable effects
of even non-negotiable decisions within the scope of bargaining prior to
implementation of those decisions.” (Opposition 13:20-22.) Respondents contend
the claimed effects of OIG’s actions are “rank speculation” (Opposition 14:11-12)
and do not require bargaining because “OIG has no authority beyond the
authority to investigate and report and any tangentially foreseeable adverse
impacts at this juncture would run to Sheriff Luna himself and the LASD as an
entity, and not the PPOA’s members.” (Opposition 14:7-10.) Respondents fail to provide
a complete discussion of the Oversight Legislation and pertinent statutes to
support their argument.  Moreover, even
assuming OIG’s role is solely to “investigate and report,” such actions could
plausibly lead to evidence or “reports” that could be used in disciplinary
proceedings (up to and including termination) against PPOA’s members.  
 
Based
on the foregoing and for purposes of this motion, PPOA has demonstrated some
likelihood of proving up a fundamental managerial or policy decision with a
significant and adverse effect on the wages, hours, or working conditions of
the bargaining-unit employees. The court therefore balances competing interests
pursuant to Claremont.  
 
              Balancing
of Interests 
 
“[I]f
an action taken to implement a fundamental managerial or policy decision has a
significant and adverse effect on the wages, hours, or working conditions of
the employees—we apply a balancing test. The action ‘is within the scope of
representation only if the employer's need for unencumbered decisionmaking in
managing its operations is outweighed by the benefit to employer-employee
relations of bargaining about the action in question.’ [Citation.] In
balancing the interests to determine whether parties must meet and confer over
a certain matter (§ 3505),
a court may also consider whether the ‘transactional cost of the bargaining
process outweighs its value.’ ” (Claremont, supra, 39 Cal.4th at
638.)  
              
Here, employer-employee relations
would clearly benefit from the completion of the meet and confer process as to
implementation of the Oversight Legislation and Penal Code section
13670 before OIG issues a subpoena or takes other investigative
acts affecting the working conditions of PPOA’s members.
 
Respondents
contend “[t]he fundamental policy decision by the State, as evidenced by
passage of Penal Code section 13670, to remove the widespread evils presented
by law enforcement gangs . . . is aimed at protecting the public and law
enforcement officers alike.” (Opposition 12:14-17.) Respondents analogize Penal
Code section 13670 to the city’s decision to revise its use of force policy in San
Francisco Police Officers’ Assn. v. San Francisco Police Comm. (2018) 27
Cal.App.5th 676, 690, in which the Court of Appeal concluded “compelling the
City to arbitrate issues surrounding the new use of force policy before it can
be implemented would defeat the purpose of requiring cities to make fundamental
managerial or policy decisions independently.” (Ibid.)  
 
Admittedly,
the balancing of interests here is close. In the abstract, an injunction against
all implementation of Penal Code section 13670 or the Oversight Legislation
by the OIG until the meet and confer process is complete could undermine the
purpose of that legislation. Nonetheless, Respondents do not demonstrate any clear
or irreparable harm to a specific OIG investigation from a preliminary
injunction against the Subpoena until bargaining is completed.  Accordingly, for purposes of this motion, PPOA
has shown a least some likelihood of success on the merits of Claremont’s
balancing test.  
 
              ERCOM’s
November 30, 2022 Decision and Order
 
PPOA also contends “Respondents’
unilateral circumvention of ERCOM’s November 30, 2022 Decision and Order, which
commanded the OIG to engage in good faith meet and confer 
prior to utilizing investigative
subpoena power of the type OIG authorized on December 19, 2023, violates PPOA’s
representational rights as a recognized labor organization under the MMBA . . .
.” (Ex Parte App. 12:21-24.)
 
ERCOM’s order provides: “Members of
the employee representation units represented by ALADS and PPOA shall not be
required to respond to subpoenas issued pursuant to the Oversight Legislation
until the conclusion of the meet-and-confer process described above in
Paragraph 4.” (Ex Parte App. Exh. B.) The Subpoena names
only Sheriff Luna as the responding party. No member of ALADS or PPOA is
required to respond. Accordingly, PPOA does not show a violation of this provision
of ERCOM’s order.  
 
ERCOM’s
order also provides: “the Respondent shall meet and confer with the Charging
Parties with respect to the negotiable effects of the Oversight Legislation.”
(Ex Parte App. Exh. B.)[8] PPOA
indicates five meet and confer sessions have been held and that “[a] sixth meet
and confer session regarding the Oversight Legislation is prospectively
scheduled to be held on February 27, 2024.” (Johnson Decl. ¶ 10.) “To date, the
County and PPOA are still engaged in meet and confer over the effects of the
Oversight Legislation.” (Johnson Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
For
the same reasons discussed earlier, PPOA has some likelihood of success on its
claim OIG’s issuance of the Subpoena, before the meet and confer process has
completed, affects the working conditions of PPOA’s members and is a
“negotiable effect” of the Oversight Legislation.  Relatedly, PPOA has some likelihood of
success on its claim the Subpoena violates ERCOM’s order such that the court
should issue the writ compelling Respondents to engage in meet and confer and
enjoin compliance with the Subpoena pending the meet and confer.  
 
Based
on the foregoing, PPOA has shown some reasonable likelihood of success on its
first cause of action for a writ of mandate. 

 
Constitutional and Pitchess Claims
 
PPOA
contends the Subpoena “contemplates disclosure of materials that implicates the
constitutional, POBR, employment and privacy rights of thousands of peace
officers across the County even though less intrusive and more focused means
may be available for Respondents to obtain the information sought.” (Ex Parte
App. 13:9-12.) PPOA contends the Subpoena “violate[s] Affected PPOA members’
Fourth Amendment right against unreasonable search and seizure, Fifth Amendment
right against self-incrimination (in light of the OIG’s failure to assure that
any relevant Lybarger related admonitions will be provided), and right
to privacy under the California Constitution.” (Ex Parte App. 13:19-22) PPOA also
contends that the Subpoena violates the right of its members under the Pitchess
statutes. (Ex Parte App. 15:12-14.)
 
The
petition does not plead a cause of action for violation of the Fourth or Fifth
Amendments.    “A cause of action must
exist before a court may grant a request for injunctive relief.” (Ivanoff
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 734.) PPOA has not shown
a preliminary injunction may issue based on alleged violations of the Fourth
or Fifth Amendments not actually pleaded in the petition.  
 
Alternatively,
PPOA has not shown a reasonable likelihood of success on its Fourth and Fifth
Amendment claims. “To determine whether a Fourth Amendment violation occurred,
we ask two primary questions: first, whether the government conduct amounted to
a search within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment; and second, whether that
search was reasonable.”  (United
States v. Dixon (9th Cir. 2020) 984 F.3d 814, 819.) The Subpoena named only
Sheriff Luna as the responding party. No member of ALADS or PPOA is required to
respond. PPOA has failed to develop an argument that the Subpoena amounts to a
“search” within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment or that, even if it does,
that the search is unreasonable. (See Nelson v. Avondale Homeowners Assn. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863. [“When an appellant fails to raise a point, or
asserts it but fails to support it with reasoned argument and citations to
authority, we treat the point as waived.”]) 

 
PPOA
contends it is likely to succeed on its Fifth Amendment claim based on Lybarger
v. City of Los Angeles (1985) 40 Cal.3d 822 because OIG has allegedly
failed “to assure that any relevant Lybarger related admonitions will be
provided.” (Ex Parte App. 13:19-22.)  Lybarger
v. City of Los Angeles held that a police officer’s compelled testimony
pursuant to Penal Code section 832.7 cannot be used against the officer in
later criminal proceedings. (People v. Gwillim (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d
1254, 1270.) The Subpoena seeks records relating to instances where the
Department’s employees “have not been interviewed” and, thus, not compelled to
make statements. (Ex Parte App. Exh. G.) PPOA has not developed an argument
that Lybarger v. City of Los Angeles applies in such circumstances. PPOA
also has not cited any evidence that the records responsive to the Subpoena are
reasonably likely to include compelled statements of any Department
employees.  
 
Arguably,
PPOA’s petition and second cause of action for declaratory relief include
claims related to the privacy and Pitchess rights of PPOA’s members.
(See e.g. Pet. ¶¶ 76, 84.)  A claim for
violation of the right to privacy under Article I, Section 1 of the California
Constitution requires proof of three threshold elements: (1) a legally
protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable expectation of privacy; and (3)
conduct by defendant constituting a serious invasion of privacy. (Hill v.
Nat’l Collegiate Athletic Ass’n (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37.) Here, the
Subpoena seeks information about the Department’s alleged failure to interview
some of PPOA’s members in ICIB[9]
criminal investigations. PPOA has not sufficiently developed an argument any of
its members have a legally protected privacy interest in the employment-related
records held by the Sheriff and sought in the Subpoena.  
 
Pitchess
is triggered by a disclosure of personnel records. (Pen. Code, § 832.7, subd. (b).)  A “[p]ersonnel record” is “any file maintained
under that individual’s name by his or her employing agency” containing records
related to “(1) Personal data, including marital status, family members,
educational and employment history, home addresses, or similar information. (2)
Medical history. (3) Election of employee benefits. (4) Employee advancement,
appraisal, or discipline. (5) Complaints, or investigations of complaints,
concerning an event or transaction in which he or she participated, or which he
or she perceived, and pertaining to the manner in which he or she performed his
or her duties.  (6) Any other
information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of
personal privacy.” (Pen. Code, § 832.8, subd. (a).)  
 
Records maintained by the Department addressing whether
an employee was interviewed could possibly fall within the categories of
“personnel records” in Penal Code section 832.8, subdivision (a) pertaining to
“discipline” or “investigations of complaints.” Nonetheless, PPOA has not
persuasively explained how a disclosure to OIG, a County entity, violates Pitchess.    
 
For purposes of this motion, PPOA has not shown a
reasonable likelihood of success on its claims made under the Fourth or Fifth
Amendments, the right to privacy, or the Pitchess statutes. However, PPOA
has shown some likelihood of success on its petition for a writ of mandate
seeking to enforce the MMBA and ERO. PPOA’s likelihood of success on the writ
petition is sufficiently strong for the court to reach the balance of
harms.  
 
Balance of Harms
 
For the second factor, the court must
consider “the interim harm that the plaintiff would be likely to sustain if the
injunction were denied as compared to the harm the defendant would be likely to
suffer if the preliminary injunction were issued.” (Smith v. Adventist Health System/West (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 729,
749.) “Irreparable harm” generally means the defendant’s act constitutes an
actual or threatened injury to the personal or property rights of the plaintiff
that cannot be compensated by a damages award. (See Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d
405, 410.)  
 
PPOA shows irreparable harm if the
preliminary injunction is not issued. As discussed, PPOA submits evidence that
Respondents have failed to complete the bargaining process with respect to
implementation of the Oversight Legislation and Penal Code section 13670.
A “failure to bargain in good faith,
has long been understood as likely causing an irreparable injury to union
representation.” (Frankl ex rel. NLRB v. HTH Corp.
(2011) 650 F.3d 1334, 1363; accord Small v. Avanti Health Systems, LLC (2011)
661 F.3d 1180, 1192.)  
 
Respondents contend PPOA “delayed
with regard to the December 19, 2023 subpoena. PPOA had over two weeks—from
December 19, 2023 (the date the subpoena was issued) until January 4, 2024— to
file a regularly noticed motion.” (Opposition
19:13-15.)[10]
The Subpoena set a compliance date of January 30, 2023. (Ex Parte App. Exh. G.)[11]
PPOA filed its petition on January 23, 2024, and this application on January
24, 2024. Considering the compliance date, PPOA’s delay from December 19, 2023 until
January 23, 2024, was not so substantial as to show a lack of irreparable harm.
 
Respondents contend the preliminary
injunction would cause “harm to the public, public distrust,
and financial injury to Respondents” in connection with the ongoing existence
of deputy gangs. (Opposition 20:13) Respondents argue “[g]ranting PPOA’s
request for relief would effectively shut down OIG’s ability to function in any
meaningful capacity.” (Opposition 20:17-18.) Respondents claim is exaggerated.
Respondents do not show OIG lacks the ability to conduct a more narrowly
tailored investigation into the deputy gang problem. While there are important
legislative and policy interests expressed through Penal Code section 13670,
Respondents have not cited any evidence suggesting preliminarily enjoining
compliance with the Subpoena—until the court conducts a hearing on the writ
petition—would materially injury OIG’s ability to investigate or report.   
 
The balance of harms weighs in favor
of granting the preliminary injunction. Having considered PPOA’s likelihood of
success on the merits and the balance of harms, the court grants PPOA’s request
for a preliminary injunction.  
 
Undertaking 
 
A preliminary injunction ordinarily
cannot take effect unless and until the plaintiff provides an undertaking for
damages which the enjoined defendant may sustain by reason of the injunction if
the court finally decides that the plaintiff was not entitled to the
injunction. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 529, subd. (a); City of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn. (1992)
11 Cal.App.4th 916, 920; see Abba Rubber Co. v. Seaquist (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1, 15-16 [“the
prevailing defendant may recover that portion of his attorney's fees
attributable to defending against those causes of action on which the issuance
of the preliminary injunction had been based”].)   
 
The
court finds a $10,000 bond is appropriate. Respondents have not cited evidence
that persuasively supports a bond greater than $10,000. (See Opposition 21:5-18.)
 
///
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The application for
a preliminary injunction is GRANTED.  PPOA
shall post an undertaking of $10,000.
 
 IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
March 13, 2024                                                                              _________________________ 
Hon.
Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge
of the Superior Court 
 
 


