


[1] The Los Angeles County Code (County Code) is a
codification of the general ordinances of the County.


[2] The court adopts ERCOM’s definition of “Oversight
Legislation” herein. 


[3] The January 2022 letter also requested the Sheriff
produce certain “documents and information gathered by the Sheriff’s Department
regarding deputy gangs.” (Huntsman Decl. ¶ 41, Exh. Z.)


[4]
PPOA was not a party to the ALADS litigation.



[5] Steven Johnson, President of PPOA, attests: “on
December 19, 2023, the OIG authorized a subpoena towards all Department
personnel.” (Johnson Decl. ¶ 14.) 
However, the subpoena named only Sheriff Luna as the responding
party.  


[6] The moving brief is 20 pages and exceeds the
applicable page limit of 15 pages. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113, subd. (d).)
Respondents highlight the procedural error but do not object or show prejudice
from the rule violation. (Opposition 15, fn. 1.) The court exercises its
discretion to consider all 20 pages of PPOA’s brief. PPOA is reminded of the
rule and the need to seek leave in the future if PPOA intends to file an
oversize brief.


[7] All undesignated statutory references are to this code.


[8]
More specifically, the ERCOM order states: 
 
a. The parties shall immediately meet and confer on the schedule for
negotiations and shall, no later than seven (7) days after the issuance of this
Decision and Order, report to the Commission on any agreement as to the
schedule for negotiations. b. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement
as to the schedule for negotiations, then the Commission will consider an
application by any party to issue a supplemental Decision and Order
establishing the negotiations schedule. c. It is the Commission’s hope and
expectation that negotiations will be completed no later than sixty (60) days
from the commencement of negotiations, and that the parties will take all
actions necessary to facilitate such a schedule, including the preselection of
a mediator. The parties shall have the discretion to reach a mutual agreement
pursuant to a lengthier schedule. d. The meet-and-confer process outlined in
this Paragraphs 4 shall be without prejudice to the exhaustion of the impasse
procedure otherwise required by law.  
 


[9] ICIB, as used in the Subpoena, refers to Internal
Criminal Investigations Bureau. (See Opposition 9:14.)


[10] Any delay with respect to the OIG’s May 12, 2023
letter is not at issue for this application. 



[11] Neither party contends the Sheriff complied with the
Subpoena on the compliance date or anytime thereafter.    

