  Case Number:  23STCP00670    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  86 CITIZENS FOR A BETTER LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES
COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
Case Number: 23STCP00670
Hearing Date: March
13, 2024 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER DENYING PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
 
 
Petitioners, Citizens
for a Better Los Angeles and Coalition for a Scenic Los Angeles, seek a writ of
administrative mandate directing Respondent, Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (Metro), to set aside its certification of an environmental
impact report (EIR) for, and all other approvals of, the Transportation
Communication Network (TCN) program (the TCN Program or the Project). Metro and
Real Party in Interest, All Vision, LLC, (collectively, Respondents) jointly
oppose the petition.  
 
Petitioners
challenge to the Project is based on the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA), Public Resources Code 21000 et seq.[1]
 
Petitioner’s unopposed Request for Judicial Notice (Pet. RJN) of
Exhibits A through C is granted. 
Respondents’ unopposed Request for Judicial Notice (Resp. RJN) of
Exhibits A through D is granted. The court judicially notices the existence of
these official records but not any asserted interpretations of them.  
 
The petition is denied.
 
BACKGROUND AND
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
The Project 
 
“[T]he
Transportation Communication Network (TCN) Program (Project or TCN Program) . .
. would provide a network of structures with digital displays (TCN Structures)
that would incorporate intelligent technology components to promote roadway
efficiency, improve public safety, augment Metro’s communication capacity,
provide for outdoor advertising where revenues would fund new and expanded
transportation programs . . ., and result in an overall reduction in static
signage displays throughout the City of Los Angeles (City). Implementation of
the Project would include the installation of up to 34 Freeway-Facing TCN
Structures and 22 Non-Freeway Facing TCN Structures all on Metro-owned
property. The total maximum amount of digital signage associated with the TCN
Structures would be up to approximately 55,000 square feet. As part of TCN
Program, a take-down component would be implemented including the removal of at
least 110,000 square feet (2 to 1 square footage take-down ratio) of existing
off-premise static displays. Signage to be removed would include, at a minimum
approximately 200 off-premise static displays located within the City of Los
Angeles.” (AR 135 [project summary from Draft EIR].)  
 
“As
part of the Project, the City must amend the City’s sign regulations in Chapter
I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (the Zoning Code) to create a mechanism to
review and approve the TCN Structures (Zoning Ordinance) and associated static
display take-down program. The Zoning Ordinance regulations would generally
affect the location, design, operations, take-down program and community
benefits of the TCN Structures.” (AR 135.) 

 
“The
site locations for the TCN Structures (Site Locations) are located within
property owned and operated by Metro along freeways and major streets, within
the City. A portion of the Site Locations contain existing static displays. The
majority of the Site Locations are located on vacant land with limited
vegetation and are generally inaccessible to the public. Further, the proposed
Site Locations are used primarily for Metro operations which include rail
corridors, stations, parking, bus depots, and equipment lots. . . . No Site
Locations are zoned for residential use.” (AR 136.)  
 
Among
others, Metro made the following findings when it approved the Project and the
Final EIR:
 
The TCN
Structures would increase roadway efficiency by aiding traffic signal timing,
microtransit data, and Metro vanpool on-demand services. It would also improve
the experience of bus passengers by facilitating transit signal priority,
boosting bus wi-fi, and relaying accurate bus arrival time information.
Finally, the TCN Program would enable data collection during large events in
the City, to minimize congestion and provide parking information. (AR 19
[Metro’s Findings of Fact for CEQA approval].) 

 
“The
TCN Program would create advertising revenue that would be utilized by both
Metro and the City to fund new and expanded transportation programs. The TCN
Structures would follow Metro’s Advertising Content Guidelines. Off-site
advertising would include information related to a business, commodity,
industry or other activity which is sold, offered or conducted elsewhere than
on the premises upon which the TCN Structure is located.” (AR 19.)
 
Environmental Review and Approval of the Project 
 
Metro
released the Draft EIR for the Project in September 2022. (AR 93-2197.) In
November 2022, after receiving comments from multiple persons and entities, including
Petitioners, Metro published its Final EIR and responses to comments. (AR
2198-3463.) Both the Draft EIR and Final EIR concluded the Project would have
significant and unavoidable impacts on 
(i)
scenic vistas; (ii) applicable plans and other regulations governing scenic
quality/visual character; (iii) historical resources; and (iv) land use and
planning. (AR 112-115.)
 
On
January 26, 2023, Metro’s Board of Directors voted to certify the Final EIR and
adopt environmental findings. The board found implementation of the TCN Program
“would result in significant unavoidable impacts related to aesthetics,
cultural resources, and land use and planning, and no feasible mitigation
measures were identified to mitigate these impacts,” but the “overall benefits
of the Project outweigh the significant and unavoidable impacts.” The board adopted
a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program (MMRP) and approved the TCN
Project. (AR 17, 89-92, 4559.) In response to public comments, Metro eliminated
TCN Structures FF-29, NFF-14, and NFF-15 when it approved the Project. (AR 19.)
 
After
Metro’s approval, the City continued its process of preparing the Zoning
Ordinance, and then engaged in a public review process. The draft Zoning
Ordinance proposed to remove several TCN Structures from the Project. The City
prepared an Addendum for these changes, which concluded that the elimination of
several TCN Structures would further reduce the Project’s impacts compared to
the version studied in the Final EIR and, as a result, “the proposed
modifications and clarifications do not meet the requirements for preparation
of a subsequent or supplemental EIR . . . .” (Resp. RJN and Wright Decl. Exh. A
at 36.) The City approved the Zoning Ordinance for the Project on December 26,
2023. (Id., Exh. B at 42, Exh. C at 49 and Exh. D at 76.) 
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
In an action challenging an agency’s decision under CEQA, the trial
court reviews the agency’s decision for a prejudicial abuse of discretion. (§
21168.5.) “Abuse of discretion is established if the agency has not proceeded
in a manner required by law or if the determination or decision is not
supported by substantial evidence.” (Ibid.; see also Vineyard Area Citizens for Responsible
Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cordova (2007) 40 Cal.4th 412, 435 [Vineyard].)  
 
Challenges to an agency’s failure to proceed in a manner required by
CEQA are subject to a less deferential standard than challenges to an agency’s
factual conclusions. (Vineyard, supra, 40 Cal.4th at 435.) When reviewing procedural
claims, the court must “determine de novo
whether the agency has employed the correct procedures.” (Ibid.; see Dry Creek Citizens Coalition v. County of
Tulare (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 20, 26.) 

 
“Substantial
evidence includes fact, a reasonable assumption predicated upon fact, or expert
opinion supported by fact. . . . Substantial evidence is not argument,
speculation, unsubstantiated opinion or narrative, evidence that is clearly
inaccurate or erroneous, or evidence of social or economic impacts that do not
contribute to, or are not caused by, physical impacts on the environment.” (§
21080, subd. (e).) Under the substantial evidence test and the agency’s factual
conclusions, the court reviews “the administrative record to see if it contains
evidence of ponderable legal significance that is reasonable in nature,
credible, and of solid value, to support the agency's decision.” (Protect
Tustin Ranch v. City of Tustin (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 951, 960.)  
 
“The EIR is presumed legally
adequate . . . and the agency's certification of the EIR is presumed correct. .
. . Persons challenging the EIR therefore bear the burden of proving it is
legally inadequate and that the agency abused its discretion in certifying
it.” (Cherry Valley Pass Acres & Neighbors v. City of Beaumont (2010)
190 Cal.App.4th 316, 327-328.) A reviewing court “will not act as
counsel for either party to [a challenge of an agency decision] and will not
assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for any
purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742 [in context of appeal]; see also Inyo
Citizens for Better Planning v. Inyo County Board of Supervisors (2009) 180
Cal.App.4th 1, 14. [“We are not required to search the record to ascertain whether
it contains support for [the parties’] contentions.”])  
 
Finally, when an appellant
challenges “’the sufficiency of the evidence, all material evidence on the
point must be set forth and not merely [its] own evidence.” (Toigo v. Town
of Ross (1998) 70 Cal.App.4th 309, 317.) A petitioner
“must lay out the evidence favorable to the other side and show why it is
lacking.”
(Defend the Bay v. City of Irvine (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1261,
1266.)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Respondents’ Mootness Defense 
 
Before reaching the merits, the court first considers Respondents’
contention “[s]everal of Petitioners’ arguments are based on
specific TCN Structures that are no longer part of the Project” and that such claims are therefore moot. (Opposition 30:11-12.)  
 
“California courts will decide only justiciable
controversies. [Citations.] The concept of justiciability is a tenet of
common law jurisprudence and embodies ‘[t]he principle that courts will not
entertain an action which is not founded on an actual controversy. . . .’ ” (Wilson & Wilson v. City Council of
Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1573.) “A case is considered moot
when ‘the question addressed was at one time a live issue in the case,’ but has
been deprived of life ‘because of events occurring after the judicial process
was 
initiated.’ ” (Id. at 1574.) “The pivotal question in
determining if a case is moot is therefore whether the court can grant the
plaintiff any effectual relief.” (Ibid.)
 
The final version of the Project approved by both Metro and the City
eliminated TCN Structures FF-4, FF-13, FF-14, FF-29, FF-30, NFF-1, NFF-2,
NFF-3, NFF-7, NFF-12, NFF-14, NFF-15, NFF-16, NFF-20, and NFF-21. (See Resp.
RJN Exh. D at 21-23.)[2]
 
Respondents argue the project design
feature AES-PDF-1 only applies to TCN Structures FF-13
(eliminated), FF-14 (eliminated), FF-25, FF-29 (eliminated), and FF-30
(eliminated); the only remaining TCN Structure affected by AES-PDF-1 is FF-25;
and Petitioners do not reference or analyze TCN Structure FF-25 in their
arguments about AES-PDF-1. Respondents contend Petitioners’ claim of
inconsistency with Mobility Plan 2035 only pertains to TCN Structures NFF-7 and
NFF-12, both of which have been eliminated from the Project. Finally,
Respondents report the “final version of the Project approved by both Metro and
the City eliminates all of the TCN Structures proposed to be removed in
Alternatives 2 and 3.” (Opposition 31:10-12.)
 
Petitioners
effectively respond to Respondents’ mootness claim. “[T]here is no evidence
indicating the EIR at issue in this case has been decertified and can no longer
be relied upon for the current version or future versions of” the TCN Program.
(Cleveland National Forest Foundation v. San Diego Assn. of Governments (2017)
17 Cal.App.5th 413, 423.) The City Council could reverse course and approve TCN
Structures that had been eliminated from the Project. The EIR remains a valid
environmental clearance document and could plausibly authorize the City to
approve currently removed TCN Structures in the future without further
environmental review. (§ 21166.) Accordingly, the petition is “not moot because
rescission of Project approvals is incomplete.” (Golden Door Properties, LLC
v. Superior Court (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 733, 759.) [3]
 
Did The Final EIR Analyze the Whole of the Project and Include an
Adequate Project Description? 
 
Petitioners contend Metro’s
“preparation of a separate EIR for the TCN in the City improperly
segments the environmental approval of Metro’s overarching program installing
digital billboards within jurisdictions Countywide.” (Opening Brief
10:25-27 [emphasis added].)
 
              Legal Standard for Determining
the Scope of the Project under CEQA
 
“Project”
is defined under CEQA as an “activity which may cause either a direct physical 
change in
the environment, or a reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the
environment. . . .” (§ 21065; see
also Guidelines[4]
§ 15378.) “Activity” includes “[a]n activity
directly undertaken by any public agency.” (§ 21065, subd. (a).)  
 
“‘Project’
is given a broad interpretation . . . to maximize protection of the
environment.’ [Citation.] ‘Project’ refers to ‘the whole of an action .
. . .” (Riverwatch v. Olivenhain Municipal Water Dist. (2009) 170
Cal.App.4th 1186, 1203.) “This broad interpretation ensures CEQA's requirements
are not avoided by chopping a proposed activity into bite-sized pieces which,
when taken individually, may have no significant adverse effect on the
environment.” (POET, LLC v. State Air
Resources Bd. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 52, 73.)  
 
“[A]n EIR
must include an analysis of the environmental effects of future expansion or
other action if: (1) it is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the initial
project; and (2) the future expansion or action will be significant in that it
will likely change the scope or nature of the initial project or its
environmental effects.” (Laurel Heights
Improvement Assn. v. Regents of University of California (1988) 47 Cal.3d
376, 396.) Where two activities are
“part of a coordinated endeavor” they may constitute a single project. (County of Ventura v. City of Moorpark (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 377, 385.)
 
Relatedly, “CEQA
forbids ‘piecemeal’ review of the significant environmental impacts of a
project.” (Banning Ranch
Conservancy v. City of Newport Beach (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1209, 1222.) “[T]here may be improper
piecemealing when the purpose of the reviewed project is to be the first step
toward future development. . . . And there may be improper piecemealing when
the reviewed project legally compels or practically presumes completion of
another action. . . . On the other hand, two projects may properly undergo
separate environmental review (i.e., no piecemealing) when the projects have
different proponents, serve different purposes, or can be implemented
independently.” (Id. at 1223.)  
 
“Some courts have concluded a
proposed project is part of a larger project for CEQA purposes if the proposed
project is a crucial functional element of the larger project such that,
without it, the larger project could not proceed.” (Communities for a Better
Environment v. City of Richmond (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 70, 99.) Some courts
have also considered whether two actions are “related in (1) time, (2) physical
location and (3) the entity undertaking the action.”  (POET, LLC v. State Air Resources Bd., supra,
12 Cal.App.5th at 73 [quoting Tuolomne
County Citizens for Respondent Growth, Inc. v. City of Sonora (2007) 155
Cal.App.4th 1214, 1227 (Tuolomne)].)[5]
 
Whether
several actions constitute a single project is a question of law. (Tuolomne, supra, 155 Cal.App.4th at
1224.) 
 
              Application Here
 
As described in the
Draft EIR, the TCN Program “would provide a network of structures with digital
displays (TCN Structures) . . . [and reduce] static signage displays throughout
the City of Los Angeles (City).” (AR 135.) “The site locations for the TCN
Structures (Site Locations) are located within property owned and operated by
Metro along freeways and major streets, within the City.” (AR 136.)
 
Petitioners
contend the TCN Program is “one of many components of Metro’s digital sign and advertising
program – originally known as the Billboard Removal and Relocation Program” and
“is set forth in Metro’s 2013 Strategic Plan for Billboard Advertising on Metro
Property.” (Opening Brief 7:1-10.) On that basis, Petitioners contend the
geographic limitation to the City of Los Angeles in the EIR is misleading and
“makes it impossible for the public to understand the overall scope of
environmental impacts from its Billboard Program.” (Opening Brief 13:19-20.)
 
As
evidentiary support, Petitioners rely primarily on an August 2016 report to the
Executive Management Committee of Metro’s board (Board Report), which
recommended the board authorize Metro’s chief executive officer to “AMEND the
existing revenue services contract with All Vision LLC by entering into a
Second Amended and Restated Contract to clarify the terms of such contract and
provide Metro with an additional option to develop new digital billboard signs
on Metro property.” (AR 6932; see also AR 3578.)  
 
The
Board Report provided the following summary of Metro’s Billboard Program: 
 
All Vision
has completed a comprehensive review of existing billboards on Metro property.
This review included an in-depth analysis of all Metro-owned property and its
potential for generating additional revenue from billboard assets. As part of
this review and analysis, All Vision (1) reviewed each existing billboard site;
(2) investigated local and state ordinances related to billboards; (3)
conducted meetings with local municipalities and Metro staff; and (4) prepared
a Strategic Plan (“Strategic Plan”) for Billboard Advertising on Metro
Property. 
 
The Strategic
Plan, which was approved by the Board on May 23, 2013, offers Metro the
opportunity to permit new digital billboards on its property that will provide
the potential for significant increases in long-term revenue. All potential
development sites have been reviewed for conformance with federal and state
laws, valued for highest and best outdoor advertising revenue opportunity to
Metro, and selected for consideration after an initial CEQA assessment and
input from the Metro real estate, planning, operations and engineering
departments. Proposed locations have been organized into projects by local
jurisdiction. All Vision, Metro staff, and, if applicable, the billboard
companies, will work with each local jurisdiction that has a Metro project opportunity
to obtain the necessary entitlements. 
 
Currently
there are 263 outdoor advertising billboards structures (“Billboards”) in place
on Metro property and rights-of-way in the County of Los Angeles.   (AR 6936.) 

 
The
Board Report states Metro installed a digital billboard in Downey in January
2015, removed multiple static billboards in Long Beach in 2016, and installed a
digital billboard in Long Beach in 2016. (AR 6937.) As of August 2016, Metro
anticipated it would install a digital billboard in Carson in the fourth
quarter of 2016. (AR 6937.)[6] A “Santa
Clarita billboard project was never developed due to local opposition.” (AR
6937.) As of August 2016, Metro and All Vision had not yet discussed a
development agreement with Inglewood officials to install a digital billboard
in that city. (AR 6937.) As to the City of Los Angeles, the Board Report
states: “All Vision and Metro staff have had preliminary discussions with the
City of Los Angeles. The City is considering various options for the adoption
of a new billboard ordinance. The City of Los Angeles Project offers Metro the
greatest potential for new revenue from the conversion of static billboards to
digital billboards.” (AR 6937.)  The
Board Report also states: “All Vision, Metro, and, if appropriate, the
billboard companies will work with each local jurisdiction that has a Metro
project opportunity to determine if the municipality is interested in opting
into the program. (AR 6937.)  
 
Petitioners
do not demonstrate the Downey, Long Beach, and/or Carson digital billboards are
part of the same “project” as the TCN Program. While those three digital
billboards were installed by the same agency (Metro) pursuing the TCN Program, Petitioners’
record citations do not disclose any close connection in physical location
between those digital billboards and the TCN Program. (See Opening Brief
11:24-28 [acknowledging the billboards “travers[e] multiple cities” and not
citing the “absolute distances” between the billboards].) 
 
Petitioners’
record citations also do not show a close connection in time between the
Downey, Long Beach, and/or Carson digital billboards and the TCN Program. Metro
released the Draft EIR for the TCN Program Project in September 2022, about six
years after Metro installed the Downey, Long Beach, and/or Carson
billboards. (AR 93-2197.) Metro developed the Downey, Long Beach, and Carson
digital billboards independently of each other and the TCN Program, based on
individualized meetings between Metro and those local municipalities. (See AR
6936-6937.) Because those three billboards could be, and in fact
were, “implemented independently” of the TCN Program, they are not
part of the same “project” within the meaning of CEQA.  (Banning Ranch Conservancy v. City of Newport Beach, supra, 211 Cal.App.4th at 1222.)  The evidence cited by Petitioners also does
not show the Downey, Long Beach, and/or Carson digital billboards were a “crucial
functional element” of the TCN Program or that the TCN Program “could not
proceed” without the developments of those three billboards in different
municipalities. (Communities for a Better Environment v. City of Richmond (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 70, 99 [CBE].)[7]  
 
Petitioners
also argue the TCN Program is a component of Metro’s Billboard Program; Metro
has already studied other “potential development sites” where digital
billboards could be installed; and the project description in the EIR should
have included “reasonably foreseeable future digital billboard developments
which are part of Metro’s Billboard Program.” (Opening Brief 13:23-24.) Respondents
assert future digital billboard developments discussed in the Board Report are
not a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the TCN Program. (Opposition
12:3-19 and 13:5-26.) Respondents’
position is not entirely clear from its Opposition.
 
Petitioners
have not cited any evidence it is reasonably foreseeable that any other specific
digital billboards, such as those discussed for Inglewood or Santa Clarita (see
AR 6937), will be installed outside the City of Los Angeles as a result of the
TCN Program. Because the Billboard Program requires individualized discussions
with each local jurisdiction, as well as CEQA review for each digital billboard
that is installed (see AR 6936), the approval of the Project does not “compel[] or practically presume[]
completion of” any future digital billboards in other jurisdictions. (See Banning Ranch Conservancy v. City of Newport Beach, supra, 211 Cal.App.4th at 1222.)  
 
CBE,
supra, 184 Cal.App.4th 70 is instructive. In CBE, an
agency prepared an EIR for upgrades to an oil refinery facility which included
a hydrogen plant replacement. The agency did not include the facility’s
proposed hydrogen pipeline in the project description. (Id. at 96-98.)
The proposed hydrogen pipeline would transport excess hydrogen from the oil
refinery facility to other hydrogen consumers. (Ibid.) The Court of
Appeal noted there was no dispute that the two projects were “being
environmentally reviewed under CEQA,” albeit separately. (Id. at 97.) The
Court concluded the agency did not engage in piecemeal review reasoning:
 
The Project at issue here and the
hydrogen pipeline project, are not interdependent. In fact, they perform
entirely different, unrelated functions. The principal purpose for the Project
is to allow Chevron to modify and/or replace existing Refinery equipment in
order to “improve the Refinery's ability to process crude oil and other feed
stocks from around the world and to direct more of current gasoline production
capacity to the California market.” The principal purpose of the hydrogen
pipeline project is to provide a way for Praxair to transport excess hydrogen
that is not required for Chevron's operations to other hydrogen consumers in
the Bay Area. Because Chevron's efforts to process a larger percentage of
California fuel at the Refinery does not “depend on” construction of the
hydrogen pipeline, the City's treatment of the hydrogen pipeline as a separate
project does not constitute illegal “piecemealing.” (Id. at
101-102.)
 
Similarly
here, the Project and the other signs, including possible future signs, are not
“interdependent.” “[E]ach sign or proposed project considered beyond the
TCN Project would be subject to its CEQA review, and would be developed in
coordination with the local jurisdiction.” (AR 7027.) Whether the TCN Program
is approved, it would be speculative to conclude other signs will be developed
in other jurisdictions. (Ibid.) Accordingly, Metro did not engage in
improper piecemealing when it separated environmental review of the TCN Program
from other signs that might or could possibly be developed in the future under
Metro’s Billboard Program.
 
The court also is not persuaded
improper segmentation or piecemealing occurred simply because the TCN Program
is part of Metro’s Billboard Program. As discussed, the Billboard Program is
structured such that individualized determinations are made by Metro, All
Vision, and the local jurisdiction about the development of digital billboards
in each local jurisdiction, and CEQA review is performed for each proposed
digital sign project. (See AR 6932-6937.) The Billboard Program would exist
regardless of whether the TCN Program or other digital billboards are developed.
Accordingly, the TCN Program is not a “crucial element” of a larger project and
environmental review may be separated.  
 
Based
on the foregoing, Petitioners do not show Metro prejudicially abused its
discretion with its Project description. 

 
Does the Project Description Improperly Incorporate Mitigation
Measures?  
 
Petitioners contend “the EIR incorporates heightened light pollution
standards for digital billboards adjacent to the proposed Bowtie State Park and
the Ballona Wetlands Ecological Reserve.” (Opening Brief 16:19-20.)
Specifically, Petitioners refer to a project design feature, AES-PDF-1, added
in response to public comment after Metro published the Draft EIR. AES-PDF-1
provides: 
 
State of the
art louvers or other equivalent design features shall be incorporated into the
design of TCN Structures FF-13, FF-14, FF-25, FF-29, and FF-30 such that the
light trespass illuminance at sensitive habitat at the proposed Bowtie State
Park, at the mapped biological resources in the vicinity of TCN Structure
FF-25, and at the Ballona Wildlife Reserve to the south of the Marina Freeway,
west of Culver Boulevard, do not exceed 0.02 footcandles. (AR 2566.)
 
Petitioners
contend Metro prejudicially abused its discretion under CEQA by including AES-PDF-1
as a project design feature rather than as a mitigation measure.
 
CEQA
requires an EIR include a detailed statement setting forth “[a]ll significant environmental
effects on the environment of the proposed project” and “[m]itigation measures
proposed to minimize significant effects on the environment.” (§ 21100, subd. (b).)
“A public agency shall provide that measures to mitigate or avoid significant
effects on the environment are fully enforceable through permit conditions,
agreements, or other measures.” (§ 21081.6, subd. (b).)  
 
“For
each significant effect, the EIR must identify specific mitigation measures;
where several potential mitigation measures are available, each should be
discussed separately, and the reasons for choosing one over the others should
be stated.” (Lotus v. Department of Transportation (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 645, 653.) “Thus, when a project is approved that will
significantly affect the environment, CEQA places the burden on the approving
agency to affirmatively show that it has considered the identified means of lessening or
avoiding the project’s significant effects and to explain its decision allowing
those adverse changes to occur.”  (Id.
at 654.) An EIR that “compress[es] the analysis of impacts and mitigation
measures into a single issue . . . disregards the requirements of CEQA.” (Id.
at 656.) However, “[t]he distinction between elements of a project and measures
designed to mitigate impacts of the project may not always be clear.” (Id.
at 656, fn. 8.)  
 
A mischaracterization
of a mitigation measure as a project design feature “is significant, however,
only if it precludes or obfuscates required disclosure of the project's
environmental impacts and analysis of potential mitigation measures.” (Mission
Bay Alliance v. Office of Community Investment & Infrastructure (2016)
6 Cal.App.5th at 160, 185.)  
 
Here,
the context in which AES-PDF-1 was added as a project design feature is
relevant to Petitioners’ claim that Metro prejudicially abused its
discretion.  The Project description in
the EIR states that louvers and other design features would be used for all digital
billboards to minimize “light spillage”:
 
The digital
display faces of the TCN Structures would use light emitting diodes (LED)
lighting with a daytime maximum up to 6,000 maximum candelas and 300 maximum
candelas at nighttime, depending on the Site Location. Louvers would be
installed to shade the LED lights from creating unintentional light spillage,
assist in reducing reflection, and in turn would create a sharper image. (AR
141.)
 
Significantly,
the Draft EIR determined “project-level impacts related to light and glare were
determined to be less than significant without mitigation.” (AR 229.) As a
threshold of significance, the Draft EIR relied on light trespass regulations
in the Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC), which generally limit light trespass
illuminance at night to 3.0 foot candles (fc). (AR 209-210, 212-213, 1007.) The
Draft EIR then evaluated three prototype sign sizes “in comparison to a
conservative maximum distance where light trespass from the display would be
less than 0.3 fc or 10 percent of the 3.0 fc maximum light trespass permitted
by the LAMC.”  (AR 212.)  
 
The
Draft EIR also found lighting impacts on biological resources resulting from
the operation of the TCN Structures would be less than significant, in part due
to their orientation and the use of louvers. (AR 323 [“impacts to bats during
operations of the TCN Structures would be less than significant,” due in part
to the limited light emissions and inclusion of louvers “to shade the LED
lights from creating unintentional light spillage”], 1345-1346.) 
 
The
analyses of lighting-related impacts in the Draft EIR were supported by a
Lighting Study prepared by lighting experts Francis Krahe & Associates.
(See AR 989-1133.) As summarized in the Draft EIR, “[t]he Lighting Study
performed detailed site surveys evaluating all 56 proposed TCN Structures and
surrounding properties located at a distance near enough to the Site Locations
to potentially receive significant light trespass or glare from the digital
displays. Further, the Lighting Study conducted detailed modeling at sensitive
use property locations where there may have been a potential for light trespass
and or glare.” (AR 211; see AR 1010, 1039-1043.)
 
In
response to public comments about light trespass on the proposed Bowtie State
Park and the existing Ballona Wetlands Ecological Reserve (see AR 981, 2908-2977,
2647), Metro added AES-PDF-1 as a project design feature. Metro also obtained a
Supplemental Lighting Study from Francis Krahe & Associates, which provided
further analysis of the light trespass illuminance associated with TCN
Structures FF-13, FF-14, FF-25, FF-29, and FF-30. (See AR 3429-3437; see also
AR 2227-2229.)  
 
Petitioners
contend AES-PDF-1 “directly mandates reductions in light trespass at
biologically sensitive resources rather than requiring incorporation of a
defined physical component, such as louvers of a certain length or model type.”
(Opening Brief 17:11-13.) Significantly, however, the Project description in
the EIR already included louvers as a design feature for all digital billboards
to minimize “light spillage.” (AR 141.) Petitioners do not argue the louvers
required for all digital billboards should have been incorporated as mitigation
measures. While AES-PDF-1 requires the louvers to meet certain performance
standards for TCN Structures FF-13, FF-14, FF-25, FF-29, and FF-30, they are
reasonably viewed as an integral part of the Project with respect to those five
TCN Structures. Petitioners cite no authority suggesting that the project
design need be the same for all TCN Structures. 

 
Petitioners’
reliance on Lotus v. Department of Transportation, supra, 223
Cal.App.4th at 214 is misplaced:
 
In Lotus, [the Court
of Appeal] concluded that the mischaracterization of mitigation measures as
part of the project compounded a significant omission in the EIR: the failure
to apply a standard of significance to impacts on the root systems of old
growth redwood trees. (Lotus, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at pp. 654-655,
. . . .) [The Court] explained, ‘Absent a
determination regarding the significance of the impacts to the root systems of
the old growth redwood trees, it is impossible to determine whether mitigation
measures are required or to evaluate whether other more effective measures than
those proposed should be considered. . . . Simply stating that there will be no
significant impacts because the project incorporates ‘special construction
techniques’ is not adequate or permissible.’ ”(Mission Bay Alliance v.
Office of Community Investment & Infrastructure, supra, 6 Cal.App.5th at
185.)
 
Here,
in contrast to Lotus v. Department of Transportation, Metro made a
determination of whether lighting impacts from the Project would be
significant. The Draft EIR determined “project-level impacts related to light
and glare were determined to be less than significant without mitigation.” (AR
229.) As a threshold of significance, the Draft EIR relied on light trespass
regulations in the LAMC. (AR 209-210, 213, 1007.) The Draft EIR also found that
lighting impacts on biological resources resulting from the operation of the
TCN Structures would be less than significant, in part due to their orientation
and the use of louvers. (AR 323.)  Petitioners
have not developed a persuasive argument Metro abused its discretion in
selecting the 3.0 fc significance standard from the LAMC. Nor do Petitioners persuasively
address the finding—from the Draft EIR—that lighting impacts on biological
resources resulting from the operation of the TCN Structures would be less than
significant.[8] Thus, as
Respondents argue, “Metro’s addition of AES-PDF-1 provides an extra level of
assurance that the actual light levels from the signs will not be higher than
those analyzed in the EIR.” (Opposition 17:27-28.)
 
Mission Bay Alliance v. Office of Community Investment & Infrastructure, supra, 6
Cal.App.5th at 185 is instructive. In Mission Bay v. Office
of Community Investment & Infrastructure, the Court
of Appeal considered the inclusion of San Francisco’s special events transit
service plan, the “Muni TSP,” as a component of a basketball arena and events
center project, rather than as a mitigation measure. The Court distinguished Lotus
v. Department of Transportation and found
no prejudicial abuse of discretion:
 
[C]haracterization of the Muni TSP
as part of the project and not as a mitigation measure did not, as plaintiffs
suggest, interfere with the identification of the transportation consequences
of the project or the analysis of measures to mitigate those consequences.
Unlike the situation in Lotus, the
environmental impacts of the project on vehicle traffic and transit are fully
disclosed in the FSEIR. The FSEIR includes analysis both with and without
implementation of the Muni TSP and applies the same threshold standards to
determine the significance of those impacts. By comparing the significance of
the impact on local transit with and without the TSP, a reader learns that
while implementation of the TSP will reduce impacts on Muni travel to a less
than significant level, the impact without the TSP remains significant and
unavoidable, even with alternative mitigation measures. (Mission Bay Alliance v. Office
of Community Investment & Infrastructure, supra, 6
Cal.App.5th at 185.)  
 
Similarly here, Metro analyzed the lighting impacts of the Project
with and without inclusion of AES-PDF-1 and determined that there would be no
significant environmental impacts under its chosen threshold of significance.
Metro then analyzed the Project impacts when AES-PDF-1 was included and
determined that the light levels of TCN Structures FF-13, FF-14, FF-25, FF-29,
and FF-30 would not cause a significant environmental impact, even if a more
stringent level of significance was used. Because a member of the public can
determine the significance
of the lighting impacts before and after AES-PDF-1, Metro did not
prejudicially abuse its discretion in analyzing AES-PDF-1 as a project design
feature.
 
Petitioners
also assert “the characterization of AES-PDF-1 as a [project design feature]
precludes enforcement after construction because it is by definition
enforceable only during pre-construction and construction.” (Opening Brief
18:20-21.) Petitioners cite the MMRP, which states Metro is the enforcement
agency for AES-PDF-1 and the “monitoring phase” is “preconstruction;
construction.” (AR 2556.) Petitioners do not cite any language from the MMRP,
or any CEQA statute or regulation, supporting Petitioners’ contention the
enforceability of a project commitment is limited to the monitoring period
stated in the MMRP. That Metro incorporated AES-PDF-1 into the Project’s design
features and the MMRP suggests Metro intended AES-PDF-1 as a condition of
approval. (See AR 4240-4241.) Petitioners fail to show Metro would lack the authority
to enforce AES-PDF-1 as a condition of approval.
 
Petitioners
also assert there is no substantial evidence the louvers or other equivalent
features “exist or could achieve such radical reductions in light trespass
compared to standard louvers.” (Opening Brief 19:2-8.) However, the
Supplemental Lighting Study calculated that light trespass levels at the edge
of the mapped Ballona Wetlands area would be 0.02 fc, and light levels would be
even less at the proposed Bowtie State Park. (AR 3432, 3435.) Based on the
Supplemental Lighting Study, the Final EIR concluded “[t]his maximum light
trespass of 0.02 fc is well below the most stringent recommendation of 0.09 fc
for the LZI Zone for ‘Special Districts and Government Designated Parks’ within
the California Administrative Code.” (AR 2229.) Metro also included in the
Final EIR a Biological Resources Supplemental Analysis, which provided
additional analysis of the impacts of lighting from the digital billboards on
biological resources.  (AR 3440.) While
Petitioners criticize the supplemental expert analysis, Petitioners do not cite
expert opinions refuting them. The supplemental lighting studies are
substantial evidence upon which Metro could reasonably rely in analyzing the
effectiveness of AES-PDF-1.
 
Based
on the foregoing, Petitioners do not show Metro prejudicially abused its
discretion by including AES-PDF-1 as a project design feature or in analyzing
the significance of any of the Project’s lighting-related impacts, including on
biological resources.  
 
Is the EIR’s Conclusion Transportation Impacts Will be Less Than
Significant Supported by Substantial Evidence? 

 
Petitioners contend substantial
evidence does not support the EIR’s finding the Project will have
less-than-significant impacts on transportation safety. Specifically,
Petitioners criticize three driving safety studies Metro relied upon, in part,
to conclude that “it is not anticipated that the Project would lead to a
significant safety risk on adjacent roadways.” (AR 722.)
 
Under the substantial evidence test, the court reviews
“the administrative record to see if it contains evidence of ponderable legal
significance that is reasonable in nature, credible, and of solid value, to
support the agency's decision.” (Protect Tustin Ranch v. City of
Tustin (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 951, 960.) The court “do[es] not weigh
conflicting evidence, as that is the role of the public agency.” (Ibid.)
“When the
evidence on an issue conflicts, the decisionmaker is ‘permitted to give more
weight to some of the evidence . . . .’ ” (Town of
Atherton v. California High-Speed Rail Authority (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
314, 349.) The court cannot reweigh the expert evidence. (Huang v. Board of Directors
(1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1286, 1294.)  
 
              The EIR’s Review
of Studies Examining the Effect of Digital Signs on Roadway Safety 
 
The
traffic analysis in the Draft EIR is supported by the Transportation and
Traffic Safety Review prepared by Metro’s transportation safety experts, Gibson
Transportation Consulting (Gibson). (See AR 2043-2060.) Gibson analyzed the TCN
Program “to assess whether the Program’s TCN Structures present potentially
significant traffic safety concerns for the surrounding street system.” (AR
2044.) Gibson “reviewed relevant published studies and articles concerning the
potential impacts of Commercial Electronic Variable Message Signs (CEVMS) on
roadway safety, analyzed state and local signage regulations outlining the
requirements for CEVMS systems, and researched ongoing updates to local
ordinances. [Gibson] also conducted a review of the Project locations, adjacent
roadways, and adjacent freeways in the surrounding community for consistency
with the requirements and best practices for digital signage.” (AR 2044.)  
 
Gibson
reviewed numerous studies evaluating potential roadway safety impacts related
to digital signs. (AR 719-724, 2045-2046, 2215.) These studies include one
conducted by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA Study), published in
2012, and two studies prepared by the Foundation for Outdoor Advertising
Research and Education (Foundation), entitled the Driving Performance Study and
the Cuyahoga County Study. (AR 2046-2048.) 

 
As
summarized in the Draft EIR, “[t]he FHWA Study investigated the effect of CEVMS
[i.e., digital signs] on driver visual behavior utilizing an eye tracking
system.” (AR 719.) “The FHWA Study concluded that ‘the drivers in this study
directed the majority of their visual attention to areas of the roadway that
were relevant to the task at hand (i.e., the driving task) . . . . When
billboards were present, the drivers in this study sometimes looked at them,
but not such that overall attention to the forward roadway decreased.” (AR 719.)
“The FHWA Study also tracked the drivers’ longest and average fixation duration
to roadside objects. . . . The FHWA Study found that the longest fixation
duration on a CEVMS was 1.34 seconds, which is slightly higher than the highest
static billboard fixation of 1.28 seconds. However, both fixation durations
were found to be well below the accepted standard set by the National Highways
Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), which considers 2.0 seconds to be the
threshold at which roadway safety concerns arise. Furthermore, the study found
that the mean fixation duration on a CEVMS was 379 milliseconds (ms) compared
to 335 ms on a static billboard. These results show that average fixation
durations were similar between CEVMS and static billboards. . . .” (AR
720.)  
 
The
Driving Performance Study “found that while the fixations to CEVMS, billboards,
and comparison sites were similar, fixation duration was higher for the CEVMS
and comparison sites relative to the static billboards and baseline sites. The
study found that mean fixation duration was less than 1.0 second, which is well
below the 2.0 second fixation duration threshold that is considered dangerous
by the NHTSA.” (AR 2047 [summarized by Gibson].) The Cuyahoga County Study
“found no statistical difference between conventional and digital billboards
and concluded ‘the accident statistics on sections of Interstate routes near
billboards are comparable to the accident statistics on similar sections that
have no billboards.’ ” (AR 2048.)  
 
Based
on its literature review, Gibson opined “the studies indicate that a
correlation between roadway hazards and CEVMS is, at best, inconclusive.” (AR
2049.) Gibson further explained that “the mean fixation on both CEVMS and
billboards is less than 1.0 second and the longest fixation on a CEVMS was 1.34
seconds, which is well below the 2.0 second threshold for potentially dangerous
driving conditions established by the NHTSA.” (AR 2049.) Gibson concluded
“based on [its] review of the studies, and since the Metro TCN Program would
operate similarly to the CEVMS, it is anticipated that the Metro TCN Program
would similarly be below the NHTSA 2.0 second threshold.” (AR 2054.)
 
In
response to comments received on the Draft EIR, Gibson prepared a
Transportation and Traffic Safety Supplemental Analysis. (See AR 3444-3463.) In
the supplemental analysis, Gibson reviewed additional studies cited by commenters.
(AR 3447, 3451–3454.) After its review of the additional literature, Gibson opined
“none of the additional research reviewed identified a causal relationship
between traffic collisions and digital billboards and none of the studies
suggested that the average glance time at a roadside digital billboard was
longer than the two second threshold identified in the FHWA Study. This is
consistent with the findings of the Draft EIR, which states that the
correlation between digital billboards and traffic collisions was found to be
inconclusive.” (AR 3454.)
 
Petitioners
contend Gibson’s expert opinion is not substantial evidence in support of the FEIR’s
transportation findings because the FHWA study has been subject to criticism. (See
AR 4784-4833 [peer-reviewed critique of FHWA Study].)  Petitioners highlight the following
conclusion from the peer-reviewed critique of FHWA Study (FHWA Critique): 
 
When
evaluated against the growing number of recent research studies, conducted
world-wide, that increasingly demonstrate concerns for the adverse effects of
billboard distraction on driver performance, particularly under conditions in
which the driver must respond to suddenly appearing or developing traffic
hazards, one must question the contribution of this study and the conclusions
that can be drawn from it to this important field of research. (AR 4828.)[9]
 
In responses to comments, the Final EIR considered
the criticism of the FHWA Study and noted that “[a]lthough critics have
questioned the methodology of the FHWA study, the body of research in this
field has not disproved its conclusion—namely that digital [signs] do not
directly present a traffic safety concern.” (AR 2224.) The Final EIR also
explained that FHWA “is the premier agency in the United States tasked with the
construction, maintenance, and preservation of the country’s highway system.
The agency conducts hundreds of research studies pertaining specifically to
highway safety and mobility and is an authority within the industry when it
comes to roadway safety.” (AR 2216, 2224.) The FEIR also noted the FHWA Study
has been utilized by other agencies in recent environmental reviews. (AR
2216.)  
 
A “difference of opinion
among experts” does not prove a lack of substantial evidence to support
an agency's CEQA findings. (North Coast Rivers Alliance v. Marin Municipal
Water Dist. Bd. of Directors (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 614, 643.) As the lead
agency, Metro was entitled to weigh the expert evidence and resolve any
conflict between the FHWA Study and Gibson analysis, on the one hand, and the
FHWA Critique and other studies cited by commenters.  Furthermore, as Gibson explained, “the FHWA
Critique does not conclude that CEVMS signs cause an increase in unsafe
road conditions for drivers or other road users.” (AR 3451-3452.)  Petitioners do not offer a different
interpretation of the FHWA Critique. Thus, the FHWA Critique does not
invalidate Gibson’s opinion, based in its review of multiple studies, that “a
correlation between roadway hazards and CEVMS is, at best, inconclusive.” (AR
2049.)   
 
Petitioners contend “Metro makes no effort to analyze how the
anticipated content of the digital billboards may mitigate or exacerbate driver
distraction” (Opening Brief 21:21-22), and Metro dismissed “evidence in the
record noting that the impact of the content of the billboards on driver
distraction merits further study.” (Opening Brief 21:25-22:1.) As support,
Petitioners cite a statement from the FHWA Study that sign content “may be an
important factor to consider in future studies that investigate the distraction
potential of advertising signs.” (AR 15265.) 
 
The EIR states “the digital display faces would be set to refresh
every 8 seconds and would transition instantly with no motion, moving parts,
flashing, or scrolling messages. Illumination of the digital displays would
conform to applicable Federal and State regulations for signs oriented towards
roadways and freeways. The digital displays would be in compliance with Metro’s
System Advertising Content Restrictions, which prohibit advertisement of
alcohol, smoking, and cannabis, and any content containing violence,
obscenities, and other related subject matters.” (AR 714.) Gibson considered
these attributes of the Project’s signs in its expert analysis. (AR 2045.) Petitioners
do not cite any evidence that the content of the Project’s signs could have a
negative impact on safety. Thus, Petitioners’ arguments are not persuasive.
 
Finally,
Petitioners argue the “absence of information does not constitute substantial
evidence.” (Opening Brief 22:25.) Petitioners contend the three studies relied
on by Metro, among others, are not “relevant not adequate.” (Opening Brief
22:25-28.) As demonstrated by the evidence summarized above, Gibson concluded
based on its review of various studies, including those cited by commentators,
the research does not demonstrate a correlation between digital signs and
traffic accidents. (AR 3447.) As Respondents state, “[t]he fact that a
correlation has not been established does not mean there is an absence of
evidence.” (Opposition 23:13-14.) Gibson’s expert opinions, the FHWA Study, and
the Foundation studies are affirmative, substantial evidence that the Project’s
signs will not lead to “significant
safety risk on adjacent roadways.” (AR 722.)
 
              The EIR’s
Conclusion the TCN Program Does Not Conflict with Vision Zero
 
Petitioners
also contend the EIR’s finding the Project will not conflict with City’s Vision
Zero Program is not supported by substantial evidence.  
 
“The
Vision Zero Los Angeles program, implemented by [Los Angeles Department of
Transportation (LADOT)], represents a citywide effort to eliminate traffic
deaths in the City by 2025. Vision Zero has two goals: a 20% reduction in
traffic deaths by 2017 and zero traffic deaths by 2025. In order to achieve
these goals, LADOT has identified a network of streets, called the High Injury
Network (HIN), which has a higher incidence of severe and fatal collisions. The
HIN, which was last updated in 2018, represents 6% of the City’s street miles
but accounts for approximately two thirds (64%) of all fatalities and serious
injury collisions involving people walking and biking.” (AR 2051 [Gibson
analysis].)  
 
Metro
found the Project does not conflict with Vision Zero because “[t]he TCN
Structures would be located outside of the public right-of-way on Metro-owned
property” and, therefore, “the TCN Structures would not preclude the City from
installing Vision Zero improvements to enhance the safety of the High Injury Network.”
(AR 717.)
 
Petitioners
challenge this finding asserting “16 signs slated for City streets are located
on the City’s High Injury Network [HIN]” and “research indicat[es] that digital
billboards create distraction conditions, . . . .” (Opening Brief 23:21-24 [citing
AR 2310, 2348, 2426, 2504, 2528].)  Metro
did consider and acknowledge that 16 of the originally proposed TCN Structures
would be located adjacent to a street on the HIN. (AR 2225, 3445.) As discussed,
substantial evidence supports Metro’s finding that digital signs will not
significantly increase roadway collisions. 
That signs will be visible from certain HIN streets does not prove an
inconsistency with Vision Zero. Further, because the TCN Structures would be
located outside the public right-of-way, “the TCN structures would not preclude
LADOT from installing Vision Zero improvements, such as installing curb
extensions, speed feedback signage, high visibility pedestrian crossings, lane
reductions/narrowing, within the public right-of-way to improve pedestrian
visibility and safety for all road users.” (AR 3445 [supplemental
transportation review].)  
 
Petitioners
also assert Metro’s consistency finding is not supported by substantial
evidence because Metro did not consider various other actions proposed by
Vision Zero. As Petitioners point out, the City has identified the following
actions to achieve Vision Zero: “Engineer and Plan our streets to anticipate
human error and minimize the consequences of mistakes; Enforce traffic safety
laws in areas that have high collision rates to protect our most vulnerable
road users; Educate the public through safety campaigns that reinforce positive
driving, bicycling, and walking behavior; Evaluate and Monitor our progress
continuously to ensure we remain on-track to reach our targets; Partner with
the community, especially as we work toward implementing safety improvements at
the neighborhood level; and Implement with a focus on equity.” (Pet. RJN Exh. C
at 14.) None of the actions identified by Petitioners, however, have a
relationship to the installation of digital signs. Petitioners have not cited
any evidence suggesting the installation of digital signs could possibly impede
City from pursuing the actions specified in Vision Zero. The EIR was not
required to analyze consistency with the proposed actions under such
circumstances.  
 
Based on the foregoing, substantial evidence supports Metro’s findings
the Project’s impacts on transportation will be less than significant. Metro’s
conclusion the Project does not conflict with Vision Zero is also supported by
substantial evidence.
 
The EIR’s Analysis of Land Use Impacts 
 
Petitioners contend “[t]he EIR’s Land Use impact analysis is deficient
because it does not address the details of the sweeping zoning ordinance
changes that are a necessary element of the TCN program.” (Opening Brief 24:23-24.)
Petitioners contend “at the time the EIR was certified, the land use impacts of
the zoning changes implemented by the new zoning ordinance could not
appropriately have been evaluated because the lead agency appears to have
utterly failed to coordinate with the City regarding the development of the new
zoning ordinance.”  (Opening Brief 25:4-7.)
 
CEQA defines “Project” as an “activity which may cause either a
direct physical change in the environment, or a reasonably foreseeable indirect
physical change in the environment. . . .” 
(§ 21065.) “The EIR
shall discuss any inconsistencies between the proposed project and applicable
general plans, specific plans and regional plans.” (Guidelines § 15125, subd. (d).)  
 
However, as explained in the Draft EIR, “a conflict between a
project and an applicable plan is not necessarily a significant impact under
CEQA unless the inconsistency will result in an adverse physical change to the
environment that is a ‘significant environmental effect’ as defined by CEQA
Guidelines Section 15382.” (AR 634.) “An EIR shall identify and focus on the
significant effects of the proposed project on the environment.” (§ 15126.2,
subd. (a); see also § 15382 [defining Significant Effect on the Environment].)  
 
Petitioners do not show, with citation to the record, that Metro
needed the text of City’s Zoning Ordinance to analyze whether the Project would
result in significant effects on the environment. The EIR
includes detailed information on the Project, including the precise locations
of the TCN Structures and their characteristics. (See AR 134-152.) The EIR also
discloses that the Zoning Ordinance would not authorize signs beyond those
proposed as part of the Project. (AR 111, 155.) Notably, Petitioners do not
argue any specific language from the Zoning Ordinance could plausibly result in
a direct physical change in the
environment that was not already considered in the EIR.
 
Petitioners argue without the details of the Zoning Ordinance,
Metro could not “discuss any inconsistencies between the proposed
project and applicable general plans, specific plans and regional plans,” as
required by section 15125, subdivision (d). (See Opening Brief 25:15-16.)  The court is not persuaded. Appendix I of the
EIR includes a detailed table analyzing the Project’s consistency with all the
relevant planning documents. (AR 622-648, 1828-1878.)  Petitioners do not argue Metro prejudicially
abused its discretion under CEQA in the land use consistency analysis included
in Appendix I as well as elsewhere in the EIR. 

 
In
its analysis of land use and planning, the EIR does discuss the attributes of
the Zoning Ordinance, stating in part: 
 
[T]he Zoning
Ordinance would create a mechanism for the review and approval of the TCN
Structures. The Zoning Ordinance would not authorize new signage other than
the TCN Structures. The Zoning Ordinance would address the time, manner,
and place aspects of the TCN Program, including the allowable locations, size
and height limitations, urban design requirements, and applicable community
benefits including take-down requirements for the removal of existing static
off-premise signs. The Zoning Ordinance would not otherwise change the
existing regulations for signs, including off-site and digital signage, in the
City. (AR 638 [emphasis added].)  
 
Petitioners
have shown the EIR’s discussion of the Zoning Ordinance was inaccurate. They
also do not demonstrate the final version of the Zoning Ordinance included
attributes that were not anticipated by Metro and that could plausibly result
in a significant environmental effect as a result of inconsistency with other
land use plans and policies.   
 
Petitioners
also argue Metro failed to consult with the City in its role as a responsible
agency as required by CEQA. (See Opening Brief 25:12-14 [citing Guidelines §
15086, subd. (c)].)[10]  The court disagrees. Metro circulated the Notice
of Preparation and Initial Study for comments from responsible agencies,
including the City. (AR 112.) Moreover, as shown in the opposition, Metro
communicated with City representatives at various points throughout the process
of preparing the EIR for the Project, including as to the City’s preparation of
the Zoning Ordinance. (See AR 29971-29973, 30020-30022, 30193-30194, 30419-30421,
30606-30609, 30947-30950, 30977-30980, 31003-31004, 34343-34344.) While Petitioners
argue in reply “the majority of these emails have absolutely nothing at all to
do with the Zoning Ordinance,” Petitioners acknowledge the Zoning Ordinance was
discussed in some of the emails. (Reply 19:4-15.) Further, based on the court’s
independent review, the emails show substantial coordination between Metro and the
City, including meetings and site visits. Petitioners do not demonstrate the
level of coordination failed to comply with CEQA. 
 
Finally,
Petitioners argue the EIR fails to properly analyze the Project’s conflict with
Mobility Plan 2035. The court disagrees. The EIR explained the Project would
generally be consistent with this element of the City’s General Plan, except
for TCN Structures NFF-7 and NFF-12, which would conflict with Policy 2.16. (AR
641-642, 1844-1848.) Policy 2.16 seeks to ensure that modifications to scenic
highways do not impact the unique identity or characteristic of that scenic
highway. (AR 18824.) The EIR considered the aesthetic impacts of the two TCN
Structures the EIR disclosed would be inconsistent with Policy 2.16, but did
not consider those signs alone to have a significant aesthetic impact. (AR
203-204, 214-216.) As discussed, inconsistency alone is not a physical impact
on the environment. Petitioners have not shown, with record citation, that
substantial evidence does not support Metro’s determination the Project’s
inconsistency with Policy 2.16 for two signs will not result in a significant
effect on the environment.  
 
Based
on the foregoing, Petitioners do not show any prejudicial abuse of discretion
in the EIR’s analysis of land use impacts.
 
Is Metro’s Finding that Alternatives Are Infeasible Supported by
Substantial Evidence?  
 
Petitioners contend Metro improperly rejected the Project alternatives
“on the basis that it will not maximize its advertising
revenue and reach.” (Opening Brief 30:5-6.) 

 
“CEQA
mandates that public agencies refrain from approving projects with significant
environmental effects if there are feasible alternatives or mitigation
measures that can substantially lessen or avoid those effects.” (City of
Arcadia v. State Water Resources Control Bd. (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1392,
1421; see § 21002.)  
 
The
EIR states “[t]he underlying purpose of the Project is to provide a network of
TCN Structures that would incorporate intelligent technology components to
promote roadway efficiency, improve public safety, augment Metro’s
communication capacity, provide for outdoor advertising where revenues would
fund new and expanded transportation programs consistent with the goals of the
Metro 2028 Vision Plan, and result in an overall reduction in static signage
displays throughout the City of Los Angeles.” (AR 137.) The EIR identifies
several specific objectives, including to: 
 
·       Incorporate features for real-time data collection to
aid in traffic signal timing, microtransit data, and Metro vanpool on-demand
services.
·       Geographically space the multifunctional TCN
Structures to expand Metro’s transportation public messaging network and
ability to broadcast information to commuters in a variety of ways to further
increase Metro’s visibility and accessibility for all commuters.
·       Improve public safety by notifying the public of
roadway improvements, road hazards, Earthquake Early Warning System
notifications, Amber Alerts, and emergency situations.
·       Maximize efficiency of the congested road network by
promoting public awareness of travel alternatives based on geography and time
constraints such as alternative routes, carpooling alternatives, and public
transportation opportunities.
·       Maximize advertising revenue that would be utilized by
both Metro and the City to fund new and expanded transportation programs that
would further Goal 2 of the Metro Vision 2028 Strategic Plan, by creating a
funding source for programs to enhance experiences for all Metro users such as
improving security and increasing customer satisfaction. (AR 18, 137-138.)  
 
The
EIR examined two alternatives in addition to the No Project alternative.
Alternative 2, which would avoid the Project’s significant impacts to historic
resources, would eliminate TCN Structures NFF-2, NFF-3, NFF-16, and NFF-21.
Alternative 3, which would avoid all of the Project’s significant impacts,
would eliminate TCN Structures NFF-2, NFF-3, NFF-16, NFF-21, FF-29, and FF-30.
(AR 83-88.)
 
Because
the EIR found the Project would have certain significant environmental effects,
Metro was required to make a finding that “[s]pecific economic, legal, social,
technological, or other considerations . . . make infeasible the
mitigation measures or alternatives identified in the environmental impact
report.” (§ 20181, subd. (a)(3) [emphasis added].) “Under this authority, an
alternative that ‘is impractical or undesirable from a policy standpoint’ may
be rejected as infeasible. [Citation.] Additionally, an alternative ‘may be
found infeasible on the ground it is inconsistent with the project objectives
as long as the finding is supported by substantial evidence in the record.’ ” (California
Native Plant Society v. City of Santa Cruz (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 957, 1001
[CNPS].)
 
Here,
Metro rejected Alternatives 2 and 3 because they would not meet the Project’s
basic objective to maximize revenue to fund transportation projects to
implement Metro’s Vision 2028 Strategic Plan. In addition, the EIR rejected
Alternatives 2 and 3 because they would be less effective at fulfilling the
Project objectives to: (1) collect real-time data to aid in signal timing,
micro-transit data, and Metro vanpool on demand services, (2) increase public
safety notifications, (3) expand Metro’s transportation public messaging
network to increase Metro’s visibility and accessibility for all commuters, and
(4) increase geographical coverage of Metro’s network and ability to broadcast
travel alternatives to improve roadway safety and congestion.  (AR 84-88.) 

 
Petitioners
do not show Metro prejudicially abused its discretion in its finding the
alternatives were not feasible. Metro
has discretion under CEQA to balance these economic, social, and policy
considerations when evaluating the feasibility of the alternatives. In CNPS,
for example, the agency approved a trail-construction project after rejecting
as infeasible various alternatives that would have provided lesser degrees of
trail access, including compliance with Americans with Disabilities Act requirements.
(CNPS, supra, 177 Cal.App.4th at 972.) The Court of Appeal held that the
agency’s infeasibility findings were permissibly “based on policy considerations,
particularly the City's interest in promoting transportation alternatives as
well as access to its open space for persons with disabilities.” (Id. at
1001.)
 
Similarly here, Metro could
reasonably determine Alternatives 2 and 3, which would remove several TCN
Structures, would not maximize advertising revenue and would be less effective
at fulfilling the other Project objectives, which depend in part on the number
of TCN Structures approved. “At bottom, [Petitioners’] disagreement is ‘with
the nature of the balance struck between those interests,’ ” which is not a
basis to overturn the agency’s infeasibility findings.  (CNPS, supra, 177 Cal.App.4th at
1001.)
 
Petitioners do not show Metro
defined “impermissibly narrow project objectives so as to inappropriately
justify rejection of project alternatives that would otherwise have less
impacts.”  (Opening Brief 30:7-8.)
Alternative 2 would have removed five TCN Structures, while Alternative 3 would
have removed six. While it could be expected that a reduction in the number of
TCN Structures could reduce the effectiveness of the Project in meeting its
objectives, Metro could weigh the effectiveness of each alternative in its
infeasibility determination. Accordingly, Metro’s objectives to “maximize”
revenue and the “efficiency of the congested road network,” among
others, did not preclude
alternatives to the Project. This is evident given that Metro approved a
modified version of the Project that eliminated several TCN Structures.  
 
In reply, Petitioners argue for the
first time that the “City of Los Angeles’ post-EIR certification decision to
remove TCN structures located in historical resource areas (NFF-2, NFF-3,
NFF-16, and NFF-21) and coastal resource areas (FF-29 and FF-30) serves to
demonstrate that Metro’s findings on infeasibility of Alternatives 2 and 3 were
bogus and unsupported.” (Reply 20:18-21:1.) “The
salutary rule is that points raised in a reply brief for the first time will
not be considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to present them
before.” (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002,
1010.)  
 
In August 2023, well before
Petitioners filed their Opening Brief on December 29, 2023, the City published
an Addendum addressing a proposal to eliminate several TCN Structures from the
Project, including FF-29, NFF-2, NFF-3, and NFF-14, NFF-15, NFF-16, and
NFF-21. (Resp. RJN and Wright Decl. Exh. A at
12-13) The City also approved the Zoning Ordinance for the Project on December
26, 2023, before Petitioner’s filed their Opening Brief, which removed multiple
structures from the Project. (Resp. RJN Exh. B-D.)[11] Because Petitioners should have known
the TCN Structures at issue were removed before they filed their Opening Brief,
Petitioners have not shown good cause to raise these new arguments in reply about
the feasibility of alternatives.
 
Alternatively,
and on the merits, the removal of TCN Structures NFF-2,
NFF-3, NFF-16, NFF-21, FF-29, and FF-30 does not appear to undermine Metro’s
feasibility findings. While the removal of these structures suggests the
Project could possibly be developed as Alternatives 2 and 3,
Metro’s findings of infeasibility were based on its balancing of various
factors, and its determination that Alternatives 2 and 3 would not fulfill the
objective to maximize revenue and would be less effective at achieving others.
That the City later removed certain structures from the Project does not mean
Metro’s balancing of interests, based on the information in the EIR, was
unreasonable or unsupported by substantial evidence.
 
Finally, Petitioners cite no
authority that Metro was required to quantify precisely “how much
revenue might not be gained with the reduction of a few billboard structures,
or the potential for alternative sites that would not impact historical
resources.” (Opening Brief 30:14-16.)  Accordingly,
Petitioners’ argument is unpersuasive. Further, Metro balanced the objective to
maximize revenue along with other Project objectives, which would not be
possible to “quantify.” As discussed, Petitioners do not show that Metro’s
balancing of interests was unreasonable or
unsupported by substantial evidence.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The petition for
writ of mandate is denied.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
March 13, 2024                                                                      ________________________________ 
Hon.
Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge
of the Superior Court 
  


