 Case Number:  23STCV09589    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  74 Flores v.
Walters Residence Homes Inc. et al.
Defendants Walters Residence Homes,
Inc. and SouthEast Employee Leasing Services, Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration. 
 
BACKGROUND  
            This
complaint arises from a wrongful termination cause of action. 
            Plaintiff
Yolanda Flores (Plaintiff) alleges that defendants Walters Residence Homes,
Inc. and SouthEast Employee Leasing Services, Inc. (Defendants) wrongfully
terminated and discriminated against Plaintiff. 
            Defendants
filed this motion to compel arbitration. 
            Parties
have agreed to stay the case until the motion to compel arbitration is decided.

 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
presented evidence of the arbitration agreement.  The agreement was entered into by the parties
on September 21, 2016.  The agreement
states, in pertinent part:
“I agree and acknowledge that SouthEast Personnel Leasing,
Inc. and SouthEast Employee Leasing Services, Inc. (collectively “SPLI”), . . .
and Walters Residence Homes Inc. (my “Worksite Employer”), and I will utilize
binding arbitration to resolve all disputes that may arise out of the
employment context. 
 
My Worksite Employer . . . SPLI and I agree that any claim,
dispute, and/or controversy that either I may have against my Worksite Employer
. . . or SPLI (or their respective owners, directors, officers, managers,
employees, agents, subsidiaries, and parties affiliated with their employee
benefit and health plans) or that my Worksite Employer . . . or SPLI may have
against me, arising from, related to, or having any relationship or connection
whatsoever with my seeking employment with, employment by, or any other
association with my Worksite Employer . . . or SPLI shall be submitted to and
determined exclusively by binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act
(9 U.S.C. §§ 1, et seq.) in conformity with the procedures of the California
Arbitration Act (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1280 et. seq., including § 1283.05 and
all of the Act’s other mandatory and permissive rights to discovery). Included
within the scope of this Agreement are all disputes, whether based on tort,
contract, statute (including, but not limited to, any claims of discrimination
and harassment, whether they be based on Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act or any other
similar state, local, or federal law or regulation), equitable law, or
otherwise. 
 
I understand and agree to this binding arbitration provision
and that I, my Worksite Employer . . . and SPLI give up our respective rights
to trial by jury of any claim that I may have against my Worksite Employer . .
. or SPLI, or that my Worksite Employer . . . or SPLI may have against me.” 
 
(Clark Decl., ¶ 7 Ex. 4.)  Defendants allege that the Arbitration
Agreement encompasses all claims made in the Complaint.
            Defendants
have met their burden in establishing that an arbitration agreement exists. 
            Plaintiff
contends that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.  
Unconscionability 
For
an arbitration agreement to be unenforceable as unconscionable, there must be
both procedural and substantive unconscionability.  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (Armendariz) (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)  
            Procedural
Unconscionability
Procedural
unconscionability includes oppression arising from unequal bargaining power
causing an absence of meaningful choice and real negotiating, and surprise due
to hidden terms drafted by the party seeking to enforce the provisions.  (Gatton
v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 571, 581.)
            Plaintiff
alleges that the contract was offered in a take-it-or-leave it manner, where
Plaintiff was not given an option not to sign, and Defendant did not include an
opt-out form. Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that the terms of the contract
were “full of surprise.”  
            Plaintiff
alleges that (1) she was never informed that there was an arbitration agreement
within the documents, (2) the she felt pressured to quickly review, fill out,
and return the documents to keep her job, (3) she was not provided with an
opt-out form, and (4) that she was never provided a copy of the employment
documents nor given an opportunity to discuss the documents.  (Flores Decl., ¶¶ 5-7, 9.)  The Arbitration agreement was included within
the employment documents but was clearly marked as a “Binding Arbitration
Agreement”, in a regular font and size. The agreement also includes a bolded,
all caps section stating, “IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING THIS AGREEMENT,
PLEASE ASK A SPLI, A WORKSITE EMPLOYER, OR TEMPORARY STAFFING EMPLOYER (IF ANY)
REPRESENTATIVE BEFORE SIGNING.”  (Clark
Decl., Ex. 3.)  Additionally, the
Agreement included the opportunity to submit an opt-out form within 30-days of
signing the arbitration agreement. 
(Clark Decl., Ex. 3.)  
            When
determining if oppression is present, the Court considers “(1) the amount of
time the party is given to consider the proposed contract: (2) the amount and
type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the
length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged
provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the
party’s review of the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.”  (OTO, LLC v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126-27
[citing Grand Prospect Partners, LP v. Ross Dress for Less, Inc. (2015)
232 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1348].)  
            Here,
the Arbitration Agreement was not oppressive. The party may have been rushed to
complete the forms but does not allege that any specific pressure was put on
Plaintiff regarding the Arbitration agreement. 
Plaintiff was also offered the opportunity to opt-out of the agreement
within 30-days of signing.  The contract
is only 2-pages, without any particularly complex provisions, in a regular font
size, and providing for an opportunity to ask a supervisor to explain any
provisions.  The review was not aided by
an attorney, but even without attorney review, there is no meaningful
oppression in the signing of the Arbitration Agreement. 
            The
opposing party must show both procedural and substantive
unconscionability.  Plaintiff has failed
to show any procedural unconscionability. 
Therefore, the Court grants the Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
court grants Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
            Defendants
to give notice.