  Case Number:  23AHCV01666    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



FINANCIAL CREDIT NETWORK, INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GILDARDA
   B. MARTINEZ, et al.
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01666
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ORDER DEEMING MATTERS IN REQUESTS FOR
   ADMISSION ADMITTED; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   11, 2024



 
On July 21,
 2023, plaintiff Financial Credit Network, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against defendant Gildarda
 B. Martinez dba JL Screens & Doors (“Defendant”). On May 24,
 2024, Plaintiff served Requests for Admission (Set One) on Defendant.
(Abbott Decl., ¶ 3.) On June 28, 2024, Plaintiff
sent Defendant
a letter attempting to meet and confer regarding the status of Defendant’s
responses. (Id., ¶ 4.) No response to the letter was received and no
discovery responses have been served. (Ibid.) Plaintiff filed this
motion on July 10, 2024. 
Where a party fails to timely respond
to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The
party who failed to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the
court grants them relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has
subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the
party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).) The court
shall grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
Defendant
did not oppose this motion and it does not appear that substantially compliant
responses have been served before the hearing. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED. 
Where a party fails to provide a timely
response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)
Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against Defendant
in the reduced amount of $290 for 1 hour
at Plaintiff’s
counsel’s hourly rate of $230 and $60 in filing fees, to be paid
within 20 days of the date of this Order. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 11th
day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 