 Case Number:  23AHCV02555    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



NANCY KHOA,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY
  OF ALHAMBRA, 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02555
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
 
Dept.
  27
8:30
  a.m.
October
  11, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
On November 2, 2023, plaintiff Nancy
Khoa (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant City of Alhambra
(“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that at approximately 9 a.m. on August 25,
2023, she was walking on a walkway in Almansor Park in Alhambra, California, when
an 8 to 10-foot-long tree branch suddenly fell from a large tree and landed
directly on her head. Plaintiff asserts causes of action for: (1) dangerous
condition on public property pursuant to Government Code section 835 and (2)
negligence pursuant to Government Code sections 815.2, 815.4, and 820(a). 
On June 24, 2024, Defendant filed this
motion for summary judgment. In the alternative, Defendant seeks summary
adjudication of the following issues: (1) Defendant did not have actual or
constructive notice of any dangerous condition of public property, and (2) there
is no negligence. (Motion, p. 2.) Defendant also asks that if the motion is
denied, for the Court to find that there is “no legal basis for direct
negligence against the City, solely indirect [negligence] from some alleged
tort of an agent.” (Motion, p. 2.) 
Defendant’s moving papers also include
an argument based on Government Code section 831.4, which was withdrawn in its
reply brief. (Reply, p. 3.) 
          On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief, a response to Defendant’s separate statement, and
evidentiary objections. 
On October 4, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief and objections to Plaintiff’s evidence. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)
A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication shall
proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)  
IV.    EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
          The Court
rules only on objections to evidence deemed material to its disposition of the
motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) All other objections are
preserved for appeal. With this in mind, the Court rules on Defendant’s
evidentiary objections as follows:
Objection Nos. 1, 3-6 to Declaration of
Evin Lambert: Overruled. 
Objection Nos. 1-3 to Plaintiff’s
Evidence: Sustained.  
V.     DISCUSSION
Plaintiff alleges that a branch (“Subject
Branch”) from a Chinese Elm tree (“Subject Tree”) in Defendant’s Almansor Park (“Park”)
fell on her head and caused serious injury (“Subject Incident”). The Subject
Tree and Subject Branch are alleged to be the “dangerous condition of public
property”. (Compl., ¶¶ 8-11.) Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant 
carelessly, negligently, and/or
recklessly planted, planned, owned, built, installed, reviewed, evaluated,
directed, designed, maintained, allowed, permitted, regulated, used,
contracted, controlled, serviced, inspected, repaired, modified, altered,
monitored, managed, repaired, occupied, improved, constructed, controlled,
warned or failed to warn of, removed or failed to remove, and/or supervised the
[Park], including the Subject Tree and surrounding area where the Subject
Incident occurred. 
 
(Compl., ¶ 23.) 
A. Dangerous Condition of Public
Property
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for dangerous condition of public property fails because
Plaintiff cannot establish that it had actual or constructive notice that the
Chinese Elm tree was dangerous or that any of its branches were going to fall.
(Motion, p. 2.) 
To hold a public entity liable for
injury caused by a dangerous condition, a plaintiff must prove (1) that the
property was a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, (2) that the
injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, (3) that the
dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury
which was incurred, and (4) that either a negligent or wrongful act or omission
of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created
the dangerous condition or the public entity had actual or constructive notice
of the dangerous condition and sufficient time prior to the injury to have
taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition. (Gov. Code, § 835.) 
A public entity had actual notice of a
dangerous condition if it had actual knowledge of the existence of the
condition and knew or should have known of its dangerous character. (Gov. Code,
§ 835.2, subd. (a).) Here, Defendant argues that it “did not have actual notice
of any problem, condition, decay or potential in need of repair or prevention
of the Subject Chinese Elm [tree].” (Motion, p. 12.) Defendant contends that no
defect was obvious or discernable during an inspection conducted 14 months
earlier, nor during the bi-weekly ground inspections prior to and on the date
of Plaintiff’s injury. Defendant argues that the defective branch was not
visible from the ground because it was located at the top of the Subject Tree
and hidden by the tree’s canopy. 
Defendant submits the Declaration of
Javier Velazquez (“Velazquez”). Velazque declares that he started working for
Defendant as a Park Worker II in August 2022 and since May 2023, is currently a
Park Crew Chief at Almansor Park who supervises Park Workers (Levels I and II) and
part-time Park employees. (Velazquez Decl., ¶ 1.) He states that part of his
duties and responsibilities involve performing “ground level inspections to
look for safety hazards in the Park along the path of travel on and around the
1.1 mile trail that loops through and around the park.” (Id., ¶ 3.)
These safety inspections are performed every Friday and Monday between 7 a.m.
and 8 a.m., during which Velazquez checks all the trees along the trail for
“visible safety hazards, such as broken branches, dry branches, tangled
branches, dead limbs, hangers – damaged branches lodged and/or still hanging in
the tree – and exterior signs of damage to the trees.” (Id., ¶ 4.) Specifically,
Velazquez would “visually inspect[] a tree from approximately 10 feet away”, “look
at the base of the tree to see if any roots are lifted or exposed”, then “look
for exterior signs of an issue or defect in the trunk of the tree such as
cracks around the tree”, and finally “look up for visible signs of damage to
the branches.” (Id., ¶ 5.) 
On August 21, 2023, Velazquez performed
one of his inspections and found that a tree had been blown over during a recent
storm (“Hurricane Hillary”). (Id., ¶ 6.) He reported the fallen tree to
his supervisor, Vincent Hon, who contacted the tree service contractor, West
Coast Arborist (“WCA”), who came and removed the tree along with fallen
branches.” Hurricane Hillary continued through the next day, August 22, 2023,
and on August 23, 2023, Velazquez performed an additional ground level tree
safety inspection of all the trees in the Park, including the Subject Tree. (Id.,
¶¶ 7-8.) He looked for broken branches, hangers, and other signs of damage; all
visibly broken limbs were addressed and he did not see any concerns about the
Subject Tree. (Id., ¶ 8.) On August 25, 2023, from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00
a.m., Velazquez performed a routine ground level tree safety inspection of all
the trees, including the Subject Tree, and did not observe any safety hazards.
(Id., ¶ 9.) Velazquez states that if he had observed anything that
appeared to be a safety hazard on August 21, 23, or 25, 2023, he would have
“cautioned off the area and reported it to [his] supervisor so that [his
supervisor] could determine if WCA needed to be called to address the hazard.”
(Id., ¶ 11.) 
After Velazquez was informed of
Plaintiff’s incident, he observed that the Subject Branch had fallen from the
“very top center of the [Subject Tree].” (Id., ¶ 12.) He “later learned
that there was a prior branch failure (“Initial Failure”)” which was not
detected during his inspections that week because the Subject Branch was
“tucked securely in the upper foliar crown of the Subject Tree.” (Ibid.)

The Court notes that Plaintiff does not
contend that Defendant had actual notice of the Subject Tree’s dangerous
nature. Instead, Plaintiff only argues that triable issues of fact exist
regarding whether Defendant was on constructive notice. A public entity had
constructive notice of a dangerous condition only if the plaintiff establishes
that the condition had existed for such a period of time and was of such an
obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have
discovered the condition and its dangerous character. (Gov. Code, § 835.2,
subd. (b).) On the issue of due care, admissible evidence includes, but is not
limited to evidence of whether the condition and its dangerous character would
have been discovered by an inspection system that was reasonably adequate or
whether the public entity maintained and operated an inspection system with due
care and did not discover the condition. (Gov. Code, § 835.2, subds.
(b)(1)-(b)(2).) “Whether the dangerous condition was obvious and whether it existed for a
sufficient period of time are threshold elements to establish a claim of
constructive notice.” (Heskel v. City of
San Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 317.) “Where the plaintiff fails to
present direct or circumstantial evidence as to either element, his claim is
deficient as a matter of law.” (Ibid.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot
establish that it had constructive notice of the Subject Tree’s dangerous
condition because the Subject Tree was professionally inspected and pruned by
WCA on June 16, 2022, and reported to be in “good condition.” (Motion, p. 12;
Def.’s Ex. 3.) In addition, the Subject Tree was not scheduled to be
professionally inspected and pruned by WCA until June 16, 2024, because
Defendant and WCA implemented a 2-year inspection period for its trees. (Macias
Decl., ¶ 14.) The parties do not dispute that a “two to three year [sic] inspection
protocol is reasonable, appropriate, and sufficient” to implement a “safety
grid trimming program.” (UMF No. 7.) 
Defendant also contends that the alleged
dangerous condition was not obvious. Although the Subject Tree was damaged by
Hurricane Hillary sometime between August 21 and August 25, 2023, its employees
were unable to detect and remove the Subject Branch during the three
inspections which were conducted that week (including one which was performed
on the morning of Plaintiff’s incident) because the branch was “hidden by
virtue of the Subject Tree’s canopy.” (Motion, p. 12.) Defendant refers to photos
of the Subject Tree taken on August 25, 2023, which are attached as Exhibits 7
and 8 to Defendant’s compendium of evidence, and contend that they depict a
tall, healthy, and upright tree. 
Moreover, Joseph McNeil, a board
certified master arborist and tree risk assessor, declares that he inspected
the Subject Tree on April 4, 2024 and examined photographs of the Subject Tree
taken on August 25, 2023, which show it to be “reasonably balanced.” (McNeil
Decl., ¶ 12.) McNeil observed necrotic lesions on the Subject Tree, but did not
see “any indicator of past failures due to this attribute.” (Id., ¶ 19.)
Rather, McNeil opines that “[t]he failure was more likely than not associated
with an unknowable combination of the location of the branch at the top of the
Subject Tree, the limb attitude, distribution of mass along the limb, possible
extension of the limb above or beyond the surrounding foliar canopy, loss of
wind protection due to [a] previous failure, and/or notch stress caused by
local necrotic lesions, coupled with heavy rain and wind within four days of
the incident.” (McNeil Decl., ¶ 22.) McNeil also states that based on
photographic evidence, he “cannot say with any certainty whether an experienced
professional would have observed any potentially problematic attributes of [the]
limb immediately prior to failure that would have led that professional to
assign either a high or low potential for failure to that limb.” (McNeil Decl.,
¶ 24.)  
          In opposition, Plaintiff argues that a
reasonable inspection system would have alerted Defendant to the Subject Tree’s
dangerous condition and that Defendant did not employ due care in inspecting
and maintaining the Subject Tree, especially in light of the recent storm. Plaintiff
argues that dead branches seen from ground level, were a “clear warning of
future failures” that could be detected in any reasonable inspections, but that
Defendant’s inspections were not reasonable because Velazquez had no training
in tree inspection. (Opp., p. 10.) Plaintiff contends that a reasonable
inspection would have included an employee arborist or WCA because Defendant
knew that at least one tree and multiple branches at the Park had failed during
the storm. (Opp., p. 10.) 
          Plaintiff
submits the declaration of Evin Lambert, a arborist consultant who has
performed over 1,000 tree risk assessments. (Compendium of Evidence, Ex. 14.)
Lambert opines that the Subject Tree displayed moderate to severe stem cankers
causeed by anthracnosem, to which Chinese elm trees are particulary susceptible.
(Lambert Decl., ¶ 8.) Lambert states that tree stem cankers are a significant
indicator of adverse tree health and “signal[] structural weakness, rendering a
tree vulnerable to secondary infections, and increasing the likelihood of limb
failure.” (Ibid.) Lambert observes that the Subject Branch that hit
Plaintiff’s head exhibited dark tissue around the cracked branch segment,
likely related to anthracnose, and that this dark tissue “suggests that the
[Subject] [B]ranch suffered from a history of anthracnose infections, which can
severely undermine the constiuttion and structural integrity of a tree.” (Id.,
¶ 9.) Lambert opines that the Subject Tree had not undergone routine periodic
pruning for at least five years and exhibited an “obviously dead, hanging
branch” which is a “clear sign” that the Subject Tree did not undergo
reasonable inspection or maintenance. (Id., ¶ 12.) 
          On
reply, Defendant argues that Lambert’s declaration does not raise triable
issues of fact regarding the health of the Subject Tree because Lambert fails
to explain how they determined that the stem cankers were actually caused by
anthracnose. (Reply, pp. 5-6.) However, Lambert sufficiently states that they
“personally conducted a level two inspection of the subject Chinese Elm tree .
. . on April 4, 2024, which included a 360-degree visual examination of the
tree and an assssment for structural defects in the tree’s trunk, crown, and
roots.” (Lambert Decl., ¶ 5.) Lambert also states that she assessed the
condition of the Subject Branch based on photos. (Lambert Decl., ¶ 10.) The
explanation of the grounds for an expert’s opinion in an opposing expert’s
declaration “need not be as detailed or extensive as that required in expert
testimony presented in support of a summary judgment motion or at trial.” (Garrett
v. Howmedica Osteonics Corp. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 173, 187-189.)
Defendants also complain that
Lambert does not identify any particular stem canker which caused the Subject
Branch to fail. However, Lambert states that there was dark tissue around the
cracked branch segment, indicating an anthracnose infection, which undermines
the integrity of a tree. Even if no stem canker “caused” the Subject Branch to
fall, Lambert opines that they are an “indicator” of tree health. 
Defendant also rejects
Plaintiff’s suggestion that it was placed on constructive notice of the dangers
presented by the Subject Tree due to other fallen trees and branches which had
been blown over by Hurricane Hillary. Defendant contends that it would have
been forced to shut down all of the parks throughout the city until WCA could
inspect each and every tree after a storm. But, given Lambert’s opinion that
the Subject Tree obviously displayed health problems, whether Defendant acted
with “due care” by conducting only  ground-level
inspections of the Subject Tree in the wake of an uncharacteristic summer storm
is a triable issue of fact. 
          B. Negligence
          Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action on the
grounds that Plaintiff failed to identify a statute imposing liability. This is
a misreading of Plaintiff’s complaint, which states that it is brought pursuant
to Government Code sections 815.2, 815.4, and 820. 
The motion for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action is also improper because Defendant
is requesting that the Court 
“limit the scope of liability.” A motion for summary adjudication “shall be granted only if
it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) A
party’s “scope of liability” is not included in any of those categories which
are appropriate for summary adjudication. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 11th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.