  Case Number:  22CHCV00073    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/10/24                                                        
TRIAL DATE: 6/30/25
Case #22CHCV00073
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION
 
Motion filed on 5/9/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff 511-571
Fifth Street B.P., LLC aka 5th Street B.P., LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Lori Banks 
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lori Banks to submit to
an oral deposition by Plaintiff 511-571 Fifth Street B.P., LLC aka 5th
Street B.P., LLC.
Additionally, Plaintiff requests sanctions
against Banks and her counsel, Armen 
Mitilian, jointly and severally in the amount of $6,482.50
and require attorney Mitilian to file a copy of the order with the State Bar.  

 

RULING: The motion is granted as set forth
below.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a commercial lease between
Plaintiff 5th Street B.P., LLC (Plaintiff) and Defendants Lori Banks
(Banks) and A Thread Ahead, Inc. (ATA) (collectively, Defendants).  Plaintiff’s operative First Amended Complaint
contains a single cause of action for breach of contract based on unpaid rent
and destruction of property.  Defendants
have cross-complained against Plaintiff and Adom
Ratner-Stauber (Stauber) for breach of contract, assault, battery and
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 

 
On 2/26/24, Plaintiff requested that defense counsel
provide dates for Banks’ deposition. 
(Meyers Decl., Ex.B).  After
receiving no response, on 2/26/24, Plaintiff served a Notice of Taking Banks’
Deposition on 3/14/24, which  indicated
that Plaintiff was amenable to alternative dates, if 3/14/24 did not work for
Banks or her counsel.  (Id., Ex.B,
C). 
 
On Friday, 3/8/24, at 5:49 p.m., Banks’ counsel emailed
Plaintiff’s counsel indicating that he could not appear for the 3/14/24
deposition due to his trial schedule and claiming that certain issues needed to
be addressed before the deposition could take place.  (Id., Ex.D).  On Monday, 3/11/24, at 7:20 p.m., defense
counsel emailed an Objection to the Notice of Deposition claiming the
objections were personally served earlier in the day.  (Id., Ex.E, O).  On 3/12/24, Plaintiff’s counsel responded,
noting that the personal service of the objections did not occur, and as such
all objections had been waived, and requesting alternative dates for the
deposition.  (Id., Ex.F; Younessi
Decl.).
 
On 3/13/24, Plaintiff’s counsel called defense counsel,
who did not answer; therefore, an email was sent.  (Meyers Decl., Ex.G).  Banks’ counsel responded at 10:45 p.m., again
claiming he could not provide dates because of his trial schedule, which
Plaintiff’s counsel questions.  (Id.,
Ex.H, I; See RJN). 
 
Having received no dates for the deposition, on 3/27/24,
Plaintiff served a second Notice of Taking Deposition for 4/12/24.  (See Meyers Decl., Ex.J, K, L).  On 4/9/24, Banks’ attorney claimed that the
second Notice of Taking Deposition was “found” in his junk email folder.  (Id., Ex.M).  Again, Banks’ attorney claimed that because
Banks fears Stauber, he cannot be present for the deposition and that
Plaintiff’s counsel’s office lacked sufficient space to take the
deposition.  Id.  Later, defense counsel claimed that a
messenger attempted to personally serve objections at Plaintiff’s counsel’s
office.  (Id., Ex.N, O).  Plaintiff sent a response via Fed X,
rejecting defense counsel’s contentions. 
(Id., Ex.P).  Banks failed
to appear for her deposition on 4/12/2024. 
(Id., Ex.Q).  Plaintiff’s
counsel followed up regarding the failure to appear by phone and email.  (Id., Ex.R).  Banks’ counsel contended there was no failure
to appear because an objection was timely served; however, Plaintiff’s counsel
disagrees.  (Id., Ex.S, T).
 
On 5/9/24, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order compelling Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lori Banks to submit to
an oral deposition by Plaintiff 511-571 Fifth Street B.P., LLC aka 5th
Street B.P., LLC.  Additionally,
Plaintiff requests sanctions against Banks and her counsel, Armen  Mitilian, jointly and severally in the amount
of $6,482.50 and require attorney Mitilian to file a copy of the order with the
State Bar.  Banks has not opposed or
otherwise responded to the motion.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP 2025.450 provides, in relevant part:
 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:
(1) The motion shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2) The motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce
the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.
. .
.
 
(g)(1)
If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
CCP 2025.410(a) provides:   
 
“Any party served with a deposition
notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section 2025.210)
waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written
objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three calendar
days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the party
seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom the
deposition notice was served.” (emphasis added).
 
The unrefuted evidence before the Court establishes that
Plaintiff attempted to obtain dates from defense counsel before noticing Banks’
deposition and then properly noticed Banks’ deposition on two occasions.  Additionally, defense counsel has not refuted
Plaintiff’s counsel’s claims that the objections to the depositions were not timely/properly
served at least 3 days before the scheduled deposition dates.  Even if the objections were timely served,
the Court finds that they lack merit.  
 
First, the Court finds the document requests are reasonable
considering the subject matter of the action. 
Second, Plaintiff attempted to obtain mutually agreeable dates before
noticing the deposition.  Third, Banks
has failed to establish that her alleged fear of Stauber is such that it
warrants precluding him from being present at the deposition.  Fourth, Banks has failed to establish that
taking the deposition at Plaintiff’s counsel’s office is impracticable given
the size of the space as Plaintiff’s counsel has indicated that less people
will be present than at the deposition of A Thread Ahead Inc.’s Persons Most
Knowledgeable Deposition and that additional seating is available upon
request.  Fifth, Banks has failed to
establish that she is only available to be deposed in person on Fridays,
especially since she is available for deposition remotely on other days.    
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, counsel for the parties are
ordered to meet and confer by 12/13/24 regarding a mutually agreeable date,
within the next 45 days, for Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lori Banks’ deposition
to take place in Plaintiff’s counsel’s office. 
Cross-Defendant Adom Ratner-Stauber is not precluded from attending the
deposition.   
The Court further finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an
award of sanctions against Banks and her  counsel, Armen G. Mitilian, in the amount of $2,981.65
(2 hours x $300/hour to prepare facts + 3 hours x $375/hour to review, research
and prepare motion + 1 hour x $375/hour to prepare for and appear at the
hearing + $820 non-appearance fee + $61.65 filing fee).  CCP 2023.010(d), (e); CCP 2023.030(a);
2025.450(g)(1); (Meyers Decl. ¶6; Younessi Decl.).  The sanctions are payable within 30
days.  
 
 
 