  Case Number:  23STCV26720    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Wendy Il’ Grande,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV26720




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Sundae, Inc., 


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March 6, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendant Sundae, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Wendy Il’ Grande
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION IS GRANTED.
 
THE ACTION IS STAYED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendant, asserting causes of action for pregnancy
discrimination and wrongful termination.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A.           Existence of
Arbitration Agreement 
 
Defendant Sundae, Inc. moves to compel
arbitration based on the arbitration provision in an offer letter executed by
Plaintiff on June 16, 2020. (Decl. Kirwen, Exh. A.) The agreement provides, “You and [Sundae] agree to submit to mandatory binding arbitration any
and all claims arising out of or related to your employment with [Sundae] and
the termination thereof, including, but not limited to, claims for unpaid
wages, wrongful termination, torts, stock or stock options or other ownership
interest in [Sundae], and/or discrimination (including harassment) based upon
any federal, state or local ordinance, statute, regulation or constitutional
provision.” (Id.) This action
arises from Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant.
 
Defendant has met its burden to
establish the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff to establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
1. Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration
agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is an adhesion contract.
Plaintiff asserts Defendant required Plaintiff to sign the agreement as a
condition of employment.
 
Regarding procedural unconscionability,
the California Supreme Court has found:
 
“[T]here are degrees of procedural unconscionability. At
one end of the spectrum are contracts that have been freely negotiated by
roughly equal parties, in which there is no procedural unconscionability . . .
. Contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices lie on
the other end of the spectrum. [Citation.] Ordinary contracts of adhesion,
although they are indispensable facts of modern life that are generally
enforced (see Graham v. Scissor–Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807,
817–818, 171 Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165), contain a degree of procedural
unconscionability even without any notable surprises, and ‘bear within them the
clear danger of oppression and overreaching.’ (Id. at p. 818 [171
Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165].)” (Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 443, 469, 64 Cal.Rptr.3d 773, 165 P.3d 556.)
 
(Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.) 
 
Generally, in the employer-employee
context, there is unequal bargaining power. (See Amendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 115 [“in the case of
preemployment arbitration contracts, the economic pressure exerted by employers
on all but the most sought-after employees may be particularly acute, for the
arbitration agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and
few employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration
requirement.”] 
 
The Court finds a low degree of
procedural unconscionability here; there is unequal bargaining power and the
agreement was a condition of Plaintiff’s employment. This low degree of
procedural unconscionability does not render the arbitration agreement
unconscionable; to find the agreement unenforceable, there must be a high
degree of substantive unconscionability. (See Dotson v. Amgen, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 981.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it requires arbitration take place in San
Francisco, it exempts claims Defendant would bring against Plaintiff, and it
does not provide for adequate discovery. These issues do not render the
agreement substantively unconscionable. The agreement itself puts no limits on
discovery, and the venue provision has been waived by Defendant. That Defendant
may seek injunctive relief in Court regarding a breach of the confidentiality
agreement also does not render the agreement unconscionable. This right arises
from a different agreement and is capable of being severed. 
 
Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The action is STAYED.
 
 