 Case Number:  23STCV09104    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







SIRANUSH AKHERDYAN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MASIS TAMAZYAN, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV09104




Hearing Date:


January 10, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT
  SOORAGE TOMASIAN’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT JUDGMENT PURSUANT TO CODE CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 473(b) 




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
Plaintiff Siranush
Akherdyan filed this action on April 25, 2023 against Defendants Masis Tamazyan
(“Tamazyan”) and Elen Tahmasian (“Tahmasian”). The Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) declaratory relief re: real property resulting trust, and (2)
“in the alternative,” declaratory relief re: deed of trust priority. 
On July 7, 2023,
Tahmasian filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Siranush Akherdyan a.k.a.
Siranush Akhverdyan, Tamazyan, and Soorage Tomasian (“Tomasian”). The
Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) fraudulent conveyance, (2)
quiet title, (3) cancellation of instrument, (4) negligence, and (5) declaratory
relief. 
On November 21, 2023, default
was entered against Tomasian on the Cross-Complaint filed on July 7, 2023. 
Tomasian now moves “to
set aside the default judgment entered against him…in favor of
Cross-Complainant ELEN TAHMASIAN.”[1] No
opposition to the motion was filed. 
Discussion
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)
provides in pertinent part: 
“The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
 “[B]ecause the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section
473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.” (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233 [negative
treatment on other grounds].) Where the party in default moves
promptly to seek relief, and no prejudice to
the opposing party will result from setting aside the default, “very slight evidence will be
required to justify a court in setting aside the default.” (Ibid.)
In his declaration in
support of the motion, Tomasian states that “[i]n or around August 1, 2023, I
received service of the Cross-Complaint filed against me in the instant action.
I was referred to attorney Sevan Gorginian, and I contacted him within a week
or so of service.” (Tomasian Decl., ¶ 2.) Tomasian further indicates that “Mr.
Gorginian informed me that he is a bankruptcy attorney and not a civil
attorney, but he stated that he was familiar with Cross-Complainant’s counsel
and would contact them to discuss dismissing me from the case, as there did not
seem to be any basis for my inclusion in this matter.” (Tomasian Decl., ¶ 3.)
Tomasian states that “[a]t no point did Mr. Gorginian inform me that I needed
to file a responsive pleading with the Court, and I did not know this was
required, as I am not familiar with lawsuits.” (Tomasian Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Tomasian states that
“[i]n November 2023, I received a copy of a Request for Entry of Default for
this case, and I was surprised by this because I believed that either the issue
was dealt with (and that I was dismissed from the case) or that Mr. Gorginian was
still discussing my dismissal with Cross-Complainant’s counsel. I contacted Mr.
Gorginian again to ask what needs to be done, and Mr. Gorginian referred me to
counsel of record and I retained them to represent me in this action.”
(Tomasian Decl., ¶ 6.) 
In the motion, Tomasian
asserts that he “diligently contacted counsel upon receiving service of
the Cross-Complaint, and mistakenly was under the impression that this attorney
was still in the midst of discussions with Cross-Complainant regarding [Tomasian’s] dismissal…[Tomasian] was not informed by
his limited scope attorney that a responsive pleading was required and was
therefore completely surprised to receive a Request for Entry of Default…Upon
learning of the default judgment, [Tomasian]
diligently retained counsel of record to file this Motion.” (Mot. at p. 2:2-7.) 
Tomasian also submitted
a copy of his proposed answer to the Cross-Complaint. (Niman Decl., ¶ 2,
Ex. 1.) 
Based on the foregoing, and in light of the lack of any opposition, the
Court finds that Tomasian has demonstrated good cause under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) for
the Court to set aside the November
21, 2023 default. 
Conclusion
Based
on the foregoing, Tomasian’s
motion
is granted. The default entered against Tomasian on November 21, 2023 is ordered set aside. 
Tomasian is ordered to
file his proposed answer to the Cross-Complaint within 10 days of the date of
this Order.¿ 
Tomasian is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  January 10, 2024    
                        ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


