 Case Number:  24STCV14183    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  73 08/13/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
MACDONALD, et al. v. B.V. GENTRY, et
al. (24STCV14183)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs:  Jason Roberts (Resnick &
Louis, PC) 
Counsel for Defendants:
Joseph Wilson (Wilson Rowley)
 
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT (filed on 07/05/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiffs Neil
Macdonald, individually and as trustee of the Macdonald Scheerer Family Trust;
and Gina Scheerer, individually and as trustee of the Macdonald Scheerer Family
Trust; filed this action against Defendants Carl Gentry, individually and as
representative of the Estate of Sharon Gentry and as representative of the
Estate of Margaret Gentry; Ian Gentry; and Patricia Webber.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. On
or about August 5, 2023, an incident occurred in the State of California,
County of Los Angeles, City of Long Beach. Thereafter,
Defendant Carl Gentry, individually and as representative of the Estate of
Sharon Gentry and representative of the Estate of Margaret Gentry brought a
claim related to the incident against Plaintiffs. In
December of 2023, a settlement of the claim was reached wherein Plaintiffs’
insurance carrier agreed to settle and resolve Defendants’ claim. To establish
certainty of legal rights and duties of the parties under the settlement
agreement, Plaintiffs are seeking declaratory relief from this court.
 
On July 5,
2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion to Determine Good Faith Settlement
stating that the parties reached a settlement. No opposition was filed.
 
DISCUSSION
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1), provides that, on
noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or
more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors
. . . .” “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in good
faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(c).) Although
determination that a settlement was in good faith does not discharge any other
party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims against the others in the
amount stipulated” by the settlement.¿ (Id. at (c).)¿ 
 
In City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, the Court
provided guidance on an unopposed motion for a good faith settlement
determination:¿ 
 
This court
notes that of the hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented
for trial court approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and
granted summarily by the trial court. At the time of filing, in many cases the
moving party does not know if a contest will develop. If each motion required a
full recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual
response to all of the¿Tech-Bilt¿factors, literally thousands of
attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions would have to be read
and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would waste valuable
judicial and legal time and clients' resources. It must also be remembered
that¿Tech-Bilt¿was decided on a contested basis. We are unaware of any
reported decision which has reversed an¿uncontested¿good faith
determination and we, therefore, conclude that only when the good faith nature
of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider
and weigh the¿Tech-Bilt¿factors. That is to say, when no one objects,
the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by
a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient. 
 
((1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) 
 
The instant
motion is unopposed. Plaintiffs have provided evidence that the parties reached
a settlement. (Roberts Decl., ¶¿9.) The settlement is the result of a series of arms’ length
negotiations between the parties, starting with a policy limit demand from Defendants’
counsel. (Ibid.)
 
On or about December 18, 2023, Defendants, via counsel, made a
policy limit settlement demand to Plaintiffs and their insurance carrier, State
Farm General Insurance Company. (Roberts Decl., ¶¿5.)
The demand was subsequently accepted and the settlement between the
parties reduced to writing in the form of a Settlement Agreement and Release of
All Claims. (Ibid.)
 
The essential settlement terms provide as follows: 1. Defendants
agree to release all claims against Plaintiffs in exchange for payment from
Plaintiffs’ insurance carrier in the amount of Plaintiffs’ policy limits of $1,000,000;
and 2. The settlement is contingent upon a determination of good faith pursuant
to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §877.6. (Roberts Decl., ¶¿6,
Ex, A.)
 
In Plaintiffs’
motion, they provided a background of the case and the parties’ positions
relative to their dispute. All parties
to this action have been notified of the subject settlement and the settlement
amount. Plaintiffs assert there is no collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct that
occurred between the settling parties and good faith is presumed. (Roberts
Dec., ¶ 8.)
 
The foregoing
is sufficient for an unopposed motion for good faith settlement determination. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion is
granted. 
 
DISPOSITION 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.