 Case Number:  24STCV07140    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  73 8/13/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
EDALATINIYA v. DARREN ANTHONY PORTER,
et al. (24STCV07140)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/opposing
party: Mitra Chegini (California Lawyers Group, Inc.)
Counsel for Defendant
Enterprise Rent-a-Car Company of Los Angeles, LLC/moving party: Adam Miller (Miller
Miller Gerber LLP)
 
Demurrer TO complaint (filed 06/27/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court SUSTAINS Defendant
Enterprise’s demurrer to the Complaint with 20 days leave to amend.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff Farhad
Edalatiniya filed his motor vehicle negligence Complaint against Defendants
Darren Anthony Porter (“Porter”); EAN Holdings, LLC (“EAN”); and Does 1 to 50. This matter
arises out of a vehicle collision that occurred on or about August 18, 2023 at
Northbound 1-405 at or near National Boulevard, Los Angeles, California.
 
On May 21, 2024, EAN was dismissed. 
 
On May 22, 2024, EAN’s affiliate,
Enterprise Rent A Car Company of Los Angeles, LLC (“Enterprise”), was named as
Doe 1. 
 
On June 27, 2024, Defendant Enterprise filed
a demurrer to the Complaint on the following grounds:
·      
The Complaint fails for uncertainty.
o  
Based on
conversations with Plaintiff's counsel, Enterprise believes that when Plaintiff
dismissed EAN and DOE'd in its affiliate Enterprise, that Plaintiff intended
the allegations previously made against EAN to be currently made against
Enterprise. However, Plaintiff did not correctly plead and effectuate this
presumed intent leading to great uncertainty with the Complaint as applied to
Enterprise.
o  
For example,
the Complaint alleges defendant Porter and Does 1 to 50 operated the subject
vehicle at the time of the incident. (Exhibit A at MV-2(a).) However, it is
impossible that both Enterprise and Porter operated the same vehicle at the
same time or that Enterprise, a corporate entity, operated a vehicle at all.
o  
As such, it
is impossible to discern the scope of the allegations being made against
Enterprise in order to provide it with sufficient notice of the basis for
liability alleged against it.
·      
The Complaint fails to state a cause of action against Defendant
Enterprise.
o  
Plaintiff’s
complaint also fails to state a cause of action against Enterprise under 49
U.S.C. section 30106, otherwise known as the Graves Amendment, under which it
is clear that a rental car company and its affiliates cannot be held
vicariously liable for the negligent acts of its customers. Under that law, for
a claim against Enterprise to be actionable, it must include material
allegations of an independent act of negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the
part of Enterprise.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues: 
·       Plaintiff has stated sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action
·       Case law involving 49 U.S.C. § 30106, the "Graves Amendment",
offers plaintiff the opportunity to prove negligence on part of the vehicle's
owner to overcome the protection that 49 U.S. Code § 30106 may provide
·       In this case, Plaintiff overcomes the Graves Amendment because he is
asserting negligence on the part of Enterprise, in that Enterprise did not
inspect for a valid driver's license before renting the vehicle to Porter, and
in violation of Vehicle Code section 14608. Plaintiff further alleges that
Defendant Porter was in fact driving Enterprise’s vehicle with a suspended
license at the time of the accident. 
·       Plaintiff is not disputing that Enterprise is in the business of renting and/or leasing vehicles.
·       If Enterprise’s demurrer is sustained, Plaintiff requests leave to amend.
 
In reply, Defendant Enterprise maintains
that the Complaint
fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against
Defendant Enterprise.
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) 
 
B.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant Enterprise submitted a declaration stating he
discussed the grounds of the demurrer with Plaintiff’s by telephone on June 25,
2024 but an agreement was not reached between the parties. (Miller Decl., ¶ 9.) The Court finds the moving party satisfied its meet and
confer obligations.   
 
C.      Judicial
Notice
 
Defendant
Enterprise requests the Court take judicial notice of the following facts:
 
1.      That the
Exhibit D attached to the Declaration of Adam I. Miller, served and filed
concurrently herewith, is a true and correct copy of the most recent Statement
of Information for Enterprise filed with the California Secretary of State.
2.      As stated on
the Statement of Information attached as Exhibit D to the Declaration of Adam
I. Miller, Enterprise is in the business of renting and/or leasing vehicles.
3.      Enterprise is
in the business of renting and/or leasing vehicles.
 
Evidence Code §452(h) provides that a
court may take judicial notice of “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.”  Additionally, “a court may take judicial
notice of the fact of a document’s recordation, the date the document was
recorded and executed, the parties to the transaction reflected in a recorded
document, and the document’s legally operative language, assuming there is no
genuine dispute regarding the document’s authenticity.”  (Fontenot
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 265.) Moreover,
“[f]rom this, the court may deduce and rely upon the legal effect of the
recorded document, when that effect is clear from its face.” (Id.) 
 
The Court
grants Defendant Enterprise’s unopposed requests for judicial notice.
 
D.     Uncertainty
 
Defendant Enterprise demurs to the entire Complaint arguing that
the Complaint fails for uncertainty.
A demurrer
for uncertainty lies where the pleading is uncertain, including where the
pleading is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f); Landau
v. Salam (1971) 4 Cal.3d 901, 909.) To survive demurrer, a plaintiff must
set forth the essential facts of his case with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficient to acquaint a defendant with the nature, source, and
extent of his cause of action. (See Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal.App.3d 714, 719.)¿Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored. (Chen v.
Benjamin (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.) Nonetheless, a defendant must
have information clear and specific enough to fully comprehend a plaintiff’s
allegations and respond with appropriate denials and defenses. (See Committee
On Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp., supra, 35
Cal.3d at pp. 211–212.) 
The Court
agrees that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails for uncertainty. The Court finds Plaintiff’s
Complaint does not satisfy the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure or
the Rules of Court and does not put Enterprise on sufficiently clear notice of
the facts on which their claims are based – or, indeed, of the precise nature
of their claims. The Complaint only contains boilerplate, vague allegations and
it is not clear what Plaintiff is specifically alleging against Enterprise. As Enterprise
asserts in its motion, for example, the Complaint alleges Defendant Porter and Does 1
to 50 operated the subject vehicle at the time of the incident. (Miller Decl., Exhibit A, p. 4 at MV-2(a).) However,
it is impossible that both Enterprise and Porter operated the same vehicle at
the same time or that Enterprise, a corporate entity, operated a vehicle at all.
Further,
while in Plaintiff’s motion he argues that the Complaint states a cause of
action because Plaintiff “is asserting
negligence on the part of Enterprise, in that Enterprise did not inspect for a
valid driver's license before renting the vehicle to Porter,” this is not
alleged anywhere in the Complaint. (Oppos., p. 4.)
As
such, the Court finds it is impossible for Enterprise to discern the scope of the
allegations being made against Enterprise in order to provide it with
sufficient notice of the basis for liability alleged against it.
 
Thus, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant
Enterprise’s demurrer to the Complaint with 20 days leave to
amend.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

The Court SUSTAINS Defendant
Enterprise’s demurrer
to the Complaint with 20 days leave to amend.