  Case Number:  15K08738    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  26 ACIC v. Benavente, et al.,TENTATIVE
RULING:
Judgment Creditor
American Contractors Indemnity Company’s Motion
for Order Garnishing the Wages of Judgment Debtor’s Spouse is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE to file a renewed motion with
evidence regarding Judgment Creditor’s ownership of, or access to, Laura
Benavente’s account and the extent to which her earnings and income are commingled
with Judgment Debtor’s. 
ANALYSIS: 
Plaintiff American
Contractors Indemnity Company (“Judgment Creditor”) filed the instant action
for breach of contract against Defendant Jon Jerald Benavente (“Judgment Debtor”)
on July 15, 2015. On February 16, 2016, default
judgment was entered in favor Judgment Creditor and against Judgment
Debtor. Judgment Creditor filed the instant Motion
For Order to Garnish the Judgment Debtor’s Spouse’s Wages on October 9, 2024.
To date, no opposition has been filed.
Discussion
In California, a judgment creditor generally cannot garnish
the wages of a debtor’s spouse. (Code Civ. Proc., § 706.109.) The instant
Motion to garnish the wages of Judgment Debtor’s spouse is filed pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure, section 706.109, which provides: “An earnings withholding
order may not be issued against the earnings of the spouse of the judgment
debtor except by court order upon noticed motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
706.109.) Judgment Creditor also points to Family Code section 910, subdivision
(a), which provides that “[e]xcept as otherwise expressly provided by statute,
the community estate is liable for a debt incurred by either spouse before or
during marriage, regardless of which spouse had the management and control of
the property and regardless of whether one or both spouses are parties to the
debt or to a judgment for the debt.” (Fam. Code, § 910, subd. (a).) However,
“although a married couple’s community property is liable for the premarital
debts of either spouse, a portion of that community property – the
nondebtor-spouse’s earnings and income—is shielded from liability for that
premarital debt to the extent that those earnings and income are held in an
account to which the debtor-spouse does not have access and are not commingled
(except for insignificant amounts).” Sturm v. Moyer (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 299, 307. 
Judgment Creditor contends that Judgment
Debtor is married to Laura Benavente aka Laura Osorio (“Laura
Benavente”). (Motion, Murray Decl., ¶¶8-10
and Exhs. 1-3.) The supporting evidence includes a GoFundMe listing Judgment
Debtor and Laura Benavente as husband and wife, joint credit card accounts, and
being listed as spouses on public Westlaw records. (Ibid.) The Court
finds this demonstrates that Laura Benavente is legally married to Judgment
Debtor, neither of whom has filed an opposition to the instant Motion. Judgment
Creditor also demonstrates that Laura Benavente is employed by Providence
Saint John’s Health Center as the Early Childhood Program Director, according
to her LinkedIn profile. (Motion, Murray Decl., ¶11 and Exh. 4.)
Judgment Creditor
has sought to collect on the judgment by recording liens, suspending all
contractor’s licenses associated with Judgment Debtor, issuing subpoenas, and
conducting internal investigations into potential assets. (Id. at ¶7.)
These efforts have revealed that Judgment Debtor only receives veteran’s
benefits and some transfers from Laura Benavente via Zelle. (Id. at ¶12
and Exh. 5.) Judgment Debtor has ignored notices to pay the judgment sent by
Judgment Creditor. (Id. at ¶13 and Exh. 6.)
Based on the
foregoing authorities and evidence, the Judgment Creditor’s evidence does not
demonstrate that: 1) the Judgment Debtor has either ownership in, or access to,
the account into which Ms. Benavente’s earnings from Providence Saint John’s
Health Center are deposited, and 2) those earnings are commingled to a significant
degree. Sturm v. Moyer, supra, at p. 307. Rather, the evidence indicates that Ms.
Benavente has transferred some funds into Judgment Creditor’s separately
maintained account, via Zelle. (Motion, Murray Decl., ¶12 and Exh. 5.) Absent further
evidence that the account in which Ms. Benavente’s earnings from Providence Saint
John’s Health Center are deposited is: 1) owned by, or accessible to, Judgment
Debtor, and 2) contains significantly commingled funds, the Motion must be
denied.
Conclusion
Judgment Creditor
American Contractors Indemnity Company’s Motion
for Order Garnishing the Wages of Judgment Debtor’s Spouse is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE to file a renewed motion with
evidence regarding Judgment Creditor’s ownership of, or access to, Laura
Benavente’s account and the extent to which her earnings and income are commingled
with Judgment Debtor’s.
Moving party to give notice.