  Case Number:  20GDCV00568    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  X Plaintiff’s Motions (2) for Protective Order
 
             In its Complaint, Plaintiff
seeks indemnification and subrogation from Defendants City of Pasadena (“City”)
and Rose Bowl Operating Company.  Plaintiff
alleges it paid $3,953,480.20 to settle a separate action brought against its
insureds, non-party American Golf Corporation, and City.  The separate action involved a child located
on City property who was struck by a golf ball from the Brookside Golf Course
(owned and leased by both Defendants).  Plaintiff’s
suit seeks to recover this amount under theories of express indemnity and
equitable subrogation. 
 
On June 5, 2024, Plaintiff moved for a
protective order (Motion 3227) that seeks to preclude Plaintiff from
answering any of Defendants’ Admission Requests (Sets 7 and 8), nor their Form
Interrogatories (Sets 7 and 8).  Based on
review of the Court’s file, the discovery at issue was not attached to or included
with the motion.  The Court is,
therefore, unable to evaluate the verbatim discovery requests in total to
determine whether the requested relief is appropriate.  The
burden of proof is on the party seeking the protective order to show “good
cause” for the order he or she seeks.  (Fairmont Insurance Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Further, in reviewing the moving and opposing
papers, there is insufficient evidence to support the granting of the protective
order for the subject discovery requests. 
Accordingly, it is denied.
 
On August 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a second motion for a protective order (Motion 0565) that seeks to avoid Plaintiff
having to answer Defendants’ Request for Admission (Set 9), Form
Interrogatories (Set 9), and Special Interrogatories (Set 3).  Based on the Court’s review of same, as well
as the opposing papers, the Court grants the protective order in part and only
as to Admission Request No. 167, as it is duplicative of Admission Request No.
113.  The motion is denied in all other
respects.
 
Moving party is to give notice.