 Case Number:  22STCV11099    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 1, 2022, Plaintiff Yuriy A. Perelekhov (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants City of Santa Monica (“Defendant”) and Does 1-100 for
general negligence and premises liability. 
On
October 19, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
June 12, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication to be heard on January 19, 2024. On January 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On January 11, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
The Court continued the hearing on the motion to March 21, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 11, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
          Defendant’s objections to Declaration of Philip Rosescu: Overruled 
          Plaintiff’s objections to Declaration of Mark Troy:  Overruled 
          Plaintiff’s objections to Declaration of Michael Mack:
Overruled 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
          The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of Plaintiff’s exhibit 1. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.
     Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the burden
of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases
(2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of
the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his
burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then
subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of
the existence of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish
at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by showing
that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must “present evidence,
and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the
defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence
including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be
taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that
conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Public entity liability for
injury caused by dangerous condition of public property 
 Government
Code section 835 provides: 
“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: 
“(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an
employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the
dangerous condition; or 
“(b) The public entity had actual or constructive
notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior
to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous
condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835.) 
Government Code section 835.2 provides: 
“(a) A public entity had actual notice of a dangerous
condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual
knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of
its dangerous character. 
“(b) A public entity had constructive notice of a
dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only if
the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a period of
time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise
of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous character.
On the issue of due care, admissible evidence includes but is not limited to
evidence as to: 
“(1) Whether the existence of the condition and its
dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection system that was
reasonably adequate (considering the practicability and cost of inspection
weighed against the likelihood and magnitude of the potential danger to which
failure to inspect would give rise) to inform the public entity whether the
property was safe for the use or uses for which the public entity used or
intended others to use the public property and for uses that the public entity
actually knew others were making of the public property or adjacent property. 
“(2) Whether the public entity maintained and operated
such an inspection system with due care and did not discover the condition.” 
(Gov.
Code, § 835.2.) 
“‘Dangerous
condition’ means a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property . . . is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably
foreseeable that it will be used.”  (Gov.
Code, § 830, subd. (a).) “A condition is not a dangerous condition within the
meaning of this chapter if the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence
most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk
created by the condition was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature
in view of the surrounding circumstances that no reasonable person would
conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such
property . . . was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably
foreseeable that it would be used.” (Gov. Code, § 830.2.) 
Government
Code section 815.2 provides: 
“(a) A public entity is liable for injury proximately
caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the
scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section,
have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal
representative. 
“(b) Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public
entity is not liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of an
employee of the public entity where the employee is immune from liability.” 
(Gov. Code, § 815.2.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on April 15, 2021, Plaintiff was walking northbound on
the east side of 20th Street, just south of Wilshire Boulevard in Santa Monica,
when he tripped and fell on a cracked and broken sidewalk with a height
differential of approximately 1 inch, sustaining injuries. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
The
incident occurred during daylight hours. The sidewalk was dry.  No piles of leaves, dirt or debris obscured
the spot where Plaintiff tripped.  (UMF 2.) 
Although Plaintiff disputes these and other facts listed in Defendant’s
statement of undisputed facts, Plaintiff’s responses fail to controvert
Defendant’s facts.  (See Def. exhs. 2, 4,
5 & Def. exh. 3 at pp. 23, 39-40.) 
The
alleged defect was not jagged.  Nothing
obscured Plaintiff’s view of the alleged defect in the sidewalk.  (UMF 3-4; Def. exh. 3, pp. 23, 59.) 
On November
4, 2021, Defendant measured the height differential between the sidewalk planks
where Plaintiff alleges he fell and found it was one inch at most.  (UMF 5.) 
Plaintiff’s
Claim for Damages stated that the height differential was approximately one
inch.  However, Plaintiff later estimated
that the height differential was approximately 1¾ inches.  (Plaintiff’s Additional Disputed Material
Facts (“PAMF”) 14-15.) 
Before the incident, Defendant’s last inspection of the sidewalk where
Plaintiff allegedly fell took place on March 22, 2019.  (PAMF 21.) 
This inspection did not identify the portion of the sidewalk where
Plaintiff allegedly fell as having a notable displacement.  (UMF 6-7.) 
“There
has been no act by any City employee identified that would have created the
alleged sidewalk condition.”  (UMF 8.) 
Plaintiff
does not know how long the alleged defect existed before his fall or to what degree
the displacement existed.  (UMF 9.) 
Defendant
had no notice of any other trip and fall claims involving this portion of
sidewalk within three years prior to Plaintiff’s incident.  (UMF 10.) 
Defendant received one claim in October 2017 regarding an incident that
occurred on 20th Street between Arizona and Wilshire which did not involve the
specific condition involved in this case. 
(PAMF 23; Plaintiff’s exh. 6, p. 9.) 
C.   Defendant has carried its initial burden of showing
the alleged defect was trivial as a matter of law 
Defendant
contends that it is entitled to summary judgment because the alleged defect in
the sidewalk was trivial as a matter of law. 
Government
Code section 835 “ ‘sets out the exclusive conditions under which a public
entity is liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of public
property.’ ” (Stack v. City of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 108 (Stack),
quoting Brown v. Poway Unified School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829.) “To
recover under section 835, a plaintiff must prove that a “ ‘dangerous condition
proximately caused his or her injury; that the condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the type of injury that was actually incurred; and that the
public entity either created the dangerous condition through a negligent or
wrongful act or omission of its employee, or had actual or constructive notice
of the dangerous condition sufficiently in advance of the accident as to have
had time to remedy it.’ ” (Id. at pp. 108-109, quoting Bonanno v.
Central Contra Costa Transit Authority (2003) 30 Cal.4th 139, 155 (Bonanno).)
“ ‘An initial and essential element ... is proof a dangerous condition existed.’
” (Id. at p. 109, quoting Stathoulis v. City of Montebello (2008)
164 Cal.App.4th 559, 566.) 
For
purposes of Government Code section 835, “ ‘ “[d]angerous condition” means a
condition of property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a
minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent
property is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably
foreseeable that it will be used.’ ” (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th
at p. 109, quoting Gov. Code, § 830, subd. (a).) Conversely, “ ‘a condition is
not a dangerous condition ... if the trial or appellate court, viewing the
evidence most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that
the risk created by the condition was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant
nature in view of the surrounding circumstances that no reasonable person would
conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property was used with due care in a manner in which it
was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.’ ” (Ibid., quoting
Gov. Code, § 830.2, footnote omitted.) 
“These
statutory parameters are meant to ‘ “guarantee that cities do not become
insurers against the injuries arising from trivial defects.” ’ ” (Stack,
supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 109, quoting Thimon v. City of Newark
(2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 745, 755.) “Together with the surrounding case law, they
form what is known as the ‘trivial defect doctrine,’ shielding public entities
from liability for defects that a court deems trivial as a matter of law.”  (Ibid.) 
“ ‘The
existence of a dangerous condition is ordinarily a question of fact . . . but
it can be decided as a matter of law if reasonable minds can come to only one
conclusion.’ ” (Stack, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at p. 110, quoting Bonanno, supra, 30 Cal.4th at
p. 148.) “If the ‘court determines that sufficient evidence has been presented
so that reasonable minds may differ as to whether the defect is dangerous, the
court may not rule that the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law.’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Fielder v. City of Glendale (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 719, 734 (Fielder).) 
The
most important factor in determining whether a defect is trivial is the size of
the defect. (Stack,
supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 111.) 
In Stack, the Court of Appeal reviewed the case law and concluded
that “ ‘when the size of the depression begins to stretch beyond one inch the
courts have been reluctant to find that the defect is not dangerous as a matter
of law,’ i.e., that it is minor or trivial.” (Id. at p. 112, quoting Fielder,
supra, 71 Cal.App.3d at p. 726.) 
“That
said, there is no firmly fixed ‘arbitrary measurement in inches below which a
defect is trivial as a matter of law and above which it becomes a question of
fact whether or not the defect is dangerous.’ ” (Stack,
supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 113, quoting Beck v. City of Palo
Alto (1957) 150 Cal.App.2d 39, 43.)  “This
is because a ‘court should not rely solely upon the size of the defect ...
although the defect's size “may be one of the most relevant factors” to the
court's decision.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Huckey v. City of Temecula
(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1105.) “ ‘Instead, the court should determine
whether there existed any circumstances surrounding the accident which might
have rendered the defect more dangerous than its mere abstract depth would
indicate.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Fielder, 71 Cal.App.3d at p. 734.) 
In Stack,
“the minimum one-and three-quarter-inch height differential of the first defect
weigh[ed] heavily against finding the sidewalk condition trivial as a matter of
law” because the height was nearly double the one-inch threshold where courts
grow reluctant to take the issue from the jury.  (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at
p. 114.) 
“Beyond
size, additional factors courts typically consider in assessing a sidewalk condition's
triviality as a matter of law are: the nature and quality of the defect
(including whether it has jagged breaks or cracks); whether anything was
obstructing or concealing the defect (for instance, an object, debris, or other
substance); the lighting and weather conditions at the time of the incident;
whether the defect has caused other accidents; and plaintiff's familiarity with
the area.  [Citations.]” (Stack, supra,
91 Cal.App.5th at p. 115.) 
Here,
Defendant has presented evidence that the height differential was no more than
one inch.  The evidence includes good quality
photographs of the location where Plaintiff tripped and fell and the declaration
of Defendant’s Liability Claims Adjuster Michael Mack.  Defendant also presented evidence that
nothing obstructed Plaintiff’s view of the height differential, the defect was
not jagged, and the incident occurred during daylight hours.  Defendant has carried its initial burden on
summary judgment of showing no triable issue exists regarding whether the alleged
defect was trivial. 
D.   Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact 
Plaintiff
argues that triable issues of fact exist concerning (1) whether the height
differential was 1¾ inch and (2) whether aggravating factors prevented the
defect from being trivial. 
To
support these assertions, Plaintiff cites his own estimate that the height
differential was 1¾ inch and photographs which he asserts show “depressions, cracks, breaks, holes and/or chasms located
at this location” as well as “loose concrete, gravel or dirt, and . . . leaves
on the sidewalk . . . .”  (Opposition pp.
8-9.)  
Plaintiff
does not explain the basis for his estimate that the height differential was 1¾
inches or explain why his estimate is different from the assertions, in
Plaintiff’s complaint and Claim for Damages, that the height differential was
one inch. 
Plaintiff
also does not explain why his estimate differs from the opinion of his own expert
forensic engineer, Phil Rosescu (“Rosescu”), who states that the height
differential was one inch.  (Rosescu Dec. ¶ 7.) 
Rosescu states: “Due to a defect present in the sidewalk surface, a
height differential of approximately 1 inch existed in the control joint
between slabs, as depicted in Figure 1 [a photograph].  Figure 1 was captured by Defendant employee
Michael Mack on or about November 1, 2021.” [1]  (Rosescu Dec. ¶ 7.) 
In
addition, the Court has reviewed the photographs on which Plaintiff relies.  At most, the photographs show a small area of
rough concrete where the sidewalk slabs meet.  However, this rough concrete does not conceal the defect
from view.  The small number of leaves in
the photographs similarly do not affect one’s ability to see the defect in the
sidewalk.  The only “depressions, cracks,
breaks, holes, and/or chasms” in the photographs are the height differential or
uplift itself, which created a gap in the sidewalk. 
As
in Huckey, “the entire record, construed in the light most favorable to
plaintiff, shows that the height differential would have been in plain sight
and, therefore, would have been avoidable to a pedestrian walking on the
sidewalk and approaching the height differential ‘with due care’ at the time
plaintiff fell. [Citations.] To be sure, the height differential posed some
risk of injury. Construed in the light most favorable to plaintiff, the record
supports a reasonable inference that height differentials higher than one-half
inch pose a trip hazard to pedestrians. But to constitute a dangerous
condition, the height differential, and the area surrounding it, must have
posed ‘a substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant)
risk of injury’ when “used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably
foreseeable that it will be used.’ [Citations].”  (Huckey, supra, 122 Cal.App.5th
at pp. 1109-1110, fn. omitted.) 
Because
the Court concludes the alleged defect was trivial as a matter of law, the
Court does not address Defendant’s argument that it lacked actual and
constructive notice of the defect. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court grants Defendant City of Santa Monica’s motion for summary judgment. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.


