 Case Number:  23VECV02852    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  W SOHAN L. DUA
MD, FACP, et al. v.U.S. RENAL CARE, INC., et al.
 
Demurrer to
the first amended complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        January
18, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV02852
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
U.S. Renal Care, Inc., U.S. Renal Care Kidney Research, LLC, Geoffrey A. Block,
M.D., Hamid Sadeghi, M.D., and Ahmad Rashid
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Sohan L. Dua, M.D., FACP, and
Valley Renal Medical Group Research, Corp. 

Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Ryan Decl. ¶¶3.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 29, 2023, Plaintiff Sohan L.
Dua, M.D., FACP and Valley Renal Medical Group Research Corp. filed a complaint
against Defendants U.S. Renal Care, Inc. (“USRC”), U.S. Renal Care Kidney
Research, LLC, Geoffrey A. Block, M.D., Hamid Sadeghi, M.D., Ahmad Rashid, and
Panorama City Dialysis for False Promise; Intentional Misrepresentation; Fraud;
Tortious Interference with Contractual Relations; Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations; Inducing Breach of Contract; Breach of Oral
Contract; Breach of Implied In Fact Contract: Breach of Unformalized Agreement;
Breach of Written Contract; Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing; Breach of Implied Duty to Perform with Reasonable Care; Negligence; and
Negligent Misrepresentation Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic
Relations. 
 
On November 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
a First Amended Complaint for 1. Breach of Confidence/Confidentiality
Agreement; 2. Fraud; 3. Tortious Interference with Contractual Relations; 4. Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Relations;
5. Breach of Written Contract; 6. Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing; 7. Breach of Implied Duty to Perform with Reasonable Care; and 8.
Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Relations.

 
This action stems from a research
project Plaintiffs entered into with Merck Sharp & Dohme, LLC, a
pharmaceutical company. Plaintiff alleges they were to perform clinical trials
on dialysis patients to test the safety and efficacy of a new drug being tested
by Merck. Plaintiffs allege they reached out to Defendants to perform the study
at Panorama and had preliminary agreed to do it study there; however, all the
extra burden, time and demands Defendants were placing on Plaintiffs caused
numerous and ongoing delays in getting the project formally started. Plaintiffs
further allege, as a result of defendants’ conduct, Plaintiffs were prevented from
being paid by Merck and caused Plaintiffs to pay staff through their own funds.
After several more delays and issues between Plaintiffs and Defendants,
Plaintiffs informed Defendants that because of eight months of delays, the loss
of money, loss of patients at Panorama, and all the other harassment by Defendants,
that Plaintiffs could no longer pursue their research at Panorama.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Defendants’ Motion to
Strike is GRANTED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Damages
 
Defendants first demur to the amended
complaint on the grounds Plaintiffs do not, and cannot, plead that Defendants’
acts are the proximate cause of any alleged damages. 
 
As noted by Defendants, each of the
causes of action requires damages proximately caused by Defendants’ conduct. (See,
e.g., Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.
App. 3d 1324, 1331 (identifying damages as required element of claim for
fraud); Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal. App. 4th
153, 159 (same for claims for false promise and negligent misrepresentation); Goehring
v. Chapman Univ. (2004) 121 Cal. App. 4th 353 (same for claims for
intentional misrepresentation); Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. (1990) 50 Cal.
3d at 1126 n.2 (identifying damages as required element of claim for
intentional interference with contractual relations); 1-800 Contacts, Inc.
v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 568, 585 (same for inducing breach of
contract); Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 1182, 1186 (same
for breach of contract claims); Stockton Mortg., Inc. v. Tope (2014) 233
Cal. App. 4th 437, 453 (same for breach of oral contract); Allied Anesthesia
Med. Grp., Inc. v. Inland Empire Health Plan (2022) 80 Cal. App. 5th 794,
808, review denied (Sept. 28, 2022) (“As to the basic elements, there is no
difference between an express and implied contract”).)
 
Defendants argue all of the causes of
action here rest on the same two categories of alleged harm: (1) the loss of
all the funding previously approved by Merck for the four patients at Panorama and
(2) the loss of the costs Dua had to pay upfront to set up its research
department and its employees to prepare for and proceed with that research at Panorama.
However, there is no allegation in the complaint that Merck ever terminated the
contract. There also is no allegation that USRC refused to host the clinical
trials. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue proximate
cause is not a required element of any of Plaintiffs’ causes of action. The
court disagrees. As noted above, “[i]mplicit in the element of damage is that
the defendant's breach caused the plaintiff's damage.” (Troyk v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1352.) Similarly, and as noted
above, the remainder causes of action all require causation.  Based on the allegations, the court finds none
of Plaintiffs’ allegations support a claim of damages caused by Defendants.
Plaintiffs allege because of the delay, loss of funding, and loss of patients,
the opportunity to do the study at Panorama no longer existed. However,
Plaintiffs fail to allege how Defendants were the proximate cause of the
termination of the agreement with Merck. 
 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
Defendants Rashid, Dr. Sadeghi, and Dr.
Block
 
Defendants next argue Dr. Block, Dr.
Sadeghi, and Rashid should be dismissed on the grounds they are only employees
of USRC and/or Panorama and moreover, there are no specific facts showing
individual liability. Defendants also argue the FAC also utterly fails to plead
facts against either Dr. Sadeghi or Rashid.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendants
appear to be seeking dismissal of the individual defendants as a summary
matter. Plaintiffs contend they have not yet received discovery responses from
defendants so they are not truly aware of these defendants’ employment status
with the entity defendants, or the entity defendants’ relationship with each
other. 
 
As alleged, Plaintiffs have alleged
Rashid, Dr. Sadeghi and Dr. Block are some form of employee of USRC and/or
Panorama. “[I]t is settled that ‘corporate agents and employees acting for and
on behalf of a corporation cannot be held liable for inducing a breach of the
corporation's contract.’ [Citation.]” (Mintz v. Blue Cross of California
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1594, 1604.) Plaintiffs’ allegations do not go beyond Dr.
Block, Dr. Sadeghi, or Rashid’s positions with USRC and/or Panorama. 
 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. Plaintiffs are given one more opportunity to allege facts sufficient to
support a claim against Rashid, Dr. Sadeghi and/or Dr. Block. 
 
Breach of Contract
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ first,
fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action for alleged breaches of contract are
not validly pled. 
 
Defendants first argue Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for breach of confidence/confidentiality agreement fails to
plead any breach of the Facility Agreement by any defendant and the FAC
concedes Dr. Block was not a party to the agreement. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues they
have sufficiently alleged a claim for breach of duty of confidentiality whereby
Plaintiffs have alleged Defendant Block gained access to Plaintiffs’
confidential information with Merck from Plaintiffs, Block then reneged on his
promise to provide only the facility and nurses to administer the study drug,
started to demand to have a larger role in the research, and contacted Merck
directly. As a result of using the confidential information beyond the scope
offered, Plaintiffs study was delayed by 5 months.
 
The FAC alleges Plaintiffs discussed
their arrangement with Merck and their needs for the Merck study with Block/USRC
and afterward, trusting Plaintiffs' confidential relationship with Block/USRC
and the confidentiality clause in the FA. However, the court finds these
allegations insufficient to support a claim for breach of
confidence/confidentiality agreement. The provision in the FA provides: “Company
shall hold such Confidential Information in strictest confidence using the same
or greater degree of care it uses with its own most sensitive information (but
in no event less than a reasonable degree of care) and shall not copy,
reproduce, sell, assign, license. market, transfer or otherwise dispose of,
give or disclose such information to third parties or use such information for
any purposes whatsoever other than in the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement.” (FAC ¶54.) This confidentiality provision bars the disclosure
of confidential information to third parties. The court further notes the
complaint fails to establish Block was a party to the agreement or third party
beneficiary to the agreement. 
 
Next, Defendants argue the fifth cause
of action for breach of written contract fails as it is duplicative of the
first cause of action if predicated on the alleged breach of the
confidentiality clause and to the extent predicated on breaches of the Facility
Agreement “by not executing the promises and representations as promised,” this
is nothing more than a bare statement of legal conclusion. As for the MOU,
Defendants argue the FAC’s allegations are at most that the Merck Trials could
not proceed as scheduled. There is no allegation in the FAC that USRC or
Panorama told Dua that the Merck Trials could never proceed – merely that they
could not proceed on the then scheduled start date. 
 
The court agrees Plaintiffs have not
sufficiently alleged a breach under the FA or the MOU as the complaint fails to
sufficiently allege the terms Defendants allegedly breached. Moreover, the
complaint does not allege that Defendants actually blocked access to Panorama. The
complaint alleges, instead, Defendants “dragged out the process” because of
Defendant Block’s bad faith. (FAC ¶30.)
 
Lastly, Defendants argue the sixth and
seventh causes of action fail because the sixth cause of action for breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and seventh cause of action for
implied duty to perform with reasonable care are duplicative of the breach of
contract claims and there is no contractual “implied duty to perform with
reasonable care” in California. The court finds the allegations do go beyond a
mere breach. Plaintiffs allege Defendants unfairly interfered with the agreement
by dragging out the process. However, as noted above, Plaintiffs have not
alleged a breach.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Second Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the second cause of
action for fraud on the grounds it is barred by the economic loss rule and is
not pled with the requisite specificity or intent. Defendants contend under the
economic loss rule, a plaintiff suffering only economic damages “may not
ordinarily recover in tort for the breach of duties that merely restate
contractual obligations.” (Aas v. Superior Court (2000) 24 Cal. 4th 627,
643.) 
 
The court finds the fraud claim not
barred by the economic loss rule. The California Supreme Court addressed the
economic loss rule as it applied to fraud in Robinson Helicopter Co v. Dana
Corp (2004) 34 Cal 4th 979.  The Robinson
case was further interpreted by the Sixth District Court of Appeal in County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal App 4th 292,
326-331.  The Sixth District ultimately
ruled that the economic loss rule does not apply to fraud claims because fraud
claims are “independent” of the breach. 
After providing an overview of the Supreme Court’s Robinson
holding, the Sixth District reviewed the specific issue of “whether the
California Supreme Court intended in Robinson to obviate the application of the
economic loss rule to all intentional affirmative fraud causes of action where
the fraud exposes the plaintiff to liability or the court intended to provide a
narrow exception to the economic loss rule that applies only where that fraud
cause of action also accompanies, but is independent of, a breach of contract
cause of action.”  (County of Santa
Clara, supra, 137 Cal App 4th at p. 328.) The Sixth District opined
that the “California Supreme Court's decision in Robinson precludes the
application of the economic loss rule to any intentional affirmative fraud
action where the plaintiff can establish that the fraud exposed the plaintiff
to liability.” (Ibid.) 
Defendants also argue the FAC does not
state when the alleged fraudulent statements were made, under whose authority
they were made, and the actual content of these statements outside of the vague
reference that Block told Plaintiffs that they could use Panorama and so on and
moreover, nothing in the FAC indicates that the conduct of the Defendants was
intentional or that they did not intend to perform when promises were made.
 
The court agrees Plaintiff has not
alleged the fraud causes of action with the requisite specificity. Moreover,
when alleging intent, the complaint must allege Defendants made the
misrepresentations with the intent to induce Plaintiffs’ reliance.  
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Third, Fourth, and Eighth Causes of
action 
 
Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ third
(tortious interference with contractual relations), fourth (intentional
interference with prospective economic relations), and eighth (negligent
interference with prospective business relations) on the grounds none of the
causes of action state facts sufficient to support a claim against Defendants. 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs have not
sufficiently alleged Defendants engaged in an independently wrongful act to
support a claim for intentional interference with prospective economic
relations and moreover, there are no allegations pled showing that Defendants intentionally
acted to induce a breach or disrupt Plaintiffs’ contract with Merck or that Dua
has been unable to conduct the Merck Trials at another facility since his
unilateral decision. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue they
have sufficiently alleged all the required elements for their interference with
contract or economic relations causes of action. The court disagrees. Plaintiff
has not shown Defendants conduct was an independently wrongful act. (See Korea
Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1158 holding
“[a]n act is not independently wrongful merely because defendant acted with an
improper motive…. … an act is independently wrongful if it
is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.”) Moreover, as
noted by Defendants, there are no allegations pled showing that Defendants
intentionally acted to induce a breach or disrupt Plaintiffs’ contract with
Merck and it was Plaintiffs who terminated the agreement. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’
claims for punitive damages and attorney fees. The court notes in opposition, Plaintiffs
withdraw their claims for attorneys fees. The court therefore grants the motion
to strike as to attorney fees. 
 
As for Defendants motion to strike
punitive damages, Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ allegations are insufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages. Defendants contend the only semblance of
support Plaintiffs attempt to allege is that Dr. Block, USRC, and Panorama
“were aware that time was of the essence.” However, awareness that time was of
the essence without anything more is simply not oppression, fraud, or malice.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
allegations are sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  Because the court finds that plaintiff’s fraud
claims are insufficiently plead, the court agrees that the motion to strike
punitive damages must also be granted, with 
leave to amend.  
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
strike punitive damages is granted with leave to amend. 