 Case Number:  22STCV21424    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  C Alexis L., et al. vs
Norwalk/La Mirada Unified School District, et al.
Case No. 22STCV21424
Hearing: 1/25/24 at 10:30am 
 
#6
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Norwalk/La
Mirada Unified School District’s Motion to Compel 1) Plaintiff to Sign
Authorizations for Release of Records; 2) Plaintiff's Treating Physicians
Release of Records; or 3) An Order Excluding Plaintiff
from Claiming Mental Distress Damages is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff to give
notice. 
 
Background
This lawsuit concerns
an alleged sexual abuse and harassment of Plaintiff Alexis L. by Defendant
Scott Waln, a teacher at Los Alisos Middle School within the school district of
Defendant Norwalk/La Mirada Unified School District, during the 2019-2020 school
year.
 
Defendant seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to sign
authorizations for release of records, Plaintiff’s treating physicians release
of records, or an order excluding Plaintiff from claiming mental distress
damages.
Analysis

Defendant seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to sign an authorization to permit certain medical providers
to release Plaintiff’s prior medical records.
Defendant
presents no authority in support of the motion to compel Plaintiff to produce
medical records. Moreover, the Court finds there is no authority for compelling
Plaintiff to sign an authorization for release of her medical records.
In
Miranda v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 913, 918-919,
the plaintiff made an underinsured motorist’s claim. The defendant commenced
discovery, which revealed that the plaintiff had been treated for
post-concussion symptoms with Kaiser in 2000. The defendant followed up with a
subpoena to Kaiser, but Kaiser indicated it would only release the records with
a signed authorization from the plaintiff. The plaintiff refused to sign an
authorization. The defendant ultimately filed an action to commence discovery
with the Superior Court. The defendant concurrently filed a motion to compel
the plaintiff to sign an authorization for release of the records from Kaiser.
The motion was unopposed, and the trial court granted the motion. The plaintiff
continued to refuse to sign the authorization, and the trial court ultimately
granted a motion to dismiss. The plaintiff appealed, but the sole issue on the
appeal was whether the trial court had jurisdiction to dismiss the case; the
Court of Appeals did not rule on the propriety of the issuance of the order
compelling the plaintiff to sign the authorizations.
Notably,
to the extent the Court of Appeals did rule on the issue, it was highly
skeptical of the method of discovery. In a footnote, it indicated, “The record
does not reflect the reason the medical facilities requested plaintiff’s
authorization. Perhaps defendant did not comply with the procedures to obtain
“personal records” of a “consumer” as required by section 1985.3 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, in which case the medical facilities had a sufficient basis to
refuse compliance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (k).) If section 1985.3
had been complied with, the record does not indicate why defendant did not
simply move to compel compliance with the subpoena pursuant to section 1987.1,
instead of pursuing an unwilling plaintiff for a signed authorization. These
matters remain mysteries because of the scant record presented to the trial
court.”
Aside from the dicta from the appellate court in Miranda,
there is ample California appellate authority holding that the trial court does
not have the power to create additional methods of discovery. See, for example,
San Diego Unified Port Dist. V. Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th
1400, 1405 and the cases referenced therein.
Moreover, the Court declines to grant an order excluding
Plaintiff from claiming mental distress damages, because Defendant may have
subpoenaed the records from the medical providers itself.
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion is DENIED.  