 Case Number:  23NWCV00386    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  C NUNEZ-HERNANDEZ v. RALPHS GROCERY COMPANY 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00386
HEARING:   01/25/24
#3
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Requests for Production (set one) is DENIED.


Opposing Party to give notice.
This slip and fall
action was filed by Plaintiff JUANA NUNEZ-HERNANDEZ (“Plaintiff”) against
Defendant RALPHS GROCERY COMPANY (“Ralphs” or “Defendant”) on February 3, 2023.

Plaintiff’s
Complaint asserts the following causes of action: (1) Negligence; and (2)
Premises Liability. 
CCP
§ 2031.310 allows a party to file a motion compelling further answers to
document requests if it finds that the response is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive, or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  The motion shall be accompanied with a meet
and confer declaration.  (CCP §
2031.310(b).)  
Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling further responses to Requests for Production (set
one)—specifically, RPD No. 5, which seeks: “Any and all INCIDENT reports which
states any and all facts on how the INCIDENT occurred.” 
In
Opposition, Defendant objects and argues that the information is protected by
the attorney-client and work product privileges including documents made in
anticipation of litigation. 
The
party claiming the privilege has the burden of establishing the preliminary
facts necessary to support its exercise, i.e., a communication made in the
course of an attorney-client relationship. (League of California Cities v.
Superior Court (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 976, 988-89) If the party
claiming the privilege presents facts supporting a prima facie claim of
privilege, the communication is presumed to have been made in confidence and
the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of proof to establish the
communication was not confidential or that the privilege does not for other
reasons apply. (Id. at 989.) To evaluate whether the party claiming the privilege
has made a prima facie showing, the focus is on the purpose of the
relationship between the parties to a communication. (Id.)
When
the party claiming the privilege shows the dominant purpose of the relationship
between the parties to the communication was one of attorney-client, the
communication is protected by the privilege. (Id.) Once that party
establishes facts necessary to support a prima facie claim of privilege, the
communication is presumed to have been made in confidence and the opponent of
the claim of privilege has the burden of proof to establish the communication
was not confidential or that the privilege does not for other reasons apply. (Id.)  
Here,
in support of the privilege, Defendant submits a declaration from Defendant’s
Counsel, Justene Adamec, who declares “Ralphs is self-insured and refers all
claims to a third-party administrator. The administrator collects certain
information and passes it on to counsel in the event a matter cannot be
resolved before a lawsuit is filed.” (Adamec Decl. ¶ 2.) “The incident report
itself is marked confidential. The questions on the form are items used by the
attorneys and evidence work product. Thus, it becomes the beginning of the
conversation between the attorney and client.” (Adamec Decl. ¶ 4.)  While more specificity is desirable, the
court determines that Defendant has made a prima facie claim of privilege. The
court agrees with Defendant that its claim of privilege is sufficiently
analogous to the one made in Payless Drug Stores, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1976) 54 Cal.App.3d 988 to establish the dominant purpose.  Like the accident report in Payless,
it is evident that the incident report at issue here was required by Defendant
in cases where accidents were claimed, the incident report was intended to be
confidential, and the report was transmitted to counsel for use in defending
litigation arising out of the accident. (Id. at 991.) The burden then
shifts to Plaintiff to establish the communication was not confidential or that
the privilege does not for other reasons apply. 
Plaintiff has not done so.  

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s claim of privilege
is SUSTAINED and Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (set one) is DENIED. 
 
 