  Case Number:  22LBCV00019    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Ariel Knight filed this action against Defendants, Robert Louis
Wood, Jacqueline Amy Wood, The Wood Family Trust, Robert Louis Wood and
Jacqueline Amy Wood as Trustees, and Henry Perry for damages arising out of the
parties’ landlord-tenant relationship.  
 
2.    
Motion to Compel Psychological Examination
a.     Relief
Sought
Defendants seek an order compelling
Plaintiff to attend a psychological examination.  In the alternative, they seek an order
shortening the time to respond to a demand for psychological examination.  
 
b.     Opposition
Any opposition to the motion was
due on or before 9/27/23.  Plaintiff has
not filed timely opposition to the motion. 
The Court will not consider late-filed opposition papers.  
 
c.     Authority
for Psychological Examination
Except for defense physicals in personal
injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and
exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or
mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and
for “good cause shown.”  (CCP
§2032.320(a).)  
 
The examination will be limited to
whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be directly
related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the
litigation.  Roberts v. Superior Court
(1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.  Often, a
party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy
... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting
from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in
controversy.”  See Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing
emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer.  Discovery responses can also frame the issues
regarding the injuries and damages alleged. 

 
Additionally, CCP §2032.310(b) requires a party moving to
conduct a mental examination to specify “the time, place, manner, conditions,
scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the
specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination.”  §2032.320(d) requires the Court, in any order
granting a motion to compel mental examination, to specify the above
information.  Pursuant to Carpenter v.
Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260, a court order
granting a motion to compel mental examination must specify and list by name the
diagnostic tests and procedures to be used in the examination.
 
d.     Good
Cause 
Defendant has clearly shown good
cause for the examination sought.  Defendant
shows that Plaintiff, in response to discovery, has indicated her sole damages
are for emotional distress, including PTSD and anxiety.  
 
e.     Diagnostic
Tests and Procedures
Defendant did not, in the notice of
motion or points and authorities, list the diagnostic tests or procedures to be
conduct.  Defendant did, however,
propound a demand for psychological examination on Plaintiff, and attached the
demand as Exhibit A to the motion.  The
demand includes a list of diagnostic tests and procedures that could potentially
be conducted.  The Court therefore finds
the requirement is satisfied.  The Court incorporates
the list of diagnostic tests and procedures from Exhibit A into this order by
reference, and finds the scope of the exam cannot exceed the scope identified
in Exhibit A.
 
f.      Examination
Defendant seeks an order requiring
Plaintiff to sit for examination on 10/09/23 at the office of Judy Ho at 1600
Rosecrans Avenue in Manhattan Beach.  Defendant
set the motion for hearing, however, on 10/10/23.  The Court cannot order an exam to occur in the
past.  Counsel must meet and confer by
the end of the week to select a mutually agreeable date, time, and location for
the examination.  If Plaintiff does not
meaningfully participate in the meet and confer communications, Defendant may
unilaterally schedule the examination with three days’ notice (by email).  
g.     Alternative
Relief
Defendant seeks an alternative
order shortening time for Plaintiff to respond to the demand.  A mental examination cannot be conducted by
demand.  It can only be conducted by
stipulation or court order.  §2032.320(a).  There is, therefore, nothing for Plaintiff to
respond to.  There is only this order granting
Defendant’s request to have Plaintiff sit for a psychological examination.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.  