 Case Number:  22STCV14494    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2023    Dept:  S27 The hearing on this motion to compel deposition has been continued
multiple times.  Most recently, on
9/07/23, the Court continued the hearing and advised the parties that, if
Plaintiff remained too ill to be deposed, the trial date would need to be continued.  On 9/21/23, the parties submitted a
stipulation to continue the trial date, but the Court denied the stipulation
because the trial date has been continued multiple times previously.  
 
On 10/04/23 and 10/05/23, the parties filed declarations concerning the
status of the deposition.  The deposition
is currently scheduled to go forward on 10/24/23.  The Court is hopeful that the deposition will
go forward, and remains loathe to issue a court order compelling it to go
forward in light of Plaintiff’s ongoing health issues.
 
The hearing on this motion is therefore continued to Tuesday, 11/07/24
at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  If the
deposition does not go forward, the parties must file declarations at least a
week prior to the hearing date concerning Plaintiff’s health, the status of the
deposition, any ongoing need for a trial continuance, and anything else the
parties deem material for consideration in connection with the ongoing
deposition scheduling issue.
 
SPCH is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s
email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on
the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   
 