 Case Number:  22LBCV00534    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2023    Dept:  S27 This Court has, in the past six to
nine months, seen a dramatic increase in motions to compel further responses in
lemon law cases.  Similar issues are
presented on all of the motions, and the attorneys for both parties fail and
refuse to meet and confer in good faith in light of this Court’s prior rulings
in order to resolve issues relating to each case.  The Court’s docket has been inundated with these
motions, with discovery motions in lemon law cases often taking up more than
five motion hearing slots in a week.  
 
The Court finds Counsel, with the assistance
of this Court’s prior rulings, can easily resolve the issues on these discovery
motions.  The Court has ruled on
discovery motions concerning the instant defendant, American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc., in the following cases (among others):
22LBCV00548
22LBCV00586
23LBCV00165
19LBCV00395
BC661850
 
The Court has read and considered Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 331-334,
wherein the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s award of sanctions
against BOTH attorneys on the case, which sanctions were ordered payable to the
other party directly.  The Court finds
the attorneys in these lemon law cases are acting in a way that does not
benefit their clients, constantly incurring attorneys’ fees in connection with
discovery disputes when they are already aware of how the Court will rule on
the motions.  
 
The hearing on this motion is continued
to 11/21/23.  The Court expects Counsel
to meet and confer, with this Court’s prior rulings in mind (rulings by other
trial courts are not relevant and should not be used in the meet and confer
discussion).  If Counsel are unable to
resolve all of their issues prior to the continued hearing on the motion, they
must file a joint statement of items that remain in dispute.  The joint statement must list each discovery item
in dispute, the most current response to that item, and each party’s statement
of why a further response should or should not be ordered.  The joint statement must make arguments
relevant only to the item in dispute, not to the other items, so the Court can
easily and quickly rule on each item.  
 
If the parties resolve their
issues, they must take the motion off calendar using the online reservation
system.  If they are unable to resolve their
issues, they must also file short (no more than five pages) briefs and
declarations detailing their efforts to meet and confer and making any argument
against imposition of sanctions that they wish to articulate.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s
email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on
the tentative.  If the parties do not submit
on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.