 Case Number:  23TRCV02714    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
2522 THE
  STRAND LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02714




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BRIAN
  TAYLOR, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 7, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Brian Taylor
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff 2522 The Strand LLC
Demurrer to Complaint
            The court considered the moving and opposition
papers. No reply was filed as of March 6, 2024.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend. 
BACKGROUND
            On August 17, 2023, plaintiff 2522
The Strand LLC filed a complaint against defendants Brian Taylor for unlawful
detainer. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
The Allegations in
the Complaint
            This is an unlawful detainer
lawsuit.  Plaintiff alleges that on or
about July 25, 2019, Premises, one unit of a 2-unit condominium with the intent
to remodel the premises and sell the unit upon completion.  (Complaint ¶ 7.)  It is alleged that:
“At the time the Premises was
acquired, Plaintiff had two managers, Taylor and Sackley. Sackley provided the
funding for the development and had all decision-making powers. Taylor was
responsible for designing and managing the development of the project. Upon
completion and sale of the Premises, the profits would be split.”  (Complaint ¶ 8.)
Construction
was completed in 2021 and the property was ready to be marketed and sold.  (Complaint ¶ 9.)  In early December 2022, Taylor, without the
knowledge, consent or permission of Sackley, moved into the premises and
continues to occupy the premises without plaintiff’s permission or consent.  (Complaint ¶ 10.)  It is alleged in the Complaint that Defendant
contends that that he had the right as a manager to occupy the Premises.  (Complaint ¶ 15.)
“However, even while a manager,
Taylor had no right to occupy the Premises, and if he did, any such right no
longer exists because Taylor's relationship as manager has been lawfully
terminated, and any such tenancy rights Taylor may have asserted as an employee,
servant, licensee, principal or agent of Plaintiff have also terminated
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1161(1).”  (Complaint ¶ 15.)
 
            Defendant demurs to the complaint on
the basis that plaintiff does not allege a landlord-tenant relationship. In
opposition, plaintiff argues that it alleges an employer-employee relationship
which supports an unlawful detainer action.
            
            Plaintiff contends that its
relationship to defendant falls under CCP § 1161(1).  That statute states:
“1. When the tenant continues in
possession, … of the property … after the expiration of the term …; including
the case where the person to be removed became the occupant of the premises
as a servant, employee, agent, or licensee and the
relation of master and servant, or employer and employee, or principal and
agent, or licensor and licensee, has been lawfully terminated or the
time fixed for occupancy by the agreement between the parties has expired; but
nothing in this subdivision shall be construed as preventing the removal of the
occupant in any other lawful manner; but in case of a tenancy at will, it shall
first be terminated by notice, as prescribed in the Civil Code.”  (Bold added.)
Here, plaintiff alleges that it defendant
moved into the premises and continues to occupy it without plaintiff’s
permission and that Defendant ceased to be a manager of the LLC.
Plaintiff contends that defendant
asserts that he had the right as manager to occupy the premises. However, even
while a manager, defendant had no right to occupy the premises, and if he did,
any such right no longer exists because defendant’s relationship as manager has
been lawfully terminated, and any such tenancy rights defendant may have
asserted as an employee, servant, licensee, principal or agent of plaintiff
have also terminated pursuant to CCP § 1161(1). (Complaint, ¶¶7-15.)
“[B]ecause of the summary nature of
unlawful detainer, it has been held that the person seeking to avail himself of
the unlawful detainer statute must bring himself clearly within the terms of
the relationships described in said statute.” Marvell v. Marina Pizzeria
(1984) 155 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 7. “The statutory situations in which the remedy
of unlawful detainer is available are exclusive, and the statutory procedure
must be strictly followed.” Greene v. Municipal Court (1975) 51
Cal.App.3d 446, 450 (internal quotation marks omitted). Thus, the question here
is whether plaintiff has pled an appropriate relationship between itself and
defendant such that the unlawful detainer statute applies.
The court is currently unaware of
any legal authority holding that co-managers of an LLC fall within CCP § 1161(1).
Under CCP § 1161, the unlawful detainer “‘remedy is available in only three
situations: to a lessor against a lessee for unlawfully holding over or for
breach of a lease; to an owner against an employee, agent, or licensee whose
relationship has terminated; and to a purchaser at an execution sale, a sale by
foreclosure, or a sale under a power of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust
against the former owner and possessor.’ [Citation.]” Taylor v. Nu Digital
Marketing, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 283, 288-289, quoting Greene,
supra, 51 Cal.App.3d at 450. Thus, for Plaintiff to plead a claim in
unlawful detainer, it must allege a landlord-tenant relationship exists between
the partis. Francis v. West Virginia Oil Co. (1917) 174 Cal. 168, 170. 
Based on the allegations, it does
not appear that a landlord-tenant relationship exists. The relationship alleges
does not appear to be that of “master and servant, or employer and employee, or
principal and agent, or licensor and licensee…”
As stated above, plaintiff must
bring itself clearly within the statute. Plaintiff asserts that defendant was
an employee of it, however it alleges that he is a co-manager of the LLC, which
is arguably akin to a co-owner, who would have the right to occupy the premises
as a tenant in common. Hacienda Ranch Homes, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1122, 1128. One case that found co-owners within the
landlord-tenant relationship is Rossetto v. Barross (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th Supp. 1. But in that case there was a landlord tenant relationship that
was created separate from the co-owner status of the parties.  In Rossetto, the court looked to the
intent of the parties in creating that relationship through the written
agreement of the parties. Rossetto, supra, 90 Cal.App.4th Supp.
at 4-5.
Here, plaintiff has not alleged
sufficient facts to show the intent of the parties or an agreement to create a
landlord-tenant relationship. Further, plaintiff actually alleges that
defendant never had the right to occupy the premises even while he was a
co-manager. (Complaint, ¶10.) Accordingly, plaintiff has failed to allege a
relationship that brings the parties within the unlawful detainer statute. CCP
§ 1161(1), which plaintiff argues this action falls under, applies “[w]hen the
tenant continues in possession . . . of the property, or any part thereof,
after the expiration of the term for which it is let to the tenant.” Based on
plaintiff’s allegations, there was never any term for which the premises was
let to the defendant.
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
complaint is SUSTAINED. However, the court allows 20 days leave to amend as there
may be a claim against defendant such as for forcible detainer.
ORDER
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.