  Case Number:  22TRCV00011    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ABSOLUTE
  RESOLUTIONS INVESTMENTS, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00011




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING RE: MOTION TO TRANSFER VENUE 
 




 
HARJINDER
  KAUR,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 7, 2024
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Absolute Resolutions Investments, LLC (“Absolute”
Responding
Party:                  None as of March 6, 2024
Motion
to Transfer Venue 
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            Plaintiff Absolute’s Motion to
Change Venue is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff is a debt buyer and sues
as assignee of First National Bank of Omaha (“Omaha”).  Omaha provided Defendant with a credit
account and Defendant defaulted on the account, leaving an outstanding balance
of $29,063.12.  On January 6, 2022,
Plaintiff Absolute Resolutions Investments, LLC filed a complaint alleging (1)
account stated; and (2) open book account. 

            When the action was filed, Plaintiff
believed that Defendant resided in Inglewood, California.  However, it has learned that Defendant resides
in Kern County.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “Except as otherwise provided by law
and subject to the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as
provided in this title, the superior court in the county where the defendants
or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court
for the trial of the action… Subject to subdivision (b), if a defendant has
contracted to perform an obligation in a particular county, the superior court
in the county where the obligation is to be performed, where the contract in
fact was entered into, or where the defendant or any defendant resides at the
commencement of the action is a proper court for the trial of an action founded
on that obligation, and the county where the obligation is incurred is the
county where it is to be performed, unless there is a special contract in
writing to the contrary.”  (CCP §395(a).)
            “Subject to the power of the court
to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this title, in an action
arising from an offer or provision of goods, services, loans or extensions of
credit intended primarily for personal, family or household use… the superior
court in the county where the buyer or lessee in fact signed the contract,
where the buyer or lessee resided at the time the contract was entered into, or
where the buyer or lessee resides at the commencement of the action is the
proper court for the trial of the action….” 
(CCP §395(b).)  
            “The general rule is that venue is
proper only in the county of the defendant's residence. It is well established
that a defendant is entitled to have an action tried in the county of his or
her residence unless the action falls within some exception to the general
venue rule.”  (Williams v. Superior
Court for County of Contra Costa (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 101, 108 (quoting Brown
v. Sup.Ct. (C.C. Myers, Inc.) (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 488)(plaintiff’s
allegation of physical ailment as a result of harassment claim based on emails
did not qualify as “injury to person” under CCP §395(a); defendant therefore
entitled to transfer of the action to her county of residence).)  
            “Thus, the right of a plaintiff to
have an action tried in a county other than that of the defendant's residence
is exceptional. If the plaintiff would claim such right he must bring himself
within the exception.  Moreover, when the
plaintiff contends that the case fits within an exception to the general rule
that venue is proper in the county of defendant's residence, any ambiguities in
the complaint must be construed against the plaintiff towards the end that the defendant
will not be deprived of the right to a trial in the county of his or her
residence.”  (Id. at 109.)
            “The court may, on motion, change
the place of trial in the following cases:
(a)
When the court designated in the complaint is not the proper court.”  (CCP §397(a).)  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
moves to change venue based on its mistaken belief when this action was filed
that Defendant resided in Torrance, Los Angeles County.  Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that he now
believes Defendant resides in Bakersfield, Kern County.  Plaintiff argues this action should be venued
in Kern County and asks that the Court transfer venue to Metropolitan Division
Justice Building, County of Kern, 1215 Truxtun Ave., Bakersfield, CA
93301.  (Wang Dec., ¶¶3-4.)  
            Defendant
has not yet appeared and proof of service of the complaint and summons shows
that Plaintiff served Defendant at an Inglewood, CA address.  However, Plaintiff indicated that upon
granting of this change of venue motion it shall re-serve Defendant.  The instant motion was served on Defendant by
mail at a Bakersfield address.  Defendant
has not appeared, nor did he file an opposition.  (CCP §1014 (“Where a defendant has not
appeared, service of notice or papers need not be made upon the defendant.”)
            For
these reasons, Plaintiff’s motion for change of venue is GRANTED.  
ORDER
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Change of Venue is GRANTED.
            Plaintiff
shall pay the fee associated with the transfer of a case to a different county.
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.