 Case Number:  23TRCV03301    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  B  



Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
VICKI
  ANN HUTTO, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03301




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING RE: DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 




 
GREEN
  HILLS MEMORIAL PARK,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 7, 2024
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Green Hills Memorial Park 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Victoria Hutto 
Demurrer
to Complaint with Motion to Strike 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            Defendant Green Hills Memorial
Park’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff alleges she was confronted
by Defendant Green Hills Memorial Park’s employees regarding her presence at Green
Hills Memorial Park, where Plaintiff’s daughter is buried.  Plaintiff alleges she was visiting her
daughter and was entitled to visit her. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s employees confronted her on October 30,
2021 and October 31, 2021.  On October
30, 2021, Plaintiff alleges a security guard falsely accused her of bathing in
the bathroom at the memorial park.  On
October 31, 2021, Plaintiff alleges two men also questioned her regarding her
vehicle, which had out-of-state plates and a trailer attached, and informed her
that there had been complaints about her vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges these men were Los Angeles
Police Department officers.  
            On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint against Green Hills Memorial Park and DOES 1 to Infinity alleging
(1) intentional tort and (2) general negligence.  Plaintiff’s seeks damages in the amount of
$575,000 and punitive damages.  Plaintiff
is self-represented.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirada (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, the defects must be apparent on
the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.30, 430.70; Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
968, 994.)  At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. 
(Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.)  The court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)  A “demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.”  (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964)
226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.)   
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Green Hills Memorial Park demurs to the complaint on grounds of failure to
state a cause of action.  Defendant
argues a claim for IIED must allege extreme and outrageous conduct.  Defendant argues a security guard or police
officer questioning Plaintiff regarding her use of the restroom on one day and
her vehicle and presence at the park another day does not qualify as extreme
and outrageous conduct.  Defendant argues
it also had no control over the two LAPD officers.
            Defendant
Green Hills Memorial Park also argues there are no facts alleged to support a
negligence claim.  Defendant argues the
fact that security personnel may have spoken to her about her use of the
restroom does not allege breach of a legal duty of care, nor does it allege any
injuries.  
            Defendant
Green Hills Memorial Park argues there are no facts alleged to support a claim
of punitive damages and moves to strike any claim for punitive damages.  Defendant Green Hills Memorial Park argues at
most, Plaintiff alleges she experienced poor customer service from a  security guard who asked her a few
questions.  
            In opposition,
Plaintiff argues a trier of fact must determine the issues raised by the
demurrer and motion to strike.  Plaintiff
argues the complaint is detailed and complete. 

            In
reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s opposition fails to address the substantive
arguments in the demurrer or motion to strike. 
Defendant argues the complaint fails to allege any egregious conduct
that would support an intentional tort claim, nor are there any facts alleged
that would establish breach of a legal duty. 
Defendant argues the punitive damages claim fails because the
intentional tort claim fails.
 
            Plaintiff’s
complaint fails to state a cause of action for intentional tort or general
negligence (or any other tort). 
Plaintiff’s complaint fails to identify what intentional tort she is
attempting to allege.  Even assuming
Plaintiff is alleging intentional infliction of emotional distress, Plaintiff
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action.  Plaintiff alleges that on October 30, she was
confronted by a security guard regarding her use of the bathroom and the
security guard accused her of bathing in there and leaving the bathroom a
mess.  (Complaint, First Cause of action,
Item IT-1.)  Plaintiff alleges that on
October 31, two LAPD officers questioned her regarding her presence at the park
and her car and informed her that they received complaints about her use of the
park’s bathroom and her vehicle.  (Id.)

            Without
more these allegations fail to plead “extreme and outrageous conduct” for
purposes of IIED.  Nor do they state a
claim for any other intentional tort.  Whether
conduct is outrageous is usually a question of fact but can be determined as an
issue of law.”  (Smith v. BP
Lubricants USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 147 (plaintiff alleged
outrageous conduct based on three racially offensive statements made by
defendant’s employee before 50 of plaintiff’s coworkers and 3 of his
supervisors)147.)  “Mere insulting
language, without more, ordinarily would not constitute extreme outrage unless
it is combined with aggravated circumstances. 
But behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a
relation or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest;
(2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or
(3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are
likely to result in illness through mental distress.”  (Id. at 147.)  
            A
security guard accusing Plaintiff using the bathroom to bath and leaving it a
mess, without more, does not alone qualify as outrageous conduct not to be tolerated
in a civilized society.  (Hughes v.
Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1051 (defendant’s inappropriate comments fell
“far short” of conduct so outrageous that it exceeds all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community).)  Likewise,
the police questioning Plaintiff about her presence and her vehicle based on
complaints made to them does not qualify as extreme and outrageous
conduct.  Moreover, Plaintiff admits that
LAPD questioned her on the second day, not Defendant’s employees.  
            For
these same reasons, Plaintiff’s general negligence claim fails.  Based on the allegations, Plaintiff fails to
allege Defendant’s breach of any cognizable duty as a result of being
confronted about her bathroom use at the park or being questioned by LAPD.  
            Demurrer
is therefore sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  In light of the ruling on demurrer, the
motion to strike punitive damages is moot. 

ORDER
1.
Defendant Green Hills Memorial Park’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE
TO AMEND.
2.
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
3.
As to any amended complaint and all other documents filed by Plaintiff, Plaintiff
is to either (1) type the document in conformity with Rule of Court 2.101-2.112,
or (2) handwrite it as described herein. 
Plaintiff shall space the lines similar to double spaced typing so that
there is a gap between the lines at least as large as the size of the
print.  Plaintiff shall not write in
margins which shall be least one-half inch on the left and right side
margins.  Plaintiff shall create a space
between words that is at lease as large as two letters, so that each word can
easily be distinguished from the word that precedes it and that comes after it.
4. Moving party is ordered to give notice of ruling.