 Case Number:  23TRCV02305    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SARAH
  SOLOMON, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02305
  




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING RE: MOTION TO STRIKE 
 




 
LRW
  INVESTMENTS, LLC,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March
7, 2024
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Jose Ramo Amador
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Sarah Solomon 
Motion
to Strike Punitive Damages from Complaint 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            Defendant Amador’s Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages is denied.  
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff was injured while stopped at
a light in the left-turn lane, facing east, on W. Century Blvd., when her
vehicle was rear-ended and side swiped by Defendant Jose Ramo Amador.  (This is not the claimed basis for seeking
punitive damages.)  Defendant Amador fled
the scene after the incident. (This conduct of fleeing the scene of the
accident is alleged to be the basis for seeking punitive damages ONLY from the
driver of the vehicle, Jose Ramos Amador.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Amador was operating a vehicle owned by
Defendants LRW Investments LLC and LR San Diego WallyPark, LLC.  Defendant Amador was allegedly acting in the
course and scope of his employment with Defendants LRW Investments LLC and LR
San Diego WallyPark, LLC.  
            On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed
this action against Defendants.  The
operative complaint is the First Amended Complaint filed on August 1, 2023
alleging (1) motor vehicle; (2) general negligence; (3) intentional tort; and
(4) punitive damages.  (By stipulation the
claim for punitive damages was dismissed as to the entity defendants.)
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”  (CCP §436.)  
            Pursuant to CCP §436, the Court may
strike out “any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading”
and/or “all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  (CCP §436.) 
In ruling on a motion to strike, the allegations in the complaint are
considered in context and presumed to be true: “[J]udges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.”  (Clauson v.
Sup.Ct. (Pedus Services, Inc.) (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)   
            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”  (CC §3294(a).)
            “‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
(CC §3294(c)(1).)  “‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” 
(CC §3294(c)(2).)
            “An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.” (CC §3294(b).) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Amador moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages from the
complaint on grounds that the only conduct alleged is negligence.  Defendant argues Plaintiff’s only allegations
in support of punitive damages are based on his leaving the scene of the
accident.  Defendant argues this alone
does not constitute malice, fraud or oppression, particularly given that the
underlying motor vehicle accident was due to alleged negligence.  Defendant argues leave to amend should be
denied.  Defendant argues allegations
that he was inattentive while driving and driving at an unsafe speed is
insufficient to support a punitive damages claim.  (But this is not the conduct that Plaintiff
is basing the claim for punitive damages upon.)
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s decision to leave to scene of the
accident, where Plaintiff was clearly seriously injured, qualifies as malice,
because it was despicable conduct undertaken in conscious disregard of her
rights.  Plaintiff argues Defendant’s
violated the Penal Code when he fled the scene. 
Plaintiff argues Defendant was also an airport shuttle driver and should
have been well informed of the importance of remaining at the scene.  Plaintiff argues she was not allowed to
allege an amount of punitive damages, but she has complied with CCP
§425.10.  
            In
reply, Defendant argues the punitive damages claim is based on conclusory
allegations.  Defendant argues the Penal
Code is irrelevant to the standard applicable for punitive damages here.  Defendant argues courts have not allowed
punitive damages in cases involving DUI. 
Defendant argues leaving the scene of an accident alone is insufficient
to state a claim for punitive damages. 
Defendant argues his status as an airport shuttle driver carries no
higher duty of care.  Defendant denies
ever having made Plaintiff’s failure to allege an amount of punitive damages an
issue.  
            Plaintiff
alleges a cause of action for intentional tort. 
Defendant did not demur to this cause of action.  Plaintiff’s complaint allegations are
sufficient to support a claim for IIED at the very least.  Defendant knowingly and intentionally left
Plaintiff at the scene of the accident that he caused despite Plaintiff’s
apparent serious injury.  (FAC, Third
Cause of Action, Attachment IT-1, IT-2-8.) 
For at least two hours, Plaintiff suffered serious emotional distress
due to Plaintiff’s abandonment of the scene of the accident he caused.  (FAC, Third Cause of Action, Attachment IT-1,
IT-2-8.)  A trier of fact could determine
that Defendant’s knowing and intentional abandonment of the scene of an
accident that he caused qualified as conduct undertaken in reckless disregard
of the probability of causing emotional distress.  (Smith, supra, 64 Cal.App.5th
at 147.)  Based on these same allegations,
Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim is sufficiently stated based on the
“despicable conduct” prong of malice, “despicable conduct undertaken in
conscious disregard of the rights and safety of others.”  (CC §3294(c)(1).)
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is DENIED.  
ORDER
            Defendant Amador’s motion to strike
is DENIED.
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.