  Case Number:  23SMCV05027    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
E-Advance
Services, LLC v. Healthymouth, LLC, et al., Case No. 23SMCV05027
Hearing Date 7/17/2024
Plaintiff’s Motion
for Summary Judgment
 
Plaintiff entered
into a credit card receivable agreement (“Agreement”) with defendant Healthymouth,
guaranteed by defendant Albert. Compl. Exh. 1. Plaintiff alleges defendants modified
credit card processing operations, so it could not collect receivables, as per
the Agreement. Plaintiff alleges damages of $107,414.
 
Plaintiff propounded
requests for admissions to defendant Albert. See Plaintiff’s RFA Facts, Mulhorn
Decl. Exh. 5-8. Per RFA responses, defendants admitted: Albert, on behalf of
Healthymouth, entered into the Agreement and agreed to remit credit card
receivables of $224,850 in exchange for plaintiff’s payment of $150,000, which Albert
personally guaranteed; the remaining balance owed is $107,414; and the agreement
provides for attorney’s fees and costs.
 
Defendants
admitted the genuineness of: (1) the Agreement, (2) the Personal Guaranty, and
(3) an authorization agreement for automatic withdrawal of funds. See
Defendants’ Responses to RFA Documents, Mulhorn Decl. Exh. 8. Plaintiff moves
for summary judgment.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Defendants’
objection no. 1 is OVERRULED.
Defendants’
objections nos. 2 to 3 are MOOT because defendants admitted the genuineness of
the documents. 
Defendants’
objection no. 4 is MOOT because defendants admitted that the remaining balance
owed is $107,414. 
 
Defendants
inserted improper objections and argument in responses to plaintiff’s separate
statement of material facts. The separate statement is supposed to
“unequivocally state whether the fact is ‘disputed’ or ‘undisputed.’ An
opposing party who contends that a fact is disputed must state, on the right
side of the page directly opposite the fact in dispute, the nature of the
dispute and describe the evidence that supports the position that the fact is controverted.
Citation to the evidence in support of the position that a fact is controverted
must include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.” Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(f)(2).
 
Motion for Summary
Judgment
A plaintiff moving
for summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by proving
each element of a cause of action. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(1). Then
the burden shifts to the defendant to show a triable issue of material fact
exists as to the cause of action or a defense. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2). To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing must produce
“substantial responsive evidence.” Sangster v. Paetkau (1998)
68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162-163. 
 
A request for
admission that is admitted removes the need for evidence on the admitted issue.
Brigante v. Huang (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1569, 1577-1578, overruled on
other grounds in Wilcox v. Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal.4th 973, 983, fn.
12. Further, a party may not contradict these admissions. See Code Civ. Proc.
§2033.410(a).
 
Breach of Agreement
The elements of a
claim for breach of contract are (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance
or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to
plaintiff therefrom. Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co.
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.
 
The elements of
breach are established via defendants’ admissions, in which defendants concede
they entered into the Agreement, plaintiff performed all obligations, Healthymouth
remitted $117,436, and the remaining balance is $107,414. These admissions are
sufficient to establish breach; plaintiff meets its initial burden of proof on
summary judgment. The burden shifts to defendants to show a triable issue of
material fact.
 
Defendants argue the
motion is based on a hearsay declaration because Marmott lacks personal
knowledge. Marmott is a qualified witness. Any “qualified witness” who is
knowledgeable about the documents may lay the foundation for introduction of
business records—the witness need not be the custodian or the person who
created the record. Jazayeri v. Mao (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 301, 324.
Marmott's declaration states (A) he is responsible for collection of defendants’
obligation, (B) his responsibilities include knowledge of plaintiff’s
bookkeeping procedures and control of plaintiff’s employees, and (C) the
documents and records were prepared in the ordinary course of business by
employees with personal knowledge.
 
Defendants argue
the declaration does not authenticate the Agreement nor Albert’s signature. This
is contradicted by defendants’ admissions that Albert executed the Agreement and
that the document is genuine. Defendants fail to raise a triable issue of
material fact or a defense.
 
Breach of Guaranty
The second cause
of action alleges Albert breached the Personal Guaranty, under which she would
be responsible in the event of default by Healthymouth. The Personal Guaranty
stated Albert “irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally guarantees to Buyer
prompt and complete performance of all of the obligations of Seller.” Personal
Guaranty, Marmott Decl. Exh. 3, ¶C.
 
Healthymouth
agreed to exclusively use plaintiff’s credit card processor for processing
credit card payments. Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement (PSSMF) 4. Pursuant to paragraph 14 of the Agreement “Events
of Default,” an event of default includes Healthymouth “chang[ing] its
depositing account or its payment card processor without the prior written
consent.” Marmott Decl. ¶10, Exh. 2, ¶14. Plaintiff contends defendants ceased
processing credit cards with plaintiff’s credit card processor, which prevented
plaintiff from collecting the receivables due. PSSMRF 5-6; Brown Decl. ¶11; Marmott
Decl. ¶12. 
 
Through their
responses to the RFAs, defendants admit Albert executed the Personal Guaranty. Plaintiff
contends defendants breached by failing to pay all sums due under the
Agreement. PSSMF 24. Plaintiff established Albert guaranteed, in writing,
Healthymouth’s obligations to plaintiff. Plaintiff provides evidence defendants
failed to pay the sums due, and plaintiff has been damaged in the amount of the
balance of $107,414. Plaintiff met its initial burden on summary judgment,
which shifts defendants to show a triable issue of material fact.
 
Defendants argue
the declaration does not authenticate the Personal Guaranty nor Albert’s
signature. This is contradicted by defendants’ admissions; defendants
failed to raise a triable issue of material fact or defense.
 
Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“The covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists merely to
prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s right
to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.” Guz v. Bechtel
National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349-350.
 
Plaintiff reasserted
the first cause of action for breach of contract. Where a plaintiff pleads both
causes of action on the same facts, the breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing is superfluous and is properly disregarded. Careau &
Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371,
1395.
 
Unjust Enrichment
Unjust enrichment
“applies where the plaintiffs, while having no enforceable contract,
nonetheless have conferred a benefit on the defendant which the defendant has
knowingly accepted under circumstances that make it inequitable for the
defendant to retain the benefit without paying for its value.” Hernandez v.
Lopez (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 932, 938, emphasis added. “The defendant in an
unjust enrichment claim must pay the amounts necessary to place the plaintiff
in as good a position as he or she would have been had no contract been made.” Id.
Here, the parties have an enforceable written contract, rather than a claim for
unjust enrichment.
 
Summary
Judgment/Adjudication
Plaintiff moved
only for summary judgment, not summary adjudication, so the court cannot rule
on individual causes of action. Jimenez v. Protective Life Ins. Co.
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 528, 534. “To prevail on a summary judgment motion
that does not request summary adjudication in the alternative, the defendant
must show conclusively that all of the plaintiff’s causes of action or legal
theories fail as a matter of law.” Slovensky v. Friedman (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1518, 1527. Plaintiff has not done so here. Plaintiff met its
burden on the first and second causes of action and did not meet its burden for
the third and fourth causes of action.
 
“Only the grounds
specified in the notice of motion may be considered by the trial
court. [Citation.] This rule has been held to be especially true in the
case of motions for summary adjudication of issues.” Gonzales v.
Superior Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542, 1545. 
 
The court cannot
grant summary judgment, as moving party did not meet its burden of proof on
causes of action three and four. DENIED.