..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Number: 23STCV26144
Plaintiff's Name: Jalal Kazemi
Defendant's Name: Hooman Kazemi, Heshmat Doorgari, TD Ameritrade, Inc.
People's Names: Jalal Kazemi, Hooman Kazemi, Heshmat Doorgari, David Piper
Company Names: TD Ameritrade, Inc.
Place: Los Angeles, California
Date: May 7, 2024
Event: Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Dismiss or Stay Proceedings
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To decide whether to compel arbitration and stay the court proceedings
Facts: The plaintiff alleged that the defendants improperly accessed and disbursed funds from his TD Ameritrade account, and seeks to compel arbitration and dismiss or stay the court proceedings.
Disputes: Whether the parties agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and whether the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) applies.
Acts: The plaintiff filed a complaint against the defendants, and the defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration and to dismiss or stay the proceedings.
Agreements: The parties agreed to arbitrate disputes in writing, and the plaintiff signed account applications containing pre-dispute arbitration clauses.
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court, Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court, Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
Roles:
* Judge: Mel Red Recana
* Parties: Jalal Kazemi, Hooman Kazemi, Heshmat Doorgari, TD Ameritrade, Inc.
Significant Statements:
* The court finds that the parties agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and that the FAA does not apply to the agreements to arbitrate.
* The court grants the defendants' motion to compel arbitration and stays the court proceedings pending the completion of arbitration.
```

And here is the English text to summarize the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has ruled that the defendants' motion to compel arbitration and to dismiss or stay the court proceedings is granted. The court finds that the parties agreed to arbitrate the dispute in writing, and that the plaintiff failed to present evidence to oppose the motion. The court also finds that the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) does not apply to the agreements to arbitrate. The court orders that the proceedings be stayed pending the completion of arbitration between the parties.
