 Case Number:  23STCV26144    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior
Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
JALAL
  KAZEMI, 
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
HOOMAN
  KAZEMI, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  23STCV26144
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Complaint
  Filed: 10/25/23
Trial
  Date: N/A
 
 



 
Hearing date:              May 7, 2024 
Moving Party:             Defendant TD Ameritrade, Inc.
(“TDAI”)
Responding Party:
     Plaintiff Jalal Kazemi  
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Dismiss or Stay
Proceedings   
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 
The motion is
GRANTED. 
Background
            This
is an action arising the alleged improper access and the unauthorized
disbursement of funds from the personal TD Ameritrade account of Plaintiff
Jalal Kazemi (“Plaintiff”). (Complaint, ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges that the
disbursement was orchestrated by Defendants Hooman Kazemi, Heshmat Doorgari,
and was done with the negligent oversight of Defendant TD Ameritrade, Inc.
(“TDAI”). (Complaint, ¶ 7.) 
            On
October 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendants Hooman Kazemi,
Heshmat Doorgari, TDAI (collectively, the “Defendants”), as well as DOES 1
through 50, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) conversion; (2)
unjust enrichment; (3) trespass to chattels; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; and
(5) negligence. Only the fifth cause of action is asserted against Defendant
TDAI. 
            On
January 5, 2024, Defendant TDAI filed and served the instant Motion to Compel
Arbitration and to Dismiss or Stay Proceedings. The motion is made on the
grounds that Plaintiff agreed in writing to submit all disputes against
Defendant TDAI, including the present lawsuit, to binding arbitration before
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). Defendant TDAI seeks an
order dismissing or staying these proceedings pending the outcome of the FINRA
arbitration.
            On
March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion, to which Defendant
TDAI filed a reply on April 23, 2024. 
Legal
Standard
            Parties
may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there
was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement
covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.) California law favors enforcement of valid arbitration
agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of
establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.) “A contract may validly
include the provisions of a document not physically part of the basic
contract.” (Williams Const. Co. v. Standard-Pacific Corp. (1967) 254
Cal.App.2d 442, 454.) 
            The
FAA applies to any contract evidencing a transaction involving interstate
commerce which contains an arbitration clause. (Wolls v. Superior Court (2005)
127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) Section 2 of the FAA provides that arbitration
provisions shall be enforced, save upon grounds as exist at law or in equity
for the revocation of any contract. (Ibid.) A state court may refuse to
enforce an arbitration clause on the basis of generally applicable contract
defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability. (Ibid.) A state
court, however, may not defeat an arbitration clause by applying state laws
applicable only to arbitration provisions. (Ibid.) 
For the
FAA to apply, a contract must involve interstate commerce. (Ibid.) When
it applies, the FAA preempts any state law rule that stands as an obstacle to
the accomplishment of the FAA’s objectives. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.) A party asserting FAA preemption bears the burden to
present evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration provision affects
interstate commerce, and the failure to do so renders the FAA inapplicable. (Ibid.)
Evidence must be presented, in the form of declarations or other evidence, that
establishes that the contract affects interstate commerce.  (Ibid.)
“[S]ince arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so
stated in the agreement.” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 956, 963.) 
“If a
court of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy
which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of
this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  
Discussion 
            Plaintiff’s
Arguments in Opposition to the Motion 
             Initially, the Court notes that Plaintiff only
raises two arguments in opposition to the motion. First, Plaintiff argues that
the Court may exclude irrelevant and collateral evidence that is prejudicial.
Second, Plaintiff argues that Defendant TDAI failed to meet and confer pursuant
to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.724. 
            As
to Plaintiff’s argument that the Court should exclude Exhibits A, B, and C
attached to the declaration of Garrett R. Wynne in support of the motion, the
Court finds that Plaintiff should have filed evidentiary objections to such
documents. Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354 requires that “[a]ll written
objections to evidence must be served and filed separately from the other
papers . . . in opposition to the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1354(b).) Plaintiff did not file separate evidentiary objections and therefore
his purported objections in the opposition brief are procedurally improper.
Thus, the Court will not exclude or disregard any evidence in support of the
motion. 
            As
to Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant failed to confer as required under Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.724, such rule of court does articulate a meet and
confer requirement prior to filing a motion to compel arbitration. (Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.724.) Irrespective of such fact, Defendant has presented
evidence that it corresponded with Plaintiff requesting that he dismiss his
claims against Defendant TDAI and submit his individual claims to arbitration.
(Decl. of David Piper, ¶¶ 2-3; Exhs. 1-2.) 
            As
such, the Court rejects the sole two arguments raised in opposition to the
motion. To the extent that Plaintiff failed to respond to the arguments raised
in the moving papers, the Court finds that Plaintiff has conceded to such
arguments as “[c]ontentions are waived when a party fails to support them with
reasoned argument and citations to authority.” (Moulton Niguel Water Dist.
v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) The Court acknowledges that
Plaintiff is representing himself in pro per; however, a pro per litigant is “held to the
same standards as attorneys.” (Kobayshi v. Superior Court ( 2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
536, 543.) 
            The Existence of an Agreement to
Arbitrate 
            The right to arbitration depends
upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity
seeking performance of that contract. (Engineers & Architects Assn. v.
Community Development Dept. (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 644, 653.) There is no
public policy favoring arbitration of disputes which the parties have not
agreed to arbitrate. (Ibid.) The FAA does not force parties to arbitrate
when they have not agreed to do so. (Cronus Investments, Inc. v. Concierge
Services (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376, 385.) 
a.       Evidence in Support of the Motion
In support of the motion, Garrett R. Wynne (“Wynne”), provides a
declaration. Mr. Wynne states the following: Plaintiff opened and maintained
three separate accounts at TD Waterhouse, which became Defendant TDAI. (Wynne
Decl., ¶ 2.) At or around the time he opened the Accounts, Plaintiff signed
account applications, each of which contained a pre-dispute arbitration clause.
(Wynne Decl., ¶ 2.) Set apart in bold font directly above his signature on his
TD Waterhouse IRA Account Application, signed January 25, 2000, Plaintiff
agreed to the Agreement to Arbitrate Controversies which provides that: “I
agree that any controversy relating to any of my accounts or any agreement that
I have with you will be submitted to arbitration conducted only under the
provisions of the Constitution and Rules of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
or pursuant to the code of the Arbitration of the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc.” (Wynne Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Plaintiff agreed to the
same terms when he executed his TD Waterhouse Individual Account Application on
October 14, 1999. (Wynne Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. B.) Plaintiff also agreed to the same
language in the Customer Agreement, which was attached to the Account
Application. (Wynne Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. C.) On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Complaint against Defendant TDAI alleging negligence-based damages with respect
to one of his TD Ameritrade accounts. (Wynne Decl., ¶ 6.)  
b.      Evidence in Opposition to the Motion
Plaintiff presents no evidence in opposition to the motion. 
c.       Analysis
The Court finds that Defendant TDAI has met its burden in showing the
existence of a
valid agreement
to arbitrate between the parties. Here, Defendant TDAI has presented the IRA
Account Application, Plaintiff’s Individual TD Waterhouse Account Application,
and the Customer Agreement, all which set forth or incorporate the language of
the Agreement to Arbitrate Controversies. 
            However, the Court notes that none
of the agreements containing the Agreement to Arbitrate Controversies
explicitly state that the FAA shall apply to such agreements. Moreover, the
declarations in support of the motion do not state facts evidence a transaction
affecting interstate commerce. Defendant TDAI’s citation to Cohen v. Wedbush, Noble, Cooke,
Inc. (1988) 841 F.
2d 282 is inapposite. The Court therefore finds that the FAA does not govern
the agreements to arbitrate at issue; however, Defendant TDAI has shown the
existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate. As such, the Court will assess the
appropriateness of compelling arbitration under California law. 
            Coverage of Claims Alleged
            The Court references its recitation
of the declaration of Mr. Wynne from above and incorporates it herein.  
            Here, the negligence cause of action
asserted against Defendant TDAI arises from Plaintiff’s account with such
entity. (Complaint, ¶¶ 49-54.) Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate any disputes
related to any of his accounts or any agreement with Defendant TDAI. (Wynne Decl.,
¶ 3; Exh. A.) Thus, the Agreement to Arbitrate Controversies covers the claim
alleged against Defendant TDAI in the Complaint. 
            As such, the Court finds that the Agreement
to Arbitration Controversies covers the controversy between Plaintiff and
Defendant TDAI.  
            Plaintiff has not presented any
evidence in opposition to the motion and therefore has not met his burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to his defense.
(Banner Entertainment, Inc., supra,
62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.) 
            Accordingly, the motion to compel
arbitration filed by Defendant TDAI is GRANTED. The Court stays this action
pending the completion of arbitration between Plaintiff and Defendant TDAI.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
May 7, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court