 Case Number:  22VECV01096    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  W TANNETTE GATES
v. warner center condominiums, et al.
 
DEFENDANT TOPA
INSURANCE COMPANY’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S third AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Date of Hearing:        January
22, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01096
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Topa Insurance Company 
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Martino Decl. ¶4.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 3, 2022, Plaintiff Tannette
Gates filed a complaint against Warner Center Condominiums, Ross Morgan &
Company, Inc., Amber Hill, Valerie Vincent, Joanne Catran, Mimi Himes, Afsaneh
Safaei, Arash Safaei, and Hippo Analytics, Inc. for damages arising out of a
kitchen pipe exploding in the unit upstairs and water from the upstairs unit
damaging Plaintiffs. On January 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint
asserting causes of action for: (1) Breach of CCRs; (2) Enforcement of
Equitable Servitudes; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Nuisance; (5)
Negligence; (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (7) Breach of
Contract and Implied Covenant of Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (8)
Third-Party Beneficiary Breach of Contract; (9) Professional Negligence and
(Negligent Misrepresentation (10) Violation of Business and Professional Code §
17200; (11) Declaratory Relief; and (12) Unjust Enrichment against. Plaintiff
also named Topa Insurance Company as a defendant. 
 
On January 30, 2023, Plaintiff
dismissed Amber Hill, Valerie Vincent, Joanne Catran, and Mimi Himes. 
 
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint on May 11, 2023. On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed Hippo
Analytics, Inc..  Although the court’s
docket does not reflect that plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint until
January 4,2024, plaintiff apparently served a copy of the Third Amended
Complaint on Defendant Topa, because on November 28, 2023, Topa filed a
demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint.  
Plaintiff filed no opposition.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Topa Insurance Company’s
Demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.   
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In support of
their demurrer, Defendant Topa requests this court take judicial notice of
several court documents (RJN, Exhs. 1-3.) The court GRANTS Defendant’s request
for judicial notice. (Evid. Code 452(d).) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant
Topa Insurance Company demurs to the breach of contract cause of action alleged
against Defendant on the grounds Plaintiff has failed to quote any of the terms
of the alleged contract or agreement with Topa. Additionally, Plaintiff has
failed to attach a copy of the contract she contends she entered into with
Topa. 
 
To recover
damages for a breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the existence of
the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
non-performance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4) the resulting damage to
the plaintiff. (Richman v. Hartley
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) The pleadings must specify that the
contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. (CCP § 430.10(g).) Further,
“[a] written contract may be pleaded by its terms—set out verbatim in the
complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated
therein by reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.] In order to plead a
contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its
relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of
the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal
conclusions.’  [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489 [citing 4 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (4th ed. 1997)
Pleading, §§ 479-480, pp. 572-73].)
 
Defendant
Topa argues Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint is not clear as to what
purported contract she is referring to. She contends there is a Hippo contract,
that she entered into with “Hippo and/or Topa.” (TAC ¶ 105.) As a result, it is
still unclear whether there are one or two contracts. Moreover, Hippo has now
been dismissed from the instant action. Plaintiff has also failed to quote any
of the terms of the alleged contract or agreement or attach a copy of the
contract she contends she entered into with “Hippo and/or Topa.” 
 
Upon review
of the TAC, Plaintiff has attached the insurance contract she contends has been
breached by Topa.   (TAC, Exh. B.) The HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE
DECLARATIONS PAGE of Exhibit B, lists Topa as the Underwriter. The Plaintiff
has also included the Homeowners Condominium Unit-Owners Policy Provisions which
delineate the coverage purchased by plaintiff, which was signed by Topa’s
president.   Based on this attachment,
plaintiff has adequately alleged a cause of action for breach of contract
against Topa. 
 
As a result,
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED. 