  Case Number:  22STCV01740    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  W JOSEPH
SHRAUGER, et al. v. CEP AMERICA, et al.
 
DEFENDANTS MATTHEW LARREW, D.O. AND
CEP AMERICA-CALIFORNIA’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Date of Hearing:        January
22, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22STCV01740
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Matthew Larrew, D.O. and CEP America-California
 

Responding Party:     No opposition 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January
14, 2022, Plaintiffs Joseph Shrauger, individually, and as successor in
interest and heir to decedent Joseph Shrauger, Priscilla Shrauger,
individually, and as successor in interest and heir to decedent Joseph
Shrauger, and Limbonia Arredondo, individually, and as
successor in interest and heir to decedent Joseph Shraugher filed a complaint for
elder and dependent abuse/neglect, willful misconduct, general negligence,
professional negligence, unfair business practices, and violation of Patients’ Bill
of Rights. Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint on July 5, 2023.  
 
Plaintiffs allege decedent Joseph
Shrauger (“Mr. Shrauger”) was admitted to Camarillo Healthcare Center on
September 12, 2020 and remained there until October 19, 2020. Plaintiffs allege
during Mr. Shrauger’s stay there, Camarillo and its employees wantonly, and recklessly
ignored Mr. Shrauger’s custodial, medical, emotional, and human needs.
Plaintiffs further allege Camarillo and its employees fraudulently
misrepresented that they would provide necessary staff, medical care and
services to their patients. As a result, Plaintiffs allege Mr. Shrauger died on
October 25, 2020. 
 
Plaintiffs dismissed several defendants
on February 14, 2023. The complaint remains against CEP America, Inc., Dignity
Health dba St. John’s Pleasant Valley Hospital, Camarillo Community Care Inc.
dba Camarillo Healthcare Center, Matthew Larrew, DO, Vinod Valiveti, MD, Ivan
Kirk T. Acayan, and Anthony Shrauger. 
 
Plaintiffs named Albert Lopez as Doe
Defendant 1, Irma Rodarte as Doe Defendant 2, Mary Shrauger as Doe Defendant 3,
and Limbonia Alonzo as Doe Defendant 4. 
 
Plaintiff and Dignity Health dba St.
John’s Pleasant Valley Hospital entered into a good faith settlement on August
7, 2023. Plaintiff Limbonia Arredondo was dismissed on January 9, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Matthew Larrew, D.O. and CEP
America-California Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Matthew Larrew, D.O. and CEP
America-California move this court for summary judgment against the Plaintiffs Joseph
Shrauger, individually, and as successor in interest and heir to decedent
Joseph Shrauger; Priscilla Shrauger, individually, and as successor in interest
and heir to decedent Joseph Shrauger; Limbonia Arredondo[1],
individually, and as successor in interest and heir to decedent Joseph
Shrauger, and in favor of Moving Defendants. 
 
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
The elements of a professional
negligence medical malpractice cause of action are: “(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s
negligence.” (Borrayo v. Avery (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 304, 310 (quoting Hanson
v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606.)  Thus, in a medical
malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports
his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes
forward with conflicting expert evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University
of California¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).)¿ An
expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing
standard of care and the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care
provider.¿¿(Starr v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿
 
Defendants argue there are no facts that
Plaintiffs can allege to show that 
Defendants breached their duty to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise with
regard to the care and treatment of Decedent and because there was no negligent
conduct, there is no way of showing a proximal causal connection between the
alleged negligent conduct and Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries. To support this
contention, Defendants present the declaration of Michael S. Ritter, M.D., a
Board-Certified Emergency Room Physician. Dr. Ritter has been certified by the
American Board of Emergency Medicine since 1995. (Ritter Decl. ¶1.) Since
completing his residency, Dr. Ritters full-time practice has been as an
Emergency Medicine specialist in a general acute hospital emergency department.
(Ritter Decl. ¶2.) Dr. Ritter has made several publications in the field of
emergency medicine and has spoken at numerous educational seminars. (Ritter
Decl. ¶2.) 
 
Dr. Ritter testifies based on his review
of the medical records as well as his professional training, education,
background, and experience, it is his opinion Dr. Larrew and CEP
America-California complied with the applicable standard of care and there is
no act or omission by either Dr. Larrew or CEP America-California that caused
or contributed to Mr. Shrauger’s death. Dr. Ritter opines Dr. Larrew
appropriately obtained a history of the patient’s condition and performed an
appropriate physical examination. (Ritter Decl. ¶15.) Moreover, Dr. Larrew’s
order for a diagnostic studies including, but not limited to head and abdominal
CT scans, labs and abdominal paracentesis were all appropriate to rule in/out
the cause of Mr. Shrauger’s altered level of consciousness. (Ritter Decl. ¶15.)
Following receipt of the lab values and most of the diagnostic studies, Dr.
Larrew appropriately and within the standard of care elected to request
admission of the patient for further treatment, which was also appropriate
given the potential diagnosis. (Ritter Decl. ¶16.) Thereafter, Mr. Shrauger was
thereafter admitted to St. John’s Pleasant Valley Hospital. Dr. Larrew did not
provide any care to the patient following admission. (Ritter Decl. ¶¶15, 16.)
The final diagnosis for Mr. Shrauger was acute respiratory failure with
hypoxia; suspicion of volume overload from IV fluids and pneumonia; septic
shock, likely due to infection from pneumonia and possible UTI; anemia and
encephalopathy; pneumonia and Urinary Tract Infection; acute kidney injury
likely due to sepsis and then worsened by septic shock; elevated troponins
likely due to sepsis and shock; hepatic encephalopathy; cirrhosis of the liver;
and diabetes mellitus. (Ritter Decl. ¶17.) As a result, the actions of Matthew
Larrew, D.O. and CEP met the standard of care in the treatment of the patient.
(Ritter Decl. ¶18.) 
 
. 
 
Defendants have met their burden of showing, by expert
declaration, they did not breach the standard of care or cause Plaintiff’s
injury.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff
to show, by contrary expert declaration, that a triable issue of fact exists. Plaintiff
has failed to file an opposition. Therefore, Defendants are entitled to summary
judgment.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Matthew
Larrew, D.O. and CEP America-California Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED. 
 
 


