 Case Number:  23VECV00025    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  W MOUFARREGE,
INC. V. THE LAURELS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, MUTUAL BENEFIT - COMMON INTEREST
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
 
MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL 
 
Date of Hearing:        January
22, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23vecv00025
 
Moving Party:            Steven
A. Roseman, Esq., Counsel for The Laurels Homeowners Association 
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 3, 2023, Plaintiff Moufarrege, Inc. filed a complaint against Defendant
The
Laurels Homeowners Association, Mutual Benefit - Common Interest Development
Corporation asserting causes of action for breach of written contract and
quantum meruit. Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff and Defendant entered into several written
Construction Contract with the Defendants, through their duly authorized agents
for the remediation of multiple sewage damage and water damage and mold damage,
construction and performance of works of improvement at the Condos. Plaintiff
further alleges they invoiced the Defendants for the amounts due for the works
of improvement that were performed and for all the necessary services,
materials and equipment that were furnished by Moufarrege to the Defendants at
the Condos; however, the invoices have not been paid and there is a balance of
$39,830.50 with interest due and owing. 
 
Request
for entry of default was entered February 23, 2023. The court set aside default
on September 8, 2024. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: GRANT
 
Counsel contends the attorney-client relationship has broken down
to a point where continued representation will result in violation of these
rules or of the State Bar Act. Moreover, trust and confidential has ceased to
exist and irreconcilable differences have arisen between the client and the
attorney, making it unreasonably difficult for the attorney to carry out their
representation and professional responsibilities effectively. Counsel contends
client has also breached an agreement and obligation to counsel as to expenses
and fees. 
 
Counsel has complied with the requirements of CRC Rule 3.1362 by
filing forms MC-051 and MC-052 and lodging with the court a copy of the
proposed order on form MC-053. Counsel confirmed client’s last known mailing
address by telephone within the last 30 days.  
 
 
The next hearing concerns a Case Management Conference on January
26, 2024. 
 
Trial is not yet set. Counsel is to warn corporate Plaintiff that they
can only appear through counsel because it is a corporation, and corporations
cannot proceed in pro per. 
 