 Case Number:  20STCV21299    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



AZAD STEEL, INC, a California corporation
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
DARYOUSH KASHANI, individually and as trustee of the BAM AND
  SIBS TRUST, TOMMY’S REMODELING, INC., a California corporation, ROBERT
  KESHISHIAN, an individual; HILDA TAHMASIAN, an individual; and DOES 1 through
  100, inclusive
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
AND CROSS-RELATED ACTIONS.


 Case No.:          20STCV21299
 Hearing Date:   September
  11, 2024
 Trial Date:        September
  24, 2024
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion of Cross-Complainant Hilda Tahmasian for Order Granting Leave to
  Amend and File First Amended Cross-Complaint



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Azad Steel, Inc. (“Azad
Steel”) sues Defendants Daryoush Kashani, individually and as trustee of the
Bam and Sibs Trust (“Kashani”), Tommy’s Remodeling, Inc. (“Tommy’s
Remodeling”), Robert Keshishian (“Keshishian”), Hilda Tahmasian (“Tahmasian”),
and Does 1 through 100 pursuant to a June 5, 2020 Complaint alleging claims of
(1) Breach of Contract, (2) Quantum Meruit, (3) Account Stated, (4) Open Book
Account, and (5) Intentional Misrepresentation/Fraud against all Defendants. 
The Complaint filed on June 5,
2020, alleges the following. Plaintiff Azad Steel entered into a written
contract with Defendants Kashani, Tommy’s Remodeling, Keshishian, and Tahmasian
(collectively “Defendants”) to provide structural steel fabrication and
installation work at a construction project known and described as Casiano
Project, located at 2720 Casiano Road, Los Angeles, CA 90077. Azad Steel
provided additional work and performed its obligations under the contract.
However, Azad Steel alleges that the Defendants breached the contract by
failing to pay the amount of $45,750.00. Moreover, Azad Steel alleges that the
Defendants misrepresented the true identity of the contracting party.
This action also involves the
following cross-actions. Tahmasian sues Kashani, Rita Amirian, Bam Bam
Enterprises LLC, David-Y-Kashani, Azad Steel, Antouan Ghadimian, and Roes 1 to
100 pursuant to an August 20, 2020 Cross Complaint alleging claims of (1)
Breach of Oral Contract against Daryoush Kashani and (2) Fraud against Daryoush
Kashani, Rita Amirian, Bam Bam Enterprises LLC, David-Y-Kashani, Azad Steel,
Antouan Ghadimian, and Roes 1 to 100. 
Kashani sues Azad Steel, Tommy’s
Remodeling, Keshishian, Tahmasian, and Roes 1 through 100 pursuant to a
February 26, 2021 First Amended Cross-Complaint alleging claims of (1) Breach
of Contract against Tommy’s Remodeling, (2) Negligence against Azad Steel, (3)
Fraud against Azad Steel and Tommy’s Remodeling, and (4) Fraud against
Keshishian, Tahmasian, and Tommy’s Remodeling.
B. Motion Before the Court
On August 16, 2024, Cross-Complainant
Tahmasian filed a motion for leave to amend and file a first amended
cross-complaint to add additional causes of action for equitable indemnity,
equitable contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On August 28, 2024,
Cross-Complainant Kashani filed an opposition to the motion.
Also on August 28, 2024, Tahmasian
filed a notice of non-opposition to the motion stating that Ghadimian and Azad
Steel have confirmed that they will not oppose the motion for leave to amend. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
California Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.” 
A motion for leave to amend must comply with California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324. 
Discretion in favor of amendment “should be exercised
liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047 (Kittredge Sports).) 
California courts will not ordinarily consider the validity
of a proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave to amend given
that any grounds for a demurrer or a motion to strike will be premature at that
time. (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281 (California Casualty), citations omitted,
overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins.
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390, 403-406.) 
However, leave to amend may also be properly denied when
“the insufficiency of the proposed amendment is established by controlling
precedent and … [can]not be cured by further appropriate amendment.” (California
Casualty, supra, 173 Cal.App.3d at pp. 280-281; see, e.g., Foxborough
v. Van Atta (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 217, 231 [not an abuse of discretion to
deny leave to amend when “proposed amendment would have been futile because it
was barred by the statute of limitations” with no indication of relating back
to the original complaint].)  
Further, if a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a
long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting it may be a good reason for
denial. (Roemer v. Retail Credit Co. (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 926, 939-940 (Roemer).) 
B. Analysis
1. Procedural Requirements
Here, Tahmasian meets the
procedural requirements for leave to amend. 
Tahmasian
has filed a ‘clean’ copy of the proposed First
Amended Cross-Complaint (FAXC), thus satisfying California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a)(1). (Mot., Cirlin Decl., Ex. 1.) 
Tahmasian
has also filed a ‘redline’ copy of the FAXC, showing
its differences from the Complaint, and the points and authorities further
clarify the amendments, thus satisfying California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a)(2)-(3).
(Mot., pp. 3-12; Mot., Cirlin Decl., Ex. 2.) 
Last, Plaintiff has filed a declaration from counsel
satisfying California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b)(1)-(4). (Mot., Cirlin Decl.,
¶¶ 8-9 [effect; necessary and proper], 10 [date of discovery; why not brought
earlier].) 
2. Substantive
Discussion
Tahmasian moves for leave to amend
and file a FAXC to add a third cause of action for equitable indemnity, a
fourth cause of action for equitable contribution, and a fifth cause of action
for declaratory relief on the grounds that Azad Steel’s causes of action
against her are all the result of the misconduct of Kashani. (Mot. p. 3.) She
states that Kashani recently testified that it was his decision not to pay Azad
and that he had Tommy’s Remodeling retain Azad Steel to remodel his personal
residence without Tahmasian’s knowledge. (Mot. p. 3.) Tahmasian argues that the
Cross-Defendants will not be prejudiced because the new causes of action are
based on the same facts pursuant to the second cause of action for fraud. (Mot.
p. 9.) She alleges that the harm that Azad Steel seeks to hold her liable for
is attributable to Kashani, and thus it would unfairly prejudice her to deprive
her of her right to hold the true tortfeasor liable for Azad Steel’s damages.
(Mot. p. 9.)   
In opposition, Kashani argues that
the proposed FAXC requests punitive damages that the original cross-complaint
did not. (Opp. p. 2.) He argues that, because discovery has closed, there is no
opportunity to examine Tahmasian on the factual basis for the additional causes
of action. (Opp. p. 2.) In addition, Kashani argues that there is not
sufficient time for him to file responsive pleadings to the FAXC before the
date currently set for trial. 
            Here, the
FAXC does not introduce new facts. The additional causes of action only ask for
an allocation of fault. Thus, even though trial is less than two weeks away, no
additional discovery is needed to respond to the FAXC. Moreover, the parties
recently submitted a stipulation and proposed order to continue the trial date.
Therefore, it is in the furtherance of justice to grant Tahmasian leave to
amend and file the proposed FAXC.    
III. Conclusion
The Motion of Cross-Complainant Hilda Tahmasian for Order Granting Leave
to Amend and File a First Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.