 Case Number:  24STCV00893    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



EDGAR RAMOS, an individual; RACHEL BERG, an individual; KEVIN
  FLORES, an individual; and JASON GRIJALVA, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
SCOTT KAY, an individual; WOOD & VINE, LLC, a California
  limited liability company; W&V PARTNERS, LLC, a California limited
  liability company; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCV00893
 Hearing Date:   September
  11, 2024
 Trial Date:        May
  27, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
  Production, Set One 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Edgar Ramos (Ramos),
Rachel Berg, Kevin Flores, and Jason Grijalva (collectively, Plaintiffs) sue
Defendants Scott Kay (Kay), Wood and Vine LLC, W&V Partners, LLC and Does 1
through 20, (collectively, Defendants) pursuant to a January 11, 2020 Complaint
alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract – Specific Performance;
(2) Petition for Judicial Dissolution; (3) Breach of Contract; and (4) Fraud –
Intentional Misrepresentation. 
The claims arise out of four prior
actions in which each of the Plaintiffs alleged causes of action arising out of
their employment at a restaurant called Wood & Vine. Each of the Plaintiffs
signed substantively identical Settlement Agreements in those actions. Prior to
Plaintiffs agreeing to the terms of the Settlement Agreements, Defendants
represented to Plaintiffs that Kay intended to shut down Wood and Vine LLC and
W&V Partners, LLC (the Wood & Vine Entities). In the Settlement
Agreements, the Defendants expressly “acknowledge that such dissolution and
winding up is a material term of this Agreement, and that Plaintiff would not
have settled the action but for The Wood & Vine Defendants’ agreement to do
so.” To date, neither entity has filed a certificate of dissolution with the
California Secretary of State. 
Additionally, to induce Plaintiffs
to settle, the Defendants represented in the Settlement Agreements that “neither Scott Kay, nor any other [Wood & Vine Entity]
member, received any assets, or other monetary benefits (collectively,
“Assets”), directly or indirectly, from either Wood & Vine, LLC or W&V
Partners, LLC” during the pendency of the Wood & Vine Actions.” Each of
the Plaintiffs relied upon this representation when deciding to settle their
case and would not have otherwise settled their case. The Plaintiffs allege
that the representation was false, and that the Defendants intentionally made
those representations. Specifically, the Complaint alleges that: (a) Wood &
Vine, LLC transferred at least $24,505.96 to an entity named No Roof Ventures,
LLC for the benefit of Kay; (b) Wood & Vine, LLC and its insurer paid for
Kay’s legal defense in each of the Wood & Vine actions; (c) Wood &
Vine, LLC paid at least $43,164.41 towards a credit card in the name of Kay for
his benefit; and (d) Wood & Vine, LLC transferred money to either Kay,
other members of the Wood & Vine Entities, or to one or more third parties
for the benefit of Kay or other entity members, through Bill.Com.
B. Motion Before the Court
On May 20, 2024, Ramos propounded written
discovery requests, including the Requests for Production, Set One on Kay.
(Brizolis Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Kay responded to the discovery requests on June
24, 2024. (Brizolis Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. B.) Counsel met and conferred but were
unable to reach an agreement. (Brizolis Decl. ¶¶ 8-9; Blackburn Decl. ¶ 30.) 
On August 19, 2024, Ramos filed
this motion to compel further responses to certain requests in his first set of
production discovery and also for sanctions against Kay and his counsel in the
amount of $13,750. This motion was served via electronic service, meaning that
he should have provided an additional two days’ notice. 
On August 28, 2024, Kay filed an
opposition to the motion and also requests sanctions in the amount of $15,663
against Ramos and his counsel. 
On September 4, 2024, Ramos replied.

 
II. Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for
Production, Set One
A. Requests for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivision (d), the Court may take judicial notice of “[r]ecords of (1)
any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of
any state of the United States”. Documents are only judicially noticeable to
show their existence and what orders were made such that the truth of the facts
and findings within the documents are not judicially noticeable. (Lockley v.
Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)  
Ramos seeks judicial notice of the Protective
Order entered by the Court on April 29, 2024 (Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 1.)
The court takes judicial notice to the extent of the documents’ existence.
B. Timeliness
Pursuant to a stipulation between
counsel, Ramos’s 45-day deadline to file and serve the instant motion was
extended one week to August 19, 2024. (Brizolis Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. E.) Ramos served
the instant motion on Kay’s counsel on August 19, 2024 via electronic service.
(Brizolis Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. G.) Kay argues that the motion is untimely and thus
the moving party waived their right to compel a further response. (Opp., pp.
4-5.)
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1010.6, subdivision (a)(3)(A), electronic service is deemed complete at
the time of the electronic transmission of the document. However, any time
period shall be extended after electronic service by two days. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B). In other words, service was timely (as the parties
stipulated the service had to be by August 19), but the notice before the
hearing was two days short. As service is timely, the moving party has not
waived its right to bring the motion. The remedy to the notice issue would have
equally been to have the hearing pushed out or to have served the matter
earlier. However, the opposing party has not shown prejudice or requested
further time to oppose the motion; rather, Kay filed his opposition brief and
declaration opposing the matter on the merits and filed an Opposition to the
Separate Statement. Accordingly, the Court will exercise its discretion and
consider the motion.
C. Legal Standard
A motion to compel a further
response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory answers or makes untenable
objections to interrogatories, demands to produce, or requests for admission.
(See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a), 2031.310, subd. (a), 2033.290,
subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403 (Sinaiko)
[interrogatories and demands to produce].) 
To request further production, a
movant must establish: (1) good cause for the production (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1); Sinaiko, supra, at p. 403); and (2) that
a further response is needed because (a) the responding party’s statement of
compliance with the demand to produce is incomplete Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a)(1)), (b) the responding party’s representation that it is unable
to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a)(2)), (c) the responding party’s objection in the response is without
merit or is too general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(3); Catalina
Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127), or
(d) if the responding party objected to the production of ESI on the ground
that it is not reasonably accessible the movant can show that the (i) ESI is
reasonably accessible or (ii) there is good cause for production of the ESI
regardless of its accessibility (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (e)). 
D. Analysis
1. RFP Nos. 13,
14, and 16
RFP No. 13 requests bank statements
from No Roof Ventures, LLC from August 2022 to present. (Ramos Sep. Stmt. p. 8.)
RFP No. 14 requests all documents
evidencing any payment of money, for any purpose, from No Roof Ventures, LLC to
Scott Kay from August 2022 to present. (Ramos Sep. Stmt. p. 14.)
RFP No. 16 requests all documents
evidencing any payment of money, for any purpose, from No Roof Ventures, LLC to
any third party for the benefit of Scott Kay from August 2022 to present. (Ramos
Sep. Stmt. p. 15.)
Kay objects to all three requests
on the grounds that the information sought is not relevant, overbroad, and
seeks information that is protected by constitutional and common law rights of
privacy. (Ramos Sep. Stmt. pp. 8, 14-15.) Kay additionally objects to Nos. 14
and 16 on the grounds the requests do not describe the materials sought with
requisite specificity. (Ramos Sep. Stmt. pp. 14-15.)
            In
opposition, Ramos argues that the information sought is relevant because the
breach of contract and fraud allegations allege that, contrary to the terms of
the Settlement Agreement, the Wood & Vine entities transferred money to Kay
during the pendency of the prior actions. (Ramos Sep. Stmt. p. 9.) Ramos argues
that he already has evidence that Wood & Vine transferred money to No Roof
during the relevant period, and now seeks to review No Roof’s bank records to
determine whether No Roof then transferred the money to Kay or another person
on Kay’s behalf. (Ramos Sep. Stmt. p. 10.)
            In reply,
Kay argues that the information sought is irrelevant because No Roof, a consulting
and advisory company owned by Kay, had 11 different clients during the time
period subject to Ramos’s request. (Opp. to Sep. Stmt. p. 8.) He contends that No
Roof’s bank statements contain numerous ingoing and outgoing transfers to and
from multiple third parties (clients, vendors, independent contractors, etc.)
(Kay Decl. ¶ 16.) Thus, even if No Roof’s bank statements show transfers of
funds to Kay, it would be impossible to determine where those funds originally
came from, i.e., whether they were from Wood & Vine, one or more of
No Roof’s other clients, or someone else entirely. (Opp. to Sep. Stmt. p. 8.) 
Kay also argues that the requests
seek sensitive bank records from nonparty, No Roof, which will also necessarily
disclose sensitive banking and financial information of several other third
parties. (Opp. to Sep. Stmt. p. 9)
Kay also argues that the requests
are overbroad because they seek information from August 2022 to present, but
the “pendency of the Wood & Vine actions” was between October 2022, when
the complaint and filed, and December 19, 2023, when the Settlement Agreement
was executed. (Opp. to Sep. Stmt. p. 13.) 
Here, the Plaintiffs’ claims
pertain to alleged violations of the following language from the Settlement
Agreement: “neither Scott Kay, nor any other [Wood & Vine Entity] member,
received any assets, or other monetary benefits (collectively, “Assets”),
directly or indirectly, from either Wood & Vine, LLC or W&V Partners,
LLC” during the pendency of the Wood & Vine Actions.” Thus, discovery is
relevant as to these specific entities from the date the complaint in the prior
action was filed to when the Settlement Agreements were executed. Accordingly, Plaintiffs
are entitled to information regarding transactions to or from Kay, Wood &
Vine LLC, or W&V Partners, LLC between October 5, 2022 and December 19,
2023. 
However, the requests insofar as
they seek information about other third parties’ financial transactions are not
reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of admissible evidence and raises a
privacy concern for any nonparties’ financial information that would be
revealed as a result. Finally, information about financial transactions that
occurred before or after the pendency of the prior Wood & Vine actions is
not relevant to an issue at dispute in this case. 
As to RFP No. 13, Kay is ordered to
provide bank statements from No Roof Ventures, LLC from October 5, 2022 to
December 19, 2023, with the third-party information redacted. 
As to RFP No. 14, Kay is ordered to
provide all documents evidencing any payment of money, for any purpose, from No
Roof Ventures, LLC to Scott Kay from October 5, 2022 to December 19, 2023,
third-party information redacted. 
As to RFP No. 16, Kay is ordered to
provide responsive documents from October 5, 2022 to December 19, 2023. Since
by its terms, the request relates only to third party payments of money from No
Roof Ventures, LLC for the benefit of Scott Kay, the Court finds that
the documents are relevant and any privacy interests are outweighed by the
relevance of that third party being used for the benefit of Mr. Kay.
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED,
as narrowed. 
 
E. Request for Sanctions: GRANTED in a reduced amount.
1.    
Legal Standard:

Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310(h) provides for mandatory monetary sanctions
“against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response…, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
2.    
Analysis: 
            Plaintiff
seeks sanctions against Defendant Kay and his counsel, jointly and severally, in
the amount of $13,750 in attorney fees incurred in the motion to compel further
responses to document requests, for a total of 5.9 hours meeting and conferring,
15.6 hour drafting the moving papers (for a total of 21.5 hours as of the
filing of the motion), and an anticipated additional 6 hours preparing a reply and
attending the hearing. The fee rate requested is $500 per hour. (Mot., pp. 5-6;
Blackburn Decl., 31.)
Kay’s counsel argued that Kay acted
with substantial justification in opposing production of the documents, and
requested sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subd. (h) in
the amount of $15,663 in attorney fees, including 15.7 hours reviewing and
opposing the motion, at the rate of $690 per hour times 22.7 hours. 
The Court concludes that since Ramos
was principally the successful party here, sanctions are appropriate. The
Opposition wrongly asserted that the motion was served untimely and other than
its arguments narrowing the scope of the relevant documents, did not provide
substantial justification to contest the relevance of the documents. However,
the sanctions will be reduced both because Kay made some successful arguments narrowing
the documents to be produced, and because the amount requested is excessive. In
particular, spending 15.6 hours on preparing a six-page motion, nine page
declaration (with exhibits) and separate statement regarding only three
document requests is excessive. The court concludes that sanctions in the
amount of $5000 is appropriate given the small number of requests at issue and
the Court’s conclusion that some of Kay’s arguments narrowing the documents to
be provided were reasonable.
 
III. Conclusion
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents, Set One is GRANTED as narrowed above. 
            Defendant
Scot Kay is ordered to provide further responses to Plaintiff Edgar Ramos
within 30 days of this ruling, subject to the above modifications to discovery.

            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $5000 payable by Kay and his
counsel Alex Brizolis, jointly and severally. Such sanctions are to be paid
within 30 days.