  Case Number:  19STCP02038    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



Michael Lambert, Assignee of Record
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
Debtor Broker Huh aka Chang Zhou,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          19STCP02038
 Hearing Date:   September
  11, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion For Order
  Deeming Admitted Truth of Facts and Genuineness of Documents and Imposing
  Monetary Sanctions and to Vacate Invalid Orders/Direct Levying Officer To
  Execute Writ



 
Order
This action was dismissed with prejudice
on December 6, 2023. (Minute Order, December 6, 2023.) 
In the December 20203 Order, the
Court found this to be a sham action, initiated and/or maintained without
proper basis or procedure; that it had not been properly served on all
interested parties; and that it should be dismissed pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedures section 583.150 and the inherent authority of the Court to dismiss
cases that are fraudulent or vexatious. (Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v. Walt
Disney (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 736, 759-760 [“because courts should only
hear actual disputes, and should prevent harassment of defendants, California
courts possess the inherent authority to dismiss cases that are fraudulent or
‘vexatious’”].)
Additionally, on June 27, 2024, the
Court ordered that no further writs be issued in this action. (Minute Order,
June 27, 2024.) 
Plaintiff’s assignee Michael Lambert
filed this “motion for order deeming admitted truth of facts and genuineness of
documents and imposing monetary sanctions and to vacate invalid orders/direct
levying officer to execute writ” on August 13, 2024. The motion purports to
relate to requests for admissions (Mot., p. 3); however, as noted above, the
action has been dismissed with prejudice. Accordingly, there is no basis for
any discovery in this case. This Court can and will not take any further action
in this matter, at least not until and unless the two orders above (of December
6, 2023 and June 27, 2024) are addressed.
Plaintiff’s assignee Michael
Lambert is further informed that pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
391.7, the Court on its own motion or the motion of any party, may “enter a
prefiling order which prohibits a vexatious litigant from filing any new
litigation in the courts of this state in propria persona without first
obtaining leave of the presiding justice or presiding judge of the court where
the litigation is proposed to be filed. Disobedience of the order by a
vexatious litigant may be punished as a contempt of court.” A “vexatious
litigant” is defined as a person who, after litigation has been finally
determined against the person, “repeatedly relitigates or attempts to
relitigate, in propria persona, . . . the cause of action, claim, controversy,
or any of the issues of fact or law, determined or concluded by the final
determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the
litigation was finally determined.” (Code Civ. Proc., ¶ 391 subd. (b).)
Should Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s
assignee continue to file repeated meritless motions in this case, which has
already been dismissed, this Court may set an Order to Show Cause why Michael
Lambert should not be declared a vexatious litigant under the above noted
statute.