Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV22676
Plaintiff's Name: Paul Merritt
Defendant's Name: Kia America, Inc.
People-Names: Paul Merritt, Maurice A. Leiter
Company-Names: Kia America, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: November 15, 2024, October 29, 2024, 2017
Events: Lemon law action, motion to compel further responses to discovery
Money: Civil penalties
Intentions: To compel further responses to discovery requests
Facts: Plaintiff purchased a 2017 Kia Niro, which is a lemon. Defendant Kia America, Inc. is the manufacturer and distributor. Plaintiff is seeking discovery related to the vehicle's defects.
Disputes: Defendant objects to the discovery requests on the grounds that they are vague, overbroad, and seek irrelevant information.
Acts: Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses to discovery, and Defendant responded with objections.
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) § 2031.310(b)(1), Song-Beverly Act
Case Citations: Kirkland v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) § 2031.310(b)(1), Song-Beverly Act
Roles: Judge Maurice A. Leiter, Plaintiff Paul Merritt, Defendant Kia America, Inc.
Significant Statements: "The moving party on a motion to compel further responses to requests for production of documents (“RPDs”) must submit “specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).)"
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has tentatively ruled in favor of the plaintiff's motion to compel further responses to discovery requests. The plaintiff is seeking information related to the defects in a 2017 Kia Niro vehicle, which the plaintiff claims is a lemon. The defendant, Kia America, Inc., has objected to the requests, claiming that they are vague, overbroad, and seek irrelevant information. However, the judge has found that the requests are relevant and that the defendant has not shown good cause for not producing the requested documents. The judge has ordered the defendant to serve further responses within 5 days of notice of the ruling. The plaintiff's request for sanctions is denied, as it does not specify the amount of sanctions being sought.