 Case Number:  23CMCV00621    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  A 23CMCV00621
 Atlas VI JCP Carson, LLC v. Khaled I. Azzam, et al.
Thursday,
June 13, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING THE
HEARING ON MOTION BY DEFENDANT, METRO, INC., FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES AND REQUIRING
ADDITIONAL EVIDENCE
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
complaint alleges that Plaintiff’s predecessor-in-interest leased commercial
real property to Defendant, Khaled I. Azzam dba Metro Fusion (“Tenant” or
“Azzam”).  Plaintiff alleges that at some
point during the tenancy, the tenant transferred his interest in the lease to
Metro Fusion, Inc. (“Metro Inc.” or “Defendant”). Defendants allegedly defaulted
on the lease agreement by failing to pay rent. Plaintiff alleges one cause of
action for breach of contract for overdue rent and other expenses totaling $267,648.89.

       On
April 18, 2024, the Court granted Defendant, Metro Inc.’s, Motion for Summary
Judgment as Plaintiff did not meet its burden of establishing that Metro Inc.
was liable for the breach of lease agreement between Plaintiff and Tenant
Azzam.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Defendant
Metro Inc. requests an award of $99,209.25 in attorney’s fees and expenses on grounds it is entitled to such an award as it
prevailed on its Motion for Summary Judgment against Plaintiff. The lease
agreement between Plaintiff and Tenant Azzam contained an attorney fee
provision. Despite the fact that Metro Inc. was not a signatory to the lease,
Metro Inc. argues it is entitled to an attorney fee award since the facts
alleged against Metro Inc. arise from the same set of facts alleged against
Tenant Azzam. 
       In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Metro
Inc. is not entitled to rely on a lease agreement between Plaintiff and Tenant
Azzam as a nonsignatory. If the court awards attorney’s fees, the court should
apportion the award for causes of action on which Metro Inc. prevailed. The
prevailing party’s fee request should consider the prevailing party’s success in
relation to the litigation as a whole. Plaintiff argues the fee request is improperly
inflated and the bills are vague, duplicative, and contain blocked billing,
which the court should disregard. 
       In reply, Defendant argues that Metro
Inc. is the equivalent of a targeted party as alleged in the complaint and is
entitled to recover fees under the lease agreement, although it is not a
signatory.
III.   
DISCUSSION
A.     
Metro Inc. has
demonstrated that it is entitled to recover attorney’s fees under the lease
agreement between Plaintiff’s predecessor and Azzam, the tenant.
       A party to a contract with
an attorney fee provision may recover such fees “where the contract
specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in addition to other costs."
(Civ. Code, § 1717 subd. (a).) 
       The fee provision at issue states as
follows: 
where “either Landlord of Tenant
institutes any action or proceeding against the other relating to the
provisions of this Lease or any default hereunder, the non-prevailing party in
such action or proceeding shall reimburse the prevailing party for the
reasonable expenses of attorney’s fees and all costs and disbursements incurred
therein by the prevailing party, including, without limitation, any such fees,
costs or disbursements Incurred on any appeal from such action proceeding.” (Azzam
decl. p. 39, ¶ 27.22.)
       The lease agreement at
issue was made between Plaintiff’s predecessor as landlord on the one hand and “Khaled
L. Azzam doing business as Metro Fusion” as tenant on the other hand. (Azzam
Decl., Ex. 1, pdf p. 5.) The lease identifies “Metro Fusion” as a trade name
for the tenant. (Id. pdf, p. 4.) The Motion for Summary
Judgment was made by Metro Inc., not a party to the contract.  (Id.
pdf page 5.) Metro Inc. prevailed.
       An action to avoid enforcement of a contract
is an “action on contract” within the meaning of Section 1717 which is
construed liberally to include not only a traditional action for damages for
breach of contract, “but also any other action that ‘involves a contract under
which one of the parties would be entitled to recover attorney’s fees if it
prevails in the action.” (Eden Township Healthcare Dist. v. Eden
Medical Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 418, 427.)
In its Motion for Summary Judgment, Metro Inc. argued successfully that the
undisputed facts did not establish that Metro Inc., a non-signatory, had been
assigned or otherwise assumed the tenant Kazzam’s lease obligations as
Plaintiff alleged. (Complaint, ¶ 31.) 
       Section 1717 was “enacted to establish
mutuality of remedy where [a] contractual provision makes recovery of attorney
fees available for only one party ….” (Reynolds
Metals Co. v. Alperson (1979) 25
Cal.3d 124, 128.)  Reynolds interpreted the statute “to further provide a
reciprocal remedy for a nonsignatory defendant, sued on a contract as if he
were a party to it, when a plaintiff would clearly be entitled to attorney fees
should he prevail in enforcing the contractual obligation against defendant.” (Id.)  Accordingly,
the court held that “… since defendants would have been liable for attorney
fees pursuant to the fee provision in the promissory note had plaintiff
prevailed, defendants could recover attorney fees pursuant to Civ. Code, §
1717, now that they had prevailed." (Id.) 
       Similarly, had Plaintiff landlord here prevailed
in an action on contract against non-signatory Defendant (Metro Inc.),
Plaintiff would have been entitled to recover attorney’s fees against Metro
Inc. as an alleged assignee of the tenant’s obligations. The mutuality of
remedy provided by section 1717, by its express provisions, entitles the
non-signatory party to recover attorney’s fees where, as here, Metro Inc.
prevailed on its Motion for Summary Judgment 
       Plaintiff argues that the contract should
be construed strictly to apply only to actions between landlord and tenant. However,
Eden instructs that section 1717 is construed liberally
to permit mutuality of remedy where a non-signatory prevails on the action on
contract. (Eden at 427.) Accordingly, Metro Inc. has established it is
entitled to recover attorney’s fees, although a non-signatory, under the fee
provision of the lease agreement. 
B.     
Metro Inc. is
entitled to recover attorney’s fees incurred in defense of this litigation, but
not including fees and costs incurred by tenant Azzam alone as the alleged
bases for liability against each defendant arose from different alleged facts.
       Apportionment of attorney’s
fees incurred by Metro Inc. and Azzam is not required “when incurred for
representation on an issue common to both a cause of action in which fees are
proper and one in which they are not allowed." (Reynolds
 at 129–130.) The alleged
bases for liability against Azzam and Metro Inc. were not based on common
issues of fact; Plaintiff alleged Azzam was the tenant and signatory under the
lease agreement and alleged Metro Inc. was liable based on an assignment of the
tenant’s lease obligations. 
       Metro Inc. does not request attorney’s
fees incurred to pursue Azzam’s motion for relief from waiver of the writ of execution
against his wages or to defend against Plaintiff’s request for attachment
against Azzam only. (Motion, 4:17-25.) Instead, Metro Inc. asks the court to
“focus solely on all other fees and costs for which Metro Inc. had involvement”
which also includes Plaintiff’s first writ of attachment against both
defendants. (Mot. 4:21-22.)
       Metro Inc. argues that as to the first
writ of attachment, the court need not apportion fees since " the claims
for relief are so intertwined that it would be impracticable, if not
impossible, to separate the attorney's time into compensable and non-compensable
units.” (Bell
v. Vista Unified School Dist. (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 672, 687; Plaintiff’s App. For Writ filed 8/31/23.) 
However, Defendants’
joint opposition argued two separate theories: on behalf of Metro Inc.,
Defendant argued that Plaintiff cannot recover since it is not a tenant
obligated under the lease, and that the alleged assignment of the lease was a
“knowing deception” and “recognition that Metro Inc. has no liability.” (Opp. filed 9/18/23, 4:6-7; 6:8-10.) 
       On the other hand, Azzam argued in his
defense that Plaintiff could not show that Azzam’s liability arose out of his
“trade, business, or profession.” (Id. at 7:1-4). The assertion that Plaintiff did not establish
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount for the writ was a claim common to both
defendants. (Id. 7:25-28.)
       Trial courts have discretion not only to
set the amount of a fee award but also in allocating the award among various
defendants based on their “relative culpability.” (Walker
v. Ticor Title Co. of California. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 363, 374–375.) It is an abuse of discretion “not to allocate fees when
defendants are of very different relative culpability." (Id. at
375.) The court may also apply
principles of equity to justify its decision to apportion an award of
attorney’s fees among multiple parties in appropriate circumstances. (Id.)

       Plaintiff persuasively argues that Metro
Inc. demonstrated it was not liable for rent as an occupant transferee or
sublessee, which is “entirely distinct from Azzam’s sweeping dispute of the
lease, including the amounts owned, validity of notices, Covid-19 defenses,
among other theories. (Opp. 4:2126.) Defendants’ opposition to the Motion for
Summary Judgment, while jointly filed, separately addressed each defendant’s
relative culpability based on an entirely different set of facts. Accordingly,
the court will apportion fees incurred to oppose the 9/18/23 writ on grounds of
equity.
C.     
Standards
for determining a reasonable fee.
       To
determine whether fees are reasonable, the court begins with the lodestar,
which is the number of hours reasonably spent multiplied by the reasonable
hourly rate. (PLCM
Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) The court
considers a number of factors including "the nature of the litigation, its
difficulty, the amount involved, the skill required in its handling, the
skill employed, the attention given, the success or failure, and other
circumstances in the case.’” (PLCM
Group at 1096.) The lodestar figure can be adjusted based on the
factors specific to the case. (Id.)
       To
determine a reasonable market rate, "the courts will look to equally
difficult or complex types of litigation.” (Syers
Properties III, Inc. v. Rankin (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 691, 700.)
The “market rate” is generally based on the rates prevalent in the community
where the court is located. (Id.) The trial court is in the best
position to value the services rendered by the attorneys in his or her
courtroom for the type of litigation at issue. The prevailing party is entitled
to “’compensation for all the hours ‘reasonably spent‘ in
litigating the action to a successful conclusion.” (Ibid., italics in
original.) ‘Reasonably spent’ means that time spent in the form of inefficient
or duplicative efforts is not subject to compensation. (Horsford
v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 394.)
       The court has considered the declaration
of counsel, Shelly Jay Shafron, in support of its motion for a fee award. Shafron
asserts that 321.10 hours were spent defending Metro Inc., which includes fees
for filing the present motion. The evidence does not provide sufficient
evidence for the court to determine whether costs incurred in defense of Metro
Inc. were reasonable, not duplicative, excessive, or inefficient. Defense
counsel excluded fees incurred on behalf Azzam, subtracted that subtotal from
total fees incurred, to arrive at a fee award on Metro Inc.’s behalf of
$99,209.25, apparently by default. (Shafron decl., Ex. 1, 2.) 
       It is not clear how defense counsel was
able to parse the fees as between Azzam and Metro Inc. when the itemized
billing statements do not differentiate between the two defendants, but were
block billed. Block billing is not objectionable per se unless it "exacerbate[s]
the vagueness of counsel's fee request, a risky choice since the burden of
proving entitlement to fees rests on the moving party.” (Christian
Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1325.)  The court has discretion to reduce fee awards
or deny them altogether where it is difficult to determine the reasonableness
of time spent, particularly in this case, in defense of Metro Inc. Defense
counsel must endeavor to “prune the fee request to comply with the law” and “may
not transfer that responsibility to the court.” (Id. at
1329; Guillory
v. Hill (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 802, 814–815 ["overinclusive,
unculled, redundant, redacted, and padded billing  entries … 
destroy the credibility of the submission and ... justifies a severe
reduction."].)
       In
submitting a fee request an attorney's “chief asset” is his or her credibility.
(Christian at 1325.) Vague, block billed time entries inflated with non-compensable
hours destroy that credibility with the trial court.” (Christian
Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315,
1325–1326.)
VI.  CONCLUSION
       The
billing statements are not helpful to the court as they seek reward for
preparing vague emails, “rent checks,” “telephone calls” and letters which do
not provide a basis for the court to consider whether such tasks had anything
to do with Metro Inc.’s defense. Therefore, Metro Inc. is ordered to submit a
supplemental declaration and spreadsheet identifying the date, tasks (specific
to each Defendant where possible), who performed the work, the hours expended
and at what hourly rate. The chart should reflect the total hours each counsel
spent on the case. 
       Where
certain tasks are common and involved a joint filing, such as preparing
Defendants’ joint answer, defense counsel is to so indicate so as to permit the
court to apportion such tasks equitably between the two Defendants. 
       Accordingly,
the court continues the hearing to July 30,
 2024,  at 8:30 a.m. in
Department A of the Compton Courthouse. Metro Inc. is ordered to provide the
above supplemental evidence and spreadsheet to identify the work specific to
Metro Inc., which shall be filed 10 days before the hearing. 