  Case Number:  20STCV02062    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  A 20STCV02062 Edwin
 Nolasco, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Ana Lloyd v. Los Angeles
 Unified School District; Doe 1
Thursday,
 June 13, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SEAL RECORDS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
CONTINUING
 THE HEARING ON PETITION FOR COMPROMISE OF A DISPUTED CLAIM OF A PERSON WITH A
 DISABILITY                                                                                                                                                           
 
I.           
BACKGROUND
       Claimant,
Edwin Nolasco, by and through his sister and Guardian ad Litem, Ana Lloyd,
settled his claims arising from multiple incidents of sexual assault
perpetrated by Defendant, Doe 1. Claimant was 21 years old at the time and attending
classes provided by Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) at Banneker
Career and Transition Center (“Banneker”). (FAC, ¶ 2-3.  
II.           
MOTION TO SEAL
Petitioner proposes to file the
petition and supporting documents under seal to protect the minor claimant’s
financial privacy, identity, and ongoing psychological and emotional injuries
reflected in the records. Court
records are presumed to be open. (Cal. Rules of Court, 2.550 subd. (c).) The burden is on the
moving party to show compelling reasons for sealing records. (Mary R. v. B. & R. Corp. (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 308,
317.) To support
an order to seal records, the Court must find that “(1) there is an overriding
interest supporting sealing records; (2) there is a substantial probability
that the interest will be prejudiced absent sealing; (3) the proposed sealing
is narrowly tailored to serve the overriding interest; and (4) there is no less
restrictive means of achieving the overriding interest." (McNair v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 25, 29;
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550 subd. (d).)
An agreement
not to disclose can constitute an “overriding interest” where there is specific
showing of serious injury. (McNair at 35–36 [“specificity is essential.
[Citation.] Broad allegations of harm, bereft of specific examples or
articulated reasoning, are insufficient. [Citation.] We have been unable
to find any appellate court decision which construes Publicker to
permit sealing of court documents merely upon the agreement of the parties
without a specific showing of serious injury.”].) Once the moving party
identifies an overriding interest, the moving party must show “a substantial
probability that it will be prejudiced absent closure or sealing." (Universal City Studios, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2003)
110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283.)

Petitioner
has identified a compelling interest to support redacting the petition and
supporting documents to protect Plaintiff’s private financial and health
information and identity. (City of Carmel-By-The-Sea v. Young (1970) 2 Cal.3d 259, 268 ["In any event we are
satisfied that the protection of one's personal financial affairs and those of
his (or her) spouse and children against compulsory public disclosure is an
aspect of the zone of privacy which is protected by the Fourth Amendment and
which also falls within that penumbra of constitutional rights into which the
government may not intrude absent a showing of compelling need and that the
intrusion is not overly broad."].) Publication of a person’s assets
"can be expected to bring unwanted solicitation from a variety of salesmen
and others, could well encourage harassment lawsuits or demands of like nature,
and could expose the public officer and family to various criminal elements in
our society." (City of Carmel-By-The-Sea at p. 270.) 
Additionally,
courts have recognized an overriding interest in protecting minor victims of
sex crimes from further trauma and
embarrassment (NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV)
v. Superior Court, (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 1178,
1223.)
Petitioner
has shown a substantial probability that Plaintiff’s privacy interests will be prejudiced
absent sealing the records. The proposed order is narrowly tailored to serve
Plaintiff’s privacy interests, and there is no less restrictive means of
protecting that interest. 
III.           
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Petitioner’s motion
to seal the petition and supporting exhibits are GRANTED. 

 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
CONTINUING
 THE HEARING ON PETITION FOR COMPROMISE OF A DISPUTED CLAIM OF A PERSON WITH A
 DISABILITY                                                                                                                                                          
 
       
       The
Amended Petition filed on May 14, 2024, indicates that Petitioner proposes to
transfer a portion of the settlement funds to a special needs trust. Because
the settlement involves a transfer to a trust, the Probate Division must review
the trust terms. (CA R LOS ANGELES SUPER CT Rule 4.115.)  Petitioner must lodge
with the filing window of the Probate Division at Stanley Mosk Courthouse at
least 30 days before the hearing a physical copy of the face page of the
petition to approve the compromise and attach a copy of the proposed trust
instrument and the proposed order approving the compromise and trust. (Id.)

       The
court’s file reflects that Plaintiff filed a Notice of Lodging Documents at
Probate Window. However, the Probate Division informed the Court that Ex. 2 of
the notice is not the trust instrument but rather a Joinder Agreement to the
Trust. 
       Accordingly, the Court continues
the hearing on this Petition to July 23,
 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department A of the Compton Courthouse.
Plaintiff is ordered to file under seal all documents indicated in its notice
of lodging and submit those documents directly with the Probate Division. 