  Case Number:  23SMCV04658    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04658




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant City of West Hollywood




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Alyssa Rabiola (“Plaintiff”) brought suit, alleging causes
of action for (1) negligence; and (2) premises liability, stemming from an
incident where Plaintiff was injured when she fell, due to an open utility
hole/vault in the sidewalk.
 
Defendant City of West Hollywood (“Defendant”) demurs to the second
cause of action for premises liability alleged in Plaintiff Alyssa Rabiola’s
complaint, for failure to state a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure 430.10, subdivision (e) on the grounds that some of the allegations
underlying Plaintiff’s second cause of action were not included in the claim
for damages previously presented to Defendant, and therefore the second cause
of action fails to comply with Government Code section 910.  
 
Defendant’s demurrer is unopposed. 

 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests the Court to take
judicial notice of (A) the file stamped copy of Plaintiff’s Claim for Damages
filed with Defendant on April 6, 2023; and (B) Defendant’s Notice of Rejection
of the Claim for Damages, dated June 9, 2023 
 
            “The court may take judicial notice
of the filing and contents of a government claim, but not the truth of the
claim.”  (Gong v. City of Rosemead
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 368 (citing Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c)).)
 
            Therefore, the Court takes judicial
notice of the file stamped copy of Plaintiff’s April 6, 2023 Claim for Damages
and Defendant’s June 9, 2023 Notice of Rejection of the Claim for Damages, but
not the truth of the assertions contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
1.      GOVERNMENT
CLAIMS ACT – PRESENTATION REQUIREMENTS
 
Per the Government Claims Act (“GCA”), also known as the Tort Claims
Act, (Gov. Code, 810 et seq.), a party with a claim for money or damages
against a public entity must present a written claim directly with that public
entity. (Gov. Code, § 905.) And under Government Code section 945.4, “no suit
for money or damages may be brought against a public entity on a cause of
action for which a claim is required to be presented in accordance with Section
910 until a written claim therefore has been presented to the public entity and
has been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by
the board.” (Stockett v. Association of Cal. Water Agencies Joint Powers
Ins. Authority (2004) 34 Cal.4th 441, 445 (hereafter Stockett)
[cleaned up]; see also Munoz v. State of Cal. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1767.) In sum, “compliance with the claims provisions is mandatory.  Fulfilling the requirements of the tort claims
presentation procedure is a condition precedent to filing suit; it is not an
affirmative defense.” (Castaneda v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation
(2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1051, 1061 (hereafter Castaneda) [cleaned up].)
 
To comply with the GCA presentation requirements, a claimant is
compelled to observe Government Code section 910 which provides:
 
A claim shall be presented by the claimant or by a person acting on
his or her behalf and shall show all of the following:
 
(a) The name and post office address of the claimant.
 
(b) The post office address to which the person presenting the claim
desires notices to be sent.
 
(c) The date, place and other circumstances of the occurrence or
transaction which gave rise to the claim asserted.
 
(d) A general description of the indebtedness, obligation, injury,
damage or loss incurred so far as it may be known at the time of presentation
of the claim.
 
(e) The name or names of the public employee or employees causing the
injury, damage, or loss, if known.
 
(f) The amount claimed if it totals less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000) as of the date of presentation of the claim, including the estimated
amount of any prospective injury, damage, or loss, insofar as it may be known
at the time of the presentation of the claim, together with the basis of
computation of the amount claimed. If the amount claimed exceeds ten thousand
dollars ($10,000), no dollar amount shall be included in the claim. However, it
shall indicate whether the claim would be a limited civil case.
 
(Gov.
Code, § 910.)
 
Although a government claim need not contain the detail and
specificity required of a pleading in a civil action, it nevertheless must
fairly describe what the entity is alleged to have done. When a civil action is
filed following the rejection of a government claim, it is acceptable for the
complaint to elaborate or add further details to a government claim, but the
complaint may not completely shift the allegations and premise liability on
facts that fundamentally differ from those specified in the government claim.
In other words, the factual basis for recovery in the complaint must be fairly
reflected in the government claim.
 
(Hernandez
v. City of Stockton (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1222, 1230 (hereafter
Hernandez) [cleaned up].)
 
In Hernandez, the “plaintiff filed a government claim with the
City, alleging that it negligently maintained public property by failing to
correct a dangerous condition along a sidewalk. [The] plaintiff claimed that he
sustained severe injuries when he tripped and fell due to a ‘dangerous
condition’ on the City-owned ‘sidewalk surface’ that he identified only as an
‘uplifted sidewalk’. After his government claim was rejected, plaintiff filed
this personal injury action, complaining broadly that the ‘sidewalk surface’
harbored a ‘dangerous condition’ that created an unspecified hazard. He later
disclosed during his deposition that he tripped and fell when he stepped into a
hole, specifically a tree well with no tree in it.” (Hernandez, supra, 90
Cal.App.5th at p. 1226.)  The City moved
for summary judgment contending that the plaintiff failed to comply with the
GCA presentation requirements because the factual basis for recovery was not
“fairly reflected” in the plaintiff’s government claim. (Ibid.)
 
The trial court granted summary judgment in the City’s favor. In
affirming the judgment, the Court of Appeal opined:
 
This is the type of factual variance that is fatal to a civil action
filed against a public entity following the rejection of a government claim,
since it amounts to a complete shift in allegations. Courts have consistently
held that a civil action (or a claim alleged therein) is barred when, as here,
the complaint premises liability on an entirely different factual basis than
that stated in the government claim. . . . Such actions or claims are barred
because they subvert the purpose of the Government Claims Act, which is
intended to give the public entity an opportunity to investigate and evaluate
its potential liability and, where appropriate, avoid litigation by settling
meritorious claims.
 
(Hernandez,
supra, 90 Cal.App.5th at p. 1232.) The appellate court found that the
variance between the plaintiff’s government claim and the allegations in the
civil action were fatal “[d]ue to a complete shift in allegations as to the
dangerous condition that allegedly caused plaintiff’s injuries.” (Ibid.)
 
In Stockett, the California Supreme Court considered whether
the variance between what the plaintiff asserted in a government claim and the
ensuing civil action for wrongful termination ran afoul of the GCA presentation
requirements. In so doing, the California high court reiterated, in part,
policies underlying the GCA.
 
The purpose of these statutes is to provide the public entity
sufficient information to enable it to adequately investigate claims and to
settle them, if appropriate, without the expense of litigation. Consequently, a
claim need not contain the detail and specificity required of a pleading, but
need only fairly describe what the entity is alleged to have done. As the
purpose of the claim is to give the government entity notice sufficient for it
to investigate and evaluate the claim, not to eliminate meritorious actions,
the claims statute should not be applied to snare the unwary where its purpose
has been satisfied.
 
(Stockett,
supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 446 [cleaned up].) In Stockett, the
plaintiff asserted certain theories about why he believed he was wrongfully
terminated, including opposing sexual harassment in the workplace, in his
government claim. But the plaintiff’s complaint, as amended, asserted other
theories about why he was wrongfully terminated, including exercising free
speech rights in the workplace. (Id. at pp. 444-445.)
 
The California Supreme Court, in affirming a jury verdict in favor of
the plaintiff, held in part:
 
Even if the claim were timely, the complaint is vulnerable to a
demurrer if it alleges a factual basis for recovery which is not fairly
reflected in the written claim. The claim, however, need not specify each
particular act or omission later proven to have caused the injury. A
complaint's fuller exposition of the factual basis beyond that given in the
claim is not fatal, so long as the complaint is not based on an entirely
different set of facts.
 
Only where there has been a complete shift in allegations, usually
involving an effort to premise civil liability on acts or omissions committed
at different times or by different persons than those described in the claim,
have courts generally found the complaint barred. Where the complaint merely
elaborates or adds further detail to a claim, but is predicated on the same
fundamental actions or failures to act by the defendants, courts have generally
found the claim fairly reflects the facts pled in the complaint.
 
(Stockett,
supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 447 [cleaned up].) In particular, the California
Supreme Court held that the plaintiff complied with the GCA presentation
requirements although there were variances between the government claim and the
allegations in the civil action as to why the plaintiff believed he was
wrongfully terminated.
 
[The plaintiff] stated the termination had been wrongful because it
was effected in violation of California public policy. He thus notified JPIA of
his wrongful termination cause of action, in compliance with section 954.4's
command that each “cause of action” be presented by notice of claim. While
Stockett's claim did not specifically assert his termination violated the
public policies favoring free speech and opposition to public employee
conflicts of interest, these theories do not represent additional causes of
action and hence need not be separately presented under section 945.4.
 
(Ibid.)
Additionally, the California high court noted that “[i]n comparing claim
and complaint, we are mindful that so long as the policies of the claims statutes
are effectuated, the statutes should be given a liberal construction to permit
full adjudication on the merits. If the claim gives adequate information for
the public entity to investigate, additional detail and elaboration in the
complaint is permitted.” (Id. at p. 449 [cleaned up].)
 
In Castaneda, the plaintiff, who died of cancer after the
action commenced, alleged in a complaint that the California Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation (“CDCR”) failed to provide him with adequate
health care by not properly diagnosing and treating his cancer in a timely
fashion. In assessing the trial court’s rulings, the Court of Appeal noted in
part:
 
[T]he intent of the Tort Claims Act is not to expand the rights of
plaintiffs against governmental entities. Rather, the intent of the act is to
confine potential governmental liability to rigidly delineated circumstances. .
. . The act creates a bond between the administrative claim and the judicial
complaint. Each theory of recovery against the public entity must have been
reflected in a timely claim. In addition, the factual circumstances set forth
in the claim must correspond with the facts alleged in the complaint.
 
(Castaneda,
supra, 212 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060 [cleaned up].) Particularly, the
appellate court addressed whether the plaintiff’s government claim complied
with the GCA presentation requirements. In finding compliance, the Court of
Appeal compared the assertions in the government claim with the assertions in
the resultant complaint:
 
Castaneda's tort claim explained the circumstances leading to his
injury thusly: Cal DOC failed to provide adequate and necessary medical care
for a known serious medical need, resulting in the failure to timely diagnose
and treat penile cancer, resulting in penectomy and development of metastatic
terminal cancer.
 
In his ensuing complaint against the State only, Castaneda alleged his
action is based on a violation of section 845.6. Section 845.6, as will be
amplified later, carves out of the general immunity of the State for injuries
to prisoners, limited State liability when a public employee, acting within the
scope of his employment, knows or has reason to know that the prisoner is in
need of immediate medical care and he fails to take reasonable action to summon
such medical care.
 
(Castaneda,
supra, 212 Cal.App.4th at p. 1061 [cleaned up].)
 
“In its motion for judgment on the pleadings, the State specifically
argued Castaneda's tort claim did not allege a failure to summon immediate
medical care.” (Castaneda, supra, 212 Cal.App.4th at p. 1061.) In
denying the motion, the trial court determined that the government claim
provided CDCR with sufficient information to investigate the plaintiff’s
allegations. Agreeing with the trial court, the Court of Appeal reasoned:
 
To be fortified against a demurrer, the complaint should allege the
factual basis for recovery that fairly reflects the written claim
 
Castaneda's tort claim contained the facts sufficient to give the
Board notice to investigate and evaluate his claim. The claim cited the dates
and place of Castaneda's State custody and generally stated the ‘circumstances
of the Department's response to Castaneda’s alleged immediate medical need.
Castaneda's complaint was predicated on the same fundamental acts of the same
defendant, namely the Department of Corrections, as his claim. Therefore,
Castaneda notified the Board of his failure-to-summon-medical-care cause of
action as he was required to do by sections 910 and 945.4.
 
(Id.
at p.1062 [cleaned up].) The Court of Appeal ultimately held that the
variance between the government claim and complaint initiated by the plaintiff
was not fatally defective.
 
A.   
PLAINTIFF’S
GOVERNMENT CLAIM
 
Plaintiff’s
government claim alleges, in relevant part, 
 
Claimant was walking on the east sidewalk on La
Cienega, when her foot fell into an improperly secured utility hole/vault and
sustained injuries.
 
[…]
 
City employees and/or its agents failed to
maintain, inspect, and/or repair the utility hole/vault/cover and/or sidewalk,
and as a result, a dangerous condition was present and was the cause of
Claimant's injuries.
 
B.     PLAINTIFF’S
COMPLAINT
 
Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for premises liability alleges:
 
Plaintiff was walking on the east sidewalk on La Cienega &
Holloway, West Hollywood, CA 90069, when she fell due to an improperly secured
utility hole/vault, repaired, inspected and/or maintained by Defendants' agents
in a negligent fashion. The negligence of Defendants' agents resulted in
Plaintiff tripping on the uneven and displaced portion of the sidewalk and
Plaintiff suffered serious injuries as a direct consequence. Defendants, and
each of them, are responsible for their failure to provide a safe, suitable and
adequate premises. Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon
alleges that said hazardous, dangerous condition was caused by Defendants, and
each of them, and/or existed for a sufficient time prior to the incident for
defendants to have corrected, removed, and/or warned Plaintiff of the existence
of said conditions, which Defendants negligently and carelessly failed to do,
causing serious injuries to Plaintiff. Defendants had actual and/or
constructive notice of said dangerous condition. But for the negligence of Defendants,
and each of them, Plaintiff would not have been injured and damaged.
 
(Complaint
at Attachment 1, emphasis added.) 
 
C.    APPLICATION
OF GCA PRESENTATION REQUIREMENTS TO PLAINTIFF’S GOVERNMENT CLAIM AND COMPLAINT
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to comply with the
presentations requirement of the CGA because the allegations that Plaintiff
“tripped on an uneven and displaced portion of the sidewalk” (Complaint at
Attachment 1) and that Los Angeles Department of Water & Power (“LADWP”)
and the City of Los Angeles “were the agents and employees of” Defendant
(Complaint at Prem.L-5) exceed the scope of the allegations presented in the
claim for damages.  The Court agrees.
 
Hernandez controls here. 
Plaintiff’s government claim alleges Plaintiff’s foot fell into a hole
in the sidewalk, but Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges in addition that Plaintiff
tripped “on the uneven and displaced portion of the sidewalk[.]”  Therefore the allegations underlying
Plaintiff’s claim fundamentally differ from the allegations set forth in
Plaintiff’s government claim.    
 
2.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet this burden
because Plaintiff did not present any arguments in opposition to the demurrer.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court sustains Defendant’s unopposed Demurrer to the
Second Cause of Action without leave to amend.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 25, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court