  Case Number:  23TRCV02453    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
SERVPRO
  OF DOWNEY, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02453




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AQP
  PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 15, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant AQP Property
Management
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to
Respond Without Objections to Form and Special Interrogatories
(2)  
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to
Respond Without Objections to Requests for Production of Documents
(3)  
Motion for an Order Deeming
Admitted Truth of Facts
(4)  
Motion to Exclude Evidence of
Plaintiff’s Alleged Damages due to Plaintiff’s Failure to Respond to Demand for
bill of Particulars
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to respond
without objections to defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Special
Interrogatories (Set One) within twenty days. 
Plaintiff is ordered (1) to serve
on defendant a verified response without objections to defendant’s Requests for
Production of Documents (Set One) and (2) to produce all documents and things
in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive to defendant’s
request, within twenty days.  
The Court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in defendant’s Request for Admissions (Set One) against
plaintiff.
The Court orders plaintiff to pay
to defendant a monetary sanction in the amount of $1230, in total, within
thirty days.
Plaintiff is precluded from giving
evidence as to its causes of action for common counts.
BACKGROUND
On July 28, 2023, plaintiff Servpro
of Downey filed a complaint against AQP Property Management for (1) breach of
contract, (2) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien, (3) open book account, (4)
account stated, and (5) common counts. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
Request for Production of Documents
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1487.
Request for Admissions 
Pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(b), a
party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).  “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not
result in automatic admissions.  Rather,
the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under § 2023.010 et seq.”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:1370, citing CCP § 2033.280(b).  The court “shall” grant the motion to deem
RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  CCP §
2033.280(c).
DISCUSSION
            Motions to Compel
Defendant AQP Property Management
requests that the Court compel plaintiff Servpro of Downey to respond without
objections to defendant’s initial form and special interrogatories and requests
for production of documents and to deem admitted the requests for admission.
Defendant explains that it served
its discovery requests on plaintiff on January 10, 2024.  Responses were due by February 12, 2024.  On February 12, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel
requested a two-week extension to February 28, 2024.  On March 11, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel
requested an extension to respond to March 28, 2024.  To date, defense counsel has not received
responses.
The Court finds that defendant
properly served discovery requests and plaintiff failed to respond.  
The motions are GRANTED.
                        Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendant
requests $1285 for
each motion.  The Court finds that $1230
($350/hr. x 3 hrs.; $180 filing fee) is a reasonable amount to be imposed
against plaintiff in total for the three motions.
Bill of Particulars
“It is not necessary for a party to
set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he must
deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after a demand thereof in
writing, a copy of the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. .
. .”  CCP §454.
Defendant asserts that it served a
Demand for Bill of Particulars on plaintiff on January 29, 2024.  Despite repeated extensions, to date, defense
counsel has not received a response.
The Court finds that defendant
properly served a Demand for Bill of Particulars and that plaintiff failed to
respond.
The motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is precluded from giving evidence
as to its causes of action for common counts.
 
ORDER
The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to respond
without objections to defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Special
Interrogatories (Set One) within twenty days. 
Plaintiff is ordered (1) to serve
on defendant a verified response without objections to defendant’s Requests for
Production of Documents (Set One) and (2) to produce all documents and things
in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive to defendant’s
request, within twenty days.  
The Court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in defendant’s Request for Admissions (Set One) against
plaintiff.
The Court orders plaintiff to pay
to defendant a monetary sanction in the amount of $1230, in total, within
thirty days.
Plaintiff is precluded from giving
evidence as to its causes of action for common counts.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.