 Case Number:  23VECV04806    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04806 TONY ROBERT
TAWIL vs GALPIN MOTORS
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Galpin Motors, Inc.’s Demurrer to
the Complaint is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action and  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
second cause of action.
Defendant Galpin Motors, Inc.’s
Motion to Strike is DENIED in its entirety.
Defendant Galpin Motors, Inc. is
ORDERED to file an Answer within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendant Galpin Motors, Inc.
(Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Tony Robert Tawil’s (Plaintiff)
Complaint.  Defendant’s demurrer placed
into issue the first cause of action (COA) for fraud and deceit and the second
COA for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  Defendant concurrently moved to strike the
request for punitive damages and allegations referring to three online
complaints by unknown persons not parties to this action (Compl. par. 47).  
Discussion  
As to the first COA for fraud,
Defendant asserted that there are insufficient facts pled as to the
misrepresentations and reasonable reliance. 
To support the contention, Defendant relied upon the terms of the Retail
Installment Sales Contract (RISC) attached as Exhibit A to the Complaint.  Defendant argued that facts in an attached
exhibit take precedence over contradictory factual allegations within the body
of the pleading.  Defendant asserted that
the RISC expressly notified Plaintiff of the cash price, the markup, and the
optional nature of the optional theft deterrent device.  Based upon the terms of the RISC, Defendant
argued that there are insufficient facts to plead any misrepresentation or
reasonable reliance.  However,
Defendant’s argument is grounded on a misinterpretation of the
allegations.  The fraud COA is based on
the claim that the RISC is invalid due to the fraud.  Plaintiff’s requested relief under the fraud
COA is to rescind the RISC.  (Compl. par.
65.)  Plaintiff does not allege that the RISC
is valid and enforceable.  Defendant’s
argument presumed that the RISC is valid. 
Defendant did not correctly apply the rule that facts alleged in an
attached exhibit take precedence over contradicting factual allegations in the
body of the pleading.  The rule requires
Plaintiff’s COA to plead that the contract is valid and enforceable (i.e.,
similar to a breach of contract claim in a collection case) but Plaintiff’s COA
does not do that.   Defendant’s argument
is unpersuasive.
The Demurrer to the first COA is
OVERRULED.  
The Court noted that the Demurrer
to the first COA cited to the pleading requirements of specificity and
particularity.  However, Defendant did
not present any argument as to this pleading requirement and/or how the Complaint’s
allegations are deficient related to specificity or particularity.  A mere reference to the requirements of
specificity and particularity is insufficient to present argument on how the
pleading is deficient.  A judge in a
civil case is not “'obligated to seek out theories [a party] might have
advanced, or to articulate for him that which … [a party] has left unspoken.'”
(Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.)  The demurrer that merely references the
pleading requirements of specificity and particularity is unpersuasive.  
The Demurrer to the first COA is
OVERRULED.  
Defendant argued that the second
COA for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing failed to
allege facts pleading that Plaintiff did not receive the benefits of the RISC
(i.e., possession/ownership of the vehicle). 
Plaintiff countered that the benefit of the bargain was the lower
advertised price.  However, payment of
money was not Plaintiff’s benefit of the bargain.  It was Defendant’s benefit of the
bargain.  Payment of the purchase price
was Plaintiff’s obligation under the RISC, irrespective of whether the price to
be paid was the price on the RISC or the advertised price.  Plaintiff’s contention to dispute Defendant’s
argument is not persuasive because Plaintiff’s argument is based upon a misinterpretation
of the pleading element.  The demurrer
argument is persuasive.
The demurrer to the second COA is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Defendant moved to strike
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. 
Defendant argued that there are insufficient facts alleged to support
malice, oppression, or fraud.  Defendant’s
argument again relied upon the terms of the RISC, which was not found to be
persuasive as  reviewed above.  The factual allegations within the fraud COA
are sufficient to support the request for punitive damages and the fraud
element under punitive damages per Civil Code section 3294.  
The motion to strike the request
for punitive damages is DENIED.
Defendant argued that the
allegations regarding three online reviews by unknown persons are irrelevant
because the online reviews are hearsay and cannot be verified.  However, the assertion of evidentiary
objections at the pleading stage is improper. 
At the pleading stage, allegations of fact are deemed true.  Arguing the veracity, authenticity, or
speculative nature of a factual allegations is insufficient to argue
irrelevance.  Plaintiff sufficiently
provided that the factual allegations go to the pleading elements of intent to
defraud and knowledge of the falsity. 
The Court does not find Defendant’s argument persuasive and the factual
allegations are shown to be relevant.
The motion to strike Complaint
paragraph 47 is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.