 Case Number:  23VECV03559    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV03559 LINDA NGUYEN, AN INDIVIDUAL vs SKY ZONE
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Defendants Sky Zone, LLC and SZ Socal, LLC’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay the Action is CONTINUED to 3/14/2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Dept.
T for further briefing from the parties to address the Court’s tentative
ruling.  Plaintiff Linda Nguyen’s
response is due 9 court days prior to the new hearing date.  Defendants Sky Zone, LLC and SZ Socal, LLC’s
response is due 5 court days prior to the new hearing date.  
Introduction

            Defendants Sky Zone, LLC and SZ Socal, LLC dba Sky Zone
Van Nuys, fka SZ Van Nuys Capital Partners, LLC erroneously named/served as
7741 Hayvenhurst, LLC (collectively, Defendants) moved to compel arbitration
and stay Plaintiff Linda Nguyen’s (Plaintiff) action. Defendant requested
attorneys’ fees and costs per the arbitration agreement and/or monetary
sanctions per Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 in the amount of $7,586.65.  Plaintiff’s Opposition requested monetary
sanctions per Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 in the amount of $4,800.00.     
            Discussion 


The
Court is authorized to order the arbitration of a controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1281.2.)  “Arbitration” is not expressly defined in the
statute.  Arbitration may take many
procedural forms.  However, a form of alternative
dispute resolution is not considered an “arbitration” unless it has
the following attributes:  “(1) a third party
decision maker; (2) a mechanism for ensuring neutrality with respect to the
rendering of the decision; (3) a decision maker who is chosen by the parties;
(4) an opportunity for both parties to be heard, and (5) a binding decision.
[Bolding added.]”  (Cheng-Canindin v.
Renaissance Hotel Associates (1996) 50 Cal. App.2d 676, 684-685.)  Finality is a core component of
arbitration.  (Moncharsh v. Heily
& Blasé (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 10.) 

The
Court notes that Defendant’s “arbitration” agreement and Defendant’s motion is
expressly grounded on the “non-binding” nature of the arbitration.  Within Defendant’s arbitration agreement, the
“non-binding” nature of the arbitration was expressly stated eleven separate
times.  Because the agreement requires
“non-binding” arbitration, the Court is not authorized to enforce the agreement
per Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 because it is not a binding decision.  
In
deciding a motion/petition to compel arbitration, trial courts must decide
first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties,
and then determine the second gateway issue whether the claims are covered
within the scope of the agreement.  (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  Because Defendant’s agreement requires
“non-binding” arbitration, Defendant failed to present facts showing the
existence of an enforceable “arbitration” agreement.
The
motion to compel arbitration and stay of the action is not persuasive and
should be denied.   There is no legal authority which authorizes a
court to order a case to non-binding arbitration in a motion to compel
arbitration.
Because
the legal authority cited by the Court is a new issue not raised in any of the
parties’ briefs, the Court CONTINUES the hearing to allow proper notice and
opportunity to be heard on the issue by all parties.  
            IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.
 