 Case Number:  22CHCV01194    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 7-26-24
Case #22CHCV01194,
Kai-Lin Chang vs. Brittany A. Doremus, et al.
Trial Date: 8-26-24
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Southern California Permanente Medical Group
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Kai-Lin Chang
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion for
Summary Judgment
 
RULING: Motion
for summary judgment is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
At around 8:40
a.m. on September 12, 2022, Defendant Brittany A. Doremus (Doremus) was driving
her motor vehicle when she struck Plaintiff Kai-Lin Chang’s (Plaintiff)
bicycle. Doremus was on her way to work and was turning into the parking lot of
a dry cleaner when she struck Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that he sustained
serious injuries because of the accident that required surgery and months of
physical therapy. Plaintiff alleges that he had the right of way at the time of
the accident and has sued Doremus for negligence. Though Plaintiff dismissed
Doremus from the case on July 24, 2024, Plaintiff has also sued Defendant’s
employer, Southern California Permanent Medical Group (SCPMG), on the theory
that Plaintiff was acting in the scope of her employment at the time the
accident occurred.
 
SCPMG has filed
a motion for summary judgment on all of Plaintiff’s causes of action based on
the going and coming rule. SCPMG argues that this rule acts as a complete bar
to vicarious employer liability. Plaintiff opposes the motion.
 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections (Plaintiff’s objections are not numbered, so the Court
has numbered them based on the order in which they appear):
            Sustained: None
            Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
 
ANALYSIS
The purpose of
a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions,
“since it is those allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal.
App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development,
Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(CCP § 437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
            Issue 1
SCPMG argues
that it is entitled to summary judgment as to all of Plaintiff’s causes of
action against SCPMG because the going and coming rule applies without
exception and acts as a complete bar to vicarious employer liability.
 
Under the
doctrine of respondeat superior, an employer is vicariously liable for an
employee’s negligent acts or omissions committed in the “course and scope” of
employment. (Lobo v. Tamco (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 297, 301.) Conduct
within the course and scope of employment encompasses conduct that is typical
of or incidental to employment. (Jeewarat v. Warner Bros. Ent. Inc.
(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 427, 434.)
 
An exception to
the doctrine of respondeat superior is the “going and coming rule.” Under this
rule, an employee is not regarded as acting within the course and scope of
employment while going to or coming from his or her workplace, and it is based
on the concept that “[t]he employment relationship is suspended from the time
the employee leaves work until he or she returns, since the employee is not
ordinarily rendering services to the employer while traveling.” (Jeewarat,
supra, 177 Cal.App.4th at p. 435, citing Baptist v. Robinson
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 151, 162.)
 
In Hartline
v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 458, the Court
applied the “going and coming rule” in granting summary judgment in favor of an
employer whose employee was involved in a motor vehicle accident while turning
into the parking lot of the Kaiser hospital where she worked to begin her
shift. In so doing, the Court reasoned that “the risks associated with an
employee’s commute to and from work generally are not, absent special
circumstances . . . inherent in, typical of, or created by their work.
Certainly . . . [the employee’s] involvement in a car accident could not fairly
be said to be characteristic of her work as a physical therapist for Kaiser.
Just because employers have to employ workers and workers have to get to and
from their work does not mean the commute is part of the enterprise risk of the
employer.” (Id. at 469-70.) 
 
In another
case, the Court of Appeal granted summary judgment for an employer after determining
that an employee’s call to his supervisor, made while driving eight minutes
before his accident, did not support a contention that he was acting within the
“course and scope” of his employment. (Miller v. American Greetings Corp.
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1055.)
 
In Ayon v.
Esquire Deposition Solutions, LLC (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 487, the Court of
Appeal affirmed the granting of summary judgment in favor of the employer
despite cell phone records showing the employee was actively on a call with her
coworker when the accident occurred. There, the Court sided with the employer
because the plaintiff could not prove that the content of the employee’s call
was related to work. (Id. at 495.)
 
There is no
dispute in this case that Doremus was commuting to work. In fact, when the
accident occurred, she was turning into a dry cleaner’s parking lot to take
care of a personal errand unrelated to work. (UMF 20-22.) It is clear that the
going and coming rule would apply in this case, and Doremus was not acting in
the scope of her employment.
 
While there are
exceptions to the going and coming rule, none would apply here. The
“vehicle-use exception” applies where the employer furnishes, or requires the
employee to furnish, a vehicle as an express or implied condition of
employment. (Moradi v. Marsh USA, Inc. (2013) 219 Cal.4th 886, 895.)
That is not the case here. Next, the “incidental benefit” exception “is based
on the part of CACI No. 3725 that states: ‘The drive to and from work may … be
within the scope of employment if the use of the employee’s vehicle provides
some direct or incidental benefit to the employer. There may be a benefit to
the employer if (1) the employee has agreed to make the vehicle available as an
accommodation to the employer, and (2) the employer has reasonably come to rely
on the vehicle’s use and expects the employee to make it available regularly.’”
(Pierson v. Helmerich & Payne Int’l Drilling Co. (2016) 4
Cal.App.5th 608, 629, quoting CACI No. 3725.) There is no indication that
Doremus was required to make her vehicle available as an accommodation to her
employer. Finally, under the “special errand” exception to the “going and
coming rule,” an employee is considered within the scope of employment while on
a special errand, either as part of their regular duties or at a specific order
or request of the employer. (Fields v. State of California (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1390, 1396-97.) Doremus was not on a special errand for her
employer; she was running a personal errand during her commute to work.
 
SCPMG has
presented evidence that Doremus was not acting in the scope and course of her
employment. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate that she was.
 
Plaintiff
attempts to argue that if Doremus was using a work-issued cell phone in the
moments before the collision, then that means that she was acting within the
scope of her employment. Plaintiff also attempts to argue that Doremus was texting
coworkers about work-related matters in the moments before the collision, but
nothing in the phone records obtained from AT&T supports this argument. The
records do not show the content of the texts, only the number and time. The
records do show that Doremus did not send or receive any text messages until
8:44 a.m., when she texted her coworkers that she was in an accident, as
supported by the text screenshots that Defendant submitted as evidence. 
 
First, the text
log is in UTC time and shows the first texts occurred at 15:44 hours. The court
takes judicial notice of the fact that UTC is seven hours ahead of Pacific
Daylight Savings Time, meaning that those texts occurred at 8:44 a.m.  (Evid. Code, § 451, subd. (f).) Next, the
text log time of 8:44 a.m. matches with the text screenshot submitted by Doremus
because it shows that the text Doremus sent at 8:44 a.m. states that she was in
an accident. While her call log shows a 911 call at 7:39 a.m., that is
unexplained and has not been tied to the accident, which occurred an hour
later. Finally, the next call on her call log was at 8:44 a.m., also after the
accident. Accordingly, Doremus did not, in fact, send any messages until or
make any relevant calls until after the accident had occurred.
 
Plaintiff has
presented no evidence that Doremus was acting in the scope and course of her
employment at the time of the accident. Instead, Plaintiff’s opposition is
based on conclusions that do not line up with the evidence presented.
 
Accordingly,
there is no triable issue of fact as to whether Doremus was acting in the scope
and course of her employment at the time of the accident. The going and coming
rule applies. Defendant SCPMG’s motion for summary judgment is granted for all
causes of action against it.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant SCPMG’s
motion for summary judgment is granted in its entirety. Defendant is ordered to
submit a proposed judgment.
 
Moving party to
give notice.