 Case Number:  23STCV00196    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff alleges that he was
discriminated against on the basis of his age and was not promoted in
retaliation for complaining about his employer’s illegal practices. Plaintiff
alleges constructive termination. 
 
            Defendants Classic Distributing
Beverage Group, LLC, Classic Distributing and Beverage Group, Inc., Classic
Beverage of Southern California, LLC, Joe Hwang, and John Morales move to compel
arbitration and to stay this action.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants
Classic Distributing Beverage Group, LLC, Classic Distributing and Beverage Group,
Inc., Classic Beverage of Southern California, LLC, Joe Hwang, and John Morales’
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
The
litigation is ordered stayed pending arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
            The parties are ordered to meet and confer to agree upon
the arbitral forum. If the parties are unable to agree, Defendants may request a
hearing to resolve the dispute. Regardless of the forum, Defendants will bear all
costs of arbitration and the arbitrator’s fees. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion To Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
 
Existence of Arbitration
Agreement
 
California
favors arbitration. (Haworth v. Superior
Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 372, 380.) Civ. Proc. Code, §1281.2
provides: 
 
On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence
of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto
refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:

 (a) The right
to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or

 (b) Grounds
exist for the revocation of the agreement.


            Under
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract. (Cable Connection, Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1343; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving by a
preponderance of evidence any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356.) The court may weigh the evidence by considering
affidavits, declarations, documents and oral testimony. (Id. at 357.)
 
            Defendants
submit an Arbitration Agreement signed by Plaintiff on September 11, 2019. (Declaration
of Stephanie E. Gorman, ¶ 3, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff does not dispute that he signed
the arbitration agreement.
 
The FAA applies when the contract “evidences a
transaction involving interstate commerce.” (Citation omitted.)
“Section 2 of the FAA provides in relevant part: ‘A
written provision in … a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce
to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such
contract or transaction … shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save
upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.’ (9 U.S.C. § 2.)” (Citation omitted.)
(Khalatian
v. Prime Time Shuttle, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 651, 657.)
 
 
[T]he language of section 2 of the
FAA indicates the pertinent question is whether the contract evidences a
transaction involving interstate commerce, not whether the dispute arises from
the particular part of the transaction involving interstate commerce. 
 
(Shepard v.
Edward Mackay Enterprises, Inc. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1092, 1101 [bold
emphasis added].”
 
            The
Arbitration Agreement provides at Page 1, second paragraph: 
 
This
Agreement is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act. 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. and
evidences a transaction involving commerce. It is intended to apply to the
resolution of past. present and future disputes that otherwise would be
resolved in a court of law and requires that all such disputes be resolved only
by an arbitrator through ¿nal and binding arbitration and not by way of court
or jury trial except as otherwise stated in this Agreement.
 
Moreover, the Declaration of John Morales, Vice President
of Administration for Classic Distributing states at ¶ 2 of his Declaration:
 
2. Classic
Distributing is a California limited liability company with its headquarters located
in the City of Industry, California. Classic Distributing sells a variety of
alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages in assigned territories throughout
Southern California from beverage suppliers throughout the United States,
including Oregon, Colorado, Iowa, Montana, Texas, and Michigan.
 
 
Accordingly, the contract involves activities
having a substantial relation to interstate commerce, and the Federal
Arbitration Act applies to the subject arbitration agreement. (Shepard v. Edward Mackay
Enterprises, Inc. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1092, 1098-99, 1101.) This is
relevant to the class action waiver argument presented by Plaintiff in the
Opposition, which is discussed below. 
The Arbitration Agreement provides in pertinent
part at Page 1, first paragraph that it applies between the employee and the
following persons or entities:
Classic Distributing and Beverage Group, Inc. and I
agree that, for purposes of this Arbitration Agreement (“Agreement"). the
term "Classic" shall include Classic Distributing and Beverage Group,
Inc.. as well as any past or former owner, shareholder, partner, director,
officer, employee. agent or insurer of Classic Distributing and Beverage Group,
Inc., or of any related or affiliated entity. 
As such, all moving Defendants are specified
as intended third party beneficiaries of the Arbitration Agreement, and they may
move to compel arbitration pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement.  
 At
Page 1, third paragraph, the Agreement provides as follows:
This Agreement applies without limitation to
disputes regarding the employment relationship, trade secrets. unfair
competition, compensation. breaks and rest periods. termination,
discrimination, retaliation (including retaliation under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974) or harassment and claims arising under
the Uniform Trade Secrets Act, Civil Rights Act of 1964, Americans With
Disabilities Act. Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Family Medical Leave
Act. Fair Labor Standards Act, Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act, and
other state and local statutes, addressing the same or similar subject matters,
and all other state statutory and common law claims. Such disputes also include
without limitation disputes arising out of or relating to the interpretation or
application of this Agreement. However. this Agreement does not apply to
disputes regarding the enforceability, revocability or validity of the
Agreement or any portion of the Agreement. Such disputes can be resolved only
by a court of competent jurisdiction.
 The scope of
the Arbitration Clause covers all claims being asserted by Plaintiff in the Complaint.
Plaintiff argues that no agreement exists because
Plaintiff was never informed about the arbitration agreement nor what he was
giving up by signing quickly when Defendant’s took over. He did not know or
understand what he was signing, he was just told to sign and that they could
not move forward with the onboarding process until he did. However, this does
not prevent formation of a contract:
"It is well established, in the absence of fraud, overreaching or
excusable neglect, that one who signs an instrument may not avoid the impact of
its terms on the ground that he failed to read the instrument before signing
it." (Citations omitted.) 
            . . .
 
"Ordinarily, one who accepts or signs an instrument, which on its
face is a contract, is deemed to assent to all its terms, and cannot escape
liability on the ground that he has not read it. If he cannot read, he should
have it read or explained to him." (Citation omitted.) This is not only
the California but the general rule. (3 Corbin, Contracts (1960) § 607, pp.
668-669, fn. omitted ["One who signs an instrument when for some reason,
such as illiteracy or blindness, he can not read it, will be bound by its terms
in case the other party acts in good faith without trick or misrepresentation.
The signer should have had the instrument read to him."].) 
 
(Randas v. YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles
(1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 158, 163.)
The Court will proceed to address the Armendariz
factors.
Armendariz Factors:
            
Where a
party seeks to arbitrate nonwaivable statutory civil rights in the workplace (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
702, 711-12), such as the FEHA claims involved here,
there are: 
 
five minimum
requirements for the lawful arbitration of such rights pursuant to a mandatory
employment arbitration agreement. Such an arbitration agreement is lawful if it
"(1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal
discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of
relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not require
employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators'
fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration forum. Thus, an
employee who is made to use arbitration as a condition of employment
'effectively may vindicate [his or her] statutory cause of action in the
arbitral forum.' " (Citation omitted.) 


(Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.)
 
Initially, we see no reason why Armendariz's "particular scrutiny" of
arbitration agreements should be confined to claims under FEHA. Rather, under
the Supreme Court's analysis, such scrutiny should apply to the enforcement
of rights under any statute enacted "for a public reason."
 

(Mercuro v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal. App. 4th 167, 180 [bold
emphasis added].)
 
However, 
 
Armendariz
held that to the extent that the arbitration agreement was silent on these
issues, these requirements must be implied as a matter of law. (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at pp. 106, 107, 113 [interpreted the agreement to provide
for adequate discovery, a written arbitration award, and the employer's payment
of arbitration costs].) To the extent
that the agreement expressly limited these rights, Armendariz held that the
agreement was contrary to public policy and unenforceable. (Id. at p. 104
[stated that a provision limiting damages was unlawful].)

(Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises,
Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 176 [bold emphasis added].)
 
(1)  Neutral arbitrators:  
At Page 2, first paragraph, the Arbitration
Agreement provides in pertinent part:
Arbitration shall be before one retired judge
of a California court who is mutually agreed upon. I understand and agree that
by entering into this agreement I am waiving any right to have a covered
dispute heard by a jury or active judge.
Due to the mutual agreement condition, this requirement
is satisfied.
(2)  More than minimal discovery:
 
 “Adequate discovery is indispensable for the
vindication of statutory claims. (Citation omitted.) “ ‘[A]dequate’ discovery does not mean unfettered discovery … .”
(Citation omitted.) And parties may
“agree to something less than the full panoply of discovery provided in
Code of Civil Procedure section 1283.05.” ( Citation omitted.) However,
arbitration agreements must “ensure minimum standards of fairness” so employees
can vindicate their public rights. (Citation omitted).” (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 715-16[bold emphasis
added].)
 
Page 2
provides: “Classic and I will have the right to conduct adequate civil
discovery . . .Any disputes regarding discovery, motions, witnesses and
evidence shall be resolved by the arbitrator.” There is no indication that the
parties will have an inadequate access to discovery.
 
This
requirement is satisfied.
 
 (3)  Written
award:
 
At Page
2, the Arbitration Agreement provides in pertinent part: “The arbitrator shall,
within 30 calendar days after submission of the case for decision, render a
written award which shall state the essential findings and conclusions on which
it is based.”
 
This requirement
is satisfied.
 
 (4)  All
types of relief available in court:
 
At Page
2, the Arbitration Agreement provides in pertinent part:
 
All parties
shall have available in arbitration such relief as would be available had the
claims or disputes been resolved in a court action, but such relief shall be
limited to that that would be available to Classic or me in its/my individual
capacity in a court of law for the claims presented to and decided by the
arbitrator.
 
This
requirement is satisfied.
 
 (5)  Does
not require employee to pay unreasonable
costs or any arbitrator’s fees or expenses as a condition to access to
arbitration:
 
Page 2,
first paragraph provides:
 
Classic shall
pay the arbitrator’s arbitration fees and expenses as well as all fees and
expenses charged by any administrative body mutually chosen by the parties.
However, I must pay fees and expenses up to the amount I would be required to
pay if I were to ¿le a claim in court against Classic.
 
      This
requirement is satisfied.
 
Accordingly,
the minimum Armendariz requirements are satisfied. 
 
            As such,
the Court finds that an agreement exists whereby Plaintiff agreed to submit all
of the claims asserted against all of the Defendants in his Complaint to
mandatory arbitration. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate that the arbitration
agreement should not be enforced.
 
            Plaintiff argues
that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable. 
 
The doctrine of unconscionability
was summarized in Walnut Producers of
California v. Diamond Foods, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 634, 645-48 as
follows:

“ ‘To briefly recapitulate the principles of unconscionability, the doctrine
has “ ‘both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on
‘ “oppression” ’ or ‘ “surprise” ’ due to unequal bargaining  power, the
latter on ‘ “overly harsh” ’ … or ‘ “one-sided” ’ results.” [Citation.] The
procedural element of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a
contract of adhesion, “ ‘which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it.’ ” … [¶] Substantively unconscionable terms
may take various forms, but may generally be described as unfairly one-sided.’
[Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)

“Under this approach, both the procedural and substantive elements must be met
before a contract or term will be deemed unconscionable. Both, however, need
not be present to the same degree. A
sliding scale is applied so that ‘the more substantively oppressive the contract
term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ (Citations
omitted.)


(Bold emphasis added.)
 
Procedural Unconscionability
 
“The procedural element of the unconscionability
analysis concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the
circumstances of the parties at that time. [Citation.] The element focuses on
oppression or surprise. [Citation.] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of
bargaining power that results in no real negotiation and an absence of
meaningful choice.’ [Citation.] Surprise is defined as ‘ “the extent to which
the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix
printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” ’
[Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)

Plaintiffs claim the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is an
adhesion contract. An adhesion contract is “a standardized contract … imposed
upon the subscribing party without an opportunity to negotiate the terms.”
(Citation omitted.) “The term signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed
and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing
party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it. [Citation.]”
(Citation omitted.)

The California Supreme Court has consistently stated that “ ‘[t]he procedural
element of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a contract of
adhesion … .’ ” (Citations omitted.)

“Whether the challenged provision is within a contract of adhesion pertains to
the oppression aspect of procedural unconscionability. A contract of adhesion is
‘ “ ‘ “imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength” ’ ” ’
and ‘ “ ‘ “relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it.” ’ ” ’ (Citations omitted.) “[A]bsent unusual circumstances, use of a contract of adhesion
establishes a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability notwithstanding the
availability of market alternatives.” (Citation omitted.)
 
(Walnut
Producers of California, supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at 645-46 [bold
emphasis added].)
 
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration
agreement is oppressive and a contract of adhesion because it was presented on
a take-it-or-leave it basis, and Plaintiff was required to sign it as a
condition of employment, as part of new-hire paperwork, and was not given an
opportunity to negotiate its terms. The Court accepts, for purposes of
argument, that these conditions made the contract adhesive, presented to
Plaintiff on a “take it or leave it” basis, which presents only a modest degree
of procedural unconscionability. (Nguyen
v. Applied Medical Resources Corp. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 232, 248.) 
 
 
            Under the
sliding scale approach, then, Plaintiffs must demonstrate at least a substantial
degree of substantive unconscionability. 
 
“A provision is substantively unconscionable
if it ‘involves contract terms that are so one-sided as to “shock the
conscience,” or that impose harsh or oppressive terms.’ [Citation.] The phrases
‘harsh,’ ‘oppressive,’ and ‘shock the conscience’ are not synonymous with
‘unreasonable.’ Basing an unconscionability determination on the reasonableness
of a contract provision would inject an inappropriate level of judicial subjectivity
into the analysis.  ‘With a concept as nebulous as “unconscionability” it
is important that courts not be thrust in the paternalistic role of intervening
to change contractual terms that the parties have agreed to merely because the
court believes the terms are unreasonable. The terms must shock the
conscience.’ [Citations.]” (Citation omitted
 
(Walnut
Producers of California, supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at 647-48.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the agreement is substantively unconscionable because of the prohibition
of class actions. However, class action waivers in
arbitration agreements are enforceable under the Federal Arbitration Act. (Evenskaas v. Cal. Transit, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 285, 297-98.) As discussed above,
the FAA applies to the subject contract. 
 
            In light of
the foregoing, the Court does not find sufficient substantive unconscionability
to render the entire agreement unenforceable. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
The litigation
is ordered stayed pending arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
            The
parties are ordered to meet and confer to agree upon the arbitral forum. If the
parties are unable to agree, Defendants may request a hearing to resolve the
dispute. Regardless of the forum, Defendants will bear all costs of arbitration
and the arbitrator’s fees. 