 Case Number:  21STCV37567    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 1, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Demurrer/Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Michelle Dinh, M.D.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Pericles Chamis



 
MOTION
 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff Pericles Chamis (“Plaintiff”) filed the
fifth amended complaint (“5AC”) against various doctors and a surgery center,
alleging causes of action for (1) medical malpractice; (2) breach of fiduciary
duty; and (3) intentional misrepresentation. 

 
Defendant Michelle Dinh, M.D. (“Defendant” or “Dinh”), who
administered the anesthesia to Plaintiff, demurs to the second and third causes
of action for failure to state a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).
 
            Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and
Defendant replies.  On reply, Defendant
has requested that the Court consider the Demurrer as][ a Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a
general demurrer, but may be made after the time to demur has expired. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).) “The motion provided for in this section may
only be made on one of the following grounds: . . . (B) If the moving party is
a defendant, that either of the following conditions exist: (i) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint.
(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c).)
 
“Like a demurrer, the grounds for the motion [for judgment on the
pleadings] must appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any
matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Civic
Partners Stockton, LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1013.) In
ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the
complaint and matters upon which judicial notice may be taken are assumed to be
true.” (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.)
 
Further, “[a] motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made at any
time either prior to the trial or at the trial itself. Such motion may be made
on the same ground as those supporting a general demurrer, i.e., that the
pleading at issue fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a legally
cognizable claim or defense.” (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th
644, 650 [cleaned up]; Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Assn. v. City of Riverside
(1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 679, 684–685 [“A defendant is entitled to judgment on the
pleadings if the plaintiff's complaint does not state a cause of action”].)
ANALYSIS
 
As
a threshold issue, in opposition to the demurrer, Plaintiff raises the issue
that Defendant Answered the Third Amended Complaint, which alleged the same
three causes of action.  In Reply,
Defendant requests that the Court convert the demurrer to a Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings.
 
“The
court may upon its own motion grant a motion for judgment on the pleadings.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 438, subd. (b)(2).)  Moreover, the Court has the inherent power to
convert other motions into a motion for judgment on the pleadings, in order to
control the litigation and conserve judicial resources.  (See, e.g. Coshow v. City of Escondido
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 687, 701 [converting motions in limine to motion for
judgment on the pleadings].)
 
Therefore,
the Court converts Defendant’s demurrers to the second and third causes of
action for failure to state a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10 into a motion for judgment on the pleadings for
failure to state a cause of action under Code of Civil Procedure section 438,
subdivision (c)(1)(B)(ii).
 
A.    Second
Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
To prevail on a claim of breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff must
prove (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty;
and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach. (Jameson v. Desta
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164.) “A physician has a fiduciary duty to
disclose all information material to the patient’s decision when soliciting a
patient’s consent to a medical procedure. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff alleges: (1) “Physicians and nurses have fiduciary duties to
disclose all information material to the patient’s decision, when soliciting a
patient’s consent to a medical procedure” [5AC ¶ 89]; (2) “Defendants
instructed Plaintiff to stop taking Xarelto 5-7 days prior to undergoing an
upper endoscopy procedure without obtaining Plaintiff’s informed consent.  Defendants failed to inform Plaintiff of the
inherently dangerous consequences that may result if Plaintiff was not on his
blood thinners for one full week” [5AC ¶ 90]; and (3) “As a result […]
Plaintiff suffered a massive stroke, resulting in Plaintiff not being able to
care for himself” [5AC ¶ 88] and “As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ breach, Plaintiff suffered injuries and continues to suffer from
impairments as a result of Defendants’ breach of duty.” [5AC ¶ 95.]
 
Defendant argues that this is insufficient, because the 5AC includes
specific allegations that Prokupek, not Dinh, instructed Plaintiff to stop
taking the blood thinner medication prior to surgery, and there are no specific
allegations as to Dinh with respect to the breach of fiduciary duty.
 
The Court disagrees.  Plaintiff
has pleaded sufficient “ultimate facts” that Defendants including Dinh breached
the fiduciary duty by failing to disclose the risks inherent in proceeding with
surgery after abstaining from blood thinner medication for approximately a week
prior to surgery.[1]
B.     Third
Cause of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation
 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.”  (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare
Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.)
 
Dinh argues the 5AC fails to state a cause of action as to her because,
while there are allegations of specific misrepresentations that other
Defendants made, there is no allegation that Dinh made any such misrepresentation.
 
As to Dinh, the 5AC alleges (1) “Dr. Prokupek, and Dr. Dinh […] took
steps in covering up Defendant Dr. Prokupek’s instructions to Plaintiff to stop
taking his Xarelto one week prior to the scheduled procedure” [5AC ¶ 69]; (2) “Defendants
were acting in concert to obscure the cause of Plaintiff’s stroke.  Furthermore, these falsified medical records
continued to delay the determination of what cause [sic] Plaintiff’s condition”
[5AC ¶ 111]; and (3) “Defendants were acting in concert […] for the purpose of
financial gain […] and to further the criminal enterprise[….] [5AC ¶ 122.]
 
Therefore, the 5AC adequately pleads ultimate facts that Dinh
knowingly made false representations in connection with Plaintiff’s falsified
medical records and to obscure the cause of Plaintiff’s stroke.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court denies Dinh’s (converted) Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings in its entirety. 

 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  November 1, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


