  Case Number:  19SMCV01534    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 1, 2023




CASE NUMBER


19SMCV01534




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Intervene and to Continue Trial




MOVING PARTY


Proposed Intervenor Paul Haines Living Trust




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Matthias Jan Emcke



 
MOTION
             
            Proposed Intervenor Paul Haines
Living Trust (Intervenor) seeks leave to intervene in this action per Code of
Civil Procedure section 387 and to continue the trial.  Plaintiff Matthias Jan Emcke (“Plaintiff”) opposes
the motion and Intervenor replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Intervenor objects to various
portions of the Carvalho Declaration filed in support of Plaintiff’s
Opposition.  The Court rules on the
objections as follows:
 
1.     
Overruled
2.     
Overruled
3.     
Overruled
4.     
Overruled
5.     
Overruled
6.     
Overruled
7.     
Overruled
8.     
Overruled
9.     
Overruled
10.  Overruled
11.  Overruled
12.  Overruled
13.  Overruled
14.  Overruled
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Request to Intervene
            
Per the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a]n intervention takes place when a
nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action or proceeding
between other persons by doing any of the following: (1) Joining a plaintiff in
claiming what is sought by the complaint[;] (2) Uniting with a defendant in
resisting the claims of a plaintiff[; or] (3) Demanding anything adverse to
both a plaintiff and a defendant.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (b).)  “A
nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or
ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)    
 
“The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to
intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is
satisfied:  (A) A provision of law
confers an unconditional right to intervene[; or] (B) The person seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person's ability to protect that
interest, unless that person's interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties.  [Also] The
court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the
action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation,
or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd.
(d)(1)-(2).)  
 
Plaintiff and Defendant 6097 West Winding Way, LLC (“Defendant”) owned
adjoining parcels of land.  (First
Amended Complaint [“FAC”] ¶ 7.) 
Plaintiff brought suit for declaratory relief, quiet title, trespass,
declaratory relief, and quiet title, pertaining to an easement that allegedly
exists over Defendant’s property and in favor of Plaintiff’s.  (FAC ¶ 9.)
 
            In September 2023, Intervenor
purchased Defendant’s real property at issue in this lawsuit, and is now the
current owner of the property.  (Boren
Decl. ¶ 3.)  
 
            Intervenor contends that
intervention is mandatory because Intervenor is now the owner of the property
at issue that was previously owned by Defendant, and therefore Intervenor “has
a direct and substantial interest” in the property that is the subject of this
litigation.  (Motion at p. 2.)  In the alternative, Intervenor requests the
Court grant permissive intervention.
 
            Plaintiff opposes, arguing (1)
Intervenor Trust is not a legal entity capable of intervening as a party to
litigation; (2) Intervenor is not a necessary or indispensable party to the
litigation because the judgment will be binding on Intervenor by way of the lis
pendens and Intervenor’s interests are adequately represented by Defendant, who
remains a Defendant in the action; and (3) the Court should not permit
Intervenor to Intervene.
 
                        Legal Capacity to
Intervene
 
            The Court agrees that Intervenor
Trust is not a proper legal entity capable of intervening as a defendant to the
litigation.  (See, e.g. Jo Redland
Trust, U.A.D. 4-6-05 v. CIT Bank, N.A. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 142, 156
[“because a trust is not a legal entity, it cannot sue or be sued, but rather
legal proceedings are properly directed at the trustee[.]”])  
 
However, Intervenor represents in Reply that the Paul Haines, as
Trustee of the Paul Haines Living Trust, will be the party to intervene and
file the proposed answer, and requests that the Court construe the Motion as
being made on behalf of Paul Haines as Trustee of the Paul Haines Living Trust,
and favor the substance of the motion over the form.
 
Moreover, in the Opposition brief, Plaintiff has expressed concerns
about further delays to the proceedings.
 
            Thus, instead of requiring
Intervenor to re-file the motion, which would cause further delay, the Court
construes the motion as being brought on behalf of Paul Haines, as Trustee of
the Paul Haines Living Trust and considers the merits of the motion.
 
                        Mandatory
Intervention
 
            While the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that any resolution regarding the property rights in this lawsuit
will be binding on Intervenor, the Court also agrees with Intervenor, that this
fact does not demonstrate that Intervenor’s rights are adequately represented
and protected by an existing party.  Essentially,
if Intervenor were not a part of the lawsuit, the outcome would be binding on
Intervenor, but Intervenor would have had no legal say in affecting that
outcome.
 
            And while Defendant remains in the
litigation for now, the Court agrees with Intervenor, that because Defendant no
longer has any interest in the subject property, it is not adequately
positioned to represent and protect Intervenor’s interests, as the new owner of
the subject property.
 
            Thus, the Court finds Intervenor has
met its burden to establish a factual and legal basis to intervene in the
action per Code of Civil Procedure Section 387. 
Intervenor has adequately shown “that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede [Intervenor’s] ability to protect” its interests.[1]
 
Request to Continue Trial
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c), provides:
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include:
 
[…]
 
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances;
 
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an
affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the interests of
justice;
 
(5) The addition of a new party if:
 
(A) The new party has
not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
 
(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
 
(6) A party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony,
documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
 
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a
result of which the case is not ready for trial.
 
Factors the Court considers in ruling on a motion for continuance
include:
 
(1)  The proximity of the trial
date;
 
(2)  Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
 
(3)  The length of the
continuance requested;
 
(4)  The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance;
 
(5)  The prejudice that parties
or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
 
(6)  If the case is entitled to
a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
 
(7)  The court's calendar and
the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
 
(8)  Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
 
(9)  Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
 
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
 
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).
 
Intervenor requests a 90-day continuance of the trial, final status
conference, and related deadlines.  Trial
is currently scheduled for December 4, 2023, but Intervenor’s trial counsel
currently has a two-week trial scheduled to begin in another matter on November
27, 2023.
 
Plaintiff opposes the requested continuance, arguing that it will be
unduly prejudiced by yet another continuance.
 
Trial was originally set for July 5, 2023, when Mr. Haines began
negotiating with both Plaintiff and Defendant to purchase their respective
properties at issue in this lawsuit.  (Carvalho
Decl. ¶ 5.)  On the Court’s motion, the
trial was continued to August 18, 2023 to enable the parties to continue
negotiations with Mr. Haines.  (Carvalho
Decl. ¶ 6.)  
 
Three days before the July 13, 2023 final status conference, Mr.
Haines and Defendant’s counsel asked Plaintiff to stipulate to another trial
continuance.  (Carvalho Decl. ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff indicated he would not do so unless
Mr. Haines assured him he would purchase both properties, which Mr. Haines
did.  (Carvalho Decl. p. 11:9-18[2].)  The trial was continued to September 12.  (Carvalho Decl. p. 11:19-20.)  At the August 18, 2023 final status
conference, the Court again continued the trial, to December 4, 2023.  (Carvalho Decl. ¶ 12.)  
 
On September 18, 2023, Mr. Haines informed Plaintiff that he had
closed on Defendant’s property, but decided not to purchase Plaintiff’s
property until after the case is over, including appeals.  (Carvalho Decl. ¶ 15.)
 
Plaintiff contends he will be prejudiced by an additional continuance,
because he holds development entitlements to make improvements on the property
that were issued in 2008 and are set to expire on June 2, 2024.  (Schmitz Decl. ¶¶ 3, 5.)  If the action is not resolved prior to the
expiration date, Plaintiff will not be able to obtain building permits or begin
the planned construction developments on the property.  (Schmitz Decl. ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff could pay a fee to apply for an
extension, but approval is uncertain.  (Schmitz
Decl. ¶ 6.)  If the entitlements expire,
obtaining new ones take two to four years and cost $400,000-500,000.  (Schmitz Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s purported prejudice is speculative,
uncertain and does not outweigh Intervenor’s demonstrated need for a short
continuance that would result in a trial roughly three months before
Plaintiff’s development entitlements are currently set to expire.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Intervenor’s motion in its
entirety.  The Court grants Paul Haines,
as Trustee of the Paul Haines Living Trust leave to intervene pursuant to per
Code of Civil Procedure section 387, and orders Paul Haines, as Trustee of the
Paul Haines Living Trust, to file and serve his Answer (In Intervention) as
required under Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (e) on or
before November 22, 2023.  
 
The Court further grants Intervenor’s request for a 90-day trial
continuance and orders as follows:
 
·        
The trial date, currently set for December 4,
2023 is continued to April 29, 2024 at 10:00 A.M. in Department 207.
 
·        
The Final Status Conference, currently set for November
8, 2023 is continued to April 19, 2024 at 9:30 A.M. in Department 207. 
 
·        
All discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates
shall be based upon the new trial date of April 29, 2024.
 
·        
The Court issues a Trial Preparation Order and
orders all parties to comply with it.
 
·        
Per the Discovery Act, the parties shall meet
and confer forthwith to schedule and complete all non-expert discovery and to
prepare for the completion of expert discovery to obviate the need for a
further continuance of the trial.  
 
·        
No further continuance of the trial absent
sufficient good cause.  
 
Intervenor shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file a proof
of service of such.
 
                                                            
DATED:  November 1, 2023                         ________________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 


