  Case Number:  23STCV17130    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Chill Space
LLC’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint and Serve Defendant
Adam Thomas Martinelli Via Publication
Plaintiff Chill Space LLC
moves for leave to file a second amended complaint and for an order permitting service
of process on defendant Adam Thomas Martinelli via publication.
Leave to Amend
Courts have discretion to
permit an amendment to any pleading “in furtherance of justice, and on any
terms as may be proper.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  “This discretion should be exercised
liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  
Permitting plaintiff to
file an amended complaint serves the interest of justice.  Plaintiff, however, cannot file a second
amended complaint because there is no first amended complaint.  An amended pleading must be “serially
numbered.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a)(1).)  Plaintiff filed the
complaint on July 21, 2023, filed an amendment to the complaint to correct the
name of defendant Adam Thomas Martinelli in August 2023, and obtained an
amended summons on August 31, 2023.  Amended
pleadings and amendments to a pleading are different.  An amended complaint supersedes the prior
complaint, while an amendment to a complaint adds or modifies part of the
complaint.  (Cohen v. Superior Court
(1966) 244 Cal.App.2d 650, 657.)  Plaintiff has not filed a first
amended complaint.  Plaintiff must rename the proposed “second amended
complaint” the “first amended complaint” before filing it.
The court further notes
that because the proposed amended complaint names additional defendants,
plaintiff must obtain a second amended summons from the clerk.  (See Davis v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1989)
217 Cal.App.3d 1229, 1233 [the Code of Civil Procedure “requires an amended
summons when new parties defendant are added”].)
Service by Publication
            Plaintiff
seeks an order permitting service of the amended complaint on defendant Adam
Thomas Martinelli via publication.  Plaintiff
successfully applied for an order permitting service by publication of the
initial complaint.  Plaintiff’s counsel
states, “The basis and grounds for Plaintiff’s prior application for
publication have not changed, including several failed attempts to serve
Martinelli at his last known address.” 
(Wallan Decl., ¶ 14.)  The court
again finds good cause to permit service on Martinelli by publication.  The court will require plaintiff to submit a
new proposed order for publication on form LASC LACIV 145.
Disposition
Plaintiff Chill Space LLC’s
motion for leave to file an amended complaint is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to rename the proposed
second amended complaint (attached as exhibit 1 to the declaration of Robert
Wallan) and file it as the first amended complaint forthwith.  Plaintiff is ordered to submit a
proposed order for publication on form LASC LACIV 145 forthwith.  Order to Show Cause Re: Default
Judgment 
Plaintiff Chill Space LLC requests court judgment by default against
defendant Refurbished Lifts Inc. only. 
Plaintiff also seeks to file an amended complaint and proceed on other
causes of action against the remaining defendants.  
Plaintiff
does not show good cause for a separate judgment against only defendant Refurbished
Lifts Inc.  An application for default
judgment must include “[a] dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is
not sought or an application for separate judgment against specified parties
under Code of Civil Procedure section 579, supported by a showing of grounds
for each judgment.”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1800(a)(7).)  A separate judgment may not be entered
against defaulting defendants where, “if the defense presented by the appearing
defendants is sustained, no judgment could or should be entered against” the
defaulting defendants.  (Mirabile v.
Smith (1953) 119 Cal.App.2d 685, 689; accord Adams Mfg. &
Engineering Co. v. Coast Centerless Grinding Co. (1960) 184 Cal.App.2d
649, 655.)
Plaintiff
seeks to hold the other defendants, Adam Thomas Martinelli, John Potter,
Trisha’s Forklift Sales LLC, and Does 1-20, liable as alter egos of defendant
Refurbished Lifts Inc.  (Prop. SAC [sic],
¶¶ 36-40.)  If any of these alleged alter
egos timely respond to the first amended complaint, they may be able to establish
a defense that also applies to Refurbished Lifts Inc.  For example, proving plaintiff never entered
an enforceable contract with Refurbished Lifts Inc. would both absolve the
alleged alter ego defendants of vicarious liability and defeat the breach of
contract claim against Refurbished Lifts Inc. 
Disposition
            Plaintiff
Chill Space LLC’s request for court judgment by default is denied without
prejudice.  The court hereby vacates
the order to show cause re: default judgment. 