 Case Number:  23STCV02171    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Old Republic Surety Company’s Motion to Deposit Bond
Funds with Court and Restrain Prosecution of Actions is GRANTED. Moving party
is awarded costs and attorney fees in the amount of $6,943.84, to be taken from
the bond amount, with the remainder to be deposited with the court.
 
I.                  
MOTION
TO DISCHARGE INTERPLEADER STAKEHOLDER 
“Any person, firm, corporation, association or other entity
against whom double or multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two or more
persons which are such that they may give rise to double or multiple liability,
may bring an action against the claimants to compel them to interplead and
litigate their several claims.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 386, subd. (b).) 
 
An
interpleader action is an equitable proceeding. In an interpleader action, the
court initially determines the right of the plaintiff to interplead the funds;
if that right is sustained, an interlocutory decree is entered which requires
the defendants to interplead and litigate their claims to the funds. Upon an
admission of liability and deposit of monies with the court, the plaintiff then
may be discharged from liability and dismissed from the interpleader action.
[Citations.] The effect of such an order is to preserve the fund, discharge the
stakeholder from further liability, and to keep the fund in the court's custody
until the rights of the potential claimants of the monies can be adjudicated.
By implementing an interpleader action and obtaining a discharge from further
liability, the stakeholder avoids tort liability.
 
(Virtanen v. O'Connell (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 688, 698, internal
citations and quotation marks omitted.) 
 
“After any such complaint or cross-complaint in interpleader has been
filed, the court in which it is filed may enter its order restraining all
parties to the action from instituting or further prosecuting any other
proceeding in any court in this state affecting the rights and obligations as
between the parties to the interpleader until further order of the court.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 386, subd. (f).) 
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Old Republic Surety Company (ORSC) has
filed a cross-complaint in interpleader in this action. A number of parties,
including Plaintiff Walter Banos, Grandview Financial Services, Inc., Evelyn
Vega, Centennial Casualty Company, in excess of the amount of the bond
originally posted under Vehicle Code § 11710. (Stengal Decl. ¶ 4; Lee Decl. ¶¶
2–6.) Thus ORSC seeks an order to allow it to deposit the amount of the bond —
$49,960 — with the court to allow these competing claims to be resolved in the
interpleader action it has filed, and to enjoin further prosecution of any
proceedings affecting the interpleader. (Motion at pp. 7–8.) No opposition to
the motion has been filed.
 
ORSC also seeks attorney fees and costs
under Code of Civil Procedure § 386.6, which states, “A party to an action who
follows the procedure set forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert in his
motion, petition, complaint, or cross complaint a request for allowance of his
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
386.6, subd. (a).) “In ordering
the discharge of such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party
his costs and reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has
been deposited with the court. At the time of final judgment in the action the
court may make such further provision for assumption of such costs and attorney
fees by one or more of the adverse claimants as may appear proper.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, ORSC requests 136.48 in costs (filing fees), and attorney fees in
the amount of $6,943.84, representing 23.8 hours of attorney work at $240 per
hour and 3.8 hours of attorney work at $260 per hour. (Lee Decl. ¶ 8.) Per Code
Civ. Proc. § 386.6, this amount is to be paid from the $49,960 bond amount,
leaving $43,016.16 to be deposited with the court. (Proposed Order.)
 
The motion is GRANTED, and ORSC is awarded costs and attorney fees in
the amount of $6,943.84, to be taken from the bond amount, with the remainder
to be deposited with the court.
 