  Case Number:  22STCV11306    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PABLO
  RIVERO 
                           
         vs.
 
PAUL
  RIVERO, et al. 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  22STCV11306 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 7, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s motion to set aside is GRANTED. The Court will set an
OSC re: sanctions, in which Mr. Cho will be asked to explain why he should not
be personally sanctioned for his conduct.
 
            On 4/4/2022, Plaintiff Pablo Rivero
(Plaintiff) filed suit against Paul Rivero and Amaya Rivero alleging: (1) elder
abuse; and (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED). 
 
            On 9/12/2022, the Court dismissed
the action, without prejudice, after Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to appear for
an OSC Re: Entry of Default, failed to refile a Request for Entry of Default,
and had failed to take any further action in the case.  
 
            On 12/7/2022, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to set aside dismissal. 
 
            On 4/17/2024, the Court dismissed
Plaintiff’s complaint, after there were no appearances at a scheduled OSC: re:
dismissal for failure to prosecute. 
 
Discussion  
 
            The Court’s order dismissing this
action without prejudice was entered on 4/17/2024. Thus, this motion, filed on
7/29/2024, is timely. 
 
The mandatory relief provision of Code
of Civil Procedure section 473 subs. (b) provides, in part: 
 
Notwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk..., or (2) resulting default
judgment or dismissal entered.... 
 
Case law instructs that so long as
counsel is willing to fall on their sword, relief is mandatory. (See Abers v. Rohrs (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1199, 1210
(Section 473's provision for mandatory relief from a dismissal based upon a
declaration of attorney error does not require a determination the error was
excusable. It applies even when the attorney has no excuse. Relief is mandatory
when a complying affidavit is filed, even if the attorney's neglect was
inexcusable.).) The only limitation is when the court finds [that] the default
[or dismissal] was not in fact the attorney's fault, for example when the
attorney is simply covering up for the client. (Todd v. Thrifty Corp. (1995)
34 Cal.App.4th 986, 991.) 
 
            Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel, Peter M.
Cho, submitted a declaration admitting that the dismissal was the result of his
inadvertent mistake: “The dismissal was the result of my mistake and fault.
Specifically, I failed appear [sic] at said April 17, 2024 OSC due to
the fact that I had not calendared the April 17, 2024 OSC inadvertently, and
subsequently missed this court date.” 
 
            The Court is deeply troubled by Mr.
Cho’s conduct, as this is the second time this case has been dismissed
for failure to prosecute based on Mr. Cho’s admitted error. While the mandatory
relief provision creates an exception where an attorney is covering for a
client, the provision provides no such exemption for repeated attorney error. As
such, relief here is mandatory.
 
            However, CRC rule 2.30 provides the
Court with the power to order sanctions, after written notice and an
opportunity to be provided is heard. The Court schedules an OSC re: sanctions
in which Mr. Cho will be asked to explain why he should not be personally
sanctioned for his conduct. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion to set aside is granted. The Court will set an OSC re: sanctions, in
which Mr. Cho will be asked to explain why he should not be personally
sanctioned for his conduct.
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
October    , 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 