 Case Number:  22STCV02084    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  B HEARING DATE:    Fri., Sept.
6, 2024                               JUDGE /DEPT:        Moskowitz/Dept. B
CASE NAME:           Rachel
Shur v. Richard Howard Bruckner, D.D.S., et al.
CASE NUMBER:     22STCV02084                                    
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant
Richard Howard Bruckner
RESP. PARTY:         None

MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES
(CCP §§ 2030.210-320, 2031.300)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:

Provided Defendant Richard Howard Bruckner, D.D.S pays
$120 in outstanding filing fees:
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Richard Howard
Bruckner’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Rachel Shur’s Responses to Form
Interrogatories. Plaintiff is ordered to submit verified responses, without
objections, to the Form Interrogatories within ten (10) days of notice of the
Court’s Order.  
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Richard Howard Bruckner’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff Rachel Shur’s Responses to Special Interrogatories.
Plaintiff is ordered to submit verified responses, without objections, to the
Special Interrogatories within ten (10) days of notice of the Court’s
Order.  
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Richard Howard
Bruckner’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Rachel Shur’s Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents. Plaintiff is ordered to submit verified responses,
without objections, to the Requests for Production of Documents within ten (10)
days of notice of the Court’s Order.

 
PROCEDURAL ISSUE:
 
On June 26, 2024, Defendant Richard Howard Bruckner,
D.D.S. (“Defendant”) filed the instant Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s responses
to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set
One), and Request for Production of Documents (Set One). This is actually three
motions improperly combined into one: (1) a motion to compel responses to form
interrogatories (Set One), (2) a motion to compel responses to special
interrogatories (Set One), and (3) a motion to compel responses to Requests for
Production of Documents.
 
In the future, Defendant is ordered to obtain separate
hearing reservations and pay separate filing fees. Combining multiple motions
under the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates the
Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants. Moreover,
combining motions to avoid payment of filing fees deprives the Court of filing
fees it is otherwise entitled to collect.
 
Be that as it may, since these motions
are unopposed, and in the interest of efficiency, the Court will exercise its
discretion to hear all three motions, but this order will not become
effective until moving party pays an additional $120 in filing fees.
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

On January 18, 2022, Plaintiff Rachel
Shur (“Shur”) filed an action against Defendant and Defendants Pacific Oral
Surgery (“Pacific”), and Aaron Schwartzman, D.D.S. (“Schwartzman”)
(collectively “Defendants”) for professional negligence and lack of informed
consent.  Plaintiff alleges that on January
15, 2019, she received oral surgery from Defendants, during which Defendants
failed to adhere to their required professional standard, resulting in injury
to her teeth, jaw, and nervous system. 
On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint adding
Defendant James O. Jacobs, D.D.S. (“Jacobs”) as Doe 1.
 
On June 6, 2024, the matter was
assigned to Judge Karen Moskowitz in Department B of the Van Nuys Courthouse
East.  Plaintiff was ordered to give
notice to all parties in this action within 10 days of service of this notice
and file proof of service thereof within 12 days of this notice.
 
On June 26, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s Discovery Responses, specifically, Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), and Request for
Production of Documents (Set One).  The
Court notes Defendant does not request an award of monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff. 
 
            To date, no
opposition to this Motion has been
filed.

II.                
Legal
Standard & Discussion
 
 
A party must respond to interrogatories and requests for
production within 30 days after service. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.260(a), 2031.260(a).)  If a party to whom interrogatories or
requests for production are directed does not provide timely responses, the
requesting party may move for an order compelling response to the
discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(b),
2031.300(b).)  Once compelled to respond,
the party waives the right to make any objections, including ones based on
privilege or work-product protection. 
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(a), 2031.300(a).)  There is no time limit for a motion to compel
responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2024.020(a), 2030.290, 2031.300.) 
No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a motion to compel
responses to the discovery.  (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411.)
 
On March 1, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with Form
Interrogatories (Set One),Special Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for
Production (Set One).  (Stingl Decl. ¶ 3,
Ex. A.)  Defendant did not receive any
discovery responses, so defense counsel followed up with Plaintiff’s counsel on
April 11, 2024, and offered an extension to April 24, 2024.  (Ibid. at ¶ 5, Ex. B.)  On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
requested an additional extension to May 8, 2024.  (Ibid. at ¶ 6, Ex. C.)  On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff counsel requested
an additional extension to May 22, 2024, indicating that it would be the last
extension needed.  (Ibid. at ¶ 7,
Ex. D.)  To date, Plaintiff has not provided
verified responses to the discovery.  (Ibid.
at ¶¶ 8-14.)

The Court finds that Defendant has demonstrated that it
propounded form and special interrogatories and requests for production on
Plaintiff and that Plaintiff has not provided any responses. Although Defendant
was not obligated to meet and confer with Plaintiff, defense counsel has
attempted to resolve the issue informally. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s
Motions to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents.

 
III.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons and provided Defendant pays
$120 in outstanding filing fees:
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Richard Howard
Bruckner’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Rachel Shur’s Responses to Form
Interrogatories. Plaintiff is ordered to submit verified responses, without
objections, to the Form Interrogatories within ten (10) days of notice of the
Court’s Order.  
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Richard Howard
Bruckner’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Rachel Shur’s Responses to Special
Interrogatories. Plaintiff is ordered to submit verified responses, without
objections, to the Special Interrogatories within ten (10) days of notice of the
Court’s Order.  
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Richard Howard
Bruckner’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Rachel Shur’s Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents. Plaintiff is ordered to submit verified responses,
without objections, to the Requests for Production of Documents within ten (10)
days of notice of the Court’s Order.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.