  Case Number:  23STCV03188    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
9, 2023                                          
 
CASE NAME:           Barrye Jacobson v. Adam S. Cohen, et
al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV03188

 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Adam S. Cohen and Saxon Spencer Capital, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Barrye Jacobson
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action in the First Amended Complaint
for failure to state sufficient facts[1];
2.      Motion
to Strike various portions of the First Amended Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED as to the March 2019 employment
contract;
2.      Demurrer
to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED as to the November 25, 2021 Agreement
as to Defendant Cohen and SUSTAINED as to Defendant Saxon;
3.      Demurrer
to the Second and Third Causes of Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant Cohen and
SUSTAINED as to Defendant Saxon;
4.      Motion
to Strike is DENIED as to prayer for punitive damages and prejudgment interest;
5.      Motion
to Strike is GRANTED as to attorney’s fees.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On February 14, 2023, Plaintiff Barrye Jacobson (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendants Adam S. Cohen and Saxon Spencer Capital,
Inc. (Defendants) with six causes of action for: (1) Specific Performance or
Damages Based Upon Breach of Express Contract, (2) Fraud and Deceit, (3)
Negligent Misrepresentation, (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
(5) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (6) Quantum Meruit.
 
On August 8, 2023, the court SUSTAINED Defendants’ Demurrer
to the Complaint with leave to amend.
 
On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) with four causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2)
Fraud and Deceit, (3) Negligent Misrepresentation, and (4) Quantum Meruit.
 
According to the FAC, Plaintiff began working for Defendants
and eventually entered a romantic relationship with Defendant Cohen. Between
2019 and 2022, Plaintiff was hired and fired on three separate occasions. In
2021, Plaintiff was promoted to Chief Financial Officer/Chief Operation Officer
for Defendant Saxon. Additionally, Plaintiff was promised a share of profits
from an LLC, which would be managed by both Jacobson and Cohen. However, this
did not happen, and Plaintiff was fired in April 2022.
 
On October 17, 2023, Defendants filed a Demurrer and Motion
to Strike the FAC set for hearing on February 1, 2024.
 
On October 27, 2023, the court advanced the hearing from
February 1, 2024 to November 9, 2023.
 
On November 7, 2023, the parties stipulated to continue the
hearing from November 9, 2023 to December 14, 2023.
 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff timely filed oppositions. On
December 6, 2023, Defendants timely filed replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
(CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) &
(3).¿The meet and confer requirement also applies to motions to strike. (CCP §
435.5.) 
Here, the Declaration of Doron F. Eghbali submitted with
the demurrer indicates that counsel sent an email on September 12, 2023
attempting to meet and confer. (Eghbali Decl. ¶ 5.) This email requested
Plaintiff’s counsel to reach out by October 5, 2023. (Eghbali Decl. ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond. (Eghbali Decl. ¶ 7.) One email is not
likely enough to satisfy the meet and confer requirement. However, failure to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or
sustain a demurrer, or grant or deny a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).)
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states
a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as
true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits
attached to the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).)
 
Motion
to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Demurrer
 
First Cause of
Action - Breach of Contract
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff did not sufficiently
allege facts necessary to support a breach of contract cause of action, like
the contract terms, or show that a contract exists. As to an employment
contract, Defendants contend that it can only be an at-will contract. As to an
unconditional pledge of financial support, Defendants contend it is also an
at-will contract because it lacks express and implied terms. Defendants also
contend that the Statute of Frauds bars each alleged agreement because they
would not be completed within one year.[2]
Plaintiff argues she sufficiently plead breach of the March 2019 and November
25, 2021 agreements. 
 
“To establish a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98.) “A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms
– set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the
complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its legal effect.
[Citation.] In order to plead a
contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its
relevant terms.’” (Heritage Pacific
Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 993.)
 
Plaintiff alleges two contracts: March 2019 employment
contract[3]
and November 25, 2021 Unconditional Pledge of Financial Support Agreement. 
i.                   
March
2019 Employment Contract
As to the March 2019 employment
contract, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a cause of action for breach of
contract. First, Plaintiff alleges the verbatim terms of the oral contract:
entered into on or about March of 2019, full time position as a Wholesale
Account Executive for Saxon Spencer with a base salary of approximately $3,600
to $4,000 along with performance-based commission if she permanently terminated
her employment with 71 Above.[4]
(FAC ¶¶ 17.) Second, Plaintiff alleges she performed under the contract by
working full time for Saxon Spencer.[5]
(FAC ¶ 18.) Third, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants breached the March 2019
employment contract by failing to pay her for several payment cycles and
creating a hostile work environment. (FAC ¶¶ 19, 20.)[6]
Plaintiff also alleges Defendants improperly terminated her employment. (FAC ¶¶
10, 11, 12, 13, and 14.) Fourth, Plaintiff alleges damages in deprivation of
past income. (FAC ¶ 21.) 
 
ii.                 
November
25, 2021 Unconditional Pledge of Financial Support for Life
As to the November 25, 2021 Agreement, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged a cause of action for breach of contract against Defendant
Cohen, but not against Defendant Saxon.[7]
First, Plaintiff attached a copy of the contract to the FAC. (FAC Exhibit 3.) Second,
Plaintiff alleges she performed under the November 25, 2021 Agreement because
she continued to perform work for Defendant Cohen. (FAC ¶ 22.) Third, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants breached because Cohen never conveyed title, ownership,
income, salary, or financial statements to Plaintiff. (Ibid.) Fourth, Plaintiff implies damages because the business to
which she would receive 10% ownership and prorated share of profits did not
happen. (Ibid.)
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to
the First Cause of Action for the March 2019 employment contract as to both
defendants, OVERRULES the demurrer to the First Cause of Action for the
November 25, 2021 Agreement as to Defendant Cohen, and SUSTAINS the demurrer to
the First Cause of Action for the November 25, 2021 Agreement as to Defendant
Saxon.
 
Second Cause of
Action - Fraud and Deceit
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff cannot recover for breach
of promise to marry or fraud stemming from previous romantic involvement with
Defendant Cohen under California law, that Plaintiff has not pled fraud with
particularity, and that the alleged contracts were terminable at will. Plaintiff
argues she sufficiently plead fraud with particularity.
 
“The elements of
fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity
(or 'scienter'); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court¿(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) 
 
“In California,
fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not
suffice…this particularity requirements necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tenders.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645; Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469; Perlas v. GMAC Mort., LLC (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 429, 434 [requiring plaintiffs who claim fraud against a
corporation to allege the names of the persons who made the misrepresentations,
their authority to speak for the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they
said or wrote, and when it was said or written.]) Fraud allegations need not be
liberally construed, general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is
insufficient, and every element of the cause of action for fraud must be
alleged fully, factually and specifically. (Wilhelm
v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal. App. 3d 1324, 1331.)

 
Plaintiff pleads two main instances of fraud: the March 2019
employment contract and the November 25, 2021 Agreement.[8]

 
The court agrees, in part, that Plaintiff sufficiently pled
facts supporting her claim for fraud. However, this extends to her claims
against Defendant Cohen, not to claims against Defendant Saxon. First,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleged the misrepresentations because she alleges that
in March of 2019, Defendant Cohen encouraged Plaintiff to quit her job and join
him at his company where she would earn more money and have a better
opportunity for growth and professional development by misrepresenting giving
Plaintiff “a stale $4,000 monthly salary with performance-based commissions, a
stable work schedule and promise of actual work, and a safe and professional
work-life with the opportunity for professional development” with Defendants.
(FAC ¶ 25.) Plaintiff additionally alleges that Defendant Cohen “promised to
take care of the rent” for an apartment that Plaintiff told him she could not
afford. (FAC ¶ 28.) Finally, Defendant Cohen prepared the November 25, 2021
Agreement setting out various terms providing Plaintiff with 10% ownership
interest in Defendant Cohen’s future businesses.[9]
(FAC ¶ 29.) Second, Plaintiff alleges Defendant Cohen knew these statements
were false because he “did not intend to hire [Plaintiff] as a legitimate
employee, but instead, intended to ostensibly hire [Plaintiff] so that he could
assume a position of power and control” over her “to form and exploit a
romantic relationship” and that the November 25, 2021 Agreement was intended to
placate Plaintiff for Defendants’ failure to provide wages. (FAC ¶¶ 26, 30.) Third,
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Cohen intended to reduce her reliance on these
statements so she would quit her job and start working for him, and that she
would continue working for them despite being owed substantial back pay. (FAC
¶¶ 26, 27, 30.) Fourth, Plaintiff
alleges to justifiably rely on these misrepresentations because she did quit
her job to pursue the promised opportunity with Defendants and continued
working for Defendants despite being owed back pay.[10]
(FAC ¶¶ 27, 30.) Fifth, Plaintiff alleged she was damaged because she was
deprived of income and incurred undue debts. (FAC ¶¶ 29, 33, 34.) 
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to
the Second Cause of Action as to Defendant Cohen but SUSTAINS the demurrer as
to Defendant Saxon.
 
Third Cause of
Action – Negligent Misrepresentation
 
Defendants contend that the FAC fails to allege specific
misrepresentations made by Defendants, that Defendants were not aware of the
falsity of the representations at the time of making them, that the alleged
misrepresentations pertained to future, not past, events, and Plaintiff
otherwise failed to plead “how” “when” and “where” of the alleged statements.
Plaintiff argues she sufficiently pled negligent misrepresentation with
particularity. Defendants reply that Plaintiff did not properly allege the
elements for negligent misrepresentation. 
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation are: (1) the defendant must have made a representation as to
a past or existing material fact; (2) the representation must have been untrue;
(3) regardless of the defendant’s actual belief, the defendant must have made
the representation without any reasonable ground for believing it to be true;
(4) the representation must have been made with the intent to induce the
plaintiff to rely on it; (5) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the falsity
of the representation and must have acted in justifiable reliance on the truth
of the representation; and (6) as a result of reliance on the truth of the
representation, the plaintiff must have sustained damage. (Continental Airlines, Inc. v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 388, 402 (reh’g denied and opinion modified on Jan. 5, 1990).)
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, and based on the analysis above, Plaintiff
sufficiently alleged facts supporting her claim for negligent misrepresentation
against Defendant Cohen, but not against Defendant Saxon. 
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action as to Defendant Cohen but SUSTAINS the demurrer as to
Defendant Saxon.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike various portions of the FAC
including:
·        
Page 3, ¶9, 8-14[11];
·        
The FAC in its entirety as related to
punitive damages;
·        
The FAC in its entirety as related to
prejudgment interest;
·        
The FAC in its entirety as related to
attorneys fees.
Punitive Damages
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged facts supporting a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff filed an
opposition, but the opposition does not address this argument.
 
To obtain punitive damages, a plaintiff
must plead sufficient facts in support of punitive damages.¿ (See¿Hilliard v. A.H. Robins Co.¿(1983) 148
Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.)¿ In addition,¿punitive damages are allowed only where
“it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294,¿subd. (a).)¿
Courts have viewed despicable conduct as conduct “so vile, base, contemptible,
miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised
by ordinary decent people. (Scott v.
Phoenix Schools, Inc., (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Further,
Civil Code § 3294(c) provides the definition of malice, oppression, and fraud.
Malice is “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Oppression
is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” Fraud is “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”¿ 
 
As indicated above, the court overruled the demurrer as to
Defendant Cohen to the Second and Third Causes of Action but sustained the
demurrer as to Defendant Saxon. Thus, Plaintiff sufficiently pled facts
warranting punitive damages due to fraud.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED as
to Defendant Saxon but DENIED as to Defendant Cohen.[12]
 
Prejudgment
Interest
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s claim for prejudgment
interest fails because her damages are uncertain. Plaintiff filed an
opposition, but the opposition does not address this argument. 
 
“A person who is entitled to recover damages certain, or
capable of being made certain by calculation, and the right to recover which is
vested in the person upon a particular day, is entitled also to recover
interest thereon from that day, except when the debtor is prevented by law, or
by the act of the creditor from paying the debt.” (Civ. Code § 3287(a).) “Every
person who is entitled under any judgment to receive damages based upon a cause
of action in contract where the claim was unliquidated, may also recover
interest thereon from a date prior to the entry of judgment as the court may,
in its discretion, fix, but in no event earlier than the date the action was
filed.” (Civ. Code § 3287(b).) “In an action for the breach of an obligation
not arising from contract, and in every case of oppression, fraud or malice,
interest may be given in the discretion of the jury.” (Civ. Code § 3288.) The
test for determining “certainty” is whether defendant actually knows the amount
owed or could have computed the amount from reasonably available information. (Children’s Hosp. and Medical Center v. Bonta
(2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 740, 774.) “Thus, where the amount of damages cannot be
resolved except by verdict or judgment, prejudgment interest is not
appropriate.” (Ibid.) 
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
facts supporting a claim for prejudgment interest. Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of
Action for Quantum Meruit calculates the reasonable value of her services at
$42,000.00 in unpaid wages.[13]
(FAC ¶ 39.) Defendant did not otherwise argue that Plaintiff’s damages claims
were uncertain and unascertainable. Needless to say, it remains to be seen whether
the Court will award prejudgment interest. 
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendants’ motion to
strike the FAC prayer for prejudgment interest.
 
Attorneys Fees
 
Upon reviewing the moving papers, Defendants did not make an
argument in their moving papers specific to attorney’s fees and the court will
not entertain new argument in reply. Plaintiff filed an opposition, but the
opposition does not address this argument.
 
Parties cannot recover attorney’s fees unless
expressly authorized by a statute or contract.  (Hom v. Petrou (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 459, 464.)
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to
strike the FAC prayer for attorney’s fees.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Demurrer to the First Cause of
Action is OVERRULED as to the March 2019 employment contract;
2.Demurrer to the First Cause of
Action is OVERRULED as to the November 25, 2021 Agreement as to Defendant Cohen
and SUSTAINED as to Defendant Saxon;
3.Demurrer to the Second and Third
Causes of Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant Cohen and SUSTAINED as to
Defendant Saxon;
4.Motion to Strike is DENIED as to
prayer for punitive damages and prejudgment interest;
5.Motion to Strike is GRANTED as
to attorney’s fees.
The Court will hear from the parties on whether to grant
leave to amend. 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             December
14, 2023                 __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


