


[1]
Defendants did not raise the Fourth Cause of Action until their reply brief.
Accordingly, the court disregards those arguments.


[2]
The court rejects Defendants’ arguments to strike Plaintiff’s exhibits to the
FAC.
 


[3]
The court notes that, as alleged, the March 2019 employment contract is broken
into several blocks. For example, Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1 indicates an October 4,
2021 Independent Contractor Agreement and Fee Agreement that Plaintiff claims
is substantially identical to the original March 2019 contract. However, this
agreement is unsigned.


[4]
Defendants’ Statute of Frauds argument is not persuasive because, and as
Defendants admit, an at will contract may be completed within one year. Indeed,
the contracts were not completed within one year because, as alleged,
Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s employment multiple times within a one-year
period. (FAC ¶¶ 11, 12, 13, and 14.) As such, the Statute of Frauds would not
apply.
 


[5]
It’s implied that Plaintiff quit her job at 71 Above.
 


[6]The
Court will note that the statute of limitations for an oral contract is two
years. While Defendants have not raised this issue in this Demurrer, the Court
wonders how Plaintiff will survive any future challenge on this ground.


[7]
The court rejects Defendants’ arguments that the Statute of Frauds applies and
that this agreement is terminable at will: first, Plaintiff’s Exhibit 3
indicates a writing signed by the party to be charged; second, the clause
Defendants quoted indicates the contract terminates at either party’s death,
which, hopefully, is not an at will event. The parties did not brief whether
this contract applied to Defendant Saxon.


[8]
Upon reviewing the FAC, the allegations about the apartment seem appropriately
grouped with the March 2019 employment contract allegations.
 


[9]
The court rejects Defendants’ arguments that the November 25, 2021 Agreement
concerns breach of contract to marry or fraudulent promise to marry. As
alleged, it is in exchange for Plaintiff to waive her right to owed back pay.
 


[10]
It does not appear that Plaintiff’s reliance was unreasonable. And, if it were,
that would be an appropriate question for summary judgment, not at the pleading
stage.
 


[11]
Defendants make no argument as to why the court should strike this paragraph of
factual allegations. As such, the court will not address it below.


[12]The
Court declines to go through the complaint and strike all paragraphs as it
relates to punitive damages. It was Defendant’s obligation to identify the offending
lines and paragraphs. (See Rule of Court 3.1322.) Instead, the Court will
strike the prayer for punitive damages as it applies to Defendant Saxon.


[13]
Plaintiff also seeks $100,000.00 in compensatory damages. (FAC Prayer ¶ 1.)
However, this request does not render the damages uncertain because it is an
alternative method to calculate certain damages. (See Bonta, supra, at p. 774.)


