 Case Number:  22STCV20046    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 20, 2022, Plaintiff Elenir Sopoulos (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants K & R Trucking
Delivery Service Corp, K and R Trucking Delivery Services, Inc. (“K and R Inc.”),
K/R Trucking Delivery SVC, Gilberto Antonio Palomo
(“Palomo”), and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort. 
On
September 12, 2022, Defendants K & R
Trucking Delivery Service aka K & R Trucking Delivery Service Corp. and Palomo
filed an answer. 
 On September 14, 2022, Cross-Complainants K
& R Trucking Delivery Service Corp and Palomo filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Goran Stankovic (“Stankovic”) and Roes 1-15 for
indemnity, declaratory relief, and contribution. 
On
August 29, 2023, Stankovic filed notices of settlement and applications for
determination of good faith settlement. 
On
September 20, 2023, Defendants and Cross-Complainants K & R Trucking
Delivery Service Corp. (“K & R Corp.”) and Palomo filed motions to contest Stankovic’s
applications for good faith settlement determination, to be heard on December
7, 2023.  On November 17, 2023, Stankovic
filed oppositions.  On November 30, 2023,
K & R Corp. and Palomo filed replies. 
The Court continued the hearing to February 23, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 24, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Stankovic
asks the Court to find that his settlements are in good faith. 
K
& R Corp. and Palomo ask the Court to deny the applications for good faith
settlement determination. 
LEGAL STANDARD  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a), provides: 
“(a) (1) Any party to an action in which it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract
debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a
settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may
shorten the time for giving the required notice to permit the determination of
the issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of the action, or
before the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the trial has
commenced. 
“(2) In the alternative, a settling party may give
notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.
The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing
of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal
service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good
faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a motion
within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or
within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the settlement. The
notice by a nonsettling party shall be given in the manner provided in subdivision
(b) of Section 1005. However, this paragraph shall not apply to settlements in
which a confidentiality agreement has been entered into regarding the case or
the terms of the settlement.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a).) 
“The
issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the
basis of affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any
counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its discretion,
receive other evidence at the hearing.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)  
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(d).) 
          In
Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488,
499 (Tech-Bilt), the California Supreme Court identified the following
nonexclusive factors courts must consider in determining if a settlement is in
good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6: “a rough approximation
of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability, the
amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than
he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations
include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.” 
The
evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on July 6, 2020, on the US-101 Northbound Ventura
Freeway near Sepulveda Boulevard in Los Angeles, Plaintiff suffered injuries caused by Defendants’
negligent conduct in operating a motor vehicle and entrusting the vehicle to
the driver, Defendants' employee and agent. 
B.   Stankovic’s apparent settlement with K and R Inc. 
Stankovic
asserts that K and R Inc. has agreed to accept $100,000.00 to settle its claims
against K and R Inc. contingent on the Court’s good faith settlement
determination. 
Stankovic’s
application for a good faith settlement determination states that in return for
payment of $100,000.00 to “Elizardo Lucatero” (who the application does not
identify), Stankovic will be released and dismissed without prejudice
from K and R Inc.’s cross-complaint (or “Developer’s cross-complaint”).  (Application pp. 2, 3, 5, 7.)  However, K and R Inc. did not file a
cross-complaint against Stankovic in this action.   
C.   Stankovic’s apparent settlement with Plaintiff 
In
Stankovic’s second application for a good faith settlement determination, Stankovic
states that Plaintiff has agreed to accept $100,000.00 in exchange for a
release of all claims against Stankovic and K and R Inc. “in this lawsuit as
alleged by [K and R Inc.] in the cross-complaint in the above-entitled action.”  (Application p. 2.)  However, as noted, K and R Inc. did not file
a cross-complaint.  In addition, the application
elsewhere refers to a settlement between Stankovic and K and R Inc. (not Plaintiff).  (Application pp. 1, 3, 5, 6.)  It is not clear from the application if Stankovic has entered into
a settlement agreement with Plaintiff. 
D.      Ruling 
The
Court cannot determine the existence or terms of Stankovic’s purported
settlements based on Stankovic’s applications for a good faith settlement
determination.  Therefore, the Court cannot
make findings about the asserted good faith of the settlements.  The Court denies Stankovic’s applications for
good faith settlement determination and denies as moot the motions to challenge
the applications for a good faith settlement determination. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Cross-Defendant Goran
Stankovic’s applications for a good faith settlement determination. 
The
Court DENIES as moot the motions to contest the applications for good faith
settlement determination filed by Defendants
and Cross-Complainants K & R Trucking Delivery Service Corp. and Gilberto
Antonio Palomo. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.