 Case Number:  24STCV19259    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendants CorVel
Corporation, CorVel Healthcare Corporation, CorVel Enterprise Comp., Inc., and
Joseph Rupp’s Motion to Transfer
Venue is DENIED.  
 
Background
 
            On August 1, 2024, Plaintiff Ronda Cruz (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendants CorVel Corporation, CorVel
Healthcare Corporation, CorVel Enterprise Comp., Inc., and Joseph Rupp
(“Defendants”) on causes of action arising from Plaintiff’s employment
with Defendants for:
 
1.              
FEHA Employment
Discrimination (Gov. Code §12940(a)); 
2.              
FEHA Failure to
Accommodate (Gov. Code §12940(m)); 
3.              
FEHA Failure to
Engage in Interactive Process (Gov. Code §12940(n)); 
4.              
FEHA Retaliation
(Gov. Code §§12940(h)(m), 12945.2); 
5.              
FEHA Harassment
(Gov. Code §12940(j)); 
6.              
FEHA Failure to
Prevent/Remedy Discrimination, Harassment and/or Retaliation (Gov. Code
§12940(k)); 
7.              
Whistleblower
Retaliation (Lab. Code 98.6, 1102.5);
8.              
Wrongful
Discharge in Violation of Public Policy; 
9.              
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; and 
10.           
Defamation.
 
On September
30, 2024, Defendants filed individual answers to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
On
October 2, 2024, Defendants CorVel Healthcare Corporation and Joseph Rupp filed
this Motion to Transfer Venue. On October 2, 2024, Defendants CorVel
Corporation and CorVel Enterprise Comp., Inc. filed a joinder to this motion. On
October 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendants’ motion. As of
October 31, 2024, Defendants have not filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition. 
Legal Standard
 
“The
court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the following cases: (a)
When the court designated in the complaint is not the proper court.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 397, subd. (a).)
 
Venue
rules depend on whether an action is “transitory” or “local.” In transitory
actions, namely actions whose main relief is personal and does not involve
land, proper venue is generally “the county where the defendants or some of
them reside at the commencement of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (a); Brown v. Superior Court (1984) 37
Cal.3d 477, 483.) This general rule of venue is subject to exceptions
(“[e]xcept as otherwise provided by law”). (Ibid.)
 
Where
the plaintiff alleges two or more causes of action or joins two or more
defendants governed by different venue provisions, venue must be proper as to
all causes of action. “In cases with mixed causes of action, a motion for
change of venue must be granted on the entire complaint if the defendant is
entitled to a change of venue on any one cause of action.” (Brown, supra,
37 Cal.3d 477, 488.) However, there are cases in which this “mixed action” rule
is not followed for public policy reasons, such as those involving FEHA claims.
(Ibid.; Malloy v. Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 543,
555-57.)
 
Venue
where the plaintiff has chosen to file the action is presumed proper. (Battaglia
Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 309, 313-14.)
The burden is on the moving party to defeat the plaintiff’s presumptively
correct choice of court. (Ibid.) If venue is proper in more than one
county, the defendant must show more than mere residence in another county. The
moving defendant has the burden of “negating the propriety of venue as laid on
all possible grounds.” (Karson Industries, Inc. v. Superior Court (1969)
273 Cal.App.2d 7, 8-9.)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants move to transfer venue for this action to Orange
County arguing that Plaintiff improperly filed this action in Los Angeles
County. (Motion, at p. 2.) Defendants argue that under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 395(a), the general rule of venue requires that an action
must be tried in the county of Defendants’ residence. (Id., at p. 4.) As
such, Defendants contend that Defendant CorVel Healthcare Corporation is
headquartered and has a principal place of business in Orange County, Defendant
Joseph Rupp resides in Orange County, Defendant CorVel Corporation is
incorporated in Delaware with a principal place of business in Fort Worth,
Texas, and Defendant CorVel Enterprise Comp., Inc. is incorporated in Delaware
with a principal place of business in Irvine, California. (Rupp Decl., ¶¶ 3-4; McCormick
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Defendants argue that since Defendants reside in Orange County,
Orange County is the proper venue for this action. (Motion, at p. 5.)
 
Defendants
also argue that in cases involving FEHA, such as here, venue is governed by
Government Code section 12965(a)(4) which provides that venue is proper in any
county in which: (1) the unlawful practices are alleged to have been committed,
(2) the relevant records are maintained and administered, or (3) the aggrieved
person would have worked but for the alleged unlawful practice, in addition to the
county of Defendants’ residence or principal office. (Ibid.) 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has only worked in CorVel Healthcare Corporation’s
headquarters in Irvine, California and all pertinent events related to
Plaintiff’s claims occurred in Orange County. (Ibid.) Defendants also
argue that Plaintiff has never listed an address in Los Angeles County and the
only connection to Los Angeles County in this matter is the small percentage of
Plaintiff’s clients located there. (Ibid.; McCormick Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
Defendants
argue that none of the documents relevant to this action are located in Los
Angeles County. (Motion, at pp. 5-6.) Defendants also argue that Plaintiff was
a remote employee based out of Orange County. (Id., at p. 6.) Lastly, Defendants
argue that the court has discretion to change venue where justice would be
promoted by the change under section 12965(a)(4) which is warranted here since Defendant
Joseph Rupp resides in Orange County. (Id., at p. 6; Rupp Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ motion
is untimely since Defendants CorVel Corporation,
CorVel Healthcare Corporation, and CorVel Enterprise Comp., Inc. were to file
their answers, demurrers, or motions by September 12, 2024, but did not file their
respective answers until September 30, 2024, waiving their ability to seek a
change in venue. (Opp., at pp. 4-5.) Plaintiff also argues that section 12965
provides for Los Angeles County to be a venue since the unlawful practices
alleged here occurred at least in part in Los Angeles as Plaintiff worked from
Los Angeles County on a weekly basis before her termination, and Plaintiff
would have continued working from Los Angeles if not for her wrongful
termination. (Id., at p. 6; Cruz Decl., ¶¶ 3-8.) Plaintiff also argues that since FEHA’s special venue
provision provides for a wide range of venues for Plaintiff to bring an action
in a convenient forum, transferring this action to Orange County would be
inappropriate as Plaintiff has chosen Los Angeles as the convenient forum of
their choice. (Opp., at p. 8.) 
 
            The court finds that Defendants
failed to meet their burden of negating Los Angeles County as a proper venue
for Plaintiff’s Labor Code and FEHA Claims. Plaintiff has presented grounds to
allow this action to be litigated in Los Angeles County. Plaintiff declares to
have worked in Los Angeles County. (Cruz Decl., ¶¶ 3-8.) Defendants do not dispute this, but instead argue that
Plaintiff only had a small percentage of clients in Los Angeles County. (Motion,
at p. 5; McCormick Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s claims could be filed, inter
alia, “in the county in which the aggrieved person would have worked . . .
but for the alleged unlawful practice.” (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (a)(4).) As
such, but for her termination, Plaintiff would have continued working from and
in Los Angeles County. (See Malloy, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th, 556.)
 
Defendants’
other argument that trying the case in Orange County would promote justice
since Defendant Joseph Rupp resides in Orange County also fails. The
convenience of parties themselves and of the parties’ employees are not
considered even if they are to testify because only the convenience of nonparty
witnesses matters on a change of venue motion. (Wrin v. Ohlandt (1931)
213 Cal. 158, 160; Stute v. Burinda (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d Supp. 11, 17.)
Because there are no material witnesses whose convenience would be promoted by
transferring this case to Orange County, the court denies Defendants’ motion. 
 
The court
further observes that Defendants’ motion was not timely. (Code Civ. Proc., § 396b,
subd. (a).)
 
Additionally, Defendants request attorney’s fees and costs for
filing this motion. (Motion, pp. 8-9.) “In its discretion, the court may order
the payment to the prevailing party of reasonable expenses and attorney's fees
incurred in making or resisting the motion to transfer . . .” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 396b, subd. (b).) The court declines to award Defendants any attorney’s fees
and costs due to the court’s findings above. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants CorVel Corporation, CorVel Healthcare Corporation, CorVel
Enterprise Comp., Inc., and Joseph Rupp’s
Motion to Transfer Venue is DENIED.  