  Case Number:  23CHCV00154    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  F51 
NOVEMBER 15, 2024
 

ANTI-SLAPP MOTION
TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23CHCV00154

  
Motion Filed: 2/24/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Suvany Cowie (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff West Creek and West
Hills Community Association, a California non-profit mutual benefit corporation
(“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order striking the entire complaint,
or in the alternative, an order striking various allegations contained therein.
Plaintiff also seeks to recover attorney fees and costs in the total amount of
$23,024.20.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE: Defendant’s request for
judicial notice is granted. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: Defendant’s evidentiary
objection Nos. 1–3, 5, 28–34, 45–46, 71–76, 78–80, 82, 85, 89–92, 94–100,
102–113, 133–134, 136, 154–157, 159–162, 165, 177, 183–184, 186–194, 196–197,
199–200, and 202–205 are overruled.
Defendant’s evidentiary objection Nos. 4, 47, 69–70, 77, 81,
83–84, 86, 93, 101, 158, 166, 170, 178, 198, and 201 are sustained.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action brought by
Plaintiff, a homeowners’ association, against Defendant, a former member of
Plaintiff’s board of directors, alleging that Defendant engaged “in certain
acts and omissions in violation of the Governing Documents and California law
to the detriment of the Association, its Community and its members.” (Compl. ¶¶ 10, 15.) Plaintiff alleges
that despite a settlement agreement entered into by the parties on 12/3/21, “Defendants
violated the Settlement Agreement on multiple occasions, as described below,
and refused to abide by the terms and conditions to which she had agreed.” (Id.
at ¶ 19.)
 
“Defendants’ collective violative conduct includes, without
limitation, the following: 
·        
Breach of Code of Conduct (Exh. B.);
·        
Disruption of Board meetings;
·        
Preventing Board executive session meetings from
being conducted in a reasonable time period;
·        
Impairing the Board’s ability to conduct
Association business
·        
Disrespecting management staff;
·        
Refusing to leave physical location of Board
meeting after showing up ill and having to be escorted from the meeting
location, thus delaying meeting and interfering with Association management
company business;
·        
Interfering with Association landscaping vendor,
including by following workers around Community to harass and/or disparage and
continuing to harass, intimidate and/or bully them through the internet;
·        
Sending at least 7 email communications to
management in violation of Sections 2.3, 2.2.1, 2.2.2 and 2.2.3 of the
Settlement Agreement between May 2022 and July 2022;
·        
Using social media to target and harass specific
owners, Association Board members and/or Association Committee members;
·        
Making false statements about Board decisions;
·        
Making false accusations about Board members;
·        
Providing misinformation and/or misleading to
homeowners in the Community to improperly influence elections;
·        
Using the auspice of the Association to become
embroiled in and to interfere with personal of Board members, Committee members
and Association members to cause them harm;
·        
Refusal to voluntarily recuse herself from Board
decisions in which she was an interested party and/or maintained a conflict of
interest;
·        
Potential sharing of confidential information
with persons outside of the Board; [and]
·        
Otherwise causing the Association to become
susceptible to exposure for legal claims by other persons.” (Id. at ¶ 25.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that “the
aforesaid acts by Defendant far exceed reasonable criticism, disagreement or
expression of viewpoint and, instead, have arisen to unprotected forms of
speech designed to disparage, harass, intimidate, bully, vex, annoy and cause
distress to the Association, its Board members, Committee members and homeowner
members.” (Id. at ¶
26.)
 
On 1/20/23, Plaintiff filed its
complaint against Defendant, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Breach
of Contract; (2) Specific Performance; (3) Breach of Contract; (4) Specific
Performance; (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (6) Breach of CC&Rs; (7)
Negligence; (8) Nuisance; (9) Declaratory Relief; and (10) Interference with
Contractual Relations.
 
On 2/24/23, Defendant filed the
instant special anti-SLAPP motion to strike. On 10/30/24, Plaintiff filed its
opposition. On 11/5/24, Defendant filed her reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A special motion to strike
strategic lawsuits against public participation (“SLAPP” actions) provides a
procedural remedy to dismiss at an early stage nonmeritorious litigation meant
to chill the valid exercise of the constitutional rights to petition or engage
in free speech. (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16; Newport Harbor Ventures, LLC v.
Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2018) 4 Cal.5th 637, 642; Dziubla v.
Piazza (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 140, 148.) The anti-SLAPP statute is intended
to “encourage continued participation in matters of public significance;”
therefore, it is to be “construed broadly.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd.
(a).)¿ 
 
The anti-SLAPP statute sets forth a
two-step procedure for determining whether a cause of action is a SLAPP
action.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (b); Bonni v. St. Joseph Health
System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009.) First, the court must determine
whether the defendant has made a prima facie showing that the defendant’s acts
of which plaintiff complains were taken in furtherance of the defendant’s
constitutional rights of petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) If the court finds that the
defendant has met its threshold burden, the burden then shifts to the plaintiff
to show that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim.¿(Ibid.; Governor Gray Davis Com. v. American Taxpayers
Alliance (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 449, 456.) 
 
Under the statute, an “‘act in
furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech’ includes: (1) any
written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or
judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (e).) 
 
A.   
Protected Speech Activity
 
1.     
Speech Activities at Issue
 
A defendant has the initial burden
to show that a plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the defendant’s
protected activity as defined by the anti-SLAPP statute. (Code Civ. Proc. §
425.16, subd. (b)(1).) “In deciding whether the initial ‘arising from’
requirement is met, a court considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and
opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is
based.’” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s causes of action
against Defendant arise out of Plaintiff’s conduct in violating the 12/3/21
settlement agreement and the 2/5/21 Code of Conduct agreement between the
parties, as alleged in paragraphs 25 and 26 of the complaint. Defendant
attaches Plaintiff’s prelitigation demand letters, which detail the conduct
complained of as including: Defendant being disrespectful to third-party
property management employees, conducting herself unprofessionally and
adversarially, refusing to leave the management offices after complaining about
experiencing illness symptoms, harassing third-party landscaping employees,
violating the settlement agreement’s communications protocols, filing frivolous
insurance claims, and disparaging the Board on Facebook. (Ex. 10 to Decl. of
Suvany Cowie.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that “it is
clear that Paragraphs 25 and 26 are the central pillars of the Complaint, and
if Paragraphs 25 and 26 fall, so does the entire Complaint.” (Def.’s Mot. 11:26–28.)
Defendant argues that the allegedly wrongful conduct “is premised upon Moving
Party’s speech/criticism in Meetings;” “Moving Party’s request of documents and
expression of concern about matters of community concern;” “Moving Party’s
attendance at a Board Meeting;” and “Moving Party’s social media posts and
statements at Board Meetings.” (Id. at 12:9–15:14.)
 
2.     
Protected Speech
 
Defendant maintains that “speaking
at meetings [is] protected” activity. (Id. at 12:17, citing Cabrera
v. Alam (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1077, 1087 [“Homeowners association board
meetings constitute a public forum within the meaning of the anti-SLAPP statute
because they serve a function similar to that of a governmental body. As our
Supreme Court has recognized, owners of planned development units comprise a
little democratic subsociety.” [internal quotations omitted.]].) Defendant also
maintains that her social media posts are protected activities. (Id. at
14:16–17, citing Damon v. Ocean Hills Journalism Club (2000) 85
Cal.App.4th 468, 476 [finding that the HOA newsletter circulated to Association
members and local businesses was a “public forum” for purposes of the
anti-SLAPP statute.].)
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition that
“the Complaint is not premised on her many social media (Facebook) posts
devoted to criticizing members of Plaintiff’s community, but rather on
enforcing valid contracts between Plaintiff and Defendant (settlement
agreement, code of conduct and CC&Rs) and to stop her interference with
Plaintiff’s contractual and business relations.” (Pl.’s Opp. 1:10–13.) “This
lawsuit seeks remedy for an abusive pattern of conduct that has weakened the
fabric of Plaintiff’s community.” (Id. at 2:8–9.)
 
Plaintiff contends that “Defendant
glosses over the mutual settlement between the parties, whereby she agreed to
follow Plaintiff’s CC&Rs and governing documents, comply with established
Board procedures, and consent to a mutually acceptable communication protocol
that respects her free speech rights while preserving the Board’s legal
obligation to manage business operations for the benefit of nearly 2,000
homeowners.” (Id. at 1:17–21.) Plaintiff further asserts that “the
Association never prohibited Defendant from posting on social media, nor is
Plaintiff seeking such relief now.” (Id. at 4:17–18.) 
 
Here, while the Court agrees with
Defendant that homeowners’ association meetings are public forums, it also
notes that it is incorrect to “imply anything touching upon a homeowners
association is per se a public issue.” (Dubac v. Itkoff (2024) 101
Cal.App.5th 540, 551.) “The ultimate question is whether a statement ‘furthered
public discussion of the public issues it implicated.’” (Id. at 549.)
Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s conduct is not protected speech because
“for those relevant allegations that may relate to speech by Defendant, her
violations were not made publicly, in furtherance of public interest or in
response to a specific public event.” (Id. at 5:21–22.) 
 
In Dubac, the Court of
Appeal held that statements and emails exchanged by neighbors in a housing
complex comprising of six units did not contribute to public discussion of
public issues, and thus, were not protected under the anti-SLAPP statute. (101
Cal.App.5th 540.) In doing so, the Dubac court found that “five factors
generally tend to make a statement implicate a public interest: (1) The
statement concerns a person or entity in the public eye; (2) the statement
concerns conduct that could directly affect a large number of people beyond the
direct participants; (3) the statement concerns a topic of widespread public
interest; (4) the issue is of concern to a substantial number of people; or (5)
the issue has been the subject of extensive media coverage.” (Id. at
548–549.) “Important contextual factors include the (1) identity and number of
speakers, (2) the audience, (3) the location of the communication, and (4) the
purpose and timing of the communication.” (Id. at 550.) After applying
the five factors, above, the Dubac court concluded that “the record
offers no objective basis for saying anyone outside the building had any ‘public’
interest in this poisoned relationship between neighbors. A matter of concern
to the speaker and a relatively small, specific audience is not a matter of
public interest.” (Id. at 554–555.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that “utilizing
the factors in Dubac, none of Defendant’s conduct toward Board members,
owners and vendors concerns a person in public eye, her statements could not
directly affect a large number of people besides the direct participants, her
statements did not concern a topic of widespread public interest, the issues
she raised were not of concern to a substantial number of people and her issues
were not the subject of any media coverage.” (Pl.’s Opp. 6:2–6.) Instead, “Defendant’s
statements concern the personal lives of Board members and owners, their
employment and schools, and other aspects that are not of general significance
to the Association or matters of public interest for the community.” (Id.
at 6:9–11.)
 
The Court disagrees and finds that Dubac
is distinguishable on the facts because the speech at issue concerned
private emails communicated between a handful of neighbors, largely concerning
a neighbor’s alleged mistreatment of another neighbor’s daughter. (101 Cal.App.5th
at 554.) Here, the Court notes the undisputed fact that the common interest
development governed by Plaintiff consists of nearly 2,000 homes. Furthermore,
as Defendant argues, Plaintiff’s prelitigation letters concede that Defendant
has made “numerous representations … in the public eye concerning the
election and other Association matters.” (Ex. 17 to Cowie Decl. [emphasis
added]; see also Ex. 12 to Cowie Decl. [“while you complain in emails
that you are upset things other Board members say in meetings, you are doing
the same exact thing outside of meetings - but in a public way and in
writing.” [emphasis added]].)
 
The Court also notes that “statements
made in connection with elections to the board of directors constitute a public
issue in that such elections affect all members of the homeowners association
and concern a fundamental political matter—the qualifications of a candidate to
run for office.” (Cabrera, 197 Cal.App.4th at 1089 [internal quotations
omitted].) To this extent, the Court finds that Defendant’s social media posts
concerning Board elections and boardmembers’ conduct are considered protected
speech activity under the anti-SLAPP statute.
 
The Court finds that Defendant has
met her initial burden to show that Plaintiff’s action partially arises from
Defendant’s protected activity.
//
//
//
//
B.    
Probability of Plaintiff Prevailing
 
The second step of the inquiry
requires the plaintiff to demonstrate that its claims have at least “minimal
merit.” (Bonni, 11 Cal.5th at 1009.) At this stage, the court does not
weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is limited to
whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima
facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It accepts
the plaintiff’s evidence as true and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. (Wilson v.
Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 891; Navellier, 29
Cal.4th at 88–89.) The court does not weigh credibility or the comparative
strength of the evidence offered by the parties. (Overstock.com, Inc. v.
Gradient Analytics, Inc. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 688, 699–700.)
 
1.     
Breach of Contract
 
Plaintiff’s first and third causes
of action allege Breach of Contract against Defendant. To state a cause of
action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
821.)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that despite
agreeing to certain communications protocols, “Cowie breached the Settlement
and COC when she, among other violations, ‘continued to disrupt meetings and
the Board’s ability to conduct business.’” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:26–27, citing Decl. of
Torrance Flynn ¶¶
29–35.) Defendant argues in reply that “any contracts which stifle her free
speech rights are void against public policy.” (Def.’s Reply 11:19, citing Civ.
Code §§ 3513; 4515, subd. (b); 5105.) The Court notes that this argument is
raised for the first time in reply, and therefore declines to address it. (Campos
v. Anderson (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 784, 794, fn.3 [“Points raised in the
reply brief for the first time will not be considered, unless good reason is
shown for failure to present them before. To withhold a point until the closing
brief deprives the respondent of the opportunity to answer it or requires the
effort and delay of an additional brief by permission.”].)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently made “a prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment” on its contract claims and as such, has met its
responsive evidentiary burden to show a probability that it may prevail on its
Breach of Contract causes of action against Defendant. (Navellier, 29
Cal.4th at 89.)
 
2.     
Specific Performance
 
Plaintiff’s first and third causes
of action allege Specific Performance against Defendant. “Specific performance
and injunctive relief are equitable remedies and not causes of action for
injuries.” (Wong v. Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1361, fn. 2.)
Here, Plaintiff asserts that “in light of Defendant’s pattern of breaches and
refusal to voluntarily comply, Plaintiff seeks a court order requiring
Defendant to perform under the Settlement Agreement and COC.” (Pl.’s Opp. 8:25–27.)
As the Court finds that Plaintiff has met its burden to make a prima facie
showing of facts to, if credited, sustain a favorable judgment on its Breach of
Contract causes of action, the Court likewise finds that Plaintiff has made a
sufficient showing that its Specific Performance causes of action may prevail.
 
3.     
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action
allege Breach of Fiduciary Duty against Defendant. “The elements of a cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis West Realty,
LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.) Here, Plaintiff argues that “as
a Board member, Defendant owed fiduciary duties to the homeowners.” (Pl.’s Opp.
9:15, citing Raven’s Cove Townhomes, Inc. v. Knuppe Development Co.
(1981) 114 Cal.App.3d 783, 799 [“the duty of undivided loyalty … applies when
the board of directors of the Association considers maintenance and repair
contracts, the operating budget, creation of reserve and operating accounts,
etc.”].) Here, Plaintiff asserts that “Defendant’s breaches of those duties are
abundant as Defendant has, for years, used her position of power to harm the
Association and its owners and vendors.” (Pl.’s Opp. 9:16–17.)
 
Plaintiff’s arguments are based on
the 12 declarations submitted in support of its opposition, on behalf of its present
and past Board members, homeowners, committee members and vendors, attesting to
Plaintiff’s alleged misconduct. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has sufficiently made “a prima facie showing of facts to sustain a
favorable judgment” on its Breach of Fiduciary Duty cause of action and as
such, has met its responsive evidentiary burden to show a probability that it
may prevail on its fifth cause of action against Defendant. (Navellier, 29
Cal.4th at 89.)
 
4.     
Breach of CC&Rs
 
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action
alleges Breach of CC&Rs against Defendant. The homeowners’ association of a
common interest development has the power and duty to enforce the project
restrictions (“CC&Rs”) and other governing documents. (Civ. Code §§ 5975, subd. (a); 5980.)
Here, Article 8.2.4 of Plaintiff’s CC&Rs provides that “no noxious or
offensive activity shall be carried on in any Lot or Condominium or any part of
the Community, nor shall anything be done thereon which may be, or may become,
an annoyance or nuisance to the neighborhood, or which shall in any way
interfere with the quiet enjoyment of each of the Owners of such Owner’s
respective Lot or Condominium or which shall in any way increase the rate of
insurance.” (Ex. A to Compl., p. 44, ¶
8.2.4.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that “from
approximately January 2022 to the present, Defendants engaged in the conduct
set forth in Paragraphs 19 through 26, in violation of Article 8, Section 8.2.4
and other provisions of the CC&Rs.” (Compl. ¶ 71.) Specifically, Plaintiff asserts that “many
owners have been prevented from quietly enjoying their homes and community due
to Defendant. Several homeowners declare that, because of Ms. Cowie, they avoid
using the common area amenities in the Association and/or avoid areas of the
community altogether …, avoid participating in social activities … and avoid
participating in the Association altogether despite interest in doing so.” (Pl.’s
Opp. 10:13–17, citing Decl. of Lisa Ely ¶¶
7–15; Decl. of Vlad Beytelman ¶¶
6–14, 17; Decl. of Jennifer Corrigan ¶¶ 10, 16–17; Decl. of Anthony Stafford ¶¶ 4–13; Decl. of Brian Bosshard
¶¶ 4–8.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently made “a prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment” on its Breach of CC&Rs cause of action and as
such, has met its responsive evidentiary burden to show a probability that it
may prevail on its sixth cause of action against Defendant. (Navellier, 29
Cal.4th at 89.)
 
5.     
Negligence
 
Plaintiff’s
seventh cause of action alleges Negligence against Defendant. To state a claim
for negligence, a plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a
legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause
resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendant negligently
breached her duty of care to Plaintiff, as set forth under Corporations code
section 309, subdivision (a), “by gaslighting several homeowners through false
accusations in an effort to chill volunteerism and smear reputations.” (Pl.’s
Opp. 12:5–6.) In support of its arguments, Plaintiff proffers those
declarations from homeowners attesting that Defendant’s behavior and statements
deterred them from participating in community leadership and social activities.
(Ely Decl. ¶¶ 7–15;
Beytelman Decl. ¶¶ 6–14,
17; Corrigan Decl. ¶¶
10, 16–17; Stafford Decl. ¶¶
4–13; Bosshard Decl. ¶¶
4–8.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently made “a prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment” on its negligence claims and as such, has met its
responsive evidentiary burden to show a probability that it may prevail on its
seventh cause of action against Defendant. (Navellier, 29 Cal.4th at
89.)
 
6.     
Nuisance
 
Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action
alleges Nuisance against Defendant. To establish an action for private
nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and
enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in
the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, that is, that it causes
the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the interference with
the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be
unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to
constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262–263.)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that “at a
minimum, Ms. Cowie has engaged in nuisance conduct toward many different
homeowners where she has actively prevented them from the quiet enjoyment of
their homes and the community.” (Pl.’s Opp. 10:27–11:1.) “Several witnesses
declare that Cowie has stifled community volunteerism. For the same reasons why
Plaintiff demonstrates a probability of prevailing on the merits of the breach
of CC&R claim relative to nuisance conduct, Plaintiff demonstrates a probability
of prevailing on its nuisance claim under the Civil Code.” (Id. at 11:12–15.)
The Court agrees.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently made “a prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment” on its nuisance claims and as such, has met its
responsive evidentiary burden to show a probability that it may prevail on its
eighth cause of action against Defendant. (Navellier, 29 Cal.4th at 89.)
 
7.     
Interference with Contractual Relations
 
Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action
alleges Interference with Contractual Relations against Defendant. “The
elements which a plaintiff must plead to state the cause of action for
intentional interference with contractual relations are (1) a valid contract
between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this
contract; (3) defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126.)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant interfered with Plaintiff’s contracts with both its third-party
property management (“PMP”) and landscaping (“Marina”) companies. Plaintiff
asserts that “on multiple occasions, Defendant disrupted the PMP office, where
approximately 40 staff members work. … Defendant disrespected PMP staff members
and created a stressful work environment. … Defendant’s disrespect for PMP,
aside from violating the COC, jeopardized and continues to jeopardize
Plaintiff’s contractual relationship.” (Pl.’s Opp. 13:25–14:2, citing Decl. of
Brandon Grosh ¶¶ 4–21;
Decl. of Kelly Rackers ¶¶
4–29.) Plaintiff further contends that “Defendant created a stressful work
environment for Marina when she followed and disparaged its employees as they
tried to work.” (Id. at 14:4–5, citing Flynn Decl. ¶¶ 46–47; Decl. of Stacey
Brenner ¶¶ 21–22,
24.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently made “a prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment” on its Interference with Contractual Relations
cause of action and as such, has met its responsive evidentiary burden to show
a probability that it may prevail on its tenth cause of action against
Defendant. (Navellier, 29 Cal.4th at 89.)
 
8.     
Declaratory Relief
 
Plaintiff’s
ninth cause of action alleges Declaratory Relief against Defendant. “To qualify
for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented
two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s
rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 872, 909.) Here, Plaintiff asserts that “Plaintiff’s legal remedies
pass scrutiny because the Association has shown it will prevail on the merits
of other claims triggering injunctive and declaratory relief.” (Pl.’s Opp.
14:23–24.) The Court agrees.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently made “a prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment” in the instant action. (Navellier, 29
Cal.4th at 89.) Accordingly, Defendant’s special anti-SLAPP motion to strike Plaintiff’s
complaint is denied. The Court therefore finds that as Defendant has not
prevailed on the instant motion, she is not entitled to recover attorney fees
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c). The Court
likewise finds that the motion was not frivolously brought and therefore denies
Plaintiff’s request to recover attorney fees for the same.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied.