 Case Number:  23VECV00879    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




  Kristina Reveles, 
         
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Harmick Taroian,
  DDS,
         
        
  Defendant.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   23VECV00879            107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
 
Defendant Harmick
Taroian, DDS. moves for summary judgment as to the complaint filed by plaintiff
Kristina Reveles. This court GRANTS the motion for summary judgment.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On November 1,
2019, plaintiff Kristina Reveles (“Plaintiff”) consulted with defendant Harmick
Taroian, DDS (“Defendant”) in his capacity as a dentist. (Taroian Decl. ¶ 3.) On
May 7, 2020, while Defendant was performing dental services on Plaintiff, a dental
tool broke and a piece of it became lodged in one of her teeth where it
remained at least until the date of the filing of the Complaint (as defined
below). (Id. at ¶ 8; Complaint p. 3.) Plaintiff alleges that she did not
give informed consent to the dental services performed by Defendant and that
Defendant performed such services negligently. (Complaint pp. 3–4.) Plaintiff
notified Defendant of her intention to sue before the filing of the Complaint
(as defined below). (Id. at p. 5.)
 
On February 27,
2023, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleging a single cause of action for dental malpractice. 
 
On November 15,
2023, Defendant filed the instant motion for summary judgment (the “MSJ”). On
January 26, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition to the MSJ, to
which the Plaintiff responded five days later. On February 2, 2024, this court
continued the hearing on the MSJ.
 
On April 16, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the MSJ, and on April 25,
2024, Defendant filed a reply (the “Reply”) to the Opposition.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

The Separate
     Statement

 
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(1) requires that a motion for
summary judgment “be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers
to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or
may be taken. The supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting
forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party contends
are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a
reference to the supporting evidence.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd.
(b)(1).) Defendant includes with the MSJ a separate statement of undisputed
material facts that contains a list of facts that Defendant contends are
undisputed, each followed by a reference to submitted supporting evidence. This
separate statement therefore complies with California Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, subdivision (b)(1).
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(3) requires that opposition
papers to a motion for summary judgment “include a separate statement that
responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be
undisputed, indicating if the opposing party agrees or disagrees that
those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and
concisely any other material facts the opposing party contends are
disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. Failure to comply
with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute a sufficient
ground, in the court's discretion, for granting the motion.” (§ 437c,
subd. (b)(3).) Plaintiff submits with the Opposition a document titled separate
statement, which contains a mixture of alleged facts and arguments. These facts
and arguments do not, however, necessarily respond to the allegedly undisputed
facts in the separate statement submitted by Defendant, and none of the alleged
facts in Plaintiff’s separate statement refers to submitted supporting
evidence. Plaintiff’s separate statement therefore does not comply with
California Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(3). However,
while we do disregard arguments raised in the separate statement as well as
alleged facts that are unsupported by submitted evidence, we decline to grant
the MSJ on these grounds.
 

Timing

 
A motion for summary judgment “may be made
at any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the
action or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at
any earlier time after the general appearance that the court, with or without
notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿437c,
subd. (a).) “Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all
other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing”
with additional days depending on how the notice is served. (Ibid.) “The
motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless
the court for good cause orders otherwise.” (Ibid.) “An opposition to
the motion shall be served and filed not less than 14 days preceding the
noticed or continued date of hearing, unless the court for good cause orders
otherwise” and “[a] reply to the opposition shall be served and filed by the
moving party not less than five days preceding the noticed or continued date of
hearing, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise. (Id. at subd.
(b).) Supporting documents to filings
should be filed by the same deadlines. (See, e.g., id. at subd.
(b)(2)–(b)(3).)
 
“A trial court has
broad¿discretion¿under¿rule 3.1300(d) of the California Rules of Court¿to
refuse to consider papers served and filed beyond the deadline without a prior
court order finding good cause for late submission.” (Bozzi v. Nordstrom,
Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 755, 765.) Similarly, courts have wide latitude
to grant continuances. 
 
Here, Plaintiff appeared in this lawsuit by filing the
Complaint more than 60 days prior to the filing of the MSJ. Notice of the MSJ
was received by Plaintiff on November 18, 2023, which is more than 75 days
before the MSJ is set for hearing. Fourteen days before the hearing was April
16, 2024. Five days before the hearing was April 25, 2024. Thus, the MSJ was
timely, the Opposition was timely, and the Reply was timely. However,
Plaintiff’s evidence in support of the Opposition was not filed until April 25,
2024, the same date on which the Reply was due. And, we note that in the Reply,
Defendant states that he had by that time not received Plaintiff’s supporting
evidence. (Reply p. 7.) We nonetheless decline to refuse to consider
Plaintiff’s submitted supporting evidence.
 
III. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Defendant objects to the document filed by Plaintiff labelled
“Declaration and Exhibits in support of opposition of Plaintiff Kristina
Reveles to defendant Harmick [Taroian] motion for summary judgement” “to the
extent it is an intent to submit a declaration on behalf of [P]laintiff” on the
grounds that the matters therein are not declared under oath. (Objection to
Declaration and Exhibits No. 1.) It is improper for a court to consider in
support of a summary judgment motion a declaration that does not declare under
penalty of perjury that the facts set forth therein are true. (Baron v. Mare
(1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 304, 308.) This court hereby sustains this objection and
overrules the rest of Defendant’s objections to this document as moot.
 
Defendant additionally objects to Plaintiff’s separate statement of
undisputed material facts on the grounds that it “fails to substantially comply
with Cal[ifornia] Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350(f), (g).” For the reasons
explained above in our discussion on the separate statement, we overrule this
objection.
 
IV. LEGAL STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.” (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c, subd. (a)(1).) The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if not, to
enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure
§ 437c, subdivision (c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “A triable issue of material fact exists where
‘the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying
fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the
applicable standard of proof.’” (California Medical Assn. v. Aetna Health of
California Inc. (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 660, 665, quoting Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co., supra at 850.) 
 
As to
each claim as framed by the complaint, the moving party must satisfy the
initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element or
to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc, § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) A cause of
action “cannot be established” if the undisputed facts presented by defendant
prove the contrary of plaintiff's allegations¿as a matter of law. (Brantley
v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1597.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the moving party has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
“ ‘Statute
of limitations’ is the collective term applied to acts or parts of acts that
prescribe the periods beyond which a plaintiff may not bring a cause of action.”
(Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 806.) “Generally,
statute of limitations issues raise questions of fact that must be tried,
however, when the uncontradicted facts are susceptible of only one legitimate
inference, summary judgment is proper.” (Kline v. Turner (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 1369, 1374.) California Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5 (“Section
340.5”) provides that “[i]n an action for injury or death against a health care
provider based upon such person's alleged professional negligence, the time for
the commencement of action shall be three years after the date of injury or one
year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence
should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs first.” (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 340.5.) Section 340.5 applies to dental malpractice claims. (Kitzig
v. Nordquist (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1391.) “[A] medical act performed
without a patient's informed consent… is medical negligence.” (Massey
v. Mercy Medical Center Redding (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 690, 698.)
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 364, subdivision (a) provides that “[n]o action
based upon the health care provider's professional negligence may be commenced
unless the defendant has been given at least 90 days' prior notice of the
intention to commence the action.” California Code of Civil Procedure section
364, subdivision (d) tolls the statute of limitations for a period of up to 90
days “[i]f the notice is served within 90 days of the expiration of the
applicable statute of limitations.”
 
“Generally
speaking, a cause of action accrues at the time when the cause of action is
complete with all of its elements. An important exception to the general rule
of accrual is the ‘discovery rule,’ which postpones accrual of a cause of
action until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of
action.” (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797,
906–07, internal citations omitted.) “Under the discovery rule,
the statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff
suspects or should suspect that her injury was caused by wrongdoing,
that someone has done something wrong to her.” (Jolly v. Elli Lilly &
Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1110.) “A plaintiff need not be aware of the
specific ‘facts’ necessary to establish the claim; that is a process
contemplated by pretrial discovery. Once the plaintiff has a suspicion of
wrongdoing, and therefore an incentive to sue, she must decide whether to file
suit or sit on her rights. So long as a suspicion exists, it is clear that the
plaintiff must go find the facts; she cannot wait for the facts to find her.” (Id.
at 1111.) 
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff’s sole cause of action is for dental malpractice based on her
allegations that Defendant performed dental procedures on her without her
informed consent and her allegations that Defendant was professionally negligent.
Thus, Section 340.5 applies to her all of her claims. The applicable statute of
limitations period for her claims is one year after Plaintiff either
discovered or should have discovered her injury through reasonable diligence,
or three years, whichever is sooner.
 
Defendant submits
evidence that Plaintiff identifies the broken-off piece of dental tool buried
in her tooth as the injury on which she bases her claims of negligence; that on
November 19, 2021, Plaintiff, upon admission through an emergency room for facial
swelling and dental pain, advised medical staff that she has a broken off piece
of a dental tool buried in her tooth; and that Plaintiff served her notice of
intent to sue on November 25, 2022. Thus, Defendant submits evidence that the
injury Plaintiff upon which Plaintiff bases her claim of negligence is the
broken-off piece of a dental tool that became lodged in one of her teeth during
the dental procedure that Defendant performed on Plaintiff on May 7, 2020.
Defendant additionally submits evidence that Plaintiff was aware of her injury and
believed such injury to be the source of her harm no later than November 19,
2021, more than a year prior to the filing of the Complaint on February 27,
2023. Defendant additionally submits evidence that Plaintiff served a notice of
intent to sue pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure section 364, subdivision (a) on November 25, 2022. As this date is
more than a year after November 19, 2021 and not within the 90 days preceding
the expiration of the statute of limitations, it would not have tolled the
statute of limitations in this case. Even if it did, 90 days after November 25,
2022, the date on which Plaintiff served the notice of intent to sue, was
February 23, 2023, which is still earlier than February 27, 2023, the date on
which Plaintiff filed the Complaint. Thus, Defendant submits evidence to show
that the Complaint was after the statute of limitations applicable to Plaintiff’s
claims had expired. Defendant thus shifts the burden to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists.
 
None of
Plaintiff’s evidence controverts these pieces of evidence brought by Defendant.
None of Plaintiff’s evidence contradicts or challenges Defendant’s evidence
that Plaintiff was aware of her injury and believed it to be the source of her
harm by November 19, 2021. While Plaintiff raises evidence that she was later
informed of her injury within one year of the filing of the Complaint, this
does not challenge Plaintiff’s evidence that she was also informed of her
injury and admitted awareness of her injury at the earlier date more than one
year before the filing of the Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff argues
in the Opposition that her “action based on negligence is not barred because
the action was filed within 1 year of the manifestation of undisclosed
complication. The facts of the case and the points of law stated during the
tolling of the statute of limitations was unaware of the foreign body and the
relationship to her injuries [citation] the role foreign body played in the
patients suffering negligent cause of injury.” (Opposition p. 2) Plaintiff
cites Ashworth v. Memorial Hospital (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1046 (hereinafter,
Ashworth) in support of her arguments. (Ibid.) Ashworth
discusses the “foreign body” exception to the statute of limitations for
medical negligence prescribed by Section 340.5, which it explains “only tolls
the three-year outside limitation period and not the one-year ‘discovery’
period.” (Ashworth, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d at 1055–58.) “What this
means, of course, is that the ‘foreign body’ exception in [S]ection
340.5 lifts the three-year outside limit entirely if a nontherapeutic ‘foreign
body’ has been left inside a patient. It gives that patient an unlimited time
to discover or to use reasonable diligence to discover the presence of the ‘foreign
body.’ But once the patient discovers or through reasonable diligence would
have discovered the ‘foreign body’ and its role in her injury she only has one
year to file her lawsuit against the practitioners responsible for leaving the ‘foreign
body’ inside her.” (Id. at 1058.) Therefore, because Defendant does not
contend that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by Section 340.5’s three-year
“outside” statute of limitations but rather contends that Plaintiff’s claims
are barred by its one-year “discovery” period, the “foreign body” exception to
the statute of limitations for medical negligence prescribed by Section 340.5
is not applicable to this case and does not toll the statute of limitations
period for Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
The Opposition
then argues the issue of informed consent and alleges that Defendant did not
receive her informed consent prior to performing the dental procedure on her
during which the dental tool piece become lodged in her tooth. However, firstly,
this does not contradict or challenge Defendant’s evidence regarding the
statute of limitations. That is to say, even if Plaintiff can argue and prove
that Defendant acted negligently by failing to obtain her informed consent, her
claims may still be barred by the statute of limitations. Plaintiff must first
overcome Defendant’s challenge to her claims on statute of limitations grounds
before her arguments about his negligence and failure to obtain her informed
consent become relevant. Secondly, we are concerned at the summary judgment
stage with evidence as well as argument. (See Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra,
25 Cal.4th 826 at 843.) To overcome a summary judgment challenge, a
plaintiff must show that she possesses evidentiary support for any arguments
raised so as to create a triable issue of material fact. (Ibid.) In
other words, it is not sufficient at this stage to present argument
unaccompanied by evidence to support those arguments; rather, the plaintiff
must submit evidence that contradicts or challenges the evidence submitted by
the defendant who brought the motion for summary judgment. (Ibid. [“The
moving party must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ ([Cal. Code Civ. Proc.] §
437c, subd. (b).) Likewise, any adverse party may oppose the motion,
and, ‘where appropriate,’ must present evidence including ‘affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ (Ibid.) An
adverse party who chooses to oppose the motion must be allowed a
reasonable opportunity to do so.”].) Here, however, Plaintiff does not submit
or refer to any evidence in support of her argument that Defendant acted
without her informed consent, and we therefore do not consider arguments
Plaintiff presents that are unsupported by submitted evidence.
 
Plaintiff states
in her separate statement that she “was only made physically aware that the
foreign body exist on 12/8/21 but did not become aware of the extent of
injuries from delayed adverse reaction to the foreign body and the relation,
the role of all elements, commenced.” (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement p. 2.)
She also states that her injury “worsened over time from a delay adverse
reaction to the dental instrument/file and nickel and titanium toxicity. I did
not have a name for the symptoms I was experiencing until I saw Dr. J Wilson
DDS Kaiser Maxillofacial dept on October 19, 2023.” (Id. at p. 4.) Thus,
Plaintiff alleges that she became “physically aware” of the existence of the
dental tool fragment in her tooth only on December 8, 2021 but that her
condition worsened over time thereafter and that she only became aware of the
full extent of her injury and its factual cause on October 19, 2023, almost two
years later. As to the date of her “physical awareness,” Plaintiff submits no
evidence in support of this contention that contradicts Defendant’s evidence
that she told ER staff on November 19, 2021 that she had a dental tool fragment
buried in her tooth that she believed to be the source of her injuries. As to
her argument that she did not discover the factual cause or the full extent of
her injuries until much later than the date she learned of the dental tool
fragment being left buried in her tooth, neither of these are sufficient to
toll the statute of limitations under the discovery rule. (See Jolly v. Elli Lilly & Co., supra, 44 Cal.3d 1103 at 1110–11.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff
fails to meet her burden to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the statute of limitations. 
 
Accordingly, this
court grants the MSJ.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:             April
30, 2024                                                 _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                         Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court