 Case Number:  24CHCP00306    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 10/30/24
Case #24CHCP00306
 
***This tentative ruling applies to
Respondent/Defendant Geico General Insurance Company’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Claimant/Petitioner Diane Taylor’s Petition to Compel Arbitration.
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Respondent Geico’s Motion filed on 10/1/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Respondent/Defendant Geico General
Insurance Company
RESPONDING PARTY: Petitioner/Claimant Diane Taylor
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
compelling arbitration of the uninsured motorist claims of Geico’s insured
Diane Taylor with American Arbitration Association.

 
PETITION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Petitioner/Claimant Taylor’s Motion/Petition filed on 10/4/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Petitioner/Claimant Diane Taylor
RESPONDING PARTY: Respondent/Defendant Geico General
Insurance Company
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling
arbitration and for an order appointing a neutral arbitrator.  

 
 
RULING: 
Geico’s motion is granted. 
Taylor’s petition is denied.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
Respondent/Defendant Geico General Insurance Company
(Geico) issued an automobile insurance policy (the Policy) to
Petitioner/Claimant Diane Taylor (Taylor) with a policy period of 1/4/22
through 1/4/23.  Taylor claims that she
was the victim of a hit and run accident on 3/25/22 after which she made a
claim for Uninsured Motorist (UM) benefits under the Policy.  Geico and Taylor dispute the amount payable
under the Policy’s UM coverage.  
 
The Policy includes an arbitration clause which provides:
 
If any insured making
claim under this policy and we do not agree that he is legally entitled to
recover damages under this Coverage from the owner or operator of an uninsured/underinsured
motor vehicle because of bodily injury to the insured,
or do not agree as to the amount payable, either party will have the right to
demand arbitration. 
 
The matter(s) in dispute shall then
be settled according to American Arbitration Association rules. One neutral
arbitrator will conduct the arbitration. 
(italics and bold in the original) 
 
(See
Mikaelian
Decl., Ex.A, p.30; Chavez Decl., Ex.1, p.30).
 
The AAA Consumer Arbitration Rules provide, in
relevant part: 
 
R-15. National Roster of
Arbitrators – The AAA maintains a National Roster of Arbitrators (“National
Roster”) and shall appoint arbitrators from this National Roster to resolve the
parties’ dispute(s). 
 
R-16. Appointment from National
Roster – (a) If the parties have not appointed an arbitrator and have not
agreed to a process for appointing the arbitrator, immediately after the filing
of the submission agreement or the answer, or after the deadline for filing the
answer, the AAA will administratively appoint an arbitrator from the National
Roster. 
 
(b) If the parties’ arbitration
agreement provides for three or more arbitrators and they have not appointed
the arbitrators and have not agreed to a process for appointing the
arbitrators, immediately after the filing of the submission agreement or the answer,
or after the deadline for filing the answer, the AAA will administratively
appoint the arbitrators from the National Roster. The AAA will appoint the
chairperson. 
 
(c) Arbitrator(s) serving under
these Rules will be neutral and must meet the standards of R-19 with respect to
being impartial and independent.  
 
(Mikaelian Decl. ¶6, Ex.B, p.18).
 
Both Geico and Taylor concede that their dispute is
subject to arbitration.  However, they
disagree as to whether the arbitration must be conducted by the American
Arbitration Association (AAA).  (See
Mikaelian Decl.; Chavez Decl.).
 
Therefore, on 10/1/24, Geico filed and served its motion
seeking an order compelling arbitration of the uninsured motorist claims of
Geico’s insured Diane Taylor with American Arbitration Association and, on
10/4/24, Taylor filed and served her petition seeking an order compelling
arbitration and for an order appointing a neutral arbitrator.  Geico’s petition was originally scheduled for
hearing on 3/19/25 and Taylor’s petition was scheduled for hearing on 10/30/24.  
On 10/14/24, pursuant to Geico’s ex parte application,
the Court rescheduled the hearing on Geico’s motion to 10/30/24.  (See 10/14/24 Minute Order).  Each party has opposed the other’s
motion/petition and each party has filed replies to the oppositions.
Since both Geico’s motion and Taylor’s petition and the
respective oppositions and replies reiterate the same arguments by each party, the
Court provides one analysis of Geico’s motion and Taylor’s petition as set
forth below.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Both the insurance policy and the California Insurance
Code require that Geico and Taylor arbitrate their dispute regarding the UM
coverage before a single neutral arbitrator. 
(See Mikaelian Decl., Ex.A, p.30; Chavez Decl., Ex.1, p.30);
Insurance Code 11580.2.  As noted above, neither
party is refusing to arbitrate their dispute. 
Rather, the parties disagree as to whether the arbitration must be
conducted by/through the American Arbitration Association (AAA).  
 
Under the California Arbitration Act (CAA), “[i]f the
arbitration agreement provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that
method shall be followed.”  CCP 1281.6.  Further, the CAA defines a “neutral
arbitrator” as “an arbitrator who is (1) selected jointly by the parties or by
the arbitrators selected by the parties, or (2) appointed by the court when the
parties or the arbitrators selected by the parties fail to select an arbitrator
who was to be selected jointly by the parties.” 
CCP 1280(g).  A “neutral
arbitrator” includes a third-party dispute resolution provider, and parties can
agree that such an organization will appoint an impartial arbitrator.  See Jevne (2005) 35 C4th 935,
947-948.
 
Here, the Policy expressly requires the parties to
arbitrate UM disputes under AAA rules.  (See
Mikaelian Decl., Ex.A, p.30; Chavez Decl., Ex.1, p.30).  Those rules, which are incorporated into the insurance
Policy, delegate the duty to select an individual arbitrator to AAA and are
enforceable.  (See Mikaelian Decl.
¶6, Ex.B, pp.9-10 (R-1), p.18 (R-15, R-16)); See Lane (2014) 224
CA4th 676, 686; Peng (2013) 219 CA4th 1462, 1472; Bigler (2003) 213
CA4th 727, 737.  Further, it has been
held that where an agreement states that arbitration would be conducted “in
accordance with” AAA rules, such language means that arbitration would be
conducted before an AAA body.  See
Maggio (2000) 80 CA4th 1210, 1213-1215.
 
Taylor provides no evidence or authority to support the claim
that arbitrators on the AAA Roster do not satisfy the “single neutral
arbitrator” requirement.  In fact, the
AAA Consumer Arbitration Rules require
arbitrators to provide disclosure information to all parties throughout the
arbitration process.  (See
Mikaelian Decl. ¶4, Ex.B, pp.18-19 (R-18)). 
Further, the AAA Consumer Arbitration Rules set forth a procedure
for objecting to an arbitrator, if either party finds it necessary.  (Id., p.19 (R-19)).  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Geico’s motion is granted.  The parties are ordered to arbitrate their
dispute through the American Arbitration Association.  
 
Taylor’s petition is denied.
 
The Court notes that Geico has failed to electronically
bookmark its exhibits attached to its motion and opposition papers in violation
of CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  Counsel for the
parties are warned that failure to comply with this rule in the future may
result in matters being continued so that papers can be re-filed in compliance
with the rule, papers not being considered and/or the imposition of
sanctions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 