 Case Number:  22TRCV00054    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




martin b. canter

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
paul william blake jr.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22TRCV00054




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   27, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Paul William Blake,
Jr., and Armando Zenteno
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Martin B. Canter
Motion for Summary Judgment
The court considered the moving and reply papers filed in connection
with this motion.
The court did not consider the “Objection to the Defendant’s Entire
Motion for Summary Judgment, and for the Judicial Notice be be [sic]
Denied,” filed by plaintiff Martin B. Canter on March 12, 2024, because (1) the
proofs of service attached thereto are incomplete since they do not (i)
sufficiently describe which documents were served on counsel for the moving
defendants, and (ii) state the email address to which service was made, and (2)
the moving defendants have asserted that they were not served with the
opposition papers filed with the court. 
(Pl. Obj./Opp., pp. 19, 31, 46, 67 [proofs of service]; Def. Obj. fns.
1-5 [“Defense counsel never received anything from [plaintiff Martin B.]
Canter”].) 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court declines to rule on defendants Paul William Blake, Jr., and
Armando Zenteno’s evidentiary objections to the evidence submitted by plaintiff
Martin B. Canter, filed on March 22, 2024, because the objections are directed
to evidence that is not material to the court’s disposition of this
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(q).) 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendants Paul William Blake, Jr., and Armando
Zenteno’s request for judicial notice. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendants Paul William Blake, Jr. (“Blake”)
and Armando Zenteno (collectively, “Defendants”) move the court for an order
granting summary judgment in their favor and against plaintiff Martin B. Canter
(“Plaintiff”).  Plaintiff has alleged, in
his First Amended Complaint, two causes of action against Defendants for (1)
fraud, and (2) malpractice.[1] 
Defendants contend that they are entitled to
summary judgment because (1) the actual innocence rule bars Plaintiff from
recovering any damages in this action; (2) Plaintiff has admitted that he
cannot prove causation and damages; and (3) the unclean hands defense bars this
action. 

1.     Actual
Innocence Rule
The court finds that Defendants have not met their burden of
showing that the first and second causes of action for fraud and legal
malpractice, respectively, have no merit because Defendants have not shown that
the actual innocence rule bars both causes of action. 
“In any action for legal malpractice against criminal defense
counsel, the plaintiff, as the former criminal defendant, must necessarily
allege and prove actual innocence of the criminal charges.”  (Genis v. Schainbaum (2021) 66
Cal.App.5th 1007, 1015; Wiley v. County of San Diego (1998) 19 Cal.4th
532, 534 [actual innocence is a necessary element of a cause of action for
legal malpractice when alleged by a former criminal defendant].)  However, “[w]hen the primary rights asserted
in the complaint are the rights to be billed in accordance with specific
contractual provisions and to be free from unethical or fraudulent billing
practices on the part of defense counsel, . . . a criminal defendant client
need not allege actual innocence in order to state a cause of action for breach
of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud and money had and received.”  (Bird, Marella, Boxer & Wolpert v.
Superior Court (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 419, 421.) 
Here, Plaintiff’s action is based, in part, on his claims that defendant
Blake engaged in improper and fraudulent billing.  (FAC ¶¶ 1 [seeking, inter alia,
“remuneration for . . . fraudulent bill-ing practices”], 14 [on December 30,
2019, Plaintiff was billed for 3.5 hours for reviewing documents but Blake
“later admitted and it was proven that he reviewed nothing”], 15 [taking issue
with other bills, including a one-hour bond discussion that “Never happened”],
18-19 [questioning whether certain bills were padded].)  Because Plaintiff has alleged claims
asserting improper and fraudulent billing practices, the actual innocence rule does
not apply to his entire action.  (Ibid.;
Bird, Marella, Boxer & Wolpert, supra, 106 Cal.App.4th at pp.
421, 432.) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendants have not met their burden to
show that the actual innocence rule applies to and bars both of Plaintiff’s
causes of action.  (Notice of Mot., p.
2:7-10 [moving for summary judgment on the ground that “the actual innocence
rule . . . bars [Plaintiff] . . . from recovering any damages in this
action”] [emphasis added]; Mot., p. 11:5-8 [Plaintiff’s “entire action
fails because his claims against Defendants arise out of the Underlying
Criminal Matter” and therefore he must plead and prove his actual innocence]
[emphasis added].) 
2.     Elements
of Causation and Damages
The court finds that Defendants have not met their burden of
showing that the first and second causes of action for fraud and legal
malpractice, respectively, have no merit because they have not shown that the
elements of causation and damages cannot be established.  (Not. of Mot., p. 2:7-9, 10-11 [moving for
summary judgment on the ground that Plaintiff has “admitted [his] inability to
prove causation and damages”] [emphasis in original omitted].) 
First, although Defendants have moved for summary judgment on the
ground that both of Plaintiff’s causes of action fail due to Plaintiff’s
“admitted inability to prove causation and damages[,]” Defendants did not, in
their moving papers, clearly set forth argument contending that Plaintiff
cannot establish those elements in connection with his claims for legal
malpractice.  (Not. of Mot., p. 2:7-9,
10-11 [internal emphasis omitted]; Mot., pp. 13:25-17:9 [arguing that Plaintiff
cannot prove causation and damages under the motion heading “Canter’s Purported
Fraud Cause of Action Fails”] [emphasis in original omitted], 14:8-9 [Plaintiff
lacks evidence to prove fraud], 16:15 [stating that Plaintiff’s “fraud claim
fails” because he cannot assert tort-based disgorgement of fees], 16:18
[Plaintiff’s “fraud cause of action also fails because he cannot prove
causation”], 17:8-9 [Plaintiff cannot prove fraud].)
The court notes that, in one statement made by Defendants under
their heading “Canter’s Purported Fraud Cause of Action Fails,” Defendants have
asserted that Plaintiff cannot assert damages caused by Defendants’ alleged
overbilling “for the legal malpractice or fraud causes of action” in the First
Amended Complaint.  (Mot., p.
15:4-6.)  This appears to be the only
argument regarding the elements of either causation or damages that refers to
the legal malpractice cause of action. 
However, the court finds that this argument is insufficient to show that
Plaintiff cannot prove damages in connection with his legal malpractice and
fraud causes of action because (1) although the court recognizes that, in some
circumstances, “an overpayment for services is contract damages[,]” (2)
Plaintiff has not merely alleged overpayment, but has instead alleged the
existence of “fraudulent bill-ing practices,” including by alleging that
Plaintiff was charged for services not rendered.  (Herrington v. Superior Court (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 1052, 1060; FAC ¶¶ 1, 10 [“An arraignment charge 1 hour,
stated met with me for 2 hours”], 14 [“On 12/30/2019 a billing of 3.5 hours for
‘reviewing’ documents and discovery of materials, documents and reports
submitted by the Plaintiff that [Blake] later admitted and it was proven that
he reviewed nothing”].)  Thus, the court
finds that this argument does not show that Plaintiff cannot establish the
element of damages in connection with his fraud and legal malpractice causes of
action as a matter of law. 
Second, the court notes that Defendants have presented other
arguments that they contend show that Plaintiff cannot establish the elements
of causation or damages in connection with Plaintiff’s cause of action for
fraud.  However, Defendants did not move
for summary adjudication on the fraud cause of action in the alternative, and the
court therefore does not rule on whether Defendants have met their burden to
show that Plaintiff cannot establish those elements as to the fraud cause of
action.  (Paramount Petroleum Corp. v.
Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 244 [“‘[I]t is improper to grant
summary adjudication absent a motion therefor’”] [internal citations omitted].)

3.     Defense
of Unclean Hands
The court finds that Defendants have not met their burden of
showing that the first and second causes of action for fraud and legal
malpractice, respectively, have no merit because they have not shown that the
defense of unclean hands bars Plaintiff’s action. 
“The defense of unclean hands does not apply in every instance
where the plaintiff has committed some misconduct in connection with the matter
in controversy, but applies only where it would be inequitable to grant the
plaintiff any relief. 
[Citations.]  The court must
consider both the degree of harm caused by the plaintiff’s misconduct and the
extent of the plaintiff’s alleged damages. 
[Citations.]  Whether the defense
applies in particular circumstances depends on the analogous case law, the
nature of the misconduct, and the relationship of the misconduct to the claimed
injuries.  [Citations.]”  (Dickson, Carlson & Campillo v. Pole (2000)
83 Cal.App.4th 436, 446-447 [internal citations omitted].)  
In their moving papers, Defendants have not identified any
misconduct committed by Plaintiff (1) in connection with the matter in
controversy in this action, and (2) that was directed to Defendants.  
“To deny relief to a party under the unclean hands doctrine, the
improper conduct must be ‘in the particular transaction or connected with the
subject matter of the litigation that is a defense.’”  (Brown v. Grimes (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 265, 282 [internal citation omitted].)  “‘If he [the wrongdoer] is not guilty of
inequitable conduct toward the defendant in that transaction, his hands are “as
clean as the court can require.” ’”  (Id.
at p. 283 [internal citation omitted].)  Here, Defendants contend that Plaintiff is
barred from recovering damages against them in this action “because his alleged
damages arise out of his illegal conduct in defrauding the U.S.
Government.”  (Mot., p. 17:11-12.)  The court disagrees. 
First, although the court recognizes that Defendants have produced
evidence establishing that Plaintiff pleaded guilty to one count of “Conspiracy
to Pay and Receive Illegal Remunerations for Health Care Referrals in violation
of 18 U.S.C. § 371[,]” Defendants have not shown that this misconduct was
(1) committed “‘in the particular transaction’” alleged in the First Amended
Complaint, or (2) “‘connected with the subject matter of the litigation that is
a defense.’”  (Brown, supra,
192 Cal.App.4th at p. 282;  Def.
Compendium of Exhibits, RJN Ex. 5, p. 1 [Judgment and Probation / Commitment
Order].)  Plaintiff’s misconduct in the
underlying criminal action is not connected with his pending claims against
Defendants for their alleged malpractice and perpetuation of a fraudulent
billing scheme. 
Second, Defendants have not shown that Plaintiff was “guilty of
inequitable conduct toward [Defendants] in” the underlying criminal
action.  (Brown, supra, 192
Cal.App.4th at p. 283 [emphasis added].) 
Instead, Defendants base their uncleans hands argument on Plaintiff’s
acts in “defrauding the U.S. Government.” 
(Mot., p. 17:11-23.)  Thus, as to
this action, Plaintiff’s “‘hands are “as clean as the court can require.” ’”  (Brown, supra, 192 Cal.App.4th
at p. 283.) 
The court therefore finds that Defendants have not met their
burden to show that the unclean hands defense bars Plaintiff’s action against
them. 
4.     Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Defendants
have not met their burden to show that (1) the actual innocence rule bars
Plaintiff’s entire action; (2) Plaintiff cannot prove the elements of causation
and damages in connection with both his legal malpractice and fraud causes of
action; and (3) the unclean hands defense bars Plaintiff’s entire action.
The court therefore denies Defendants’ motion for summary judgment.
ORDER
            The court denies defendants Paul
William Blake, Jr., and Armando Zenteno’s motion for summary judgment on
plaintiff Martin B. Canter’s First Amended Complaint. 
The court orders plaintiff Martin B. Canter to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  March 27, 2024
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


