  Case Number:  21BBCV00739    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT AND CROSS-COMPLAINANT NOHO PROPCO, LLC’S MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO FILE A THIRD AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINTI.        INTRODUCTION
          This is an action arising from the alleged breach of a
contract concerning construction of two apartment buildings, retail space, and
subterranean parking. On August 19, 2021, Plaintiff Snyder Langston
Residential, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Noho Propco
LLC (“NPL”) and Does 1 through 100, inclusive, alleging causes of action for:
(1) Breach of Contract; (2) Labor and Materials Furnished; (3) Foreclose
Mechanic’s Lien; and (4) Statutory Violation of Civil Code sections 8810 et
seq. 
          On September 30, 2021, NPL filed an Answer to the
Complaint. Also, on such date, NPL filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff
for, among other causes of action, breach of contract, misrepresentation, and
negligence.  
          On October 26, 2021, this action was deemed related to One
Silver Serve, Inc. v. Synder Langston Residential, LLC, LASC Case No.
20BBCV00846, which was filed on November 19, 2020. (10/26/21 Minute Order.)
Case No. 20BBCV00846 was deemed the lead case. (10/26/21 Minute Order.)  
          On January 18, 2022, NPL filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) against Plaintiff alleging causes of action for: (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
and (3) Negligence.  
          On March 2, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against NPL alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach
of Contract; (2) Labor and Materials Furnished; (3) Foreclose Mechanic’s Lien;
and (4) Statutory Violation of Civil Code sections 8810 et seq.
          On May 26, 2022, NPL filed the operative Second Amended
Cross Complaint (“SAXC”) against Plaintiff; J.S. Egan Design, Inc.; Don E.
Empakeris Architects; Jayco-Cal Engineering, Inc.; Kaplan Gehring McCarroll
Architectural Lighting, Inc.; PE&C Civil Engineering, LLC; SQLA, Inc.;
Sacharias Vorgias Consulting Electrical Engineering, Inc.; Burnett & Young
Shoring Engineers, Inc.; John Labib & Associates, Structural Engineers;
Vivian C. Tanamachi; Salamoff Design Studio, LLC; 6th Generation, Inc.; and
Roes 1 through 100, inclusive (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Negligence; (4) Breach of Contract; (5)
Negligence/Professional Negligence; (6) Express Indemnity; and (7) Equitable
Indemnity/Apportionment. 
          On November 9, 2022, Cross-Defendant Don E. Empakeris
Architects filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff and Moes 1 through 50
alleging causes of action for: (1) Equitable/Implied Indemnity; (2)
Contribution; (3) Apportionment of Fault; and (4) Declaratory Relief. 
          On December 28, 2023, pursuant to requests for dismissal
filed by NPL, the following Cross-Defendants were dismissed from the SAXC: John
Labib & Associates, Structural Engineers; Salamoff Design Studio, LLC; Kaplan
Gehring McCarroll Architectural Lighting, Inc.; Burnett & Young Shoring
Engineers, Inc.;
6th Generation, Inc.; SQLA,
Inc.; PE&C Civil Engineering, LLC; and J.S. Egan Design, Inc.
          On March 27, 2024, this action was reassigned to the
Honorable Jared D. Moses sitting in Department P at Pasadena Courthouse
effective April 2, 2024. 
          On June 3, 2024, NPL filed and served the instant Motion to
File a Third Amended Cross-Complaint. The motion is made on the grounds that
NPL “has claims for damages against the remaining Cross-Defendants that said
Cross-Defendants dispute remain [sic] and have sought to file this Third
Amended Cross-Complaint to be clear on the remaining damages sought in this
action.” (Not. of Mot. at p. 2:3-6.) 
          As of July 25, 2024, the motion for leave to amend is
unopposed. Any opposition was required to have been filed and served at least
nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD       
Civ. Proc. Code §473,
subd. (a), allows courts to permit amendment of pleadings in furtherance of
justice and on any terms as may be proper.  
“Motions for leave to
amend are directed to the sound discretion of the judge: ‘The court may, in
furtherance of justice and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading....’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) However, the
court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of
the pleadings. (Citations.) The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it
is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. (Citation.)
‘Leave to amend should be denied only where the facts are not in dispute, and
the nature of the plaintiff's claim is clear, but under substantive law, no
liability exists and no amendment would change the result.’ (Citation.)” (Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) 
Courts will ordinarily
not consider the validity of a proposed pleading; the preferred practice is to
“permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.”
(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045,
1048.) But a court does not abuse its discretion in denying leave to amend
where the proposed pleading fails to state a cause of action and further
amendment would be “futile.”  (Foxborough v. Van Atta (1994) 26
Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231.)           
Courts have discretion to
deny leave to amend where delay in seeking amendment has prejudiced the other
party. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, subd. (b), requires that a motion for leave to amend be accompanied by
a declaration stating why the amendment is necessary and proper, the effect of
the amendment, when the facts giving rise to the amended declaration were
discovered, and the reason why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  
 
III.     ANALYSIS
In support of the motion, E. Scott Holbrook, Jr.
(“Holbrook”) declares the following: this action was resolved with most parties
in December 2023. (Holbrook Decl., ¶ 2.) Subsequently mediation has been held
with one of the remaining cross-defendants with further mediation scheduled.
(Holbrook Decl., ¶ 2.) NPL “seeks to amend the [cross-complaint] to be clear
that the claims [NPL] abandoned of $21,000,000 against Plaintiff . . . were
abandoned because of, arose of, resulted from, occurred in connection with,
and/or were related to the services provided by the Third Party Design Cross
Defendants remaining in this action.” (Holbrook Decl., ¶ 2.) Counsel states
that it is now necessary to file a Third Amended Cross-Complaint to assure the
remaining cross-defendants do not object to the damages claims as not being
plead in an effort to exclude some of NPL’s claims for damages claiming they
were not alleged against the remaining cross-defendants. Mr. Holbrook then
generally describes the proposed modifications from the SAXC to the Third
Amended Cross-Complaint. (Holbrook Decl., ¶ 3(a)-(i).) 
The Court finds that the motion is procedurally
improper and not compliant with California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324. NPL has failed to state by page, paragraph, and line number, where the
deleted or additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324(a).) Additionally, the declaration of Mr. Holbrook in support of the
motion does not state the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is proper,
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why
the request for amendment was not made sooner. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324(b).) 
          Nevertheless,
notwithstanding these procedural infirmities, the Court will permit the filing
of the third amended cross-complaint.  The
motion is unopposed and there are rare occasions
when principles of efficiency lead one to conclude that it is best not to exalt
form over substance.   
 
IV.     
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 Based on the foregoing, Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Noho Propco LLC’s Motion for Leave to File a Third
Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.   
          
Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Noho Propco LLC to give notice of this order.
 
          
Dated:  July 30, 2024                                                            
 
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES      JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                     