 Case Number:  24STCV02602    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 30, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Audrey Witte, et al. v. Hotel Nue
Holdings, LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV02602            
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER AUTHORIZING SERVICE OF PROCESS FOR S3D PARTNERS, LLC ON THE
CALIFORNIA SECRETARY OF STATE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Audrey White and Kevin Stack
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 5/24/24. 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/31/24: Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract and wage and hour violations.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to properly pay Plaintiffs’ wages. 
 
Plaintiffs move for an order
authorizing service of process for S3D Partners, LLC on the California
Secretary of State. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Order Authorizing S3D Partners LLC to be Served with Process via
Service on the California Secretary of State is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiffs
move for an order authorizing service of process for S3D Partners, LLC on the
California Secretary of State.
 
            Plaintiffs bring this motion under Corporations Code section
17701.16(c), which provides:
 
If an agent for service of
process has resigned and has not been replaced or if the designated agent
cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the address designated for
personal delivery of the process, and it is shown by affidavit to the
satisfaction of the court that process against a limited liability company or
foreign limited liability company cannot be served with reasonable diligence
upon the designated agent by hand in the manner provided in Section 415.10,
subdivision (a) of Section 415.20, or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the
Code of Civil Procedure, the court may make an order that the service shall be
made upon a domestic limited liability company or upon a registered foreign
limited liability company by delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or
to any person employed in the Secretary of State's office in the capacity of
assistant or deputy, one copy of the process for each defendant to be served,
together with a copy of the order authorizing the service. Service in this
manner shall be deemed complete on the 10th day after delivery of the process
to the Secretary of State. 
 
(Corp. Code § 17701.16(c).) 
 
Whether Agent Resigned or Cannot Be Found with
Reasonable Diligence 
 
The Declaration of Attorney Chaka C. Okadigbo indicates
that his office hired InfoTrack US Inc., otherwise known as OneLegal, to serve
process on S3D Partners, LLC via Jayesh Kumar, its designated agent for service
of process according Defendant’s current Statement of Information filed with
the Secretary of State. (Declaration of Chaka C. Okadigbo ISO Mot. ¶¶ 3-4; Exh.
A.) OneLegal dispatched a registered process server to serve Defendant’s agent
for service of process at the address listed in Defendant’s records with the
Secretary of State, but after two attempts to do so, the process server was
informed by another individual that Mr. Kumar no longer resides at that
address. (Id. Exh. B.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have satisfied their burden to
show, by affidavit, that Defendant’s agent for service of process could not be
found with reasonable diligence. 
 
Whether Service Can be Made with Reasonable Diligence
 
As noted, Plaintiff was unable to serve Defendant’s agent
by personal service (Code Civ. Proc. § 415.10) with reasonable diligence. (Okadigbo
Decl. Exh. B.) The declarations of due diligence by Plaintiff’s registered
process server also indicate that no one answered the door on any of his attempts
at service. (Id.) As no individuals residing at the property were ever
located, Plaintiffs’ process server had no opportunity to attempt substitute
service. Thus, Plaintiffs have satisfied their burden to show that Defendant
could not be served with reasonable diligence by personal service or substitute
service. 
 
As to mail with acknowledgment of receipt, Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that his office mailed a notice and acknowledgment and receipt
to Defendant pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30(a) on February
9, 2024 and has not received the acknowledgment and receipt to date. (Okadigbo
Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.) Thus, Plaintiffs have also satisfied their burden to show that
Defendant could not be served with reasonable diligence by mail with
acknowledgment and receipt. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Order Authorizing S3D Partners LLC to be Served with
Process via Service on the California Secretary of State is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 30, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 