  Case Number:  22CHCV01216    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  F51 
MARCH 15,
2024
 

MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHCV01216

 
Motion filed: 1/11/24 
 
MOVING ATTORNEY: Hesam Yazdanpanah (“Counsel”)
CLIENT: Plaintiff Rommel Navarro (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order relieving Counsel as attorney
of record for Plaintiff. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is granted.
 
In a civil action, an attorney may
move to be relieved as counsel at any time during the proceedings after giving
notice to his client. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284.) The moving attorney shall file
with his motion: (1) a notice of the motion, directed to the client using
Judicial Council form MC-051; (2) a declaration in support of the motion using
Judicial Council form MC-052; and (3) a proposed order granting the motion; all
to be served on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) If the notice is served on the client by
mail, the motion must also be supported by a declaration “stating facts showing
that either: (A) The service address is the current residence or business
address of the client; or (B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved.” (Id., subd.
(d)(1).)  
 
In his declaration, the moving
attorney is required to state “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Id., subd. (c).) The client
must be provided no less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.
An attorney may withdraw from a case when it can be accomplished without undue
prejudice to the client’s interests. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) On the other hand, if the attorney withdraws at a
critical point in the action, thereby prejudicing his client, he has violated his
ethical duties. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Counsel filed this motion to
be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff on 1/11/24. Counsel served his client by
mail to Plaintiff’s last known address, and has filed a declaration stating
that Plaintiff’s current mailing address was unable to be confirmed. (Decl. of Hesam
Yazdanpanah, ¶ 3b(2).) Counsel also filed a proof of service showing that the
requisite documents were served on all parties who have appeared in the action,
including Plaintiff. on 10/18/23.
 
Counsel properly filed an
accompanying notice of the motion using Judicial Council form MC-051, a
declaration in support of his motion using form MC-052, and a proposed order
granting the motion using form MC-053. In the MC-052 declaration, Counsel cited
a breakdown of communications with Plaintiff such that Counsel must withdraw
from representation thereof. (Yazdanpanah Decl., ¶ 2.) The next hearing date in
this action is a mandatory settlement conference, set for 7/3/24. Therefore,
Counsel’s withdrawal does not raise the risk of unduly prejudicing his client. 
 
Accordingly, the statutory
requirements for the motion have been satisfied, and Counsel’s motion to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff is GRANTED.