  Case Number:  23STCV11023    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  34 Defendants The Glenmark Hotel, Tania Georges, and North
Brand LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in
the alternative, Summary Adjudication, is CONTINUED.
 
Background
 
            On May 16, 2023, Plaintiffs Sylvia Tashjian and Adam Tashjian
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Azul Hospitality Group LLC,
The Glenmark Hotel, and Tania Georges arising from Plaintiffs’ wedding in Defendants
The Glenmark Hotel’s facilities alleging causes of action for: 
 
1.              
Breach of Written and Oral Contract; 
2.              
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 
3.              
Breach of Implied Duty to Perform with Reasonable Care; 
4.              
Tortious Interference with Contract;
5.              
Intentional Misrepresentation; 
6.              
Negligent Misrepresentation; and 
7.              
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
On October 5, 2023, Defendant Azul
Hospitality Group LLC filed a General Denial to Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 
On October 10, 2023, Defendants The
Glenmark Hotel and Tania Georges filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 
On October 12, 2023, Defendant Azul
Hospitality Group LLC filed an amended answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
On October 16, 2023, the court granted
the parties’ Stipulation to Set Aside and Vacate the entry of default against
Defendant Azul Hospitality Group LLC.
On October 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
an amendment to their complaint naming Doe 1 as North Brand, LLC. 
 
On October 30, 2023, the court granted
the parties’ Stipulation to Set Aside and Vacate the entry of default against
Defendants The Glenmark Hotel and Tania Georges. 
 
On November 15, 2023, Defendant North
Brand, LLC filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
an amendment to their complaint naming Doe 2 as Ekim Consulting, Inc.  
 
On February 27, 2024, Defendant Ekim
Consulting, Inc. filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
an amendment to their complaint naming Doe 3 as Azul Hospitality – Glendale,
LLC.
 
On April 11, 2024, Defendant Azul
Hospitality – Glendale, LLC filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 
            On
August 1, 2024, Defendant The Glenmark Hotel, Tania Georges, and North Brand
LLC (“Moving Defendants”) filed this Motion for
Summary Judgment. 
 
            On
September 25, 2024, the court granted Plaintiffs’ Ex Parte Application to continue
all matters. 
 
            On
December 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to Moving Defendant’s motion.
As of January 3, 2025, Moving Defendants filed a reply. 
Legal Standard
“A party may move for summary judgment
in an action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at
any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action
or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any
earlier time after the general appearance that the court, with or without
notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(1)(a).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of fact
and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. That is because of the
general principle that a party who seeks a court’s action in his favor bears
the burden of persuasion thereon. There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of
the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his
burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then
subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of
the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment
standards in Aguilar to motions for summary adjudication].)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.)
 
“The trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a fact finder to determine whose version is more
likely true. Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the
court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder, supra, at p. 840,
citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Dep’t of Transp.
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)
 
Discussion
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
At this time,
the court declines to rule on Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections found in opposition to
Moving Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (q) (i.e., “[i]n granting or denying a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only
on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of
the motion”).
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Moving Defendants’ request for judicial notice is
granted. “A court may
properly take judicial notice of its own records. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(e).)” (Garcia v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 21.)
 
CCP § 437c(h) – Continuance 
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), provides that, “[i]f it
appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court
shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained
or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).)
 
            Plaintiffs
request the court to deny Moving Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment and
grant  a continuance of its hearing pursuant
to CCP section 437c(h). (Opp., at p. 10.) Plaintiffs contend that Plaintiffs’
wedding DJ was willing to provide a declaration in support of Plaintiffs’
opposition to Moving Defendants’ motion. (Ibid.; Sylvia Tashjian Decl.,
¶ 48.) Plaintiff Sylvia Tashjian declares that the DJ’s declaration would
provide an account of the DJ being instructed to turn off the music at 10:00
p.m. and again at 11:00 p.m. which would support Plaintiffs’ opposition.
(Sylvia Tashjian Decl., ¶ 48.) Plaintiff Sylvia Tashjian further declares that
on December 6, 2024, the wedding DJ’s mother passed away and prevented
Plaintiffs from obtaining his declaration. (Ibid.) 
 
            In
light of the evidence that could be obtained through the DJ’s declaration, the
court grants Plaintiffs’ request for a continuance. Additionally, the court
notes that the words “may” and “shall” within the statute leaves little room
for doubt that such continuances are to be liberally granted. (Hamilton v.
Orange County Sheriff's Dept. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 759, 765.)
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants The Glenmark Hotel, Tania
Georges, and North Brand LLC’s Motion for
Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication, is CONTINUED to
April 3, 2025 at 9:30 a.m.