 Case Number:  23LBCV00776    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiffs, Marvin Tarver and Z.B.
a minor by and through his GAL, Nichole Goines filed this action against
Defendants, Maria DeLosAngeles and Gonzalez Macias for damages arising out of
an automobile accident.  Plaintiffs filed
their complaint on 4/27/23.  On 9/28/23,
Defendants filed a cross-complaint against Tarver, seeking indemnification,
contribution, and declaratory relief, contending he was at fault, in whole or
in part, for his own and Z.B.’s injuries.
 
On 4/05/24, Plaintiffs filed a
notice of settlement.  Because Z.B. is a
minor, on 5/08/24, Petitioner filed a petition to approve the settlement and
related papers.  The settlement provides
for the payment of $15,000 from Defendants to Tarver, of which 50% will be used
for attorneys’ fees.  The settlement also
provides for payment of $15,000 from Defendants to Z.B., and an additional
payment of $5000 from Tarver to Z.B., of which $10,000 will be used for
attorneys’ fees and $456 for satisfaction of a Medi-Cal lien.  If the settlement is approved, the remaining
$9544 will be placed in a blocked account that Z.B. can access once he turns
18.  
 
Plaintiffs’ attorney acknowledges
the somewhat odd terms of the settlement, as well as the unusual 50% attorneys’
fees, in his declaration in support of the petition.  He fully explains the unorthodox history of
the case, and fully supports the request for a 50% attorneys’ fees, which the
Court will award.
 
There is a minor problem with the
petition.  Petitioner checked box
18a(3)(b), which is the appropriate box to be checked when there is a
guardianship over the estate of the person whose settlement is at issue.  Box 18a requires the petitioner to state the
case number in which the guardianship was created.  Petitioner states it was created in this
case.  This is not correct.  While Petitioner was appointed as Z.B.’s
guardian ad litem, there is no guardianship over Z.B.’s estate.  The correct box, therefore, would have been
18b(2).  The Court asks Counsel to file a
corrected petition prior to the hearing.
 
The above problem was compounded by
the fact that Counsel reserved the petition as one for “petition to confirm
minor’s compromise with special needs trust.” 
Petitioner does not seek imposition of a special needs trust, and
therefore the Court has not had probate review this petition to ensure
compliance with the requirements of such a trust.  
 
The Court also notes that the
proposed order, ¶5, does not have a box checked.  The Court will check box 5(b) before it signs
the order.  
 
Pursuant to CRC 7.952, Plaintiff
and Petitioner must appear and testify to the satisfaction of the Court before
the Court can grant the petition.  The
Court will grant the petition if the petition is amended properly prior to the
hearing, and if it is satisfied with Plaintiff’s and Petitioner’s testimony at
the hearing.
 
The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the petition.  