 Case Number:  23LBCV00385    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Shirin El Sharkawi filed
this action against Defendants, Kelvin Anderson, Sr. and Rhone Love, as well as
Nominal Defendant, World Famous VIP Records, LLC for breach of contract and
related claims.  Plaintiff filed the
original complaint on 2/27/23.  Plaintiff
filed her First Amended Complaint on 5/17/23. 
Defendants demurred to the FAC, and the parties were ordered to meet and
confer in good faith.  The meet and
confer efforts resulted in the filing of the operative Second Amended
Complaint, which Plaintiff filed on 2/01/24.
 
The SAC includes causes of action
for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, tortious interference with
contract, fraud, unjust enrichment, negligence, conversion, conversion
(derivative), accounting, and breach of fiduciary duty.      

Demurrer to Complaint

a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §
430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the
parties met and conferred telephonically, but were unable to resolve the issues
presented by way of the demurrer.  The
Court will rule on the demurrer on its merits.
 
c.     Parties’
Positions
Defendants argue the parties’
agreement is only an unenforceable agreement to agree, and cannot be
enforced.  Additionally, they argue
Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the statute of limitations.  They contend all causes of action pled rise
and fall based on the above arguments.
 
i.             
Unenforceable Agreement to Agree 
Defendant’s primary argument on
demurrer is that the parties’ agreement is an unenforceable agreement to agree
and does not contain sufficiently definite terms to be enforced.  The parties’ agreement is attached to the SAC
as Exhibit A.  
The parties’ agreement is certainly
poorly written.  The first paragraph
states, “This agreement is between Kelvin Anderson and Shirin El
Sharkawai.  The two have agreed to enter
a partnership agreement and for World Famous VIP Records LLC where set company
will be a marketing and branding company for the trademark World Famous VIP
Records and all forms thereof.”  
 
It is not clear if the two are
forming a partnership in World Famous VIP Records LLC, or if they are forming a
different partnership with a different name. 
It is not clear what a “set company” is. 
It is not clear if they are agreeing to enter into a partnership
agreement in the future, or if the agreement itself is the partnership
agreement.
 
The Court finds the above
ambiguities, however, are subject to the parol evidence rule.  “‘Where the meaning of the words used in a
contract is disputed, the trial court must provisionally receive any proffered
extrinsic evidence which is relevant to show whether the contract is reasonably
susceptible of a particular meaning. 
[Citations.] Indeed, it is reversible error for a trial court to refuse
to consider such extrinsic evidence on the basis of the trial court's own
conclusion that the language of the contract appears to be clear and
unambiguous on its face. Even if a contract appears unambiguous on its face, a
latent ambiguity may be exposed by extrinsic evidence which reveals more than
one possible meaning to which the language of the contract is yet reasonably
susceptible.’ [Citations.]'”  (Wolf v.
Superior Court (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1343, 1350-1351.) Thus, “[a] n ambiguity
can be patent, arising from the face of the writing, or latent, based on
extrinsic evidence.”   (Solis v. Kirkwood
Resort Co. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 354, 360.) If an ambiguity exists, extrinsic
evidence may be admitted in interpreting the contract. (Claxton v. Waters
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 367, 381.) “The trial court's resolution of an ambiguity is
... a question of law if no parol evidence is admitted or if the parol evidence
is not in conflict. However, where the parol evidence is in conflict, the trial
court's resolution of that conflict is a question of fact and must be upheld if
supported by substantial evidence.”  Wolf
v. Superior Court, supra, 114 Cal .App.4th at p. 1351.) Moreover, “where the
interpretation of the contract turns upon the credibility of conflicting
extrinsic evidence which was properly admitted at trial, an appellate court
will uphold any reasonable construction of the contract by the trial court.”
(Morey v. Vannucci (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 904, 913.)
 
Defendants argue the problems with
the parties’ agreement go beyond ambiguities, such that the demurrer must be
sustained without leave to amend.  They
argue the parties’ contract makes it very clear that it is merely an “agreement
to agree,” and not an actual agreement. 
The Court disagrees.  The key
sentence, as noted above, is, “The two have agreed to enter a partnership
agreement…”  The Court finds this
sentence is ambiguous.  It could be
interpreted, as Defendants urge, to mean the parties have agreed to enter into
such agreement in the future.  It can
also, as Plaintiff urges, be interpreted to mean that the agreement itself IS
the partnership agreement.  On demurrer,
all ambiguities must be resolved in favor of the party pleading the existence
of the contract.  Rutherford Holdings,
LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 229.  
 
The Court finds the parties’
agreement is ambiguous, and therefore (a) Plaintiff’s interpretation governs on
demurrer, and (b) extrinsic evidence can be introduced to further explain the
terms of the contract.  The Court finds
Plaintiff’s SAC adequately provides such extrinsic evidence, including an email
from Anderson to Laura Golden where Anderson refers to Plaintiff as his
“partner,” and the parties’ 12/20/18 agreement with LINC Housing Corporation,
signed by Plaintiff in her capacity as President and Anderson in his capacity
as CEO.  
 
The demurrer on the ground that the
parties’ agreement, on its face, clearly and unequivocally establishes it is
only an agreement to agree is overruled.
 
ii.            
Statute of Limitations
Defendants also argue the SAC is
barred by the four-year statute of limitations. 
The parties agree that the four-year statute of limitations applies, and
also agree that the SOL begins to run when the agreement is breached.  
 
Defendants argue the SAC
establishes the agreement was breached immediately, because Plaintiff alleges
the agreement called for her to receive payments, and she admits, at ¶101, that
she was NEVER paid anything per the parties’ agreement.  Alternatively, they argue it was breached no
later than December of 2017, when Plaintiff alleges Anderson acted as sole
owner (¶57 of SAC, ¶¶65, 68 of FAC).  
 
It is not clear, from the face of
the SAC, whether the entity defendant was making any profit to which Plaintiff
was entitled, when such profit was generated, when it was due to Plaintiff and
not paid, etc.  The face of the SAC,
therefore, does not show a bar based on the failure to make payments.
 
¶57 alleges Defendant breached the
parties’ agreement by claiming exclusive ownership of VIP Records.  No date is alleged.  ¶¶65 and 68 of the FAC allege:
In December 2017, funds from the
contract with the City of Long Beach and personal funds of Ms. El Sharkawi
secured a lease-to-own building with VIP as a tenant. Both partners signed the
Agreement. Ms. El Sharkawi was tasked with licensing the building with the City
of Long Beach and opening its doors. Mr. Anderson Sr. was to move his store
from the current location and contribute to the rental, with revenues to be
used to maintain the building.
 
Mr. Anderson did not relocate his
store and continued generating revenue from his existing location, and created
challenges for Ms. El Sharkawi, who had to invest additional funds to keep the
new building operational.
 
These allegations have been omitted
from the SAC.  Pursuant to Lockton v.
O’Rourke (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1051, 1061, a plaintiff has a duty
to “plead around” admissions made in earlier iterations of her complaint; if
she fails to do so, the earlier admissions are “read into” the amended
complaint.  The above allegations appear
to make clear that there was a material breach of the parties’ agreement more
than four years prior to the filing of the complaint.  
 
Notably, Plaintiff did not address
this argument in opposition to the demurrer. 
The Court is inclined to sustain the demurrer on the ground that the
entire complaint is barred by the four-year statute of limitations.  The Court notes that this is the first ruling
on a pleading challenge, as Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint before
Defendants responded to the original complaint, and filed her SAC after meet
and confer efforts in connection with the pleading challenge to the original
complaint.  The Court will hear oral
argument, at the hearing, concerning whether to grant leave to amend or
not.  The Court will grant leave to amend
if and only if Plaintiff can plead around her earlier allegations in a manner that
saves the complaint from the statute of limitations.  
 

CMC and OSC

The parties are reminded that there
is a Case Management Conference on calendar concurrently with the hearing on
the demurrer.  Additionally, there is an
OSC re: Plaintiff’s failure to appear at the 4/03/24 hearing.  
 
The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC, OSC, and hearing on the
demurrer.  