 Case Number:  23LBCV01923    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Duane Pate filed 19LBCV00492
action against Defendant, Matrix Environmental, Inc. for damages arising out of
a failed business relationship.  On
7/31/22, the parties agreed to a settlement of the entire action.  Pursuant to the settlement, Defendant would
pay Plaintiff the total amount of $1,750,000 on dates certain.  ¶2 of the parties’ agreement sets forth the
payment schedule.  It requires a $200,000
payment by 8/15/22, another $200,000 payment within sixty days thereafter, and
$56,250 payments every month thereafter. 

 
On 10/06/23, Pate filed the instant
action against Matrix and its principal, Jason McKeever.  The action is for breach of the parties’
settlement agreement.  On 2/23/24,
Defendants filed a cross-complaint against Pate and his entity, Force
Demolition, Inc.  The crux of the
cross-complaint is that Pate and Force have breached the confidentiality
portion of the parties’ settlement agreement precluding them from discussing
the terms of the agreement with others.  
 

Application for Writ
     of Attachment


Relief Requested

Pate seeks a writ of attachment
against McKeever.  Specifically, Pate
seeks to attach McKeever’s real property, located at 6592 Horseshoe Lane in
Huntington Beach (mis-stated as Horsehoe Lane in the proposed order).  
 

Analysis

Defendant filed timely opposition
to the application on 6/04/24.  Defendant
argues the application should be denied for three reasons.  First, he contends the lawsuit against him
does not arise out of a trade, business, or profession, and therefore
attachment is not proper.  Second, he
argues Plaintiff will not succeed on the merits of the case because Plaintiff’s
own interference with the parties’ settlement agreement has caused the breach
thereof.  Finally, he argues he no longer
owns the property at issue, and therefore attachment is not proper.  
 
The Court has considered the
evidence concerning the third argument and finds it mandates denial of the
application.  Exhibit A to the opposition
shows Defendant sold the property on 2/24/24. 
An independent review of Zillow reveals that the property was, indeed,
sold on 2/24/24.  
 
Property belonging to an individual
or natural person is subject to attachment only if it falls within one of the
categories set forth in CCP §487.010. 
All other property belonging to an individual is exempt.  The application must specify the particular
property sought to be attached.  (See CCP
section §487.010.)  §487.010(c)(1)
permits attachment of “interests in real property…”  
Attachment of a property not owned
by Defendant would be improper, as the defendant no longer has an “interest” in
the property; therefore, the application is denied.  
 
The Court declines to consider the
other arguments advanced in the opposition papers, as doing so is not necessary
to a resolution of the merits of the motion. 

 

Case Management
     Conference

The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar today concurrently with the hearing on the
application.  The Court asks Counsel to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the application.