  Case Number:  22LBCV00049    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees (Escrow L.A. and Sharon L. Sharp)
a.     Parties’
Positions
On 2/23/24, Defendants, Escrow L.A.
and Sharon L. Sharp filed a motion for attorneys’ fees and costs and all
supporting papers.  They filed an amended
motion for attorneys’ fees and costs after judgment on 2/28/24; the amended
motion serves only to change the hearing date from 9/24/24 to 6/11/24.  The Court granted Defendants’ summary
judgment motion, such that they are the prevailing parties in the action.  They contend the parties’ contract includes
an attorneys’ fees provision, such that they are entitled to recover all fees
and costs expended in defending the action.
 
SEJ filed opposition to the motion
on 5/29/24.  SEJ contends the request for
fees should be denied because Escrow’s attorneys improperly engaged in block
billing.  SEJ also contends Escrow’s
attorneys’ billing is duplicative and excessive.  
 
Escrow, in reply, contends block
billing is not legally improper, and also contends the challenged bills
adequately detail the work that was performed. 
Escrow contends there was no duplicative or excessive billing, and
contends SEJ failed to meaningfully articulate how or why it believes any
billing entry was improper.  
 
b.     Block
Billing
“Block billing” is a time-keeping
method in which attorneys and legal assistants record the total daily time
spent on a case rather than itemizing the time spent on specific matters.  See Mountjoy v. Bank of America, N.A. (2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 266, 279, holding, “[b]lock billing occurs when a block of time
[is assigned] to multiple tasks rather than itemizing the time spent on each
task” (internal quotes omitted).  
 
Although “block billing” is “not
objectionable per se,” its use may obscure “the nature of some of the work
claimed …”  See Christian Research
Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1325-1326, holding, “where
vague, blockbilled time entries inflated with noncompensable hours destroy an
attorney's credibility with the trial court, we have no power on appeal to
restore it”;  see also Marriage of
Nassimi (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 667, 695, holding,“[b]lock billing presents a
particular problem for a court seeking to allocate between reimbursable and
unreimbursable fees, and trial courts are granted discretion to penalize [block
billing] when the practice prevents them from discerning which tasks are
compensable and which are not.”
 
While some of the entries in
Escrow’s billing statement are arguably “block billing,” as there are multiple
tasks listed in the same entry, SEJ failed to show that the block billing
creates any problem in this case.  All of
Escrow’s attorneys’ fees are compensable. 
This is not a situation where the Court can only award fees incurred on
some causes of action and not on others, which is the unique situation where
block billing becomes problematic. 
Because SEJ failed to show that block billing creates any hurdle to
recovery of fees in this case, the Court finds the block billing acceptable.
 
c.     Excessive
or Duplicative Fees
SEJ next argues that various fees
are excessive or duplicative.  Notably,
SEJ simply lists the fees that it believes are excessive or duplicative, but
does not meaningfully address any of the fees. 
The mere fact that two attorneys, or an attorney and a paralegal, both
worked on the same task does not render the work “duplicative.”  Indeed, it is totally normal for a paralegal
or associate to commence a task, and for a more senior attorney to complete the
task.  All fees are prima facie
reasonable per the moving papers, supporting attorney declaration, and billing
statements.  Because SEJ did not
meaningfully articulate why it believes any of the fees are excessive or
duplicative, this argument is also rejected. 
This is especially true because Escrow’s attorneys extended a courtesy
discount of $16,000, which discount is reflected in the moving papers.  
 
d.     Amount
of Fees
Escrow seeks to recover “fees and
costs” in the amount of $122,183.96. 
Notably, Escrow also filed a memorandum of costs, pursuant to which it
sought to recover its costs.  The Court
reviewed the billing statements, attached as Exhibit 3 to the moving papers,
and cannot easily determine which portion of the statements is for fees and
which portion is for costs.  The Court
will not award costs twice.  The motion
is granted in its entirety, but the parties must meet and confer to ensure that
the final judgment only reflects costs from the memorandum of costs, and to
ensure costs are not awarded twice.  The
Court asks Counsel to do so prior to the hearing, and to have an amount agreed
upon to be entered onto the judgment at the conclusion of the hearing.
 
2.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees (1801-1899 Willow LLC)
a.    
Ex Parte Application
Willow filed a motion to expunge
lis pendens and attendant request for attorneys’ fees.  The Court, on 2/28/24, advanced the hearing
on the motion to expunge from 6/11/24 to 2/28/24, heard the motion, and granted
the motion.  The Court noted, “The Court
hears oral argument as to the Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens only.  The related request for attorney fees will be
held as a noticed motion…Hearing on Motion for Attorney Fees is scheduled for
6/11/24…”
 
b.    
Parties’ Positions
Willow seeks to recover $5540 in
attorneys’ fees expended in connection with its motion to expunge lis
pendens.  SEJ opposes the request for
fees, arguing (a) the fees are duplicative with those billed in connection with
Willow’s summary adjudication motion, and (b) SEJ had substantial justification
in recording its lis pendens.
 
c.     Substantial
Justification
SEJ cites Shoker v. Superior Court
(2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 271, 281 (mis-cited as 2002) in the opposition
papers) to support its position that an award of attorneys’ fees is not
appropriate when the recording of the lis pendens was justified.  Notably, the issue in Shoker was whether a
lis pendens was properly expunged, and not whether attorneys’ fees were
properly awarded; the language re: attorneys’ fees was mere dicta.  In any event, Shoker cited CCP §405.38, which
is the statute governing an award of attorneys’ fees in connection with a
motion to expunge lis pendens.  It
provides, “The court shall direct that the party prevailing on any motion under
this chapter be awarded the reasonable attorney's fees and costs of making or
opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other party acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
attorney's fees and costs unjust.”
 
SEJ argues its recording of a lis
pendens was justified because Willow was holding $8.5 million hostage, refusing
to complete the transaction or release the funds SEJ had deposited with
escrow.  Willow, in reply, correctly
notes that the Court granted its summary adjudication motion on 2/08/24, and
establishes that it asked SEJ to withdraw the lis pendens in light of the
ruling on the MSA, but SEJ declined to do so. 
The issue, therefore, is not whether recording the lis pendens was
justified, but whether failing to withdraw it, such that a motion became
necessary, was justified.  It was not.
 
d.     Duplicative
Fees
SEJ also argues the fees charged
for the motion to expunge were redundant of the fees charged in connection with
the summary adjudication motion.  SEJ
supports this contention with its request for judicial notice of various
documents filed in connection with the summary adjudication motion and the
motion to expunge.  The Court grants the
RJN, but finds it does not establish that all work done on the two motions was
redundant.  Notably, the standard for
expunging a lis pendens is different from the standard for granting summary
adjudication.  
 
e.     Conclusion
Willow seeks to recover fees in the
objectively reasonable amount of $5540, which amount is supported by its
attorney’s declaration and billing statements. 
SEJ failed to show that maintaining the lis pendens was justified, or
that any of the fees billed were not actually or reasonably incurred.  The motion is therefore granted in full.
 
3.     Final
Note
If the parties submit on the
tentative ruling, Escrow’s motion will be granted in the full amount sought,
$122,183.96, which amount will be entered onto the judgment by
interlineation.  
 
Willow will also be awarded the
full amount sought, $5540.  Because there
is no judgment in favor of Willow, this will simply be a court order that SEJ
pay $5540.
 
Escrow is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 