 Case Number:  22LBCV00456    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs  
a.    
Request
for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff, with his moving papers, seeks judicial notice of various other
trial court lemon law decisions on motions for attorneys’ fees.  The purpose of the RJN is to show that other
trial courts have awarded similar billing rates to attorneys with similar
experience.  The RJN is granted.
 
b.    
Opposition

Any opposition to the motion was due on or before 6/29/24.  CCP §1005(b). 
Notably, on 3/14/24, the Court advanced the hearing on the motion from
8/13/24 to 6/11/24; both parties were present, through their attorneys, at the
hearing, and Plaintiff promptly gave notice of the change in hearing date the
next day.
 
c.    
Analysis
Plaintiff seeks to recover $66,478.50 in attorneys’ fees, which amount
includes $39,319 in fees incurred to date and an additional $5000 in fees that
will be incurred to review opposition, prepare a reply, and attend the hearing,
plus a 1.5 lodestar multiplier.  
 
The Court has reviewed the Declaration of Vanessa J. Oliva and finds it
makes the prima facie showing that the fees, to date, have been both actually
and reasonably incurred.  The Court
notes, however, that no opposition papers were filed, and therefore no reply
papers were necessary.  The Court reduces
the permitted charges associated with reviewing the opposition, preparing the
reply, and attending the hearing from $5000 (ten hours) to $500 (one
hour).  
 
The Court therefore finds that $39,819 in attorneys’ fees was reasonably
and necessarily incurred.
 
d.    
Multiplier
Plaintiff’s attorneys seek to recover fees at rates ranging from
$465/hour to $500/hour.  Plaintiff also
seeks to recover a multiplier of 1.5. 
Pursuant to Ketchem v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1139,
the Court should only award a multiplier based on exceptional representation if
it finds the quality of representation far exceeds the quality of
representation that would have been provided by an attorney of comparable skill
and experience billing at the hourly rate used in the lodestar
calculation.  The Court noted that,
otherwise, the fee award would result in unfair double counting and would be
unreasonable.  
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s attorney’s billing rates fairly and
adequately represent the skill and experience of the attorneys representing
Plaintiff, such that no multiplier is necessary and indeed a multiplier would
not be fair.  The Court declines to award
a multiplier.  
 
e.    
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion is granted, but no multiplier is awarded, and
Plaintiff is awarded $39,819 in fees.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   