 Case Number:  22LBCV00806    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.    
Complaint
Plaintiffs, Julee Casanova, by and through her successor-in-interest,
Robin Kimery, and Robin Kimery in her individual capacity filed this
action against numerous defendants for damages arising out of an assault and
battery that ultimately led to the death of Casanova.  Plaintiffs allege Defendant, First to Serve,
is a non-profit participant in the City’s Homekey program.  Plaintiffs allege First to Serve, through its
case manager, Keely Coleman, obtained housing for Plaintiff at a Motel 6 managed
by Defendant, Mario Cordova.  Plaintiffs
allege Gregory Brown was another resident at the motel, and that he murdered
Decedent on the premises.  Plaintiff
alleges Demurring Defendant, County of Los Angeles, owned, managed, regulated,
and operated LAHSA, DHS, and Star Clinic, and also owns, manages, and maintains
the property where the assault occurred. 

2.    
2/27/24 Hearing on Demurrer
On 2/27/24, the Court sustained the
County’s demurrer without leave to amend. 
It held that Plaintiffs failed to state a cause of action pursuant to Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27
Cal.4th 1112 and Gov Code §845. 
The Court incorporates its 2/27/24 order into this order in its entirety
by reference.
 
3.    
Motion for Reconsideration
On 3/07/24, Plaintiffs filed this motion for reconsideration.  The motion is summarily denied for two
reasons.
 
a.     Entry of Judgment
First, on the same day that Plaintiffs filed their motion, the Court
entered judgment in favor of the County. 
Pursuant to Branner v. Regents of University of California (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 1043, 1048, the Court loses jurisdiction to rule on a
motion for reconsideration once judgment is entered.  This is true even if the motion is filed
prior to entry of judgment.  In this
case, the Court entered judgment on 3/07/24, the same day Plaintiffs filed
their motion for reconsideration.  Thus,
the Court lacks jurisdiction to grant the motion.  
 
b.     New or Different Facts, Circumstances, or Law
Second, as the County correctly notes in opposition to the motion, the
motion does not provide any “new or different facts, circumstances, or law”
that were not, or could not have been, presented at the 2/27/24 hearing.  
 
The legislative intent was to restrict motions for reconsideration to
circumstances where a party offers the court some fact or circumstance not
previously considered, and some valid reason for not offering it earlier.  Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
1494, 1500.  The burden under §1008 “is
comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly
discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could
not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.”  New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.
 
A party seeking reconsideration of a prior order based on “new or
different facts, circumstances or law” must provide a satisfactory explanation
for failing to present the information at the first hearing; i.e., a showing of
reasonable diligence.  Garcia v. Hejmadi
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.  A motion
for reconsideration is properly denied where based on evidence that could have
been presented in connection with the original motion. Morris v. AGFA Corp.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460.
 
Plaintiffs base their motion on their receipt of a master agreement
between the County and Co-Defendant, First to Serve.  As Defendant correctly notes in opposition to
the motion, it produced the contract before Plaintiffs’ opposition to the
demurrer was due, and Plaintiffs addressed the contract with the Court during
the hearing on the demurrer.  The
contract, therefore, is not “new or different,” and cannot support
reconsideration, even if the motion were procedurally proper in light of entry
of judgment.  For this additional reason,
the motion is denied.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   