  Case Number:  21STCV42411    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  52 Plaintiffs Gerald Meehan and Lois
Meehan’s Motion to Compel Defendant Cliffside Malibu 1 to Provide Answers to
Special Interrogatories
            Plaintiffs
Gerald Meehan and Lois Meehan move to compel defendant Cliffside Malibu 1
to respond to special interrogatories, set one.
Meet and Confer
            Defendant
argues plaintiffs did not meet and confer in good faith before filing this
motion.  Doing so is not required when moving
to compel responses as opposed to moving to compel further responses.  (Compare CCP §§ 2030.290 with
2030.300(b)(1).)
Order Compelling Responses
            Plaintiffs
are entitled to an order compelling defendant to serve verified responses
without objections.  When the responding
party fails to timely respond to interrogatories, the propounding party may
move for an order compelling responses. 
(CCP § 2030.290(b).)  Failing to
timely respond waives any objections. 
(CCP § 2030.290(a).)
            Defendant
concedes that it failed to timely respond. 
It served responses on September 7, a week after plaintiffs filed this
motion.  (Varozian Decl., ¶ 5.)  Defendant therefore waived its
objections.  Defendant’s response,
however, includes general objections and objections to special interrogatories
Nos. 1-4.  (Supp. S. Meehan Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. 4.)  The court will therefore order
defendant to serve responses without objections.  
Sanctions
Plaintiffs
move for $3,085 in sanctions against defendant Cliffside Malibu 1 and
defendant’s counsel, David P. Beitchman and Rouben Varozian.  “The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though … the requested discovery was
provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)  
Plaintiffs are entitled to monetary sanctions.  “The court shall impose a monetary sanction …
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP § 2030.290(c).)  Defendant unsuccessfully opposed this motion.  Defendant is also subject to sanctions for
making “an unmeritorious objection to discovery.”  (CCP § 2023.010(e).)
Defendant did not act with substantial
justification.  Sanctions are just under
the circumstances.  Defendant argues this
motion was unnecessary and premature.  On
August 21, plaintiffs sent defendant an email stating they needed responses
within two days or they would file a motion to compel.  (S. Meehan Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 3.)  Plaintiffs waited 10 days for a response
before filing this motion on August 31. 
Defendant’s delay necessitated this motion.  
Disposition
            Plaintiffs Gerald Meehan
and Lois Meehan’s motion to compel defendant
Cliffside Malibu 1 to respond to special interrogatories, set one, is granted.  Defendant Cliffside Malibu 1 is ordered
to serve responses without objections to special interrogatories, set one,
within 15 days.
Defendant Cliffside Malibu 1 and its counsel David
P. Beitchman and Rouben Varozian are ordered to pay plaintiffs $3,085 in
sanctions within 15 days.  Defendant and
its counsel are jointly and severally
liable for the sanctions.