 Case Number:  22STCV04568    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Federico Hernandez’s Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendant C.R.
Laurence Co., Inc. to Request for Production, Set One 
Plaintiff
Federico Hernandez moves to compel defendant C.R. Laurence Co., Inc. to serve
further responses to requests for production Nos. 1-7, 12-15, 17-24, 26-33,
35-53, 55-65, and 68.
Nos.
1-5, 12-15, 17-24, 26-33, 35-37, 39-53, 55, 59-65, 68
            For these requests, plaintiff moves
to compel further responses on the basis that defendant produced documents that
were not “identified with the specific request number to which the documents
respond.”  (CCP § 2031.280(a).)  Defendant did that.  On May 1, 2023, defendant served a notice of
production including a table identifying which documents respond to which
requests for production.  (Reyes Decl.,
Ex. 2.)  Unlike the written responses to
requests for production (CCP §§ 2031.210(a)(1)-(3), 2031.220-2031.250), the
Civil Discovery Act does not require a specific format for identifying
documents by request number.  Section
2031.280 concerns the manner of producing documents, not for responding in
writing to the requests for production. 
Defendant’s notice of production adequately identifies the documents produced
by request number.  
Nos.
6, 7, and 38
Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to request Nos. 6, 7, and 38 because
defendant objected based on attorney-client privilege and work product but did
not provide a privilege log.  When a
party objects, it must “[i]dentify with particularity any document, tangible
thing, land, or electronically stored information falling within any category
of item in the demand to which an objection is being made.”  (CCP § 2031.240(b)(1).)  If the responding party objects based on
privilege or attorney work product, the response must also “provide sufficient
factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits of” these
objections, “including, if necessary, a privilege log.”  (CCP § 2031.240(c)(1).)  Defendant objected to these requests but did
not identify any documents being withheld and did not provide a privilege log.  
Defendant argues the motion is moot as to
these requests because, on September 8, it agreed to serve a privilege log for
No. 38 by September 22.  (Reyes Decl., ¶
10.)  Nothing in the record shows
defendant has served a privilege log. 
And defendant did not agree to provide a privilege log for Nos. 6 and 7
though their latest supplemental responses to those requests include objections
based on attorney-client privilege and work product.  (Reyes Decl., Ex. 4.)  If defendant is not withholding any documents
pursuant to those objections, objecting is improper.  Plaintiff is entitled to a verified response
either stating defendant will produce all responsive documents in its
possession, custody, or control or identifying the documents withheld and
providing factual information to permit plaintiff to evaluate the objections.
Nos. 56-58: Depositions in other cases
            Request
Nos. 56-58 ask for “[a]ny and all depositions that you have regarding” 56: 
“any claims of physical disability discrimination,” “allegations of violations
of FMLA,” and “allegations of violations of CFRA” against defendant.  Defendant objected and did not agree to
produce any documents.  
            These
requests are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  They are not limited in time
or scope.  Though Nos. 57 and 58 concern
California statutes and therefore are geographically limited to California, No.
56 has no geographic limit because it concerns “claims of physical disability
discrimination.”  Transcripts of
depositions in cases not involving any of the decisionmakers who allegedly
discriminated or retaliated against plaintiff have no bearing on this case.  “Any and all depositions” would also include
testimony about a broad range of immaterial and private subjects such as
employees’ medical conditions and damages.
            Defendant’s
objections to Nos. 56-58 are sustained.
No. 70: Organizational chart
            This
request asks for “[t]he organizational charts for C.R. LAURENCE CO. A CRH
COMPANY at the time of PLAINTIFF’s termination to the present.”  Defendant objected and did not agree to produce
any documents.  
            Defendant argues plaintiff failed to adequately meet and
confer about this request.  Plaintiff’s
meet and confer correspondence included No. 70 in a group of numerous requests
for which plaintiff argued defendant made “boilerplate objections.”  (Reyes Decl., Ex. 1.)  In response, defendant argued it already
addressed any deficiency in all the requests for production via its further
responses on May 18.  (Id., Ex. 2.)  But defendant did not supplement its response
to No. 70.  (Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement, p. 142.)  Only now does
defendant raise substantive arguments in support of some of its objections to
this request, which are identical to objections to requests for which it makes
no such arguments.  (E.g., Nos. 1-5, 12-15.)  In the context of this dispute about dozens
of requests, plaintiff made an adequate effort to meet and confer.
            Plaintiff shows good cause to discover these
documents.  Plaintiff named several
related entities as defendants.  This
request is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of evidence relevant
to the issue of joint employment or which defendants could otherwise be liable
for alleged discrimination.  
            Defendant also argues “the information sought is highly
confidential and intrudes on Defendant’s privacy rights.”  (Opp. Separate Statement, p. 6.)  Defendant offers no evidence to support that
assertion.  “The party asserting a
privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a
threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  If the objecting party shows all three
elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against the right
to privacy.  (Ibid.)  Assuming defendant shows the first two
elements, any intrusion is minimal. 
Defendant’s
reliance on Ameri-Medical Corp. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1260, 1287-1288 is misplaced. 
Plaintiff does not seek “disclosure of financial information” (id. at p. 1287) or “unfettered
access to books and records regarding the [defendant’s] overall business
operation” (id. at p. 1288). 
Organizational charts merely provide basic information about the
business.  
Defendant’s
objections to request No. 70 are overruled.
Sanctions
            In
its opposition, defendant seeks $2,588.25 in sanctions against plaintiff and
his counsel.  No sanctions are
warranted.  Though not fully successful, this
motion achieved meaningful results. 
Plaintiff acted with substantial justification in bringing this motion.
Disposition
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel defendant C.R. Laurence Co., Inc. to serve further responses
to requests for production is granted as to request Nos. 6, 7, 38, and
70.
Defendant
C.R. Laurence Co., Inc. is ordered to serve further verified responses
to request Nos. 6, 7, and 38, including a privilege log for all documents
withheld, within 20 days.  Defendant C.R.
Laurence Co., Inc. is ordered to serve a further verified response
without objections to request No. 70 within 20 days.  Defendant shall produce all additional
responsive documents concurrently with its written responses.  