  Case Number:  19PSCV00687    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  K Meritage Homes of
California, Inc. v. Boudreau Pipeline Corporation (19PSCV00687; R/T Case
No. 18PSCV00026)
1.         Boudreau
Pipeline Corporation’s and Defendant Alan Boudreau’s Joint Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.
2.         Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant
John Lisee Pumps, Inc.’s and Cross-Defendant Pentair Flow Technologies, LLC’s
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.
Background[1]  
Case No. 18PSCV00026
Plaintiff Meritage Homes of California, Inc. (“Meritage”) alleges as
follows: Michael Barker International Inc. fka RBF Consulting (“MBI”) failed to
properly perform engineering services in connection with the development of the
Creekside residential subdivision in La Verne, California (“Creekside”).
On October 12, 2018, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint, asserting
causes of action against MBI and Does 1-200 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Contract
2.                 
Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
3.                 
Gross
Negligence
On November 13, 2018, MBI filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of
action against Roes 1-100 for:
1.                 
Equitable
Indemnity 
2.                 
Comparative
Apportionment of Fault
3.                 
Declaratory
Relief
On April 25, 2022,
the court related this instant case to Case No. 19PSCV00687; this instant case
was deemed to be the lead case.
On August 3, 2023,
Meritage filed a conditional “Notice of Settlement of Entire Case.”
On October 12, 2023,
Meritage filed a request for dismissal of the entire action, with prejudice.
Case No.
19PSCV00687
Meritage alleges as
follows:
Boudreau Pipeline Corporation (“BPC”)
constructed and installed a sewer lift station and associated improvements
(“the System”) in connection with and to service Creekside. The System’s pumps
were manufactured with undersized impeller blades, which caused issues with the
flow and pressure. BPC failed to promptly remedy the operational and
performance issues with the System, which resulted in the City of La Verne
(“City”) imposing a sales and building moratorium and ultimately resulted in
the City’s revocation of permits.
On October 22, 2019,
BPC filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against John Lisee
Pumps (“Lisee”), Meritage and Roes 1-125 for:
1.                 
Express
Contractual Indemnity
2.                 
Implied
Indemnity
3.                 
Total
Equitable Indemnity
4.                 
Contribution
5.                 
Declaratory
Relief: Duty to Indemnify
6.                 
Declaratory
Relief: Duty to Defend
7.                 
Breach
of Contract
8.                 
Breach
of Express Warranties
9.                 
Breach
of Implied Warranties
10.             
Negligence
11.             
Quantum
Meruit 
On December 9, 2019, BPC dismissed its 1st-10th
causes of action against Meritage, with prejudice.
On December 10, 2019, Lisee filed a
cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Moes 1-20 for:
1.                 
Indemnity
2.                 
Contribution
3.                 
Apportionment

4.                 
Declaratory
Relief
On February 24, 2020, BPC filed an “Amendment
to [Cross-]Complaint,” wherein Pentair was substituted in lieu of Roe 101. On
April 27, 2020, Meritage filed an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein MBI was
named in lieu of Doe 1.
On June 23, 2020, MBI filed a
cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Roes 1-100 for:
1.                 
Equitable
Indemnity
2.                 
Comparative
Apportionment of Fault
3.                 
Declaratory
Relief
On February 17, 2021, MBI filed an “Amendment
to [Cross-]Complaint,” wherein BPC was named in lieu of Roe 1, Lisee was named
in lieu of Roe 2 and Pentair Flow Technologies, LLC was named in lieu of Roe 3.
On October 22, 2021, Meritage filed an
“Amendment to Complaint,” wherein Lisee was named in lieu of Doe 151.
On February 10, 2021, BPC filed an “Amendment
to [Cross-]Complaint,” wherein MBI was named in lieu of Roe 76.
On April 25, 2022, the court related this
instant case to Case No. 18PSCV00026; Case No. 18PSCV00026 was deemed to be the
lead case.
On February 1, 2023,
Meritage filed an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein
Alan Boudreau (“Boudreau”) was named in lieu of Doe 201.

On May 6, 2024,
Meritage filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”), asserting causes of action
against BPC, Lisee, MBI and Does 1-300 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Contract
2.                 
Express
Indemnity
3.                 
Negligence
4.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Indemnify
5.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
6.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
7.                 
Breach
of Contract—Third Party Beneficiary
8.                 
Strict
Products Liability
9.                 
Negligence
10.             
Breach
of Contract
11.             
Breach
of Implied Covenants of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
12.             
Express
Indemnity
13.             
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Indemnify
14.             
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
15.             
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
16.             
Fraudulent
Concealment 
17.             
Negligent
Misrepresentation
18.             
Negligence
The Final Status Conference is set for December 17, 2024. Trial is set
for January 14, 2025.
1.         Boudreau Motion for
Good Faith Settlement
Legal Standard
“Any party to an action in which it is alleged that two or
more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligators, upon giving notice in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of
Section 1005 . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)
“A determination by the court that the settlement was made
in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any
further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(c).)
“[T]he intent and policies underlying
section 877.6 require that a number of factors be taken into account including
a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling
defendants.  Finally, practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.” (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) Additionally, “the trial court’s good faith
determination must take into account the settling tortfeasor’s potential
liability for indemnity to a cotortfeasor, as well as the settling tortfeasor’s
potential liability to the plaintiff.” (Far
West Financial Corp. v. D&S Co. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 796, 816, fn. 16.) “If
section 877.6 is to serve the ends of justice, it must prevent a party from
purchasing protection from its indemnification obligation at bargain-basement
prices.” (Long Beach Memorial Medical
Center v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 865, 876.)
The moving party’s initial evidentiary burden depends on
whether the good faith of the settlement is being contested. If the nonsettling
defendants do not oppose the motion on the good faith issue, a “barebones”
motion which sets forth the grounds of good faith, accompanied by a declaration
which sets forth a brief background of the case, is sufficient. (City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)
When a motion for determination of good faith settlement is
contested, however, the moving party must make a more specific showing under
the Tech-Bilt factors. (Id. at 1261-62.) Such
a showing may be made either in the original moving papers or in
counter-declarations filed after the nonsettling defendants have filed an
opposition challenging good faith of the settlement. (Id. at 1262.) Where good faith is contested, the showing requires
competent evidence in support of “good faith.” (Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834.)
“Once there is a showing made by the settlor of the
settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith shifts to the
non-settlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good faith.” (City of Grand Terrace, supra, 192
Cal.App.3d at 1262; Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)
Discussion
                       
BPC and Boudreau move the court for an
order determining that its settlement agreement with Meritage was entered into
in “good faith” pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§ 877 and 877.6, thereby
barring all claims for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault. 
Merits
Meritage
was, at all relevant times, the owner of the Creekside development located in
La Verne, California. Meritage contracted with MBI to design, and with BPC to
construct and install, a sewer lift station and associated improvements (the
“System”) for Creekside. (TAC, ¶¶ 13 and 17). BPC, in turn, contracted with Lisee
to manufacture and supply the lift station pumps that would be incorporated by
BPC into the completed System. (Id., ¶ 14). Lisee, in turn, sourced the pumps from
Pentair. (Id., ¶ 18). BPC completed the construction and
installation of the System in or about December 2016. (Id., ¶ 19).
Meritage alleges that the System “manifested performance issues shortly
after it began operating, including reduced flow and pressure rates within the
force main” and that, due to these issued and related-odor complaints from residents
of the neighboring Canterwood development, it undertook an investigation of the
System. (Id.) During this time, the City of La Verne imposed a
moratorium on Meritage’s development efforts for Creekside until Meritage
identified and resolved the performance and odor-related issues, such that
Meritage was unable to close escrow on the sale of home up to and through June
2019. (Id., ¶ 24). Meritage was required to manually pump sewer waste
from the System while the investigation was pending. (Id.). Meritage
returned both pumps to be repaired, but this failed to remedy the performance
issues. (Id., ¶ 25).
In or about December 2017,
Meritage decided to purchase new pumps in an attempt to remedy the performance
and related-odor issues. (Id.). When the new pumps arrived, Meritage
discovered that the impeller blades for the original pumps were incorrect. (Id.,
¶ 26). The new replacement pumps were installed in January 2018; although the
new pumps remedied the performance issues regarding volume and pressure, the
odor complaints persisted. (Id., ¶ 27). On February 20, 2018, the City
Council voted to immediately revoke Meritage's electrical and sewer permits
pertaining to the System (“the System Permits”). (Id., ¶ 28). The City
Council’s decision required Meritage to deactivate the System and manually pump
waste from the Creekside development. (Id., ¶ 29). On February 22, 2018
Meritage instituted case styled Meritage Homes of California, Inc. v. City
of La Verne, case number BS172622 (“the City of La Verne action”),
which was “a direct consequence of the City’s administrative actions against
Meritage in revoking the System Permits.” (Id., ¶ 30). Meritage
litigated the City of La Verne action for over a year, during which time
it incurred over $850,000.00 in costs and attorney fees. (Id., ¶¶
30-31). Meritage resolved the City of La Verne action by agreeing to an
alternative re-route of the System, which cost Meritage over $1,749,000.00. (Id.,
¶ 31). 
Further, on February 5, 2019,
Walid Amiri (“Amiri”) filed an action styled Amiri v. Meritage Homes of
California, Inc., case number 19STCV03680 ("the Amiri action.")
against Meritage for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (3) False Promise, (4) Intentional Misrepresentation and (5) Negligence.
(Id., ¶ 32). Meritage alleges that the Amiri action was “a direct
consequence of the Moratorium imposed by the City, which is a direct result of
the performance and related-odor issues caused by Defendants’ work on the lift
station” and that it incurred “over six figures in costs and attorney fees” in
defending against that action. (Id.).[2] 
On July 30, 2019, Meritage filed its
complaint in the instant action, asserting causes of action for (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Express Indemnity; (3) Negligence; (4) Declaratory
Relief re: Duty to Indemnify; (5) Declaratory Relief re: Duty to Defend; (6)
Declaratory Relief re: Duty to Defend; (7) Breach of Contract – Third Party
Beneficiary; (8) Strict Products Liability; (9) Negligence; (10) Breach of
Contract – Design Contract; (11) Breach of Implied Covenants of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing; (12) Express Indemnity; (13) Declaratory Relief re: Duty to
Indemnify; (14) Declaratory Relief re: Duty to Defend; and (15) Declaratory
Relief re: Duty to Defend; the first seven causes of action were asserted
against BPC. On April 27, 2020, Meritage filed an “Amendment to Complaint,”
wherein MBI was substituted in as Doe 101. On October 22, 2021, Meritage filed an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein
Lisee was named in lieu of Doe 151.
On August 10, 2022, Meritage
filed a First Amended Complaint, adding two additional causes of action against
BPC (and Lisee) for (16) Fraudulent Concealment and (17) Negligent
Misrepresentation and alter ego allegations against Boudreau. On
December 7, 2022, Meritage filed a Second Amended Complaint, adding additional
alter ego allegations against Boudreau. On February 1, 2023, Meritage filed
another “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein Boudreau was substituted in as Doe
201. On May 6, 2024, Meritage filed a Third Amended Complaint, adding in an
eighteenth cause of action for Negligence against MBI.
Meritage contends that Boudreau
failed to catch Lisee’s error when Lisee ordered pumps with standard impellers,
rather than non-standard impellers that the System required. (TAC, ¶¶ 17 and 18).
It further contends that Boudreau and Lisee became aware of this error in early
2017 but failed to communicate this discovery to Meritage. (Id., ¶¶ 20
and 21). 
On October 22, 2019, BPC filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Lisee and
Meritage for (1) Express Contractual Indemnity, (2) Implied Indemnity, (3) Total
Equitable Indemnity, (4) Contribution, (5) Declaratory Relief: Duty to
Indemnify, (6) Declaratory Relief: Duty to Defend, (7) Breach of Contract, (8) Breach
of Express Warranties, (9) Breach of Implied Warranties, (10) Negligence and
(11) Quantum Meruit. On December 9, 2019, BPC dismissed its first through tenth
causes of action against Meritage, with prejudice. On February 24, 2020, BPC
filed an “Amendment to [Cross-]Complaint,” wherein Pentair was substituted in
lieu of Roe 101. On February 10, 2021, BPC filed an “Amendment to
[Cross-]Complaint,” wherein MBI was named in lieu of Roe 76.
On December 10,
2019, Lisee filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Moes
1-20 for (1) Indemnity, (2) Contribution, (3) Apportionment and (4) Declaratory
Relief.
On June 23, 2020,
MBI filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Roes 1-100 for
(1) Equitable Indemnity, (2) Comparative Apportionment of Fault and (3) Declaratory
Relief. On February 17, 2021, MBI filed an “Amendment to [Cross-]Complaint,”
wherein BPC was named in lieu of Roe 1, Lisee was named in lieu of Roe 2 and
Pentair Flow Technologies, LLC was named in lieu of Roe 3.
BPC and Boudreau have
now agreed to pay Meritage $1,500,000.00 in return for a mutual release. (Heinze Decl., ¶ 6). BPC and Boudreau
represent that the settlement was facilitated by neutral mediator Gerald
Kurland (“Kurland”) on April 12, 2024. (Id., ¶ 4). After a review of the
filings, the motion is granted on the basis that MBI has not met its burden of
showing that the settlement was not made in good faith. 
1.                 
Proportionate
Liability 
MBI argues that BPC
and Boudreau offer no evidence to show that the settlement is proportionate to
their liability. Not so. BPC and Boudreau submit that the City revoked
Meritage’s permits because the odors did not end after the pumps were replaced
in January 2018, which negates Meritage’s causation claim. Resolution No. 18-07,
the resolution adopted February 20, 2018 which stripped Meritage of its Building
and Safety Electrical permit no. 5113 and Public Works Encroachment Permit
15-3520, states as follows: “WHEREAS, the uncertified, malfunctioning pumps
were replaced and the smell continues to exist.” (Heinze Decl., ¶ 11, Exh. A). The
City’s Agenda Report dated February 20, 2018 (“Agenda Report”) from Senior
Planner Candice Bowcock and City Engineer Dominic Milano (“Milano”) recommended
that the City Council adopt Resolution No. 18-07 and explained, in relevant
part, that:
The new pumps were installed on January 3, 2018 and turned on in the 
afternoon. . . On January 8th, the well was pumped clean, flushed with
fresh 
water, and the pumps were turned on, allowing the sewage from the 8 homes

to enter the well. Both the well and the outflow into the Canterwood
sewer 
were monitored by City Staff and Meritage and the pumps were/are
preforming 
[sic] as they were originally intended to, but the order remained. . .
 
Since the new certified pumps have been installed and are operating, the
City 
has reviewed over 100 complaints regarding sewage odors inside and
outside 
residents’ homes along Canterwood Road.
 
At the Council meeting held on January 15, 2018 there were numerous
residents 
that came from Canterwood Road. About 10 of them spoke all with a clear 
message that they feel the City has given Meritage enough time to figure
out the 
problem and nothing has changed. . .
 
On February 8, 2018 City staff and the City Attorney had a conference
call with 
Meritage and their legal representatives to discuss any progress that had
been 
made. Staff reminded them that the odor still exists and shared the log
of odor 
complaints with them. . . 
 
Meritage has hired a number of consultants to identify the source of the
odor 
and develop modifications to the sewer system and to eliminate the smell.
At 
the time of developing the report, the ‘fix’ has not been developed
and/or
implemented. . . 
 
(Id., ¶ 12,
Exh. B.) 
Milano confirmed
under oath that fixing the impeller issue did not address the odor issue
complained of by Canterwood residents:
            Q.        After
replacement of the pumps, did the system function as designed?
 
A.               
The
system volume functioned as designed. The wet well was going 
down. . . Once the pumps were changed out—and I think it was 
December—and I think reinstalled—I can tell you the exact date it was 
reinstalled. It was January 3rd, 2018. That’s my birthday. That’s why I 
remember that number. But up until that point, I didn’t understand it was
the 
impellers. But once the impellers were changed, the pumps were operating,
the 
smell still continued up on Canterwood, but the wet well was operating as
it 
should. The volume was going down efficiently.
 
(Id., ¶ 13, Exh.
C, 76:23-77:17). 
Indeed, there is a
log of complaints from the Canterwood homeowners by date and time which apparently
reflects[3]
that over a hundred complaints were made between the January 3, 2018 and
February 14, 2018 time frame, which again was the month after the new pumps
were installed and they were operating as intended. (Id., ¶ 14, Exh. D.)
Boudreau and BPC also
submit that, to the extent the System produced odors, this is attributable to a
design issue rather than any issue with the pumps. The log of complaints,
Agenda Report and Resolution No. 18-07 all suggest that the odors generated by
the System were a byproduct of the System’s design and not of the undersized
impeller, since the odor complaints continued after the original pumps were
replaced. Further, after the January 15, 2018 City Council meeting, Meritage
retained Exponent, Inc. (“Exponent”), an engineering and scientific firm, to
investigate the new odor complaints. (Id., ¶¶ 13 and 15, Exhs. C and E).
Exponent believed that the odors were the byproduct of hydrogen sulfide (“H2S”)
and that introducing calcium nitrate into the System would “effectively and
immediately remediate the odors.” (Id., ¶ 15, Exh. E, ¶¶ 14 and 17). H2S
detection readings taken by Eric D. Winegar (“Winegar”) of Exponent reflect
that there continued to be hydrogen sulfide in the air after the new pumps were
installed that was only eliminated when the City shutdown the System. (Id.,
¶¶ 15 and 16, Exhs. E and F). A chart plotting sensor data from the manholes
created by Winegar also shows that H2S levels dropped to zero after the City
shut down the System. (Id., ¶ 18, Exh. H).
Meritage’s own
expert, Glenn Tofani (“Tofani”), in fact, testified that the odor issue would
have existed even if the specified impeller had been originally installed:
            Q.        Do
you believe that if the pump as designed had been installed from day
one, we would have still had an odor problem?
 
A.               
Not as
significant, but, yes, I think the available documentation indicates 
there was still likely to be an odor problem, even if the specified
impeller had 
been installed from the start.
 
(Id., ¶ 19,
Exh. I, 80:25-81:6). 
BPC and Boudreau
have further provided the court with a declaration from Jeff Lewandowski, D.
Eng., P.E. (“Lewandowski”), who opines that MBI did not meet the standard of
care in the development of the wastewater pump station and force main system on
the September 2015 plan set (Lewandowski Decl., ¶ 15) and in the development of
a field performance testing protocol for the field testing of the pumps that
was performed in April 2017 (Id., ¶ 16), that MBI’s design suffered from
numerous issues which contributed to the poor operation of the sewer lift
station and likely led to the odors (Id., ¶ 17, Exh. B, 27-35) and that
MBI’s work concerning operation of the sewer lift station and investigation of
issues concerning the same was also ineffective and deficient in various
regards, even after the original set of pumps was replaced in January 2018 (Id.,
¶ 19, Exh. B, 2-10).
The court notes,
that subsequent to the filing of the instant motion, Meritage filed a Third
Amended Complaint pursuant to party stipulation, wherein it added a Negligence
cause of action against MBI alleging, inter alia, that “MBI fail[ed] to
properly and competently investigate the odor and performance issued, and. . .
fail[ed] to provide a design or recommendation to ensure the sewer lift station
would operate without noxious odors.” (TAC, ¶ 158). Meritage, in reply, also
asserts that “BPC’s alleged fraud had zero impact on MBI’s independent
duties to Meritage” and that Meritage instead adopted BPC’s representation that
MBI had confirmed the adequacy of the pumps without question. (Meritage Reply,
4:17-18 and 4:21-23; Huguenin Decl., ¶ 7, Exh. F.).
BPC and Boudreau
further submit that, even if the incorrectly sized impellers contributed to the
failure to resolve the odor issue, Lisee alone is responsible for this mix-up.
Lisee was made aware of the impeller size needed and “had multiple
opportunities to catch its mistake.” (Motion, 11:18-19; Heinze Decl., ¶¶ 21-26,
Exhs. K-P.)
MBI, in response, asserts
that BPC and Boudreau learned in February 2017 that the System’s pumps were
installed with undersized impellers but concealed this information from
Meritage, MBI and the City, which exacerbated Meritage’s damages. MBI references
an invoice from BPC’s consultant Eagle Pump Services in support of its
assertion that BPC knew that it had installed undersized pumps in February 2017
but worked to conceal this information from Meritage and MBI. (Opp., 4:12-20).
However, while the subject invoice does state that the “[p]umps maybe
undersized,” this was in reference to the horsepower the pumps were equipped
with, not their impellers, as testified to by Doug Martin (“Martin”), BPC’s
Director of Operations:
            Q.        So
did you have a conversation with anyone at Eagle Pump where they
discussed the pump size and whether the pumps were undersized or
something 
of that nature?
            
A.    I don’t recall if it was someone from Eagle
Pumps. A lot of people said the 
pumps were undersized. Yeah. You have to remember—or I don’t know if you 
know, but the whole issue they had with the why for these pumps was
because 
of the power available to the lift station. To get a pump any bigger,
they would 
have had—Meritage would have had to run three-phase power into that site
and 
all the way down the street to the lift station. . .
 
Q.        Did you discuss the size
of the pumps with anyone at Lisee?
 
A.        Maybe early on and I was
probably educated by Tony that this is the biggest 
pump you are going to get, this single-phase.
 
Q.        And when you are saying ‘big,’ are we referencing, like, the
horsepower or 
the physical size of the pump or what is the metric?
 
A.    I am sorry. The horsepower, That is a 5
horsepower pump and you creep over 
5 horsepower, you are on the multi-phase on the electrical side.” 
 
(Heinze Reply Decl.,
¶ 13, Exh. E, 78:5-81:3.)
During this
testimony, Boudreau’s counsel clarified that Martin was referencing the
horsepower the pumps were equipped with, rather than their impellers. (Id.,
79:7-14 [“MR. HEINZE: I also want to lodge a belated objection that I think
there is kind of an equating going on between whether the pumps were undersized
or whether Mr. Wagner-Weir is talking about whether the impellers were
undersized. Those are, you know two different things. MR. WAGNER-WEIR: Right.
And right now we are just talking about the pumps, not the impellers”].).
MBI next asserts
that BPC and Boudreau discovered in March 2017 that the metal plates that came
affixed to the pumps listed the wrong impeller size and that BPC, Boudreau and
Lisee together concealed this information from Meritage and MBI. (Opp.,
4:20-5:22). Martin, however, testified right after that portion of the
testimony set forth on pages 4 and 5 of MBI’s deposition that he asked Tony
Colca (“Colca”), Lisee’s principal on the project and who had taken apart the
pumps, about the plates and was told that the pumps were equipped with the
correct impellers despite what the plates said:
            Q.  
     So what action was taken when
you saw that the impeller size of the pump
plate didn’t match the impeller size called for by the design?
 
A.    Well, I made a note of it. I probably took a
picture of it and I made a phone 
call to Tony Colca.
 
            Q.  
     And do you recall when you
made that phone call?
 
            A. 
      I do not.
 
            Q.  
     Was that phone call in early
2017?
 
            A.  
     Oh, absolutely. 
 
            Q.  
     Would you say it was in March
of 2017?
 
            A.  
     Probably.
 
            Q.  
     So you make this phone call to
Mr. Colca and what was the subject matter of 
the call?
 
A.          The impeller size.
 
Q.        And specifically what about the impeller size?
 
A.        Specifically that the nameplate said one thing and everybody
else was telling 
me it was a different impeller and I was assured, reassured and reassured
on top 
of being reassured that it was the correct impeller size and those pumps,
if they 
went out for repair, they went from the lift station to John Lisee Pumps.
If they 
went anywhere else after John Lisee Pumps, they went back to wherever
they were 
built. . .
 
Q.        So then it was your understanding that the pump plates were
incorrect?
 
A.        That’s what I was led to believe, because I was told they were
the right 
impellers and those guys would know because they had the pumps apart in
their 
shop. I have never seen them broken apart, so I couldn’t tell you. . .” 
 
(Heinze Reply Decl.,
¶ 13, Exh. E, 63:9-64:7).
 
BPC and Boudreau
contend that Meritage’s fraud claims against them are nonsensical because the
fact that neither BPC/Boudreau nor Lisee took any action to have the right
impellers switched in during the summer of 2017, when one of the pumps was
given to Lisee to send back to Pentair for service and refurbishment (and when
they claim they could have made the switch without Meritage or MBI ever
knowing), shows that neither of them knew about the wrong impellers at that
time. (Heinze Decl., ¶ 26, Exh. P). BPC and Boudreau also point out that they 
were incurring
unpaid monthly charges of tens of thousands of dollars during this time period,
ultimately totaling $271,644.00, which Meritage did not pay for. (Heinze Reply
Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. B.) 
2.                 
Plaintiff’s
Claimed Damages 
MBI also complains
that BPC and Boudreau “fail[] to roughly approximate Plaintiff’s total
recovery.” (Opp., 9:1). Again, MBI is wrong. BPC and Boudreau point out that
Meritage claimed approximately $4.5 million in total damages during the March
15, 2024 mediation of this matter, itemized as follows: (1) $1,749,981.42 in
costs for construction of re-route of the sewer systems, (2) approximately
$827,401.54 in attorneys’ fees for actions it initiated against the City, (3)
approximately $236,367.94 in attorneys’ fees defending the Amiri action,
(4) approximately $712,002.64 in attorneys’ fees in this action and an (5)
estimated $933,577.00 in delay damages related to operation costs incurred by
Meritage from January 2018 to March 2021 it claims to have incurred as a result
of the City’s moratorium on new home sales and it losing its utility permits.
(Motion, 12:6-13; Heinze Decl., ¶ 27).
BPC and Boudreau
contend that at least $2 million of the above total, including the attorneys’
fees from the Amiri action and Meritage’s attorneys’ fees in its
litigation against the City and Meritage’s claimed delay damages, is “heavily
disputed.” (Motion, 13:10) MBI does not dispute BPC and Boudreau’s summary of the
Amiri action as follows: “Mr. Amiri alleged that he bought a home
at Creekside and was told by Meritage that his purchase would be completed by
November 2017. Purportedly relying on these representations, Mr. Amiri alleged
he sold his prior home at less than market value to obtain financing. He
further alleged that Meritage knew of the problems with the sewage system, that
it would be unable to procure the required permits, that it could not deliver
the home by the promised date, and failed to disclose these material facts to
Mr. Amiri.” (Motion, 3:27-4:5). BPC and Boudreau assert that Meritage’s damages
in the form of attorneys’ fees in Amiri cannot be recovered against BPC
and Boudreau on the basis of Civil Code § 2782 (i.e., “[P]rovisions, clauses, covenants,
or agreements contained in, collateral to, or affecting any construction
contract and that purport to indemnify the promisee against liability for
damages for death or bodily injury to persons, injury to property, or any other
loss, damage or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct
of the promisee or the promisee's agents, servants, or independent contractors
who are directly responsible to the promisee, or for defects in design
furnished by those persons, are against public policy and are void and
unenforceable. . .”) and Paragraph 8.4 of the Master Land Development Agreement
 (“MLDA”) (TAC, Exh. A; Heinze Reply
Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. A) (defining “Non-Indemnified Matter” as “any portion . . . of
any Claim against an Indemnitee to the extent the Claim . . . is determined . .
. to have been caused by the negligent act of the Indemnitee sought to be
indemnified”). MBI, in turn, does not address Amiri whatsoever.
BPC and Boudreau dispute that
they would not be liable for Meritage’s attorneys’ fees in its litigation
against the City since Meritage was the party who initiated and asserted those
claims against third parties and the MLDA only covers claims initiated by third
parties against Meritage (defining “Claim” as . . . any action,
administrative action, legal proceeding, claim, demand, obligation and cause of
action of every kind and character made or asserted against an Indemnitee,
whether based on tort, contract or equitable principles, and whether asserted
by one or more owners of any residence constructed on a Project, any applicable
associations or any other person or entity. . .”). (See TAC, Exh. A, § 8.4.) “In interpreting
an express indemnity agreement, the courts look first to the words of the
contract to determine the intended scope of the indemnity agreement.” (Smoketree-Lake
Murray, Ltd. v. Mills Concrete Construction Co. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1724,
1737.) Again, MBI does not challenge this argument and evidence.
BPC and Boudreau then submit that
Meritage’s purported “delay” damages of $933,577 for charges it incurred after
2017 by which time Meritage claims all Creekside homes should have been sold
was offset entirely (and then some) by the post-2017 real estate boom, which
helped Meritage achieve a surplus in excess of $1.4 million on those homes when
compared to the homes it sold prior to 2018. (Heinze Decl., ¶ 28, Exh. Q). MBI
does not challenge this argument and evidence.
Finally, BPC points out that it has
a quantum meruit claim against Meritage in the amount of $271,644 for pumping
costs it incurred in 2017, which would offset Meritage’s potential recovery
against it.  (Heinze Reply Decl., ¶ 6,
Exh. B). Again, MBI does not challenge this argument and evidence.
BPC and Boudreau, then, have
provided argument and evidence that Meritage’s recoverable damages is $2.25
million and that they are paying roughly 66% of Meritage’s estimated
recoverable damages to settle. This has not been meaningfully rebutted by MBI. 
3.                 
Financial
Information
MBI asserts that BPC “refuses to disclose financial
conditions and insurance limits,” that “Boudreau’s secrecy regarding its
finances and insurance has been a recurring theme throughout this litigation”
and that BPC failed to answer any written discovery from Meritage regarding its
financials and insurance. (Opp., 11:2, 11:19-20 and 11:22-23). At the outset, a
disproportionately low settlement is a threshold requirement for the discovery
of the financial condition of a settling tortfeasor (L.C. Rudd & Son, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 742, 749-750). There does not
appear to be any “disproportionately low settlement” here. At any rate, MBI’s foregoing
assertions ignore the fact that on October 22, 2021 BPC produced copies of
every insurance policy issued to BPC from 2015-2021 in response to Meritage’s
notice of deposition of BPC’s person most qualified and request for production
of documents. (Heinze Reply Decl., ¶¶ 9 and 10, Exhs. C and D).
Additionally, on May 8, 2024 Meritage’s counsel Edward R. Huguenin (“Huguenin”) filed a declaration in support
of the instant motion, advising therein that BPC’s insurance carrier,
Travelers, “vigorously contests coverage” as to both defense and indemnity and
that two separate actions have been filed, at the federal and state level,
regarding coverage: Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut v. Boudreau
Pipeline Corporation, Case No. 2:21-cv-07380-RGK-AS and Travelers
Indemnity Company of Connecticut v. Boudreau Pipeline Corporation, Case No.
22PSCV00910. (Huguenin Decl., ¶ 3). Huguenin represents that, “[a]s evidence of
the extent of the dispute between Boudreau and Travelers and their respective
desire to avoid risk on both sides, and in support of the settlement reached,
those parties are each paying half of the settlement . . .” (Id., ¶ 6).
Heinze confirms that the accuracy of the information stated in Huguenin’s
declaration. (Heinze Reply Decl., ¶ 11).
4.                 
 Prejudice
to MBI
MBI complains that, if the instant motion is granted, its
cross-complaint against BPC would be dismissed, while BPC would be permitted to
pursue its crossclaims for contribution and equitable indemnity against MBI.
(Opp., 12:20-13:18). MBI asserts that BPC is barred from seeking contribution
and equitable indemnity as to damages that flow from Meritage’s intentional
torts based on fraud. BPC, however, addresses MBI’s concerns by advising that
it will dismiss its cross-complaint with prejudice, including its claims
against MBI, in return for a waiver of costs if the instant motion is granted.
(Heinze Reply Decl., ¶ 7).
Conclusion
The motion is granted.
2.         Lisee/Pentair
Motion for Good Faith Settlement
Legal Standard
See Motion #1.
Discussion
Lisee and Pentair (together, “JLP”) move the
court for an order determining that its settlement agreement with
Meritage was entered into in “good faith” pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§§ 877 and 877.6, thereby barring all claims for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.
A
procedural and factual synopsis is set forth in the analysis on Motion #1.
JLP has agreed to pay
Meritage $850,000.00 in return for a mutual release. (Zwart Decl., ¶ 9). A JLP represents that the settlement was reached
following an all-day, in-person mediation session with Kurland on March 14,
2024 and was the result of a Mediator’s Proposal issued by Kurland to Meritage
and JLP. (Id., ¶ 7). After a review of the filings, the motion is
granted on the basis that MBI has not met its burden of showing that the
settlement was not made in good faith. 
1.                 
Proportionate
Liability
MBI argues that JLP
offers no evidence to show that the settlement is proportionate to its
liability. Not so. Lisee concedes that it inadvertently ordered standard
6.25-inch impeller pumps from Pentair, rather than the 6.87-inch impellers
ordered by BPC for the project (Motion, 4:22-24). However, JLP asserts that the
pump impeller sizing issue is a “red herring” and that the City revoked
Meritage’s permits because the odors did not end after the pumps were replaced,
negating Meritage’s causation claim. (Motion, 7:8-9). JLP offers up the log of
complaints, Agenda Report, Resolution No. 18-07 and deposition testimony by
Milano, as identified in Motion #1. (Zwart Decl., ¶¶ 19-22, Exhs. C-F).[4]
JLP further submits
that, even if the correct pumps had been ordered and installed in the first
place, the System would not have functioned adequately for the Creekside
Development and order issue would have been experienced.  (Motion, 2:17-19). JLP cites the log of complaints,
Agenda Report and Resolution No. 18-07 in support of their contention. JLP also
asserts that this is evidenced by Meritage’s proposed plans to fix the issue
once replacing the pumps did not work, in which Meritage stated that
introducing calcium nitrate into the System would counteract the H2S which had
produced the odors. (Zwart Decl., ¶ 23, Exh. G, pp. 4-7). JLP submits that H2S
detection readings taken by Meritage’s own consultants show that after the new
pumps were installed there continued to be hydrogen sulfide in the air and that
this was only eliminated when the City shutdown the System. (Id., ¶¶ 24
and 25, Exhs. H and I). JLP also proffers the chart plotting sensor data and
testimony from Tofani quoted in Motion #1. (Id., ¶¶ 26 and 27, Exhs J and K.)
JLP submits that
other parties in this case, including BPC and MBI, have “more potential
liability,” because BPC failed to inspect the pumps (which identified that they
had 6.25 impellers “on easily visible face plates on their outsides”) before
installing them. (Motion, 2:18-21 and 1:18-19; Zwart Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. A). JLP
also complains that BPC did not request certified, bench-tested pumps, as
required by the MBI specifications.
JLP asserts that
Meritage has comparative fault, in that, inter alia, its independent
consultants would have realized during their nine-month investigation that the
impellers were the wrong size simply by pulling out the pumps. (Motion, 13:6
and 13:17-20).
MBI, in response,
asserts that BPC discovered the pumps were undersized in February/March
2017 and advised JLP of this fact, but JLP did not advise Meritage or MBI of
this error and instead concealed same. (Opp., 5:21-23). Lisee disputes that it
knew of the incorrect impeller sizing as of March 2017 and claims that it did
not realize this was the case until December 2018 when Pentair came out to the
site to assist with the investigation. (Motion, 5:5-8). MBI references the
invoice from Eagle invoice set forth in Motion #1 and quotes the following
testimony from Martin:
Q.        At any time did you think to go into the lift station itself and
look at the pump 
plates to determine what the impeller size was?
 
A.               
We did
that. We pulled the pumps and inspected the plates and the impeller 
size that was listed on the plate did not match the impeller size that
was supposed to 
be in the pump.
 
            Q.  
     And when did that take place?
 
            A.  
     It would have been early 2017.
 
            Q.  
     Do you remember the month?
 
            A. 
      No, I do not. . . 
 
            Q.  
     Was somebody from Lisee
present?
 
A.        No . . .
 
Q.        So what action was taken when you saw that the impeller size of
the pump 
plate didn’t match the impeller size called for by the design?
 
A.               
Well, I
made a note of it. I probably took a picture of it and I made a phone 
call to Tony Colca. 
 
Q.        And do you recall when you made that phone call?
 
A.        I do not.
 
Q.        Was that phone call in early 2017?
 
A.        Oh, absolutely.
 
Q.        Would you say it was in March of 2017?
 
A.        Probably. . . 
 
(Palumbo Decl., ¶ 3,
Exh. A, 61:18-63:20).
MBI also quotes the
following testimony from Martin:
            Q.  
     Did you bring this discrepancy
to Meritage’s attention?
 
            A.  
     No, I don’t recall if I did or
not. I was assured by John Lisee Pumps that it 
was the correct impeller.
 
            Q.  
     Did you bring this discrepancy
to MBI’s attention?
 
A.        I don’t believe I did.
 
(Id., Exh. A,
65:20-66:2).
The foregoing
testimony, however, does not reflect any concealment by JLP, who was not
present when Martin made this alleged finding. There is also no evidence
proffered by MBI as to any fraud by Pentair. Mbi’s arguments regarding
concealment on page 6 of its opposition are directed towards BPC rather than
JLP.
2.                 
Plaintiff’s
Claimed Damages 
JLP reiterates that
Meritage is claiming $4.5 million in total damages, itemized as set forth in
Motion #1. JLP asserts that the evidence suggests that Meritage’s potential
recovery, however, is substantially less. Lisee represents that it does not
have any contracts with Meritage, BPC or MBI relative to the project and that
it supplied the pumps to BPC pursuant to a three-page quote, which MBI does not
dispute. (Motion, 5:9-11; Zwart Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. B.) Meritage does not have any
claims against Pentair. Pentair represents that it does not have any contracts
with Meritage, BPC or MBI relative to the project, which MBI does not dispute.
(Motion, 5:12-13). JLP asserts that there
is no statutory or contractual provision that would allow Meritage to recover
attorneys’ fees from JLP. Again, MBI does not dispute this statement.
JLP disputes whether
Meritage is able to recover attorneys’ fees related to the Amiri action
and/or Meritage’s action against the City and represents that “Meritage was
already awarded attorneys’ fees and costs after prevailing in the Amiri
action.” (Zwart Decl., ¶ 11). MBI, in turn, does not address Amiri or
Meritage’s case against the City whatsoever.
JLP has provided argument and
evidence that Meritage’s recoverable damages is approximately $2,683,558.42 and
that they are paying roughly 32% of Meritage’s estimated recoverable damages to
settle. This has not been meaningfully rebutted by MBI.
3.                 
Financial
Information
MBI asserts that JLP “refuses to disclose financial
conditions and insurance limits.” (Opp., 9:19). Again, as stated above, a
disproportionately low settlement is a threshold requirement for the discovery
of the financial condition of a settling tortfeasor (L.C. Rudd & Son,
Inc., supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at 749-750). There does not appear
to be any “disproportionately low settlement” here. At any rate, Lisee’s
counsel Chelsea L. Zwart (“Zwart”) represents that Lisee’s policy limits were
disclosed to all parties in discovery in June 2020. (Zwart Reply Decl., ¶ 4).
Additionally, Zwart previously advised that there are
“significant coverage issues” between Lisee and its insurer, which includes the
insurer having advised Lisee of its consideration of filing a declaratory
relief action for a finding that no coverage exists for Meritage’s claimed
damages if this matter did not settle at mediation. (Zwart Decl., ¶ 16). Zwart
also advised that Lisee is a small “mom-and-pop” business whose owner, John
Lisee, is in his 90’s and that the company has advised that it is operating at
a loss and likely to close within the next few years. (Id., ¶ 17).
Pentair’s financial condition and insurance limits are not
in play, inasmuch as Lisee is defending and indemnifying Pentair pursuant to an
agreement made between Lisee and Pentair wherein Lisee agreed to defense and
indemnify Pentair in connection with any claims arising out of the project in
exchange for Pentair supplying the replacement pumps free of charge. (Id.,
¶ 6.)
4.                 
Prejudice
to MBI 
MBI complains that, if the instant motion is granted, its
cross-complaint against JLP would be dismissed, while JLP would be permitted to
pursue its crossclaims for contribution and equitable indemnity against MBI.
(Opp., 11:17-19). Pentair, however, has not filed a cross-complaint in this
action. (Zwart Reply Decl., ¶ 3). Further, Lisee has not asserted any claims
for contribution or equitable indemnity against MBI. (Id., ¶ 2). At any
rate, the settlement with Meritage and BPC/Boudreau contemplates that Lisee
will dismiss its cross-complaint, with prejudice. (Id.)
Conclusion
The motion is granted.


