  Case Number:  21STCV25790    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Order
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
7, 2025                                             TRIAL DATE:  N/A
                                                           
CASE:                                Old Goat Farms, LLC v. Alkhemist DM, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                      21STCV25790
 





















 
MOTION
FOR ORDER APPOINTING RECEIVER
      


 
MOVING
PARTY:              Plaintiff Old Goat Farms, LLC
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
This is a breach of contract and conversion case. 
Plaintiff Old Goat Farms (Plaintiff or Old Goat) operates a cannabis
cultivation farm.  Defendant Alkhemist DM, LLC (Defendant or Alkhemist) is
in the business of “trimming” marijuana.  Plaintiff and Defendant entered
into an oral and implied in fact contract.  The terms of the contract included:
(1) in exchange for payment, Alkhemist would trim Old Goat’s cannabis product,
which included accurately categorizing the product; (2) Alkhemist would account
for and inventory the product; and (3) Alkhemist would store the cannabis
safely and in a manner to prevent spoilation.  In early 2021, Old
Goat suspected a significant inventory shortage and sued Alkhemist for missing
and damaged product. 
 
On July 13, 2021, Old Goat sued defendant Alkhemist.  The case was tried before the court in
December 2023.  On August 15, 2024, the
court rendered judgment against Alkhemist on both claims and awarded Old Goat compensatory
damages, interest, and costs for a total judgment of $603,385.88.  Plaintiff is the judgment creditor and
Defendant is the judgment debtor.
 
On September 3, 2024, Old Goat’s counsel requested payment
of the judgment. In response, Alkhemist’s counsel stated only that Alkhemist
would appeal.
 
On September 11, 2024, Alkhemist filed a Notice of Appeal.  Bond has not been posted.
 
On October 18, 2024, Old Goat filed this Motion for Order
Appointing Receiver.
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A receiver may be appointed by the court in which an action
or proceeding is pending after judgment, to carry the judgment into effect or
after judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judgment, or to
preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or pursuant to the Enforcement of
Judgments Law (Title 9 (commencing with Section 680.010)), or after sale of
real property pursuant to a decree of foreclosure, during the redemption
period, to collect, expend, and disburse rents as directed by the court or
otherwise provided by law.  (Code Civ. Proc. (CCP) § 564(b)(3)-(4).)  

 
The court may appoint a receiver to enforce the judgment
where the judgment creditor shows that, considering the interests of both the
judgment creditor and the judgment debtor, the appointment of a receiver is a
reasonable method to obtain the fair and orderly satisfaction of the
judgment.  (CCP § 708.620.)   
 
The Law Revision Commission[1]
to CCP section 708.629 provides, in part:  
 
Section 708.620 supersedes portions of section 564 that
authorized the appointment of a receiver to enforce a judgment.  It
eliminates as a prerequisite to the appointment of a receiver a showing that a
writ of execution has been returned unsatisfied or that the judgment debtor
refuses to apply property in satisfaction of the judgment as formerly required
by subdivision 4 of Section 564.  (See Olsan v. Comora (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 642, 647.) 
 
A receiver may be appointed to sell real property under
court supervision to enforce a judgment.  (Wells Fargo Financial
Leasing. Inc. v. D & M Cabinets (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 59, 70; People
v. Riverside University (1973) 35 Cal.App.3d 572, 583.)  However, the appointment of a receiver
is a drastic remedy to be utilized only in “exceptional cases.”  As such,
a receiver should not be appointed unless essential and because no other remedy
will serve its purpose. (City & County of San Francisco v. Daley
(1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 734, 744.)  A court
may not appoint a receiver to aid in the collection of a money judgment unless
the record contains evidence that the judgment debtor has obfuscated or
frustrated the creditor’s collection efforts and less intrusive collection
methods were inadequate or ineffective.  (Medipro Medical Staffing, LLC
v. Certified Nursing Registry, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 622, 624-25, 628
(Medipro).)  “In light of the sheer number of enforcement
mechanisms to collect money judgments under the Enforcement of Judgments Law appointment
of a receiver is rarely a ‘necessity’ and, … ‘may not ordinarily be used for
the enforcement of a simple money judgment.’”  (Id. at p. 628.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
             Plaintiff and Judgment Creditor Old Goat
applies for the appointment of a receiver pursuant to CCP section 564, after
judgment, to carry the judgment into effect (subdivision (b)(3)) or pursuant to
the Enforcement of Judgments of Law.  Old Goat argues the court should
exercise its discretion to appoint the receiver because: (1) Alkhemist is an
operating business that does not appear to own any real estate; (1) Alkhemist
operates a cash business that is barred from depositing its funds into a
financial institution where they could be subject to execution or levy; (3) Alkhemist’s
business does not require much personal property of significant value, and (4)
Old Goat has propounded post-judgment written discovery to ascertain whether
Alkhemist has other assets or means to satisfy the judgment but does not expect
to receive Alkhemist’s responses to that discovery.  (See Shuman Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)  Accordingly, Old Goat contends a receiver is
needed to assess whether Alkhemist’s assets would be sufficient to satisfy the
judgment, or whether satisfaction of the judgment is best accomplished by a
receiver keeping the business in operation and using any available portion of
its income stream to satisfy the judgment.
 
            Upon
review, the court finds “exceptional circumstances” exist to appoint a
receiver.  Old Goat demonstrates, and
Alkhemist does not dispute, that (1) Alkhemist does not possess real property
which could be subject to execution or levy, and (2) Alkhemist’s marijuana
trimming business is cash based and is thus precluded from depositing such
funds into a financial institution which could likewise be subject to execution
or levy.  Old Goat demonstrates there is
no less intrusive collection methods available. 
(Medipro, supra, 60 Cal.App.5th at pp. 624-25, 628.).  Further, the appointment of a receiver would serve
Alkhemist’s interests in allowing Alkhemist to continue its business operations
while steadily satisfying the judgment from Alkehmist’s income stream as
opposed to obtaining any and all current assets of Alkhemist which could
satisfy the judgment.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Accordingly, the unopposed Motion for Order Appointing
Receiver is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   January 7, 2025                                            




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 
 


