 Case Number:  24STCV15949    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Order
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
7, 2025                                 TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Elissa D. Miller, in her capacity as Chapter 7 Trustee for the
Bankruptcy Estate of Girardi Keese v. Richard Landingham, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV15949
 





















 
MOTION
FOR ORDER AUTHORIZING (I) DEPOSIT OF INTERPLEADER FUNDS, (II) DISCHARGE AND
DISMISSAL OF PLAINTIFF, WITH PREJUDICE, AND (III) AWARD OF COSTS AND ATTORNEY’S
FEES



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Elissa D. Miller, in her capacity as Chapter 7 Trustee for the bankruptcy
estate of Girardi Keese
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant HMRF
Fund III, LLC
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is an interpleader action.  Plaintiff Elissa D. Miller (Plaintiff) is the
appointed chapter 7 trustee for the bankruptcy estate of Girardi Keese.  The bankruptcy case of Girardi Keese is
currently pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Central
District of California, Los Angeles Division (Girardi Keese Bankruptcy Case).  
 
            The
following facts are not in dispute.  In
2013, prior to the bankruptcy proceedings, Girardi Keese represented Richard
Landingham and others in a products liability case against DePuy Orthopedics.  Girardi Keese obtained a settlement award.  In anticipation of the settlement award,
Landingham obtained loans against the expected award from Ron Kraintz, Larry
Landingham, Law Cash, LLC, American Lawsuit Funding, LLC, and HMRF-FUND III,
LLC (HMRF).  Each of the foregoing
persons and entities, including Richard Landingham, may claim an interest in
the settlement award.  The net settlement
amount, less Girardi Keese’s contingency fee, is $353,759.96.  The net settlement amount was deposited with
Girardi Keese but was never paid out.  
 
            On June 26,
2024, Plaintiff commenced this action against defendants Richard Landingham, Ron
Kraintz, Larry Landingham, Law Cash, LLC, American Lawsuit Funding, LLC, and
HMRF.  
 
On November 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for an
order authorizing Plaintiff (1) to interplead funds in the sum of $353,759.96 with
the clerk of this court, (2) discharge Plaintiff from this case and from all
liability involving the rights and obligations of the defendant, and (3) award
Plaintiff with costs in the sum of $1,672.10 and attorney’s fees in the sum of $13,988.00.  
 
On December 23, 2024, HMRF filed an opposition.
 
On December 31, 2024, Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        DISCUSSION & LEGAL STANDARD
 
A.   
Whether Plaintiff
May Interplead the Settlement Funds
 
Plaintiff
seeks to interplead settlement funds in the sum of $353,759.96.  
 
A
person or entity against whom double or multiple claims are made, or may be
made, by two or more persons which are such that they may give rise to double
or multiple liability, may bring an action against the claimants to compel them
to interplead and litigate their several claims.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 386(b).)  Interpleader does not require that the claims
have a common origin; moreover, the claims need not be identical, but may be
adverse to and independent of one another. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 386(a), (b).)_
 
The
underlying purpose of interpleader is “to prevent a multiplicity of suits and
double vexation.”  (City of Morgan
Hill v. Brown (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1114, 1122 (City of Morgan Hill);
see also Hood v. Gonzales (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 57, 71 (Hood).)  Interpleader is available if four
requirements are met: (1) all claimants must have identical claims to the same
thing, debt, or duty; (2) all adverse titles or claims must be dependent on or
derived from a common source; (3) the person seeking the remedy must neither have
an interest or claim in the subject matter; and (4) the person seeking the
remedy must be an indifferent stakeholder and have no independent liability to
any of the claimants.  (Hood, 43
Cal.App.5th at p. 72; see also City of Morgan Hill, 71 Cal.App.4th at p.
1122.)               
Here, there
is no dispute all four requirements are met. 
First, Richard Landingham obtained loans from each of the defendants in
anticipation of the settlement award. 
Accordingly, each of the defendants have claims to the settlement.  Second, the defendants’ claims are derived
from the same settlement amount.  Third,
Plaintiff has no interest in the net settlement amount, and relatedly, is an
indifferent stakeholder with no independent liability.  (See Miller Decl.)  
            Accordingly,
the court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an order permitting the
interpleading of the net settlement amount.  As the motion is unopposed on this
point, no arguments are presented directing a different result.
            
B.     Whether
Plaintiff is Entitled to an Award of Fees and Costs
 
Plaintiff
seeks an award in the sum of $15,660.10, consisting of $13,988.00 in attorney’s
fees and $1,140.20 in costs. 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 386.6 permits a party
filing an interpleader and subsequently seeking discharge to seek reimbursement
of its costs and attorney’s fees incurred out of the amount in dispute which
has been deposited with the court:
A party to an
action who follows the procedure set forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert
in his motion, petition, complaint, or cross complaint a request for allowance of
his costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action. In ordering the
discharge of such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party his
costs and reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been
deposited with the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., §
386.6(a).)  The fees must be limited to
those incurred in pursuit of the stakeholder’s remedy.  (See Sweeney v. McClaran (1976) 58
Cal.App.3d 824, 830–31.)
            HMRF argues Plaintiff does not substantiate her request
for any discretionary award because, to date, no discovery has been conducted,
and no hearings have taken place.  For
this reason, HMRF requests that the court exercise its discretion and the deny
Plaintiff’s request.  Alternatively, HMRF
requests that the court significantly reduce the award amount sought.          
            Upon review, the court finds that Plaintiff substantiates
her fee awards request.  Plaintiff’s
counsel expended 29.80 hours in litigating this matter and applied a blended
hourly rate of $469.40.  (See Miller
Decl., Exh. E.)  Plaintiff’s counsel also
substantiates the costs incurred in litigating this matter.  (See Miller Reply Decl., Exh. 1.)  The court finds the time spent and the fees
and costs incurred are reasonable. 
III.       CONCLUSION
            
Accordingly,
Plaintiff Elissa D. Miller’s motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
dismissed from the action with prejudice.  
 
Plaintiff’s
request for an award of fees and costs is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is awarded $15,660.10 to be from the net settlement amount of $353,759.96.  Plaintiff may deposit the remaining amount
with the court. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   January 7, 2025                                            




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            