 Case Number:  VC065473    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  C WNG CONSTRUCTION JV,
INC. v. AAA SOLAR ELECTRIC, INC. 
CASE
NO.:  VC065473
HEARING:  06/06/24
 
#7
 
Interested
Party and Surety SWISS RE CORPORATE SOLUTIONS AMERICA INSURANCE CORPORATION’s
Motion to (1) Discharge SWISS RE’s Liability on Bond; (2) to Fully Cancel Bond,
and Release and Exonerate SWISS RE, without Exception; (3) to Direct the Clerk
of Court to Withdraw SWISS RE’s Bond or a Court-Conformed Copy Thereof to be
Delivered to Swiss Re is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
On March 7, 2024, this Court issued the
following Order: 
 
Swiss Re Corporate
Solutions America Insurance Corporation Bond #2343660 shall be fully discharged
and Swiss Re Corporate Solutions America Insurance Corporation shall be forever
released and exonerated by WNG CONSTRUCTION JV, Inc. from any further liability
under Bond #2343660, limited to the appeal bond
number affected. As indicated in the Objection to the Proposed Judgment
filed on March 6, 2024, “there are still several appeals subject to the outcome
of the pending appeals that are not being exonerated”. (Obj. #2.) [¶]…. [AAA]
is ORDERED to submit a Proposed Order within 5 days of the Court’s issuance of
this Order in compliance with this Court’s Order. The Court will sign the
Moving Party’s Amended Proposed Order, to the extent that the terms of the
Amended Proposed Order are in compliance with this Order. [¶]… The Clerk of
Court will then be directed to withdraw the Swiss Re Corporate Solutions
America Insurance Corporation bond from the files of the Court and deliver the
original Swiss Re Corporate Solutions America Insurance Corporation bond to
counsel for Defendants, Mark Feldman, of Feldman & Associates, Inc.,
limited to the appeal bond number affected. (03/07/24 Order). 
 
The Court has reviewed the case file, and it
does not appear as though any Proposed Order was ever submitted for execution
by AAA. 
 
Because no Proposed Order in compliance with
the March 7, 2024 Order was ever submitted, Swiss Re Corporate Solutions
America Insurance Corporation (“Swiss Re”) has not been discharged and
exonerated from this action with respect to Bond #2343660. 
Swiss Re moves to (1) discharge Swiss Re’s
Liability on Bond; (2) to fully cancel bond, and release and exonerate Swiss
Re, without exception; and (3) to direct the clerk of court to withdraw Swiss
Re’s bond or a court-conformed copy thereof to be delivered to Swiss Re. 
 
In Opposition, WnG argues: (1) Swiss Re is not
a party to this action and has not obtained an order of intervention under CCP
§387 as required, and thus lacks standing to make any motion before this Court;
(2) the Court lacks jurisdiction to make any ruling with respect to this Motion
because the subject matter of the Motion relates to property of the AAA
bankruptcy estate and is thus subject to the stay imposed by 11 U.S.C.  §362; and (3) the Motion is an improper
collateral attack on this Court’s March 7, 2024 Order. 
 
AAA filed a Notice of Non-Opposition and the
Declaration of Kevin Heravi in Support of Swiss Re’s Motion. Mr. Heravi
declares, under penalty of perjury, that he was informed by court staff that
the original appeal bond cannot be found, and thus, cannot be returned. (Heravi
Decl., ¶5.) As such, AAA has not been able to comply with this Court’s March 7,
2024 Order. 
 
Issue 1 – Whether Swiss Re is Required to
Intervene 
 
Swiss Re is not required to intervene in this
action under CCP §387 in order to seek a release from liability on the bond. As
argued in the Moving Papers and Reply, CCP §996.110(a) expressly states: “A
surety on a bond given in any action or proceeding may at any time apply to the
court for an order that the surety be released from liability on the bond.”
(Id.) 
 
Issue 2 – Whether the Court has Jurisdiction to
Hear this Motion
 
On
May 8, 2024, WnG filed a Notice of Stay of Proceedings with regard to all
parties pursuant to AAA’s Voluntary Bankruptcy filing in the Southern District
of Texas. WnG now argues that this Court lacks jurisdiction to hear this matter
because the bond at issue constitutes property belonging to AAA’s bankruptcy
estate and comes under the umbrella of protections afforded by the automatic
bankruptcy stay. 
 
The
filing of a voluntary chapter 7 bankruptcy petition “operates as a stay,
applicable to all entities of—(1) the commencement or continuation… of a
judicial… action or proceeding against the debtor…. (2) the enforcement,
against the debtor or against property of the estate, of a judgment obtained
before the commencement of the case under this title; (3) any act to obtain
possession of property of the estate or of property from the estate or to
exercise control over property of the estate.” (11 U.S.C. §362(a)(1-3).)
 
This
Motion does not constitute an action or proceeding against the debtor (AAA), or
an act to obtain property of AAA’s Bankruptcy Estate. Swiss Re is merely
seeking exoneration and return of the bond in connection with the issuance of
the relevant appellate bond in this matter. The Bankruptcy Stay does not
deprive this Court of jurisdiction to adjudicate this matter. 
 
Issue
3- Whether Swiss Re’s Motion is a Collateral Attack on this Court’s March 7,
2024 Order 
 
This
argument lacks merit. Swiss Re’s Motion is not an attack on this Court’s March
7, 2024 Order. Swiss Re is not seeking to correct or change the March 7, 2024
Order in any fashion. Rather, Swiss Re seeks to reaffirm this Court’s March 7,
2024 Order and enforce its rights under the March 7, 2024 Order. The inability
of the Court to find the original bond has rendered the Court and the parties
unable to comply with the express terms of the March 7, 2024 Order, and has
hindered Swiss Re’s ability to be discharged from this action. 
 
Ruling
 
It
is undisputed that WnG submitted to the Court’s March 7, 2024 Order discharging
Swiss Re’s bond from liability, ordering its return, and releasing and
exonerating Swiss Re from liability with respect to the Bond # at issue. Due to
the Court’s inability to locate the original bond, Swiss Re’s Motion is
GRANTED. Swiss Re is ORDERED to submit a Proposed Order within 5 court days of
the Court’s issuance of a ruling. To the extent the Court is unable to locate
the original bond tendered to the Court, a Court-Conformed copy of the original
bond is acceptable. 