 Case Number:  21CHCV00965    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 10/16/23                                                             
TRIAL DATE: 1/29/24
Case #21CHCV00965
 
MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Motion filed on 9/19/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant SiteOne Landscape Supply, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff L.A. Tire Tech, Inc.
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
granting Defendant SiteOne Landscape Supply, LLC leave to file a
cross-complaint.  

 
RULING: The motion is granted.  The trial date will be continued.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
Plaintiff L.A. Tire Tech, Inc. (Plaintiff) is an on-site
fleet maintenance, repair, roadside service, tire company and provides safety
inspections and certifications required by clients and customers, such as
Defendant SiteOne Landscape Supply, LLC (Defendant).
 
Defendant is a supplier of landscape, hardscape,
irrigation, and related supplies providing supplies to business owners,
contractors and others in the landscaping business or needing
landscape/hardscape or irrigation supplies. Defendant’s operations, to which
Plaintiff provided services, were generally divided into two different
divisions, commonly referred to as the hardscape and irrigation divisions.  Each division was managed by separate
individuals and each division had vehicles and equipment assigned to it that
required the fleet services of Plaintiff. 

 
Defendant operated a fleet of approximately 158
commercial trucks, trailers, forklifts, yard equipment that were used in its
business.  Plaintiff provided Defendant
with a full range of fleet maintenance, inspection, and repair services from
brakes, to engines, tires, alignment, and total
vehicle service, maintenance, inspection, and
repair.  Commercial trucks and vehicles
of the nature utilized by Defendant require regular maintenance and
certification to operate on state highways, which were included in the services
provided by Plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s
services were typically provided on-site at Defendant’s various business
locations including emergency roadside services when required, for which
Plaintiff was available 24/7.  
 
This action involves the alleged unpaid charges for
services provided by Plaintiff to Defendant’s 
Hardscape Division.  Plaintiff
contends that at the time that Defendant’s hardscape division terminated
Plaintiff’s services, the total amount of all invoices for services performed
and which allegedly remain unpaid is approximately $236,000.
 
On 12/17/21, Plaintiff filed this action against
Defendant for: (1) Goods and Services Rendered (Common
Count), (2) Account Stated (Common Count), (3) Open Book Account (Common Count)
and (4) Breach of Oral Contract.  On
3/7/22, Plaintiff filed its operative First Amended Complaint for: (1) Goods
and Services Rendered (Common Count), (2) Open Book Account (Common Count) and
(3) Breach of Oral Contract.  On 3/18/22,
Defendant answered the First Amended Complaint. 

 
On 9/19/23, Defendant filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order granting Defendant leave to file a cross-complaint against
Plaintiff and Gerard J. Neglio for: (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Express
Indemnity.  Plaintiff has opposed the
motion and Defendant has filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
ANAYLSIS
 
CCP 428.10 provides: 
 
“A party against whom a cause of
action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a
cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the following:
(a) Any cause of action he has
against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against
him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint
against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing
with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
(b) Any cause of action he has
against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is
already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his
cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts
a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject
of the cause brought against him.”
 
If a defendant fails to file a cross-complaint against
the plaintiff at the time of the filing of its answer, the defendant must seek
leave of court to do so.  See CCP
428.50; CCP 426.50.  If defendant’s
claims against the plaintiff are related to the subject matter of the complaint
(arise out of the same transaction or occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences), they must be raised in a cross-complaint or they are waived.  CCP 426.10(c); CCP 426.30.
 
The Court finds that the claims in Defendant’s proposed
cross-complaint are related to the causes of action Plaintiff asserts against
Defendant in the First Amended Complaint and, therefore, the cross-complaint is
compulsory.  As such, Defendant may seek
leave to assert such claims “at any time during the course of the action” and
leave must be granted if the moving party acted in good faith.  Id. 
Further, such leave is to be liberally granted to avoid forfeiture of
causes of action.  Id.; Silver
Organizations Ltd. (1990) 217 CA3d 94, 98.
 
Plaintiff has not made a sufficient showing that
Defendant has not acted in good faith. 
As such, leave must be granted.    
 
However, the Court finds that the current 1/29/24 trial
date and corresponding cut-offs dates will not allow Plaintiff and
cross-defendant Gerard Neglio sufficient opportunity to challenge the
cross-claims and/or conduct discovery on any new issues.  Therefore, the trial date will be continued. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 
The trial date will be continued. 
 
 
Defendant is ordered to separately file its
cross-complaint today, 10/16/23, with all exhibits referenced therein attached.  The Court notes that the copy of the
Cross-Complaint attached to the declaration of Nicholas J. Schuchert as Exhibit
4 alleges that the Agreement which is the subject of the cross-claims is
attached to the cross-complaint as Exhibit A. 
(See Schuchert Decl., Ex.4 – proposed Cross-Complaint ¶18).  However, there is no Exhibit A attached to
the cross-complaint attached as Exhibit 4 to the declaration. 
 
If a copy of the cross-complaint with exhibits has not
been served on Plaintiff, Defendant is ordered to serve a complete copy of the
cross-complaint today, 10/16/23.    