  Case Number:  22STCV13106    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  52 Defendants’ Motion for Protective Order
Preventing Deposition of William Walrath
            Defendants
Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck
Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life
Insurance Company (collectively, “Farmers”) move for a protective order
preventing plaintiff Maureen Martinez from deposing William Walrath. 
Protective Order      
A party or deponent may move for a
protective order that a “deposition not be taken at all.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b)(1).)  “The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural
person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Id., subd. (b).)  Generally, “the burden is on the party seeking
the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
Code of Civil Procedure section
2019.030, subdivision (a) provides: “The court shall restrict the frequency or
extent of use of a discovery method … if it determines either of the following:
(1) The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is
obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or
less expensive.  (2) The selected method
of discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs
of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at
stake in the litigation.”
Farmers shows good cause for a
protective order preventing Walrath’s deposition.  Deposing him would result in unwarranted
annoyance and undue burden.  Walrath
stopped working for Farmers in March 2021. 
(Walrath Decl., ¶ 2.)  From 2016
to 2018, he was Farmers Group, Inc.’s “VP/Head of Agency Performance.”  (Id., ¶ 7.)  From 2018 to 2021, he was the company’s
“VP/Head of Sales Operations.”  (Ibid.)  
The burden on Walrath substantially
outweighs the value of the testimony he could give.  Though deposing Walrath may lead to the
discovery of some admissible evidence, the value of his testimony would be
minimal.  He “never worked in the same
office as Ms. Martinez” (Walrath Decl., ¶ 7) and estimates he “spoke with her
for about ten minutes total over the course of [his] employment at Farmers
Group, Inc.” (id., ¶ 8).  He
states, “I estimate that my last interaction [with her] was about ten years
ago.”  (Ibid.)  The only discoverable testimony he could
provide would be about Farmers in general. 
Walrath demonstrates he has no knowledge of anything particular to this
case.  
Farmers presents more convenient
and less burdensome means of discovering information about Farmers in general,
such as its oversight over agents and Farmers Group, Inc.’s relationship with
the insurance exchanges: Plaintiff can depose current employees.  Plaintiff has already deposed or served
notices of depositions of numerous witnesses affiliated with Farmers.  (Nam Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  Walrath left Farmers four years ago.  He should not be indefinitely tethered to his
former employer because someone he scarcely interacted with filed a lawsuit
against Farmers.  
Sanctions
            Farmers
moves for $3,000 in sanctions against plaintiff and her counsel, Maryann P. Gallagher.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420,
subdivision (h) provides, “The court shall impose a monetary sanction …  against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  
            Plaintiff
unsuccessfully opposed this motion.  She
did not act with substantial justification. 
Sanctions are just under the circumstances.
Disposition
            Defendants
Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck
Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life
Insurance Company’s motion for protective order is granted.  The court hereby issues a protective order
prohibiting the deposition of William Walrath. 

Plaintiff Maureen Martinez and her
counsel Maryann P. Gallagher are ordered to pay defendants $3,000 in sanctions
within 20 days.  Plaintiff and her
counsel shall be jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.