  Case Number:  22STCV29999    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 





MARKELLA
  THANOU, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BEVERLY HILLS REHABILITATION CENTRE, LLC,
  et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV29999
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
  INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,
  SET TWO
 
MOTION FOR AN ORDER ESTABLISHING
  ADMISSIONS, SET TWO; AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
  
 
Date: August 9, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
            This case arises from a complaint filed by Plaintiff Markella Thanou
(“Plaintiff”) against Defendants Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre, LLC
(named as “Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre, LLC” and “Rehab Centre of
Beverly Hills” (jointly, “BHRC”); and
Roger T. Wang, MD, on September 14, 2022. 
The complaint asserts causes of action for (1) general negligence; (2)
professional negligence; (3) wrongful death; (4) elder abuse; and (5) violation
of the Eighth Amendment. 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO
The Court
considered the moving papers filed.  The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
2030.290, subdivision (b), when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to
respond to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the
court to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  “The court shall impose a
monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
Here, BHRC
served Special Interrogatories, Set Two (“SIs Two”) upon Plaintiff on March 12,
2024.  (Declaration of Christina E.
Batshoun in Support of Motion to Compel Responses to SIs Two, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff did not serve responses to the SIs Two
as of the date of filing of this motion on May 3, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 5.)  BHRC now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff
to serve responses to the SIs Two.
 
Accordingly, BHRC’s motion to compel responses to the SIs Two is GRANTED.
 Plaintiff is
ordered to submit complete, Code-compliant and verified responses to the SIs
Two, without objections, within 20 days of this order.  Since no request for sanctions was made in
the motion, no sanctions are imposed.
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO
The Court
considered the moving papers filed.  The
motion is unopposed.
 
As noted
above, when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to
respond to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the
court to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  “The court shall impose a
monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
Here, BHRC
served Form Interrogatories, Set Two (“FIs Two”) upon Plaintiff on March 12,
2024.  (Declaration of Christina Batshoun
in Support of Motion to Compel Responses to FIs Two, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff did not serve responses to the FIs Two
as of the date of filing of this motion on May 3, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 5.)  BHRC now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff
to serve responses to the FIs Two.  
 
Accordingly,
BHRC’s motion to compel responses to the FIs Two is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
ordered to submit complete, Code-compliant and verified responses to the FIs
Two, without objections, within 20 days of this order.  Since no request for sanctions was made in
the motion, no sanctions are imposed.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO
The Court
considered the moving papers filed.  The
motion is unopposed.
 
When a
party fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party
making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection
demand.  (CCP § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  A party who fails to provide a timely response
waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).)  “[T]he court
shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., §
2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
Here, BHRC served
Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two (“RFPs Two”) upon Plaintiff on March
12, 2024.  (Declaration of Christina Batshoun
in Support of Motion to Compel Responses to RFPs Two, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff did not serve responses to the RFPs
Two as of the date of filing of this motion on May 3, 2024.[1]  (Id., ¶ 5.)  BHRC now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff
to serve responses to the RFPs Two.  
 
Accordingly,
BHRC’s motion to compel responses to the RFPs Two is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
ordered to submit complete, Code-compliant and verified responses to the RFPs
Two, without objections, together with all responsive documents, within 20 days
of this Order.  Since no request for
sanctions was made in the motion, no sanctions are imposed.
 
MOTION
FOR AN ORDER ESTABLISHING ADMISSIONS, SET TWO
The Court
considered the moving and opposition papers.  No reply was filed.  Any reply to the opposition was required
to have been filed and served at least five court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)  
 
If a party
to whom requests for admission are served fails to provide a timely response,
the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including
based on privilege or the work product doctrine.  (CCP § 2033.280(a).)  The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted.  (CCP §
2033.280(b).)  The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in
substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion.  It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.  (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).); Cal.
Rules of Court R. 3.1348(a) (the court can award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party seeking to compel discovery even though no opposition
was filed, the opposition was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was
provided to the moving party after the motion was filed).)
 
Here, BHRC served
Requests for Admission, Set Two (“RFAs Two”) upon Plaintiff on March 12, 2024.  (Declaration of Christina Batshoun in Support
of Motion to Compel Responses to RFAs Two, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff did not serve responses to the RFAs
Two as of the date of filing of this motion on May 3, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 5.)  Defendant now moves for an order that the
truth of the matters specified in RFAs Two be deemed admitted.  Moreover, BHRC requests sanctions in the
amount of $540, claiming that it incurred the following expenses in connection
with this motion consisting of the following:
 
Preparation
of Notice & Motion:       $240/hour x 1.5
hours =            $360.00
Appearance
at Hearing (estimated):   $240/hour x .5
hour =             $120.00
Filing Fee:                                                                                           $60.00
                                                            TOTAL:                                  $540.00
(Id., ¶ 7.)
 
On June 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion to compel, attaching
therewith verified objection-free responses to RFAs Two served with BHRC.  The filing and service of Plaintiff’s responses
to RFAs Two render BHRC’s motion for an order establishing admissions MOOT.
 
Nevertheless,
the question of sanctions still remains before the Court. “[P]roviding untimely
responses does not divest the trial court of its authority [to hear a motion to
compel responses].”  (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 407.)  Even if the
untimely response “does not contain objections [and] substantially resolve[s]
the issues raised by a motion to compel responses…the trial court retains the
authority to hear the motion.”  (Id.,
at pp. 408-409.)  This rule gives “an
important incentive for parties to respond to discovery in a timely fashion.”  (Id., at p. 408.)  If “the propounding party [does not] take the
motion off calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions,” the trial
court may “deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in
whole or in part, and just impose sanctions.”  (Id., at p. 409; Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1348, subd. (a) [“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act
in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed”].)  
 
The Court
considers the amount of requested monetary sanctions reasonable.  Accordingly,
Plaintiff and her counsel are ordered to pay, jointly and severally, $540 in
monetary sanctions to BHRC within 30 days of the date of this Order.

 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this
ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 9th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 


