 Case Number:  23STCV15693    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
BEATRIZ
  LAYNEZ, et al.;
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
 
ALVARADO
  EQUITIES LLC; et al.,
 
                              Defendant(s).
 


Case No.:  23STCV15693
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  07/05/23
Trial
  Date:  06/23/25
 
 
 



 
Hearing date:              July 11, 2024
Moving Parties:           (1)
Plaintiff Beatriz Laynez
                                    (2)
Claimant Emili Gabriela Chavez Laynez, a minor by and
through their guardian ad litem Beatriz Laynez

(3)
Claimant Jayleen Arlette Chavez Laynez, a minor by and through their guardian
ad litem Beatriz Laynez
(4)
Claimant Jeremy Elijah Chavez Laynez, a minor by and through their guardian ad
litem Beatriz Laynez
Responding
Party:      None
 
(1) Motion for Reconsideration; (2) Petitions to Confirm Minor’s Compromise

 
The court considered
the moving papers and petitions. No oppositions were received.
The court GRANTS the motion for reconsideration. 
The court GRANTS
the petitions to confirm minor’s
compromise of claimants Emili Gabriela Chavez Laynez, Jayleen Arlette Chavez Laynez, and Elijah Chavez Laynez, minors by and through
their guardian ad litem Beatriz Laynez.
 
Background
This is a
habitability case. Plaintiffs Beatriz Laynez, an individual; Emili Gabriela
Chavez Laynez, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem; Beatriz Laynez;
Jayleen Arlette Chavez Laynez, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem,
Beatriz Laynez; and Jeremy Elijah Chavez-Laynez, a minor by and through her
guardian ad litem, Beatriz Laynez filed this action against Defendants Alvarado
Equities LLC, Robert Staback, as Trustee of The Rudolph and Grace Staback
Revocable Inter Vivos Trust, and JNM Realty Inc. alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of
Warranty of Habitability; (2) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (3)
Negligence; and (5) Breach of Contract.
Claimants Emili Gabriela Chavez Laynez, Jayleen
Arlette Chavez Laynez, and Elijah
Chavez Laynez, minors by and through their guardian ad litem Beatriz Laynez
filed their petitions on May 6, 2024.
On June 6, 2024,
the court continued the petitions and reduced the attorney fees for all
plaintiffs to 25%.
On June 20,
2024, Plaintiff Beatriz Laynaz filed the instant motion for reconsideration of
the court’s June 6, 2024 order reducing her attorney fees to 25%.
 
Discussion
            Plaintiff Beatriz Laynaz moves the court to
reconsider its June 6, 2024 order that reduced her attorney fees to 25%. She
contends that she is a competent adult and her attorney fees were not before
the court, and are pursuant to her contract with her counsel. The court agrees.
The court previously had concerns about the $18,250 in
attorney fees from Defendants Alvarado Equities LLC and JNM Realty Inc. to
Plaintiffs’ counsel and how that is appropriate (Petitions, § 17(f)), but it
appears it is the attorney fees for Beatriz Laynaz which is appropriate and
does not interfere with the minors’ settlements. Generally, that would be paid
from Beatriz Laynaz, but it appears that Defendants are paying counsel directly
as part of Beatriz’s settlement. Accordingly, this explains the previous
concern regarding attorney fees, and the court did not properly have Beatriz’s
attorney’s fees pursuant to her contract before it. 
Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS the
motion for reconsideration, and GRANTS the petitions of all three minors.
 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
July 11, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court