  Case Number:  23LBCV00109    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Lauren Watkins filed
this action against Defendants, Ralphs Grocery Company and The Kroger Co. for
damages arising out of a slip and fall. 
Plaintiff’s friend, Jose Cruz Cisneros, was present when she fell.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena
a.    
Prior Hearing
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 7/02/24.  The
Court continued the hearing on the motion because Defendant had not served
Cisneros with notice of the motion.  
 
On 6/27/24, prior
to the hearing but after the Court had drafted its tentative ruling, Defendant
filed proof of service of the moving papers on Cisneros, establishing he was
served by personal service on 3/13/24. 
On 7/03/24, Defendant filed proof of personal service of the moving
papers, establishing the papers were again served on Cisneros that day.
 
b.     Parties’
Positions 
Defendant seeks an order compelling
Cisneros to appear for deposition. 
Defendant personally served Cisneros with a deposition subpoena for
personal appearance at deposition, but he failed to appear.  Defendant also seeks an order precluding
Cisneros from testifying at trial if he fails to appear for his deposition
after the Court orders him to do so.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  Plaintiff does not oppose the aspect of the
motion that seeks to compel the deposition, but does oppose the aspect of the
motion that seeks imposition of evidentiary sanctions.  Plaintiff contends the sanctions sought are
not appropriate.  
 
Defendant, in reply, contends
incremental steps are not necessary and evidentiary sanctions are
appropriate.  
 
c.    
Analysis
 The motion to compel Cisneros to appear for
deposition is granted.  Cisneros is
ordered to appear for deposition within ten days.  Defendant may unilaterally notice the
deposition for a date, time, and location of its choosing, but must give proper
notice per Code.  
 
The motion for evidentiary
sanctions is denied for two reasons. 
First, the notice of motion indicates only that Defendant seeks to
compel Cisneros to appear for deposition, and does not seek imposition of
evidentiary sanctions.  Second, the Court
finds evidentiary sanctions are premature, and would be imposed if and only if
Cisneros violates a court order compelling his deposition.  The Court notes that the case is scheduled
for trial on 9/23/24.  If Cisneros
violates the court order compelling his deposition, the parties may address
appropriate evidentiary sanctions, if any, by way of motions in limine.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   