 Case Number:  23LBCV01229    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Susann Lynette Shumate
filed this action against Defendant, Jerry Grant Shumate for breach of contract;
she filed her complaint on 8/07/23.  The
parties are brother and sister, and Plaintiff alleges Defendant promised her
she could live in the house rent-free and inherit the house from him if she
paid off the $90,000 mortgage, but Defendant has since broken the promise.
 
Plaintiff filed proof of service
showing service on Defendant by personal service on 8/31/23.  Thereafter, Defendant passed away, and
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint naming Jerry Grant Shumate, Jr.,
Trustee of the Jerry Grant Shumate Revocable Living Trust as a defendant in the
case.  On 2/03/24, Plaintiff served
Defendant with the amendment and all related papers by personal service.  
 
On 3/22/24, having received no
answer to the complaint, and at Plaintiff’s request, the Clerk entered
Defendant’s default.  
 
2.     Motion
to Vacate Default
a.    
Request for Relief
Defendant moves to vacate the
default entered against him, contending it was entered as a result of his
excusable mistake.  He declares he
retained Liberty Paralegal Service, which attempted to file an answer to the complaint
on 3/04/24, but was unable to do so. 
Plaintiff declares Liberty told him it could not determine why the
answer was not accepted, and advised him to attend the upcoming CMC to address
the issue with the Court.  Defendant
declares he appeared at the 3/27/24 CMC, but Plaintiff had already secured his
default on 3/22/24.  Defendant retained
an attorney, who attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff, and ultimately
filed these papers on 5/22/24.  
 
b.     Opposition

Plaintiff opposes the motion.  She argues Defendant’s statements about what
Liberty told him are hearsay and lack foundation.  She argues that, at a minimum, someone from
Liberty should be required to file a declaration explaining what Liberty did
and why the answer was not properly filed. 
She contends Defendant has failed to show excusable neglect with
competent evidence.
 
c.     Analysis
CCP §473(b) permits the Court to
grant relief from entry of default if the moving party shows default was
entered as a result of excusable neglect. 
Plaintiff contends Defendant has not made this showing because the evidence
submitted with his moving papers is hearsay and lacks personal knowledge.  Defendant, however, has submitted a
declaration showing his OWN excusable neglect. 
The purpose of the declaration is to set forth what he believed to be
true and what he understood to be happening, which shows that his personal
failure to file a timely answer was excusable. 
This is a non-hearsay purpose for the statements made in the
declaration; the declaration is not purporting to establish the truth of the
statements (that the answer was filed and rejected), but instead to establish
Defendant’s understanding of what was happening.  
 
The Court finds Defendant met the
moving burden to show the default was entered as a result of his own excusable
neglect.  The Court notes that Defendant
acted diligently in immediately retaining an attorney upon realization of the
error, and that the attorney immediately commenced negotiating with Plaintiff
in an attempt to achieve relief by stipulation. 

 
Defendant filed a copy of a
proposed answer to the First Amended Complaint as Exhibit 6 to the moving
papers.  Defendant must file a separate
copy of the answer within ten days.  
 
3.     Default
Judgment Prove-Up
The Court notes that there is a
default judgment prove-up on calendar today concurrently with the hearing on
the above motion.  The Court takes the
prove-up hearing off calendar in light of the above ruling.
 
4.     Final
Note
The Court notes that there are no
future hearing dates on calendar.  The
Court sets a Case Management Conference and Trial Setting Conference for October
2, 2024.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.