 Case Number:  24LBCV00706    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Roman Servin Zacarias filed this action against Defendants, Ford
Motor Company and South Bay Ford Lincoln lemon law violations, negligent
repair, and fraudulent inducement – concealment.      
 
2.    
Demurrer

Legal Standard on
     Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares the parties met and conferred, but were unable
to resolve the issues presented by way of the demurrer.  The Court will rule on the matter on its
merits.
 

Fraudulent Inducement -- Concealment

i.             
Grounds
for Demurrer
Defendants demur to the cause of action for fraudulent inducement –
concealment, contending (a) Plaintiff failed to plead the defect Defendants
allegedly failed to disclose, (b) Plaintiffs failed to allege a duty to
disclose, and (c) the claim is barred by the economic loss rule.  
 
ii.            
Nature
of Defect
Plaintiff alleges Defendant concealed a transmission defect.  It is unclear what additional specificity
could be alleged concerning the nature of the defect.  
 
iii.           
Duty
to Disclose
The elements of a fraud claim based
on concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311).  
 
There are “four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id. at 311). If a fiduciary relationship does not exist,
but the latter three circumstances are present, Plaintiff must still show “the
existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from
which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311). 
 
            A duty to
disclose may arise as a result of a transaction between the parties. However,
the transaction "must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the
plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large." (Bigler-Engler at 312 [noting that the duty of a
manufacturer to warn consumers of a product’s hazards and faults applies in the
context of strict products liability actions but does not apply in a suit for
intentional misrepresentation.]).
 
            Plaintiff
cites Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, wherein
the Plaintiffs sued Nissan North America, Inc. (Nissan), alleging a
transmission defect. Plaintiffs alleged claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act and a common law fraud claim alleging that Nissan fraudulently
concealed the defects and induced them to purchase a car. (Dhital at 838). 
 
            The
California Supreme Court granted review of Dhital on February 1, 2023, however,
the request for depublication was denied. (Dhital v. Nissan North America (Cal.
2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82, 83). Since review is pending and the Supreme Court
did not otherwise order, Dhital does not having binding effect, however, “it
may be cited for potentially persuasive value only.” (Cal Rules of Court, Rule
8.1115 (e)(1). 
 
            The Dhital
court concluded that allegations were sufficient to support the existence of a
buyer-seller relationship between the parties as “Plaintiffs alleged that they
bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an
express warranty, and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are [the
manufacturer’s] agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to
consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim
is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose
known defects." (Dhital at 845). Plaintiff’s amended allegations conform
with the allegations found by the Court of Appeal to establish a relationship
with the manufacturer sufficient to withstand demurrer. (FAC ¶4-8). 
 
Pursuant to Dhital, Plaintiff has adequately alleged a duty to
disclose.
 
iv.           
Economic
Loss Rule
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s damage claim for fraudulent concealment is
barred by the economic loss rule which provides that “[i]n general, there is no
recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning
financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” Dhital, supra
721-722. However, Dhital held that the tort of fraudulent inducement by
concealment is excepted from the economic loss rules since "the duty that
gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the contract
or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm. (Dhital
at 828). Accordingly, since Plaintiff’s claim for inducement by concealment is
adequately alleged, it is not barred by the economic loss rule.  
 

Negligent Repair

Defendants demur to the cause of action for negligent repair on the
grounds that (a) it is barred by the economic loss rule, and (b) Plaintiff
fails to allege damages suffered as a result of any negligent repair.
 
i.             
Economic
Loss Rule  
Defendants contend the cause of action for negligent repair is barred
by the economic loss rule.  Pursuant to
Jimenez v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473, 483-484, the
economic loss rule does not apply in cases where the defendant’s negligence
causes damage to a component part, and that damage in turn causes damage to
some other component part and/or to the whole of the product.  
 
Plaintiff argues federal district courts have consistently held that
the above rule applies in the case of automobiles – if a negligent repair to a
component part of a vehicle causes additional damage to the vehicle as a whole,
then the plaintiff’s action is not barred by the economic loss rule.  
 
Plaintiff does not cite any portion of his complaint that alleges
Defendants’ repair attempts causes damage to the vehicle other than the
component part itself.  The Court has
reviewed the complaint and cannot find any such allegation.  The demurrer is therefore sustained with
leave to amend on this ground.
 
ii.            
Damages
Defendants also demur to the cause of action for negligent repair on
the ground that Plaintiff has not alleged damages as a result of any failure to
repair.  They contend Plaintiff’s failure
to allege he paid any money for the repairs is fatal to the claim.  Plaintiff, in opposition, does not
meaningfully address this argument.  He
contends failure to pay for repairs is irrelevant, and contends his allegation,
at ¶73 of the complaint, that “Defendant SOUTH BAY’s negligent breach of its
duties owed to Plaintiff was a proximate cause of Plaintiff’s damages” is
sufficient to allege damages.  
 
The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend on this ground as
well.  If Plaintiff amends the complaint,
Plaintiff must allege the nature of the damages sustained as a result of the
failure to repair.  
 
3.     Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to the cause
of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment is overruled.  Defendants’ demurrer to the cause of action
for negligent repair is sustained with leave to amend.  Plaintiff is ordered to file a First Amended
Complaint within twenty days.  Defendants
are ordered to file a responsive pleading within the statutory time
thereafter.  If Defendants intend to
challenge the FAC, the parties must meet and confer in good faith before
Defendants file the pleading challenge.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.  
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   