 Case Number:  24LBCV00058    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Marco Del Piero, Jr. filed this action against Defendant,
City of Long Beach, erroneously named as Long Beach Marina, Long Beach Police,
and Long Beach Recreation Park & Marine) for damages arising out of
Defendants’ cancellation of his boat slip permit.   
 
2.     Demurrer

a.     Parties’
Positions
Defendant demurs to the complaint,
contending it is barred due to Plaintiff’s failure to allege he filed a timely
government tort claim prior to commencing the action.    
 
Any opposition to the demurrer was
due on or before 7/26/24.  CCP
§1005(b).  Plaintiff has not filed timely
opposition to the demurrer and the Court will not consider any late-filed
opposition papers.
 
b.    Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
c.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he and
Plaintiff spoke on the telephone, but were unable to resolve the issues
presented by way of the demurrer.  The
demurrer is therefore ripe and will be considered on its merits.
 
d.     Analysis
Government Code §911.2 requires a
plaintiff to present a government tort claim to the public entity he intends to
sue prior to commencing suit.  Pursuant
to City of San Jose v. Superior Court (1974) 12 Cal.3d 447, 454, failure to
allege compliance with the tort claims requirement is fatal to a
complaint.  The demurrer is therefore
sustained.  
e.     Leave
to Amend
It is not up to the Court to figure
out how the complaint can be amended to state a cause of action.  Rather, the burden is on the plaintiff to
show in what manner he or she can amend the complaint, and how that amendment
will change the legal effect of the pleading. 
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54
Cal.3d 723, 742.
 
In light of the lack of opposition,
Plaintiff has not met his burden to show he could amend if given leave to do
so.  The demurrer is therefore sustained
without leave to amend.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.