  Case Number:  24STCV04733    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  49 GMG Development, LLC v. Jeffrey Riddell, et al. DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS MOVING PARTY: Defendant Jeffrey Riddell, Trustee of the The Jeffrey & Katrina Riddell Living TrustRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff GMG Development, LLCSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  Plaintiff GMG Development, LLC, contracted with the Riddell Defendants to purchase the vacant real property at 33033 Spruce Dr., Green Valley, California 92341. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants cancelled the agreement and have refused to accept the purchase funds from Plaintiff’s assignor because Defendants received a backup offer from a different buyer for a higher sales price. Plaintiff asserts causes of action for (1) breach of written contract and (2) declaratory relief. Defendant Jeffrey Riddell now moves to expunge the lis pendens on the subject property. Plaintiff opposed. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED.Defendant is awarded its attorney’s fees in the amount of $2,925.00.Moving party is ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION:Motion to Expunge Lis PendensA. Legal StandardA lis pendens can be ordered removed from the record title based upon an argument that it is improper because it does not contain a real property claim (CCP § 405.31) or that the plaintiff cannot establish its probable validity by a preponderance of the evidence (CCP § 405.32; see also Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 648.).  “Unlike most other motions, the burden of proof is on the party opposing the motion to expunge.  The lis pendens claimant (plaintiff) bears the burden of establishing the existence of a ‘real property claim’ and that it is ‘probably valid.’  (CCP § 405.32) B. AnalysisDefendant moves to expunge the lis pendens on the property, contending Plaintiff cannot establish a probability of prevailing on its breach of contract cause of action. Defendant argues it did not breach the property purchase agreement by cancelling the sale because it was contingent on Plaintiff returning signed seller disclosures and the removal of contingencies by February 8, 2024, which it did not do. To prevail on a breach of contract claim, Plaintiff must establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of Am. (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 790, 800.)On December 12, 2023, Defendant and GMG signed the Contract for the sale of Defendant’s property for $115,000, with a 45-day escrow. (T. Graff Decl. ¶¶ 3, Exh. 1.) On December 22, 2023, the parties agreed to extend the escrow by 30 days and increase the purchase price to $120,000. (Id. ¶ 4, Exh. 2.) Escrow opened on December 27, 2023, and on December 30, 2023, the parties executed Addendum One, again extending the closing date to February 6, 2024. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. 3.) On February 6, 2024, GMG had not performed as required, so Defendant issued a Notice to Buyer to Perform (the “Notice”). (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. 4.) The Notice required GMG Development to return signed seller disclosures and remove all contingencies within two days (by February 8, 2024). As of February 9, 2024, GMG had not complied with these requirements. Consequently, Defendant canceled the Contract and offered to return the $3,500 deposit to GMG. (Id. ¶ 7.) First, it is Plaintiff’s position that Defendants failed to deliver the required Notice to Buyer to Perform before attempting to cancel the contract. Both Tammy Woloski and Cheng Gong state that they checked their emails and have “never received a Notice to Buyer to Perform from the Sellers.” (Gong Decl. ¶ 14; Woloski Decl. ¶ 22.) They assert there is no evidence one was ever sent.However, Defendant has provided persuasive evidence that on February 6, 2024, it provided the Notice to Plaintiff’s real estate agent, Tom Lawrence, who then forwarded the notice to Tammy Woloski. In reply, Defendant provided a supplemental declaration from Tonja Graff, who was Defendant’s real estate broker on the transaction. Graff provides the February 6, 2024 email she sent to Tom Lawrence, Plaintiff’s agent, which included the Notice. (Graff Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Defendant also provides a declaration from Lawrence. He attests and confirms that he received the Notice from Graff and “forwarded the Notice to Tammy Woloski via e-mail from [his] phone.” (Lawrence Decl. ¶¶ 4, 5.) Lawrence continues that he “know[s] Ms. Woloski received the Notice because, on February 9, 2024, at 4:31 pm. [she] texted [him] acknowledging that she received the Notice.” (Id. ¶ 6.) Therefore, Plaintiff has not established that it did not receive the Notice.  [FN 1]Plaintiff also argues its performance was excused or delayed by circumstances beyond its control, including severe weather that affected the escrow process. (Opp. 2: 11-14.) Plaintiff points to automated email replies it received on February 7 and 8 stating that the office was closed due to a snowstorm. However, the evidence shows that the escrow process continued despite the office closure, and any delay due to weather was minimal and not material to Plaintiff’s failure to timely complete the transaction. (Woloski Decl. ¶¶ 10-11; Graff Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore, Plaintiff has not met its burden to establish an excuse for its nonperformance and has not carried its burden to establish the probable validity of its claim. Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED.C. Attorney’s FeesThe court is required to direct an award of the prevailing party of attorneys’ fees and the costs of making or opposing a motion to expunge lis pendens unless it finds that either the other party acted with substantial justification or other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.  (CCP § 405.38 [The court shall…].) The prevailing party on a motion to expunge is entitled to an award only against the losing party, not against its counsel.  (Doyle v. Superior Court (1991) 226 Cal. App. 3d 1355, 1359.)As the prevailing party, Defendant seeks an award of $2,925.00 incurred in bringing this motion. (Riddell Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.) Based on the totality of the circumstances, neither of the exceptions precluding the mandatory fee award apply. Plaintiff has not acted with substantial justification, and there is no evidence that an award of fees would be unjust. The fees sought by Defendant are also reasonable. Accordingly, Defendant is awarded its attorney’s fees in the amount of $2,925.00.Moving parties are ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 15, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock                                                         Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - It should be noted that the evidence proffered by Defendant does not directly conflict with the evidence submitted in the carefully worded declarations of Ms. Woloski and Cheng Gong.  Apparently, the notice was not sent by email directly to either of them by Defendant.  It was, in fact, sent to their agents, who then forwarded to Woloski (at the very least.)  Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.