  Case Number:  20STCV32917    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On August
28, 2020, Plaintiff Daniel Tepper (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Skinny Labs, Inc. dba Spin (“Spin”), City of Los Angeles (“City”),
and Does 1-100 for negligence, negligence under Government Code sections 815.2
and 820, and public nuisance.  Attorneys Dean Ogrin and Daniel M. McGee of McGee,
Lerer & Associates represented Plaintiff when he filed the action. 
On
October 2, 2020, Spin filed an answer. 
On
November 4, 2020, the City filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Spin and Roes 1-10 for express indemnity, breach of contract,
equitable indemnity, comparative indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
On
March 25, 2021, the Court dismissed the City’s cross-complaint without
prejudice at the City’s request. 
On
November 19, 2021, the Court granted Plaintiff's counsel's motion to be relieved as counsel. 
On January
28, 2022, Attorneys Aidin D. Ghavimi and John Vafa of Starpoint LC
(“Starpoint”) filed a substitution of attorney form stating they
were Plaintiff’s new legal representatives. 
On
June 30, 2022, Starpoint filed a notice of lien stating that, as Plaintiff’s
former counsel, it was asserting a lien in
the amount of $21,819.18 on the proceeds or satisfaction of judgment, award, or
settlement in Plaintiff’s favor. 
On
July 12, 2022, Attorney Ariella E. Perry of Wilshire Law Firm (“Perry”) filed a
substitution of attorney stating that she was Plaintiff’s new legal representative. 
On
September 27, 2022, Plaintiff filed a notice of settlement. 
On September
7, 2023, Perry informed the Court that all parties except Plaintiff had signed a release.  The Court continued the hearing to allow
Plaintiff to sign the release. 
On
October 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to enforce a settlement agreement. 
On
November 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a substitution of attorney form substituting
himself as a self-represented litigant in place of Perry. 
On
December 18, 2023, Plaintiff withdrew the motion to enforce a settlement agreement.
On December
27, 2023, Perry filed a notice of lien stating that “Wilshire Law Firm has a
lien on this case for attorneys’ fees and costs totaling $181,443.89.” 
On December
28, 2023, Spin filed a notice of bankruptcy filing and suggestion of stay.  Spin stated that it filed a voluntary petition for Chapter 11 relief on December
20, 2023, staying the case against Spin and “any act that would affect
the property of the estate . . . .” 
On
January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash the notice of lien filed by
Perry and Wilshire Law Firm, to be heard on February 15, 2024.  In the motion, Plaintiff stated that he wished
to have the Court hear the motion even if he could not appear for the
hearing.  On February 1, 2024, Perry and
Wilshire Law Firm filed an opposition.  On
February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a response to the opposition. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTY’S AND COUNSEL’S
REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to quash the notice of lien filed by Perry and Wilshire Law Firm. 
Perry
and Wilshire Law Firm ask the Court to deny the motion.  
DISCUSSION 
          Plaintiff argues the Court should quash the notice of lien because
the attorneys of Wilshire Law Firm, including Perry, engaged in misconduct and
possible malpractice while representing him. 
          In response, Perry and Wilshire Law Firm deny that they
engaged in misconduct and assert that (1) a motion to quash is the incorrect
procedural vehicle to challenge the notice of lien and (2) the case is stayed
due to Spin’s bankruptcy filing.  Perry
and Wilshire Law Firm provide no legal argument to support their assertions. Spin's notice of bankruptcy filing states that the automatic bankruptcy stay applies to the case against Spin and to “any act that would affect the property of the estate . . . .”   It is not evident to the Court that issues involving an attorney lien on proceeds of a judgment or settlement would fall within the stay.  However, the Court need not decide this issue. 
          “Appellate courts have consistently held that the trial
court in the underlying action has no jurisdiction to determine the existence
or validity of an attorney's lien on the judgment. [Citations.] The trial court
does have fundamental jurisdiction over the subject matter and over the
parties.  Nevertheless, because the
attorney is not a party to the underlying action and has no right to intervene,
the trial court acts in excess of its jurisdiction when it purports to
determine whether the attorney is entitled to foreclose a lien on the judgment.
[Citations.] Nor can the court entertain a motion to terminate the lien. [Citation.]
After the client obtains a judgment, the attorney must bring a separate,
independent action against the client to establish the existence of the lien,
to determine the amount of the lien, and to enforce it. [Citations.] An order
within the underlying action purporting to affect an attorney's lien is void.  [Citation.]” 
(Carroll v. Interstate Brands Corp. (2002) 99 Cal.App. 4th 1168,
1173.) 
          The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion to quash the notice of lien filed by Plaintiff Daniel
Tepper. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 