 Case Number:  21STCV38201    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 15, 2021, Plaintiff Connie Romero
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Home Depot U.S.A., Inc. (“Home
Depot”), Juan Mutaz, and Does 1-20 for general negligence and
premises liability. 
On
November 17, 2021, Home Depot filed an answer. 
On
October 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel the deposition of Home
Depot’s person most knowledgeable to be heard on February 9, 2024.  On November 1, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an amended motion.  On February 1,
2024, Home Depot filed an opposition. On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply.  The Court continued the hearing to February 15, 2024.  
Trial
is currently set for April 8, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to compel Home Depot to produce its person most knowledgeable
for a deposition. 
Home
Depot asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. 
* * *
“(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(2) On motion of any other party who, in person or by
attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in
the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g).)  
DISCUSSION 
On
June 6, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Home Depot’s person most
knowledgeable for July 31, 2023. The deposition did not take place for reasons
the parties do not address. 
On
September 27, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Home Depot’s person
most knowledgeable for October 12, 2023.  Home Depot’s person most knowledgeable and its
counsel did not appear for the October 12, 2023 deposition and Plaintiff took a certificate of nonappearance. 
Home
Depot argues (1) Plaintiff's motion is moot because Home Depot has given Plaintiff possible
dates for the deposition of its person most knowledgeable, (2) Home Depot served a timely objection to the September 27, 2023 deposition notice,
(3) Plaintiff did not satisfy her meet and confer obligations before filing the
motion to compel. 
The
motion is not moot because the deposition has not yet taken place.  Moreover, Home Depot’s service of an
objection to the deposition notice did not stay the taking of the deposition.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (b) [“Any
deposition taken after the service of a written objection shall not be used
against the objecting party under Section 2025.620 if the party did not attend
the deposition and if the court determines that the objection was a valid one”];
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c) [“In addition to serving this written
objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the
deposition and quashing the deposition notice. . . . The taking of the
deposition is stayed pending the determination of this motion”].)  Home Depot did not move to stay the deposition and quash the deposition notice.
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel does not include a meet and confer declaration or a
declaration showing that, when Home Depot’s person most knowledgeable failed to
attend the October 12, 2023 deposition, Plaintiff contacted Home Depot to inquire
about the nonappearance.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  Plaintiff’s reply, however, includes a
declaration discussing meet and confer efforts that took place after Plaintiff
filed her motion. 
The Court continues the hearing on the motion and
orders Plaintiff and Home Depot to meet and confer and attempt to schedule the
deposition of Home Depot’s person most knowledgeable on or before March 19,
2024.  If the parties schedule and conduct
the deposition on or before March 19, 2024, Plaintiff is ordered to take the motion
off calendar.  If the issue remains
unresolved, the Court will rule on the motion on March 20, 2024. 
Discovery will remain open for the purpose of hearing
this motion and for the purpose of scheduling and attending the deposition of
Home Depot’s person most knowledgeable. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court CONTINUES Plaintiff Connie Romero’s motion
to compel the deposition of Defendant Home Depot U.S.A., Inc.’s person most knowledgeable
to March 20, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
The Court orders Plaintiff Connie Romero, Defendant Home
Depot U.S.A., Inc., and/or their counsel to meet and confer and attempt to
schedule the deposition of Home Depot U.S.A., Inc.’s person most knowledgeable
on or before March 19, 2024.  If the
parties schedule and conduct the deposition on or before March 19, 2024, Plaintiff is ordered to take the motion off calendar. 
If the issue remains unresolved, the Court will rule on the motion to
compel on March 20, 2024. 
Discovery will remain open for the purpose of hearing
this motion and for the purpose of scheduling and attending the deposition of
Home Depot’s person most knowledgeable. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.