 Case Number:  EC063536    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     8 Date:           6/28/2024   Case No: EC 063536  Case Name: Mellenthin, et al. v. Komisar, et al.  APPLICATION TO AMEND JUDGMENT  Moving Party:             Judgment Creditors Eve Somer, as Trustee of the Eve Somer Living Trust dated July 1, 2020, and Gregory C. Yaitanes, as Trustee of the Gregory C. Yaitanes Family Trust Responding Party: Defendants/Cross Complainants Boris Komisar and Elvira Shut RELIEF REQUESTED:   Amend Judgment of May 23, 2018 to decree(1) Judgment Debtor’s revocable licenses for Encroachment Nos. 1 and 3 are terminated;(2) Encroachment Nos. 1-4 are to be removed by date certain; and (3) Entry of the Amended Judgment is to be held in abeyance until the City of Los Angeles approves or denies the lot line adjustment application submitted by Judgment Debtors.FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiffs Michael Mellenthin and Donna Mellenthin, trustees of the Mellenthin Family Trust, brought this action alleging they were owners of real property on Oakdale Road in Studio City, against defendants Boris Komisar and Elvira Shut, the owners of real property on El Cerro Lane in Studio City, alleging that defendants’ wall, wall supporting pool deck, concrete pillar, and gas, water, drains and electric lines encroached onto the easterly portion of the Mellenthin property.  Plaintiff sought a mandatory injunction requiring defendants to remove the encroachments from the disputed property and judgment quieting title in plaintiffs as of the date of the complaint. Defendants Komisar and Shut filed a cross-complaint against plaintiffs, alleging that when defendants inspected and eventually purchased the Komisar property, a large pool deck and a driveway existed on the property, with the driveway bordered by a short retaining wall and an ivy covered chain link fence on the western side of the property, which cross-complainants thought was the border between the Komisar property and the Mellenthin property.  Komisar and Shut alleged that the walls, pool decks, foundation, fences, and gas, water, drain and electrical lines had been in existence at their current locations for more than five years prior to the filing of the present lawsuit, and that cross-complainants were entitled to a prescriptive easement to use the Mellenthin property for those alleged encroachments.  In the alternative, cross-complainants alleged that during a remodeling project and public hearings for the remodeling project, Michael Mellenthin, an experienced residential property developer and retired licensed general contractor, reviewed the construction plans, and represented that he knew the plan included encroachments on his property but did not care about them, but that his only concern was that the project have adequate drainage so that no water would flow from the Komisar property to the Mellenthin property.   After the hearing, and the approval of the plans, cross-complainants proceeded with the remodeling project, and so alleged that if they were not entitled to a prescriptive easement, they were entitled to have an equitable or other easement to use that portion of the Mellenthin property containing alleged encroachments, particularly if the award of such equitable easement was conditioned on cross-complainants paying cross-defendants the reasonable value of said easements. The cross-complaint alleged that removing the retaining wall would remove the lateral support for cross-complainants’ driveway and create a soil subsidence issue on the Mellenthin property, that the removal of the pool deck would endanger the structural integrity of the structure, and that moving gas, water, drain and electrical lines would be prohibitively expensive, and of negligible harm to cross-defendants, when the lines were not interfering with the Mellenthins’ use of the ornamental landscape then being maintained.   The cross-complaint sought a determination of title to prescriptive, equitable or other easements for the encroaching structures, and a judicial determination as to the rights and duties of the parties concerning those structures. The file shows that the matter went to a court trial in November of 2017 through January of 2018.  Post-trial briefs and motions were filed, and on April 25, 2018, the court issued and served it Statement of Decision, which was to issue a mandatory injunction for defendants’ trespass as to a large pillar encroachment [Encroachment No. 2], and for defendants’ trespass as to the electrical and plumbing encroachment [Encroachment No. 4], and to issue a license to defendants for the driveway wall encroachment [Encroachment No. 1] and the pool deck wall encroachment [Encroachment No. 3].  The Statement of Decision provides for a damages award to plaintiffs in the amount of $14,755 for construction of a new fence and $5,498.30 for new replacement trees.  On May 23, 2018, the court signed and filed the Judgment submitted jointly by the parties.  ANALYSIS: This motion is brought by Judgment Creditors Eve Somer, as Trustee of the Eve Somer Living Trust dated July 1, 2020, and Gregory C. Yaitanes, as Trustee of the Gregory C. Yaitanes Family Trust (Judgment Creditors), who argue that they are the owners of the Oakdell Road property previously owned by plaintiffs and cross-defendants the Mellenthin parties, who were judgment creditors under the Judgment in this case.  Judgment Creditors indicate that they now own the subject property pursuant to a Grant Deed recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on June 2, 2023.  [Davis Decl., para. 3, Request for Judicial Notice, para. 1, Ex. 1].   Judgment Creditors evidently seek to amend the Judgement pursuant to its terms, although the relevant terms are not quoted for the court.  It appears that the relevant terms would be as follows:“7. The revocable licenses allow Defendants to maintain the encroaching trespasses for driveway wall and the pool deck wall without liability for damages and without enforcement by way of mandatory injunction and said revocable licenses shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of the following events: A. Plaintiffs sell their property commonly known as 3818 and 3330 Oakdell Road, Studio City, CA, 91604 and legally described in Exhibit “A” attached hereto…”8. The revocable licenses cannot be revoked unilaterally by Plaintiffs in the absence of the occurrence of any of the above-referenced conditions. Upon occurrence of any one of the four conditions in subparagraphs 6 A, B, C, or D above, Plaintiffs, or any subsequent owner of Plaintiffs’ property, will have one year to amend the judgment to obtain a mandatory injunction for Encroachment No 1 (driveway wall) and/or Encroachment No. 3 (pool deck wall), which mandatory injunction will issue automatically upon timely application to amend the judgment.9. In the event Plaintiffs or any subsequent owner of Plaintiffs’ property fail to make application within one year to amend the judgment to obtain the mandatory injunction, Defendants or any subsequent owner of Defendants’ property, must apply to the court within one year for an equitable easement for encroachment Nos. 1 and 3 which the court will grant automatically upon timely application. 10. If Defendants fail to apply to the court within one year, for an equitable easement for Nos. 1 and 3, Plaintiffs or any subsequent owner of Plaintiffs’ property, may apply at anytime thereafter to amend the judgment to obtain a mandatory injunction for removal of encroachment No 1 (the driveway wall) and Encroachment No. 3 (pool deck wall), which mandatory injunctions will issue automatically.”[Judgment, paras. 7-9].  The Judgment Creditors purchased Plaintiffs’ property through a Grant Deed executed on April 21, 2023, and recorded on June 2, 2023, and have brought this motion within one year of those dates, filing it on April 15, 2024.   It appears that Judgment Creditors, as subsequent owners of Plaintiffs’ property, are accordingly entitled to “amend the judgment to obtain a mandatory injunction for Encroachment No. 1 (driveway wall) and/or Encroachment No. 3 (pool deck wall), which mandatory injunction will issue automatically upon timely application to amend the judgment.”  [Judgment, para. 8].   This Amendment appears appropriate here.  The Judgment Creditors also request that the Judgment be amended to set a date certain by which Encroachments Nos. 1 and 3 are to be removed, and also request that since the other two encroachments addressed by the Judgment—the trespassing large pillar encroachment [Encroachment No. 2] and the trespassing electrical and plumbing encroachment [Encroachment No. 4]—still have not been removed, the Amended Judgment require that Encroachment Nos. 1-4 all be removed by the same date.   There is no provision cited in the Judgment for an Amended Judgment concerning the removal of Encroachments Nos. 2 and 4, so this Amendment will not be made.  The motion also indicates that Judgment Creditors are working with Judgment Debtors on a lot line adjustment which adjusts the boundary between them to address Encroachments 1-4, and that the parties have executed a Stipulation Re Lot Line Adjustment.  [Davis Decl., para. 4, Ex. B].  Judgment Debtors argue that Judgment Debtors have not yet submitted the lot line adjustment application to the City of Los Angeles, and request that the court hold the entry of the Amended Judgment in abeyance until the City of Los Angeles approves or denies the lot line adjustment. Judgment Creditors evidently filed this motion to amend in order to meet the one-year deadline for them to move to amend the Judgment included in paragraph 8.  Judgment Debtors in opposition indicate that the parties, outside of court, resolved the issues in this matter by way of agreeing to a lot line adjustment to adjust the boundary between the two properties to increase defendants’ property to include the area in which the encroachments are maintained, and that the lot line adjustment is ongoing and in good faith.  The opposition indicates that defendants have placed into escrow the agreed upon price of $25,000 to purchase the portion of Judgment Creditors’ property for the lot line adjustment.  The opposition indicates that the lot line adjustment has been submitted and is in process, and that it is expected that the process will take another 120 days to complete.   Judgment Debtors argue that this motion is accordingly premature and should not have been filed and should be continued for 120 days to permit the lot line adjustment process to proceed. The opposition is not supported by any declaration establishing any of the facts argued.  The opposition makes reference to the Stipulation submitted with the moving papers as Exhibit B but does not by declaration show that the lot line adjustment has been submitted, that escrow has opened, or facts explaining why it is expected to take 120 days for the lot line adjustment matter to be concluded.   However, the court will hear from the parties at the hearing, and will continue the motion, essentially, at the request of both sides, to permit a reasonable time for the lot line adjustment to be pursued by the parties with the City.   The opposition also makes an argument that seems to be that the motion to amend is not timely made pursuant to the Judgment, as Judgment Creditors had one year from the date the property was sold, and that plaintiffs transferred the property from their trust to Mary Mellenthin Bunzel as Trustee of the Mellenthin’s Survivor’s Trust on March 17, 2023.   The opposition submits a Request for Judicial Notice of an Affidavit—Death of Trustee, recorded November 29, 2022, which indicates that Michael Alfred Mellentin, decedent, was named as one of the trustees of the Mellenthin Family Trust, that Donna Mellenthin, a named trustee resigned as trustee of that trust, and that Mary Mellentin Bunzel is the duly appointed trustee who has consented to act.  [RFJN, Ex. A].  The documentation supporting the actions by the various trustees is included.  The opposition also submits a Trust Transfer Deed in which Mary Mellenthin Bunzel, as Trustee, granted Mary Mellenthin Bunzel, as trustee of the Mellenthin Survivor’s Trust, the subject property for no consideration.  [RFJN, Ex. B].  The Deed is dated March 17, 2023, and was recorded March 24, 2023.  [Id].   This Mellenthin Survivor’s Trust is the entity which then transferred the property for a valuable consideration to Judgment Creditors via the Grant Deed submitted by Judgment Creditors, which is dated April 21, 2023, and was recorded on June 2, 2023.  [RFJN Ex. 1].  The argument appears to be that this transfer between the trusts is a complete divesting of the property from the plaintiffs in this action to a third party, so that the transfer was a triggering event for defendants to file a motion for a permanent equitable easement, but defendants were not notified of the transfer.   There is no clear argument that due to this timeline, Judgment Creditor’s current motion is not timely, but if the dates in March 2023 are applied, this motion was not filed within one year, as it was filed on April 15, 2024.  In any case, there is a strong argument that the subject transfer, by the same trustee to another family trust was not in any case an “occurrence” under the Judgment’s language, which refers to the event that “Plaintiffs sell their property…”  [Judgment, para. 7].   The subject Grant Deed did not clearly reflect a “sale” of the property.   The argument appears instead to be that Judgment Creditors should be estopped to make their motion because plaintiffs and plaintiffs’ successor trust had an obligation under the Judgment to notify defendants of the transfer, but failed to do so, and that the only reason the transfer to another trust was made was to circumvent the Judgment in this case and prevent defendants from seeking redress for a permanent equitable easement in a timely manner.     The opposition argues that the Judgment required plaintiffs to notify defendants if and when the property was transferred, stating, “The Court was very specific.”   The opposition fails to cite to any provision of the Judgment or any order of the court to this effect.   A review of the Judgment itself shows that there was no specific mention made of an obligation to give notice of a transfer, or a sale.  A review of the Statement of Decision similarly does not appear to show that such an obligation was imposed.  [See Statement of Decision, pp. 8-15].  The court is inclined under the circumstances to not deny the motion based on this lack of notice argument but will hear from the parties at the hearing concerning whether additional briefing should be required in advance of any continued hearing date to further explore the issues.  The court is also cognizant of the fact that defendants have not pursued to resolution a motion under the Judgment within one year of any of the dates at play, so that evidently paragraph 10 of the Judgment would apply, in effect that: “If Defendants fail to apply to the court within one year, for an equitable easement for Nos. 1 and 3, Plaintiffs or any subsequent owner of Plaintiffs’ property, may apply at any time thereafter to amend the judgment to obtain a mandatory injunction for removal of encroachment No 1 (the driveway wall) and Encroachment No. 3 (pool deck wall), which mandatory injunctions will issue automatically.”  [Judgment, para. 10, emphasis added]. While this motion could arguably be premature, it can now be brought at any time, and another motion could easily be pursued.   The opposition also seeks, alternatively to the continuance, that the court deny the motion altogether and issue a permanent equitable easement in this case.  No basis for entering such an order has been established by the opposition, and no separate motion has been made.  The alternative relief is not granted.  RULING:Judgment Creditors’ Application to Amend Judgment is CONTINUED to December 6, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. [120 days requested in opposition].  The Court will hear argument concerning what a reasonable continuance would be to permit the parties to pursue a lot line adjustment with the City of Los Angeles, and the current status of that proceeding, and of escrow.  The Court will also hear arguments with respect to whether any further briefing is necessary or will be permitted prior to the continued hearing date.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 