 Case Number:  23SMCV01166    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No.
Kayne, et. al. vs. GK Management
Co., Inc. et. al., Case No. 23SMCV01166
 
Tentative Ruling re:  Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
GK
Management Co., Inc. and Dolphin Marina LTD (Defendants) move for summary
adjudication against Marc Kayne and Paula Kayne (Plaintiffs) as to their first,
second, fifth, sixth, and eighth causes of action. Plaintiffs oppose summary
adjudication only as to their first cause of action for common law wrongful
eviction and their eighth cause of action for breach of contract. The Court
grants summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ second, fifth, and sixth causes
of action. Summary adjudication is denied as to Plaintiffs’ first and eighth
causes of action.
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party can
show evidentiary support for a claim or defense and if not to enable an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code
of Civil Procedure Section 437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, a
moving defendant “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the opposing plaintiff “to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Plaintiffs
leased an apartment with Dolphin Marina Apartments and were displaced on June
3, 2022, due to heavy construction. (Kayne Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs did not
return their keys and intend to return to their unit once construction is
completed. (Id. ¶¶ 30.) Plaintiffs have not paid rent during the period
of displacement pursuant to a provision in their lease. (Id. ¶ 5, Ex.
C.)
Defendants
have not met their burden regarding Plaintiffs’ first cause of action.
Plaintiffs’
first cause of action is for common law wrongful eviction. Plaintiffs must show
a breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment through eviction. (Ginsberg
v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 897.) Where the landlord ousts the
tenant, there has been an actual eviction. (Ibid.) “If the landlord’s
acts or omissions affect the tenant’s use of the property and compel the tenant
to vacate, there is a constructive eviction.” (Ibid.) In either case,
the tenant must vacate the property to have a claim. (Ibid.) 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs cannot establish that they have vacated their unit.
Plaintiffs have retained their keys. (Kayne Decl. ¶¶ 30.) In response to a
notice of belief of abandonment, Plaintiffs stated that they did not intend to abandon
the property permanently. (O’Brien Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs have not reentered
their unit because they do not have a hazmat suit. (Kayne Decl. ¶ 29; Jafari
Decl. ¶ 4.) Additionally, the construction addendum signed by Plaintiffs does
not require Defendants to release the unit upon the completion of renovations.
(Kayne Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. B.) Defendants have not met their burden of showing that
Plaintiffs cannot establish they have vacated their unit. While Plaintiffs have
retained their keys and intend to return once construction is complete, there
is evidence that they were forced to leave the unit. (Id. ¶ 19.) 
Additionally,
Plaintiffs make a showing of constructive eviction. A constructive eviction
occurs when a landlord, by act or omission, “renders the premises, or a
substantial portion thereof, unfit for the purposes for which they were leased.”
(Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 926.) Here, Defendants
began construction on the roof of Plaintiffs’ unit in March of 2022. (Kayne
Decl. ¶ 8.) Dust and debris filled their unit. (Id. ¶ 9.) This likely
contained asbestos based on notices sent by Defendant. (Id. ¶ 11–12.)
Such conditions render a dwelling unfit for habitation and could constitute
constructive eviction. Plaintiffs’ evidence showing that they are not allowed
to return to the unit demonstrates that they have vacated. Thus, Defendants
have not shown that any elements of the cause of action for wrongful eviction
cannot be established. Summary adjudication is denied as to this cause of
action.
Defendants
have not met their burden regarding Plaintiffs’ eighth cause of action. 
Plaintiffs’
eighth cause of action is for breach of contract. A party suing for breach of
contract must establish: (1) the existence of a contract; (2) Plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for non-performance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4)
resulting damage to Plaintiff. (Piedmont Capital Management, LLC v. McElfish
(2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 961, 968.) 
Here,
the first element is undisputed. A lease exists between Plaintiffs and Dolphin
Marina Ltd., signed September 29, 2018, by both parties. (Kayne Decl. ¶ 2, Ex.
A.) Defendants argue that Plaintiffs cannot prove the third element, that
Defendants breached the lease. The lease states that construction activities
would normally occur between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. (Ibid.)
Plaintiffs also signed a construction advisory acknowledgement, stating that
“[c]onstruction hours are scheduled for 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday Friday,
but may be altered, extended, changed or modified as permitted by the City of
Marina Del Rey.” (Id. ¶ 3, Ex. B.) If inconsistent provisions exist, the
acknowledgement prevails over the lease. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs observed
construction occurring before 7 a.m. on multiple occasions. (Id. ¶ 4.)
First,
Defendants argue that there is no breach when construction hours exceed the
limits within the lease, because the lease states that construction activities
would “normally” occur between those hours. However, the lease terms regarding
construction are superseded by the acknowledgement, which contains no such
qualifier. Under the terms of the acknowledgment, Defendants are in breach if
construction occurs outside of the 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. window unless those hours
are “altered, extended, changed, or modified as permitted by the City of Marina
Del Rey.” (Id. ¶ 3, Ex. B.) 
Next,
Defendants argue that the acknowledgment gives discretion to change the hours
of construction without being in breach. Indeed, the acknowledgement gives
Defendants permission to alter, extend, or change the hours. However,
Defendants are restricted to those hours permitted by the “City of Marina Del
Rey.” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs argue that this language is ambiguous because
Marina Del Rey is an unincorporated region of Los Angeles County. This language
is not ambiguous. The permitted hours of construction are governed by the same
laws governing Marina Del Rey: Los Angeles County ordinances. In Los Angeles
County, “[o]perating or causing the operation of any tools or equipment used in
construction, drilling, repair, alteration or demolition work between weekday
hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. . . . is prohibited.” (Los Angeles County
Code, § 12.08.440.) 
Plaintiffs
offer evidence that construction occasionally occurred before 7 a.m. while they
lived in the unit. (Kayne Decl. ¶ 4.) This would constitute breach under the
acknowledgement because it is prohibited by the City of Marina Del Rey. Thus,
Defendants have not demonstrated that this element of the cause of action
cannot be established. Summary adjudication is denied as to this cause of
action.