

Hearing Date:             May 24, 2024  
Case Name:                 Rebecca West, et al. v.
Eduardo Thackeray, et al.
Case
No.:                    19STCV24892
Motion:                       Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Eduardo
Thackeray 

Responding Party:      Plaintiffs Rebecca West and Luca
Giorgetti


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Defendant Thackeray’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is overruled.  
 

 
Background
 
            Plaintiffs
Rebecca West and Luca Giorgetti purchased property located at 1217 Daniels
Street in Los Angeles, CA from Defendant Eduardo Thackeray, the seller.  Plaintiffs purchased the home based on the
misrepresentation of Defendant Belen Palacios, the real estate agent showing
the house.  Plaintiffs allege Defendant
Palacios misrepresented to them that the home had fully approved plans for a 1,050
square foot addition to the property.  After
purchasing the home, Plaintiffs allege they discovered that Defendant Thackeray
had revoked those plans before he put the property on the market and the plans
could not be reinstated.  
 
            Plaintiffs
filed this action on July 16, 2019.  The
operative complaint is the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed on January 17,
2020.  The FAC alleges (1) intentional
misrepresentation; (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3) breach of fiduciary
duty; and (4) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  
 
            On August
20, 2020, the Court granted Plaintiff West’s motion to compel arbitration of
the claims against Defendant Thackeray.  On
December 5, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs motion to confirm the
arbitration award they obtained against Defendant Thackeray.  On January 19, 2024, the Court entered
judgment on the arbitration award in favor of Plaintiff West and against
Defendant Thackeray in the amount of $466,539.86.  
 
            On February
27, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a dismissal without prejudice as to Defendant Alex
Griswold.  As such, the only claims in
the FAC that remain pending are (1) West and Giorgetti’s claims Defendants Belen
Palacios and Rodeo Realty and (2) Giorgetti’s claims against Thackeray.  
 
Demurrer
 
            A demurrer
is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either
the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
. . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Evidence
Code §451 provides:
 
“Judicial notice shall be taken of the following:
 
(a) The decisional, constitutional, and public statutory law
of this state and of the United States and the provisions of any charter
described in Section 3, 4, or 5 of Article XI of the California Constitution.
 
(b) Any matter made a subject of judicial notice by Section
11343.6, 11344.6, or 18576 of the Government Code or by Section 1507 of Title
44 of the United States Code.
 
(c) Rules of professional conduct for members of the bar
adopted pursuant to Section 6076 of the Business and Professions Code and rules
of practice and procedure for the courts of this state adopted by the Judicial
Council.
 
(d) Rules of pleading, practice, and procedure prescribed by
the United States Supreme Court, such as the Rules of the United States Supreme
Court, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure, the Admiralty Rules, the Rules of the Court of Claims, the Rules of
the Customs Court, and the General Orders and Forms in Bankruptcy.
 
(e) The true signification of all English words and phrases
and of all legal expressions.
 
(f) Facts and propositions of generalized knowledge that are
so universally known that they cannot reasonably be the subject of dispute.”
 
            Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice pursuant to Evidence Code §451(a) is DENIED.
Defendant asks that the Court judicially notice the ADR arbitrator’s order granting
in part Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication and the Final Arbitration
Award.  Neither of these documents falls
within any of the categories of judicially noticeable documents that must
be judicially noticed under Evidence Code §451(a).  
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
Thackeray demurs to the FAC on grounds of res judicata (claim preclusion) and
collateral estoppel (issue preclusion).  Defendant
argues the arbitration between himself and Plaintiff West resolved all claims
alleged against him in the FAC.  Defendant
argues his demurrer should therefore be sustained without leave to amend and
all claims against him should be dismissed.
 
            On January
19, 2024, the arbitration award in favor of West and against Thackeray was
confirmed and entered as a judgment against Thackeray.  (Judgment filed on January 19, 2024.)  No judgment has been entered on Giorgetti’s
claims, nor is Giorgetti a claimant in the arbitration award.  Counsel for both West and Giorgetti contends
that the entry of Judgment against Thackeray resolved all claims against him by
those parties.
 
            Thackeray’s
demurrer is overruled on both procedural and substantive grounds.  Procedurally, the demurrer is extremely
untimely.  Thackeray had 30 days after
service of the FAC to file a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §430.40(a).)    The
FAC was filed on January 17, 2020 but the docket does not reflect when the FAC
was served. However, Thackeray filed an opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Compel Arbitration on August 7, 2020. 
The time to demur to the FAC has long passed.  
 
            Substantively,
the Judgment was entered in West’s favor against Thackeray on the claims
alleged in the FAC.  The judgment
therefore establishes that the FAC states a cause of action against him.  
 
            In
addition, Thackeray’s demurrer rests entirely on his request for judicial
notice.  Thackeray’s request for judicial
is denied.  The arbitrator’s Final Award
and Order granting in part and denying in part Thackeray’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication therefore cannot be considered on demurrer.  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or
via proper judicial notice.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70; Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)
 
            Defendant
Thackeray’s demurrer is overruled. 