 Case Number:  22TRCV00912    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  8 
Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:  April 22, 2024 CASE NUMBER:  22TRCV00912 CASE NAME:  Daniel Sydney Andrews v. Smart & Final LLC, et al.   MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Smart & Final Stores, LLC  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Daniel Sydney Andrews TRIAL DATE:   June 3, 2024 MOTION:  (1) Motion to Compel Further Deposition Testimony of Daniel Sydney Andrews (2) Request for Monetary Sanctions   Tentative Rulings:  (1) ARGUE OR CONTINUE hearing, given the recent birth of a daughter to Plaintiff’s counsel and his partner  (2) Request for Monetary Sanctions also to be argued or continued    I. BACKGROUND Factual On October 10, 2022, Plaintiff, Daniel Sydney Andrews (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Smart & Final LLC, Smart & Final Stores, LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleged causes of action for: (1) Premises Liability; and (2) General Negligence. This matter arises out of an alleged slip and fall incident that occurred on June 28, 2022, in front of the ice box of the Smart and Final store located in Redondo Beach, California. Plaintiff has alleged that he slipped on liquid on the floor, and that Smart and Final was not vigilant in drying or cleaning the floor prior to the incident.   Per the moving papers, Smart & Final’s counsel assert that on November 21, 2023, this Court ordered Plaintiff’s deposition be held on January 5, 2024. At that deposition, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s counsel engaged in gamesmanship, and gave Plaintiff a variety of improper instructions with no basis in law and intended solely to disrupt the discovery process. Per the moving papers, on March 6, 2024, Smart & Final’s counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding what Plaintiff contends were lawful instructions. Nonetheless, Defendant asserts that counsel for Plaintiff refused to embrace a follow-up deposition on the disputed questions.  As such, Defendant now files this motion to compel further deposition testimony of Plaintiff, Daniel Sydney Andrews and has requested monetary sanctions.  B. Procedural   On March 21, 2024, Defendant brought this Motion to Compel the deposition of Plaintiff, Daniel Sydney Andrews. On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an non-substantive opposition seeking the opportunity to raise factual and legal issues at the hearing because he was unable to prepare a substantive brief or declaration due to the recent birth of his daughter. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief.   II. ANALYSIS  Legal Standard  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 permits a party to seek a motion to compel a deposition where a deponent fails to appear or produce documents at a deposition. The motion is permissible after a party fails to appear without having served a valid objection pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) The motion must include specific facts demonstrating good cause for the production of documents or items, and must be accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts demonstrating that a good faith and reasonable attempt at informal resolution has been made. (Id., subd. (b).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides in relevant part that “[i]f a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document…under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.” (Id. at subd. (a).) The motion must be made “no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b); see also Weinstein v. Blumberg (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 316, 321 [the 60-day deadline is mandatory].) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on the motion, the moving party “shall lodge with the court a certified copy of any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to the motion.” (Id., subd. (h).)  Discussion   Meet and Confer   The motion must “be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary sanctions if the motion to compel is granted unless the one subject to sanctions acted with substantial justification or other circumstances would make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  Defendant notes that on March 6, 2024, Defendant met and conferred with counsel regarding counsel’s unlawful instructions. However, Defendant contends that counsel refused to respond to the meet and confer overture.   Motion to Compel Further Deposition Testimony   Defendant Smart & Final notes that its counsel attempted to elicit testimony regarding several topics, including the date plaintiff sought counsel, the contact information of relevant witnesses, and other matters. Defendant acknowledges that Plaintiff has brought a premises liability claim and has alleged that he slipped, fell, and injured himself, claiming that it was Defendant’s negligence that caused the incident. As such, Defendant contends that it is its right to ask questions related to Plaintiff’s contributory negligence in this incident. However, Defendant notes that when Plaintiff was asked such questions, Plaintiff’s counsel did not even attempt to object, but merely provided his own opinion on the question and instructed his client not to answer. Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration in opposition has asked this Court allow it to bring forth evidence at the hearing to oppose this motion as the birth of Plaintiff’s counsel’s child has prevented him from being able to formally oppose the motion. The Court will allow for such, and may be inclined to continue the hearing if new matters are raised as to which Defendant would be entitled to reply. Specifically, the first line of questioning raised by this motion occurred when Defendant sought for Plaintiff to answer a hypothetical question which asked: “You would try to avoid the condition which you have if you had seen it before you fell; true?” Instead of answering the hypothetical, counsel for Plaintiff objected and stated: “Objection. Again, now we’re boarding on harassing territory. The questions are highly inappropriate. They’re not even just incomplete hypotheticals. They’re hypotheticals that do not pertain to the facts of the case. And I’m instructing the witness not to answer.”  As to the first line of questioning raised in this motion, the Court tentatively agrees that the objection was an improper speaking objection. "It is generally improper for counsel to instruct a witness not to answer a question unless it pertains to privileged matters. (Stewart v. Colonial W. Agency (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015.) If the deponent’s counsel believes that the questions are oppressive or harassing, then the counsel may suspend the deposition in order to seek a protective order. (Id.) As the Court of Appeal stated, “The fact that suspension is available only where an interrogation into improper matters reveals an underlying purpose to harass, annoy, etc., indicates that witnesses are expected to endure an occasional irrelevant question without disrupting the deposition process.” (Id.) Plaintiff’s objection did not relate to privacy or privileged information, and Plaintiff did not move for a protective order. As such, and pending belated substantive opposition from Plaintiff’s counsel, the Court is inclined to grant the Motion to Compel further Deposition Testimony as to this question.  Next, Defendant notes that at Plaintiff’s deposition, Defense counsel asked: “When did you retain your attorney in this case?” Instead of responding, Plaintiff’s counsel stated: “It’s privileged, and it’s none of your business. Instructing him not to answer.” Although privilege objections are permissible and instruction not to answer them may be proper, the date of when someone retained an attorney does not fall under the attorney-client privilege objection. (State Farm Fire And Casualty Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 54 Cal. App.4th 625, 640) As such, the Court also is inclined to grant this further testimony as to the retention of Plaintiff’s counsel pending Plaintiff’s counsel’s explanation sought to be presented at the hearing.  Lastly, Defendant notes that during the deposition, Plaintiff promised to provide evidence relevant to Plaintiff’s damages claim, but failed to do so. Defendant contends that Plaintiff is making a claim for lost wages, Plaintiff identified and promised to provide the contact information for clients who retained his services and as to which he claims to have lost income by reason of his injuries. However, Defendant suggests that counsel for Plaintiff is withholding the information relevant to Plaintiff’s lost wages claims.  Here, as Plaintiff’s counsel has indicated he has recently had a child, the Court will defer to Plaintiff’s counsel on whether the delay and/or withholding of evidence in this case has to do with this life event, and whether Plaintiff’s counsel intends to provide such relevant to Defendant now that he is back in office.  Sanctions With Defendant’s moving papers, Defendant has requested sanctions in the amount of $2,265 allegedly accrued as the cost of making this motion. “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(j).) Defendant’s counsel, Mark Derflinger (“Derflinger Decl.”) has filed a declaration, noting that his hourly rate for this matter is $210 (Derflinger Decl., ¶ 6); that he spent 6.5 hours to research, draft, and rather exhibits for the motion; spent 1.5 hours meeting and conferring with Plaintiff’s counsel; anticipates spending 2.5 hours on attending the hearing; and has spent $60 on the filing fee.  Here, the Court notes that it is inclined to hear Plaintiff’s counsel’s arguments during the hearing to discuss the reasoning behind why evidence has not been provided, and why such objections were given during the deposition before deciding on the propriety and amount of nay monetary sanctions.   

