  Case Number:  18STCV07964    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


18STCV07964




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside Dismissal 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Alexander Mota




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Athena Parking, Inc. and Los Angeles Unified School District 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 11, 2018, Plaintiff Alexander Mota, a minor by and through
his guardian ad litem Teresa Munguia (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Mitchell Castillo, Athena Parking, Inc., Raul Infante, Los Angeles
Unified School District, City of Los Angeles, Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles, and Does 1 to 50 for damages due to the death of Plaintiff’s
father. 
 
On December 11, 2023, the Court granted Defendants Athena Parking,
Inc. and Los Angeles Unified School District (“Defendants”) motion for
terminating sanctions for failing to abide by a discovery order and misusing
the discovery process. The motion was based on an October 18, 2023 discovery
order to deem the truth of Requests for Admissions (“RFA”) against Plaintiff.
(Min. Order, 10/18/23.) The RFA was served on August 15, 2023, however because
Plaintiff asserted that he did not receive actual notice of the discovery
because it was directed to his “spam” folder, the Court denied the motion and
ordered Plaintiff to serve verified responses by November 3, 2023. (Ibid.)

 
On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to set aside the
dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). Defendants oppose. No
reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A.
Mandatory Relief
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise,
it is discretionary. Mandatory relief is only available when a party fails to
oppose a dismissal motion (“which are procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) With an attorney affidavit of
fault, there is no requirement that the attorney’s mistake or inadvertence be
excusable. (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 770.) The
affidavit also does not need to contain a reason for the mistake. (Martin
Potts & Associates, Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 432,
438.) However, there is a split of authority of whether the attorney must be
solely responsible to use the mandatory provision. (Compare Lang v. Hochman
(2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1248 [to use the mandatory provision, the attorney
must be the sole cause of the default or dismissal] with Benedict v. Danner
Press (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 923, 928–29 [“[Section 473(b)] merely requires
that the attorney's conduct be a cause in fact of the entry of default . . .
but does not indicate that it must be the only cause.”].) 
 
The
mandatory relief provision of section 473(b) also applies to dismissals entered
as a terminating sanction for discovery abuse. (Rodriguez v. Brill
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 715, 725–26.) However, where the terminating sanctions
were imposed for failure to provide discovery responses, the motion must be
accompanied by verified responses to the discovery in question. (Id. at
729 [“The rationale for including the proposed document is to avoid further
delays by compelling the delinquent party to demonstrate a readiness to proceed
on the merits. [Citation.] This rationale applies with equal force to tardy
discovery responses because they, like the failure to answer a complaint, can
delay the lawsuit.”].)  
 
B.
Discretionary Relief
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
To establish excusable neglect, “the proffered evidence
must show that the attorney’s error was excusable. [Citation omitted.] Neglect
is excusable only if a reasonably prudent person in similar circumstances might
have made the same error. [Citations omitted.] Relevant factors in addressing
counsel error include: ‘(1) the nature of the mistake or neglect; and (2)
whether counsel was otherwise diligent in investigating and pursuing the
claim.’ [Citation omitted.] ‘Conduct falling below the professional standard of
care, such as failure to timely object or to properly advance an argument, is
not therefore excusable.’ [Citation omitted.] ‘To hold otherwise would be to
eliminate the express statutory requirement of excusability and effectively
eviscerate the concept of attorney malpractice.’ [Citation omitted.]” (Huh
v. Wang (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1423 [holding that counsel who was
overwhelmed and disorganized and misfiled a summary judgment motion and did not
calendar the hearing date was not excusable neglect]; see also Ambrose v.
Michelin North America, Inc. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1354-55 [“A
reasonably prudent person just does not fail to include an essential request
for continuance and an accompanying affidavit in an opposition to a summary
judgment motion. As in Garcia, Ambrose does not argue that the mistake
was caused by a glitch in office machinery or an error by clerical staff.
Rather, Ambrose points to the ‘stresses of a busy law practice,’ the ‘hurry to
meet the deadline,’ and ‘several concurrent obligations due to other pending
litigation.’”].) “The distinction in the statute noted by the Supreme Court’s
use of the term ‘reasonably prudent person’ describes the obvious intent of the
Legislature to mandate relief only from mistakes fairly imputable to the
client, i.e., mistakes anyone could have made. The Legislature did not intend
to eliminate attorney malpractice claims by providing an opportunity to correct
all the professional mistakes an attorney might make in the court of litigating
a case.” (Generale Bank Nederland v. Eyes of the Beholder Ltd. (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1384, 1400.) 
 
The discretion of the Court “is not a capricious or arbitrary
discretion, but an impartial discretion, guided and controlled in its exercise
by fixed legal principles. It is not a mental discretion, to be exercised ex
gratia, but a legal discretion, to be exercised in conformity with the spirit
of the law and in a manner to subserve and not to impede or defeat the ends of
substantial justice.” (Carroll v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (1982) 32
Cal.3d 892, 898 [citation and quotations omitted].) “The policy that favors
trying all cases and controversies upon their merits should not be prostituted
to permit the slovenly practice of law or to relieve courts of the duty of
scrutinizing carefully the affidavits or declarations filed in support of
motions for relief to ascertain whether they set forth, with adequate
particularity, grounds for relief.” (Id. at 900.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion is timely because it was filed within six months after the motion
for terminating sanctions was granted. Additionally, the mandatory provision
applies since the dismissal resulted from a terminating sanction. 
 
            The
Declaration of Reye Valenzuela, Plaintiff’s counsel (“Counsel”), states that Defendants’
discovery was electronically served in August 2023 and re-directed to his spam
folder. (Valenzuela Decl. ¶ 4–5.) Counsel states that he realized this on
October 3, 2023 and notified Defendants of the problem. (Id. ¶ 8.) Later,
Plaintiff failed to serve discovery responses by the November 3, 2023 deadline
imposed by the Court. Counsel declares he was working on a separate case at the
time (Benjamin Vega vs. Erick Parra, BC609475) originally set for
October 23, 2023. Counsel declares the Vega trial was continued multiple times
to early November. He states: “[d]ue to the delays in the Vega Matter I
inadvertently, or by mistake forgot to respond to the written discovery.” (Id.
¶ 12.) After the Vega trial ended on November 15, 2023, Counsel states his
attention shifted to two jury trials set for December 2023. (Id. ¶ 14.)
He states: “I believe all of those factors led to my failure to provide written
discovery responses by November 3, 2023. Any reasonable person in my situation
would make the same mistake and fail to appear at the final status in this
case. . . . Thus, my failure to timely provide written responses to discovery
was due to my mistake, inadvertence and/or excusable neglect.” (Id. ¶¶
16, 18.)
 
            However,
here, Plaintiff fails to state in his declaration that Plaintiff has since served
verified responses to the discovery underlying the terminating sanction motion.
Plaintiff equally fails to attach copies of the discovery. (Rodriguez, supra,
234 Cal.App.4th at 729.) Therefore, the Court denies the request for relief
pursuant to the mandatory provision. 
 
            To the
extent that Plaintiff seeks relief under the discretionary provision, the
motion is also denied. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to
show the motion was granted out of his mistake, surprise, or excusable neglect.
As Defendants point out, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that he learned of the
spam folder issue on October 3, 2023, giving him ample time to review the
discovery and provide responses by the November 3, 2023 deadline. Plaintiff’s
counsel also fails to establish he has been diligent in conducting discovery in
this case. Here, there was not just one mistake or instance of neglect by
Counsel, but rather a pattern. The minute order granting terminating sanctions
observes this pattern including that Counsel received notice of the October 18,
2023 order, “but did not recall reading the portion which ordered responses to
be served by November 3, 2023.” (Min. Order, 12/11/23.) Plaintiff does not set
forth how this constitutes “excusable” neglect. This fact is also inconsistent
with counsel’s other assertion that he failed to respond to the discovery due
to trials in November and December; rather this suggests that Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to closely read the order. Lastly, Plaintiff fails to show that
a reasonably prudent person acting under the circumstances would have forgotten
to respond to the discovery due to the trial preparation. 
             
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies the motion to set aside dismissal.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 