  Case Number:  21STCV18885    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  39   TENTATIVE RULING



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV18885




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Joseph Daneshrad




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  D and M General Constructor, Inc.



 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff D and M
General Constructor, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges Defendant Joseph Daneshrad
(“Defendant”) represented Plaintiff in an underlying case: D and M General
Constructor, Inc. v. Eshaghian, et al. (Super. Ct. L.A. County, 2016, No.
BC609762). Plaintiff alleges Defendant withdrew from his representation of
Plaintiff shortly before trial and thereby disadvantaged Plaintiff.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 8(h), 10.)  Defendant moves for summary judgment on
Plaintiff’s complaint.  Plaintiff opposes
the motion.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
DISCUSSION
Defendant moves
for summary judgment, not summary adjudication. 
However, Defendant fails to address Plaintiff’s claim for breach of
contract.  In support of the claim for
breach of contract, Plaintiff alleges, in pertinent part, Defendant breached
the agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant by “failing to charge his client
only for services that were in fact rendered . . . .”  (Complaint, ¶ 8, subd. (o).)  The pleadings set the outer limits of
materiality in a summary judgment proceeding. 
(FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
382.)  “There is little flexibility in
the procedural imperatives of [Code of Civil Procedure section 437c], and the
issues raised by a motion for summary judgment (or summary adjudication) are
pure questions of law.  As a result,
section 437c is unforgiving; a failure to comply with any one of its myriad
requirements is likely to be fatal to the offending party.”  (Brantley v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1607.)  The Court,
therefore, denies the motion as procedurally defective.  The Court provides the following analysis to
assist the parties.
To prevail on the claim for attorney
malpractice, Plaintiff will have to show Defendant had a duty to use the skill,
prudence, and diligence that other attorneys commonly possess and exercise;
Defendant breached that duty; and Defendant’s breach of the duty caused damages
to Plaintiff.  (Landmark Screens, LLC
v. Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, LLP (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 238, 247-248.)  Defendant contends Plaintiff cannot show
Defendant’s breach of any duty to Plaintiff caused Plaintiff to sustain damages.
Plaintiff settled the claims in the
underlying action.  As such, to prevail,
Plaintiff must advance evidence to show “that a greater settlement was lost.”  (Filbin v. Fitzgerald (2012) 211
Cal.App.4th 154, 172.)  Defendant
presents evidence Plaintiff agreed to a settlement one week after substituting
in new counsel to replace Defendant in the underlying action.  (See Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. 7, p.
8.)[1]  As such, Defendant shifts the burden to
Plaintiff to provide  evidence demonstrating
Defendant’s conduct caused Plaintiff to lose the opportunity to settle for a
greater sum.  
In opposition, Plaintiff submits the
declaration of its current counsel, Steven A. Morris (“Morris”), who also
represented Plaintiff in the underlying action after Defendant withdrew from it.
Morris avers that, at the time of the settlement, Morris was concerned
Plaintiff would lose a pending summary judgment motion because Defendant had failed
to adequately oppose it.  As such, Morris
adds he was required to accept less in settlement on Plaintiff’s behalf than Plaintiff
should have obtained.  (Declaration of
Steven A. Morris in Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment, ¶¶ 7,
11-12.)  This evidence suffices to raise
triable issues of material fact in opposition to the motion.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of the court’s
order and to file proof of service of same.


