 Case Number:  23STCV06287    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV06287




MOTIONS


Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint;
Motion to Strike Prayer for Punitive Damages in Second
  Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant General Motors, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Tanisha Johnson



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Tanisha
Johnson (“Plaintiff”) alleges she purchased a defective vehicle from Defendant General
Motors, Inc. (“Defendant”).  Defendant
demurs to the fifth cause of action in Plaintiff’s second amended complaint.  Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer
for punitive damages in the second amended complaint.  Plaintiff opposes the motions.  
 
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations in the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322,
subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Plaintiff’s fifth
cause of action is for fraud by concealment. 
Plaintiff must allege fraud with particularity.  “This means: (1) general pleading of the
legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and
the policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.”  (Wilhelm
v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324,
1331.)  
“There are four
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendant
“knew (or should have known) that the cooling system had one or more defects
that can result in various problems . . . .” 
(Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 62); “while Defendant . . . knew about the
cooling system defect, Defendant . . . nevertheless concealed and failed to
disclose the defective nature of the Vehicle cooling system to Plaintiff prior
to and at the time of sale and thereafter” 
(id., ¶ 64); and “Defendant . . . acquired its knowledge of the
cooling system defect and its potential consequences prior to Plaintiff
acquiring the subject vehicle, though [sic] sources not available to
consumers such as Plaintiff, including but not limited to pre-production
testing data, early consumer complaints about the Cooling System Defect made
directly to [Defendant] and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled
from [Defendant’s] network of dealers, testing conducted by [Defendant] in
response to these complaints, as well as warranty repair and part replacements
data received by [Defendant] from [Defendant’s] network of dealers, amongst
other sources of internal information . . . .” 
(id., ¶ 66).  
Plaintiff does not
allege specific facts to support the generalities noted above.  Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer to
the fifth cause of action.  
The court notes Defendant
also argues the statute of limitations bars Plaintiff’s claim for fraud.  Plaintiff alleges she did not suspect her
vehicle was defective beyond repair until shortly before filing this
action.  (Second Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 33-34.)  Under the delayed discovery rule, a claim
does not accrue until “a plaintiff knew or should have known of the wrongful
conduct at issue.”  (April
Enterprises, Inc. v. KTTV (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 805, 832.)  Further, the statute of limitations did not
run while Defendant represented it could repair any defects the  vehicle may have had.  (Cardinal Health 301, Inc, v. Tyco
Electronics, Corp. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 116, 133–134.)  The Court cannot resolve on demurrer the
evidentiary issue of when Plaintiff knew or should have known of her claims
against Defendant.  
Plaintiff may
recover civil penalties, not punitive damages, for violations of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  (See
Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (c).) 
Accordingly, as the Court sustains the demurrer to the fifth cause of
action for fraud, the motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages is
moot.  
Plaintiff requests
leave to amend.  As the court has already
provided Plaintiff with two opportunities to allege a cause of action for
fraud, and Plaintiff has failed to do so, leave to amend would be futile, and
is unwarranted.  (Grieves v.
Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 168.)  However, this ruling is without prejudice to
Plaintiff’s ability to seek leave to amend should Plaintiff learn, through discovery
for example, of specific facts supporting a claim for fraud.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action is sustained without leave to
amend.  To the extent it is not moot,
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted.
Defendant is
ordered to provide notice of this order and file proof of service of same. 