 Case Number:  23STCV24384    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Dulce De La Cruz,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV24384




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Westlake Services, LLC, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 17, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendant Westlake Services, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff Dulce De La Cruz
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION IS GRANTED.
 
THE ACTION IS STAYED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants, asserting causes of action for FEHA violations.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists….”  (CCP § 1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration exists unless
the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s conduct, other
grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a pending court action
arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  
(CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the Dispute Resolution Agreement executed by Plaintiff on January 3,
2017, and updated and acknowledged by Plaintiff on August 1, 2019. (Decl.
Feldmeth, Exh. E.) The August 1, 2019 agreement provides, “The parties shall submit to binding arbitration before a neutral
arbitrator all disputes and claims arising out of submission of any employment
application or any and all disputes that may arise out of or already exist
related to my employment or relationship with Company...” (Id.) This action
arises from the parties’ employment relationship.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that she is not bound by the August 1,
2019 DRA because she does not recall receiving or acknowledging it and Defendant
has failed to establish Plaintiff’s assent. Plaintiff argues that if she is
bound to arbitrate, the 2017 DRA applies.
 
Defendant has provided the declaration of Megan Feldmeth, the Director
of Human Resources. Feldmeth declares that per the procedures of the ULTIPRO
application used by Defendant to distribute online documents, Plaintiff
acknowledged and accepted the August 1, 2019 DRA on September 17, 2019. (Decl.
Feldmeth, Exh. F.) This is sufficient to establish Plaintiff’s assent to the
agreement. The August 1, 2019 DRA applies.
 
Defendant has met its burden to
establish the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff to establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
Plaintiff asserts that the 2017 DRA is
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. Plaintiff makes no arguments
regarding the 2019 DRA. Plaintiff has failed to establish any defenses to
enforcement. 
 
Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED.


 