 Case Number:  22STCV29692    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTION TO VACATE
Hearing Date: 7/16/24¿¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29697
EVEREST NATIONAL INSURANCE
COMAPNY vs M2 CONCRETE PUMPING & CATALINA PACIFIC ¿ 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Everest National Insurance Company  
Responding Party: Defendant
Catalina Pacific Concrete Company 
Notice: Sufficient¿¿ 
 
Ruling: MOTION TO VACATE IS GRANTED 
 
Background
 
On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff Hector Hipolito filed a
personal injury case arising out of a construction site incident. On September
12, 2022, Everest National Insurance Company (“Everest”) filed the present
Worker’s Compensation subrogation claim against Defendants M2 Concrete Pumping
and Catalina Pacific Concrete Company. On August 22, 2023, the two cases were
deemed related, but they had separate trial dates. The present matter was set
for trial on March 11, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel did not appear for trial, and the case was subsequently dismissed
without prejudice. Plaintiff now moves the Court to vacate the dismissal.
 
In the moving papers, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a
declaration stating that in December 2023, it was clear that the Hipolito
matter would not be ready for trial on February 26, 2024; therefore, the
parties agreed to continue the trial date. Everest's counsel was involved in
selecting the new trial date and was included in the written stipulation to
continue the trial. As such, when the new trial date was set, counsel dropped
the March 11, 2024, trial date for Everest and entered the new trial date on
his calendar. Further, counsel also served the parties with a Notice of
Unavailability from February 29, 2024, through March 14, 2024.
 
On or about March 9, 2024, counsel for Plaintiff Hipolito
contacted Everest's counsel, informing him that the Everest matter remained on
the Court’s calendar for March 11, 2024. Because Everest's counsel was in
Maine, he reserved LA CourtConnect to make an appearance for the “Non-Jury
Trial.”
 
On March 11, 2024, Everest's counsel attempted to appear
telephonically; however, due to connectivity issues, he was only able to speak
with the clerk at 8:41 a.m. During this conversation, the clerk informed
counsel that Defense counsel had appeared in person at the Court and the Everest
matter had been dismissed without prejudice pursuant to CCP § 581(b)(3).
 
Legal
Standard 
 
“It is … well established that it is the
policy of the law to bring about a trial on the merits whenever possible, so
that any doubts which may exist should be resolved in favor of the application,
to the end of securing to a litigant his day in court and a trial upon the
merits.”¿(Frank E.
Beckett Co. v. Bobbitt¿(1960) 180 Cal.App.2d Supp. 921, 928.)
¿ 
Section 473, subdivision (b) provides
for two distinct types of relief—commonly differentiated as “discretionary” and
“mandatory”—from certain prior actions or proceedings in the trial court. (Luri
v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.) “Under the discretionary
relief provision, on a showing of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect,’ the court has discretion to allow relief from a ‘judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against’ a party or his or her
attorney.¿ Under the
mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney
declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,’ the court shall
vacate any ‘resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.’” (Ibid.,
internal citations and quotation marks omitted, quoting CCP § 473, subd. (b).)
 
The mandatory portion of section 473
requires the court to vacate a dismissal “whenever an application for relief is
made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect ... unless the court finds that the default
or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) A timely mea
culpa declaration by a plaintiff’s attorney establishing that a dismissal
was taken against her client as a result of attorney mistake, inadvertence, or
neglect deprives the court of the discretion to deny relief. (Tackett v.
City of Huntington Beach (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 60, 65.)
 
An application for relief under Code of
Civil Procedure section 473(b) must be made within a reasonable time and in no
case, exceeding six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding from which relief is sought. (CCP § 473, subd. (b).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff requests mandatory relief
under CCP § 473. Plaintiff has met the threshold requirements for mandatory
relief. First, the court order at issue is a dismissal. Second, the Motion was
filed within the 6-month deadline, as the dismissal was entered on March 11,
2024, and the current Motion to Vacate was filed on May 31, 2024. Third,
Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration attesting to mistake, inadvertence, or
neglect that allegedly led to the dismissal.
 
Defendant Catalina Pacific Concrete
Company filed an opposition arguing that under the 8th Amended Standing Order
for Personal Injury Hub, trial must be attended in person, not electronically
or over the phone. Therefore, Everest’s declaration only addressing the
connectivity issue is insufficient because the Court still would have dismissed
the matter even if there was no personal attendance, and Plaintiff's
declaration did not address why he did not attend the trial in person.
 
It is true that personal attendance is
required for trial pursuant to the 8th Amended Standing Order. However, the
Court disagrees with Defendant’s argument that even if Plaintiff did not have a
connectivity issue, the case still would have been dismissed and therefore, the
case was not dismissed as a result of Plaintiff’s counsel’s mistake. Although
personal attendance is required under the 8th Amended Standing Order for the
Court to assess the trial binders and other documents to issue a trial transfer
order, the lack of personal attendance does not necessarily lead to dismissal
of the action. Had Plaintiff’s attorney been able to connect on time, the Court
would have heard from counsel and entertained a continuance of the trial for
Plaintiff’s attorney to attend in person. The connectivity issue did play a
role in the dismissal of the present action.
 
The Court agrees with Defendant’s
analysis that two separate actions led to the dismissal of the claim: counsel's
connectivity issues and failure to appear in person. However, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration contains an admission of fault for both issues. Counsel
declares that when the parties stipulated to continue the trial to June 10,
2024, for the Hipolito matter, counsel mistakenly thought that was also
the trial date for the present case. Specifically, "Unfortunately, when
the Order Continuing Trial came in, I initially noted that on my trial calendar
as the new trial date. As such, the March 11, 2024, trial date in the Everest
matter was allowed to drop from my calendar. This was a mistake, and it was my
own doing. However, I continued ongoing discovery and preparation of the case
with the mistaken belief that we had a June trial date." As a result of
that calendaring error, Plaintiff was in Maine attending to the home care of
his mother during March 2024, when the trial in the present case was to be held.
Plaintiff was therefore unavailable to appear in person at the trial due to
counsel's calendaring error. Although Plaintiff did not emphasize this
calendaring error in the moving arguments and instead stressed the connectivity
issue, an affidavit attesting to the mistake that led to the dismissal has been
made.
 
The Court does not find counsel’s
mistake to be a mistake of law. Rather, due to counsel’s calendaring error,
counsel was in Maine and unavailable to attend the trial in person in
California. As a result, Plaintiff made a last-ditch attempt to avoid dismissal
by trying to attend the trial virtually. However, due to the connectivity
issue, this attempt was unsuccessful, leading to the dismissal of the claim. Further,
Plaintiff’s counsel in the reply attached a proposed stipulation to consolidate
action to fulfill the requirement that a motion under CCP 473 must be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading to be proposed to be
filed therein.
 
Overall, the Court finds that counsel’s
declaration has substantially complied with the requirement of CCP 473 and
counsel has attested to the mistakes that led to the dismissal of the case.
Thus, the Motion is granted.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the
court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must
include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the
identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others
may appear at the hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.  