 Case Number:  22STCV21640    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 7/16/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV21640 NEIL DEEPAK
PRASAD vs JOSE SILVA LOPEZ et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendants Jose Lopez and
Cordova Martir
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES IS MOOT
 
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
On January 29, 2024,
Plaintiff sent his Special Interrogatories, Set One, to Defendant Martir
Cordova and Special Interrogatories, Set One, to Defendant Jose Lopez.
Plaintiff gave Defendants an extension to respond by May 2, 2024. After not
receiving any responses, Plaintiff then informed Defendants that he would file
a motion to compel discovery responses if no responses were received by May 31,
2024. As of May 31, when the motion was filed, no responses to the discovery
requests at issue had been provided.
Plaintiff filed an
opposition and demonstrated that responses were served on June 11, 2024.
Therefore, the present motion is moot. However, the Court finds that sanctions
are appropriate under the circumstances. Plaintiff granted Defendants several
extensions to respond, first by May 2, 2024, and then by May 31, 2024. Despite
these extensions, no responses were provided by these deadlines.
Defendants argue that
they had prepared the responses but inadvertently failed to provide them by the
deadline. However, Plaintiff had notified Defendants that he would file a
motion if no responses were provided by the specified date. Plaintiff cannot be
faulted for following through on his stated intentions. Sanctions are imposed
in part to compensate a party for the time and effort expended in filing a
discovery motion. Defendants only served the discovery responses after the
motion had been filed. 
That said, given the simplicity of the issues
and based on the communication between the parties, the Court finds it likely
that Defendants would have provided the discovery responses had Plaintiff
communicated this to them prior to filing the motion and therefore the Court reduces the sanctions to $1,000 for
both motions.
Accordingly, the Court sanctions Defendants in the amount of $1000. Defendants
and their counsel are ORDERED to pay, jointly and severally, sanctions of $1000 to Plaintiff
within 30 days of today’s date. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.