


[1] LPCH suggests (and TWC does
not dispute in its opposition) that the misrepresentation
claims only concern IC and JJ’s medical
charges. In other words, no other patient’s medical charges are at issue for
those claims. Like the parties, the Court shall refer to the two pediatric
patients as IC and JC to protect the patients’ privacy.


[2]
TWC
did not identify anything wrong with the charges for IC’s
ventilation management services. (TWC’s response to LPCH’s
separate statement of undisputed material facts (“UMF”) ¶ 29.) TWC only
disputes 37 charges that LPCH claimed for JJ’s ventilation management. (UMF ¶
28.)


[3] Karmarkar attests
to having the following knowledge and experience. A charge description master (“CDM”) is a schedule of a hospital’s
gross billed charges and typically includes a charge code, description, and
price for each service listed. (Karmarkar Decl., ¶¶
2, 3.) “CPT stands for current procedural
terminology. A CPT code provides a uniform nomenclature for coding medical
procedures and services. Revenue codes are standardized codes that identify
specific services provided to patients.” (Karmarkar Decl., fn. 1.) “With respect to the
CDM, [Karmarkar’s] duties include pricing calculations, ensuring that the CDM
has charges for all services that LPCH provides, that the CPT and Revenue
codes’ are correct, and that the descriptions contained in the CDM match and
reflect the codes that are recorded.” (Karmarkar Decl., ¶ 3.) Karmarkar’s duties also include “ensuring
that after the charges have been set up in the CDM they are also set up in
Epic, LPCH’s billing system …. As part of [her] duties, [she has] gained
familiarity with how certain charges are captured and what triggers charging,
including the various kinds of documentation that support charging.” (Karmarkar
Decl., ¶ 4.) “With respect to billing, since becoming Executive Director of
Revenue & Billing Integrity in July 2023, [she has] had oversight of LPCH’s
billing and claims process for both professional and hospital billing. [She]
worked closely with the billing department for … the last eight years as part
of [her] role as Director of CDM & Revenue Capture.” (Karmarkar Decl., ¶
5.)


[4] “A hospital charge
description master [CDM], or chargemaster, is ‘a uniform schedule of charges
represented by the hospital as its gross billed charge for a given service or
item, regardless of payer type.’ (Health & Saf. Code, § 1339.51, subd.
(b)(1).) California hospitals are required to make their chargemasters public
and to file them with the Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development.
(Id., §§ 1339.51, subds. (a)(1), (b)(3), 1339.55, subd. (a).)” (Howell
v. Hamilton Meats & Provisions, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 541, 561, fn. 7.)

////////////////////////////////////////////Defendant Anthem’s Motion for
Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication.
 
BACKGROUND 
             Plaintiff The Wonderful Company (TWC) filed a
Complaint against defendants Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance
Company (Anthem) and Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Stanford (LPCH).  TWC contracted with Anthem to provide its
employees with access to Anthem’s provider network and negotiated rates.  Two children of TWC employees received
medical care at LPCH and, upon receiving the bill, TWC had an outside auditor
review the charges and alleged overbilling. 
TWC sued Anthem and LPCH for improper billing and a violation of contractual
and fiduciary obligations. 
            TWC
filed the Second Amended Complaint and asserted eight causes of action against
Anthem: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty: (4) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (5) Negligent Misrepresentation; (6) Concealment; (7)
Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code section 17200, et seq.; and (8)
Negligence. On July 3, 2024, Anthem filed its motion for summary judgment, or
in the alternative, summary adjudication. 
            
EVIDENTARY OBJECTIONS
Defendant Anthem Blue Cross Life and
Health Insurance Company’s Evidentiary Objections
-         
Sustained:
11 (Best Evidence), 13 (Authentication), 28 (Authentication), 33 (Lacks
Foundation)
-         
Overruled:
1-10, 12, 14-27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39.
Plaintiff The Wonderful Company’s
Evidentiary Objections
Jody Yommer’s Declaration
-         
Sustained:
1 (Lack of Foundation)
-         
Overruled:
2, 3, 4
Bridget Walsh Declaration
-         
Sustained:
None.
-         
Overruled:
1-28
Nancy Rodriguez Declaration
-         
Sustained:
10 (Lacks Foundation)
-         
Overruled:
1-9, 11-23.
                                                                  
LEGAL STANDARD
¿¿            [A] motion for
 summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there
 is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
 entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. “” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) The
moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
  826, 850.) If the moving party carries this
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
 opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
 of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
  389.)
            
DISCUSSION  
Breach of
Contract
The
elements of Breach of Contract are (a) existence of a contract; (b) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (c) defendant’s breach (or
anticipatory breach); and (d) resulting damage. 
(Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. N. Y. Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) The parties only dispute whether Anthem breached its
contractual obligations.
TWC
alleges that Anthem breached their contract by:
a)      Failing to properly process and
adjudicate the claims 
b)      Failing to notify TWC under Anthem’s
notification and payment policies
c)      Failing to prevent the drastic
increases in LPCH’s chargemaster 
d)      Failing to notify Anthem of LPCH’s
“excessive, outlier” contract rates. 
(SAC, ¶¶ 30, 31.)
According
to the evidence Anthem has produced, Anthem was not required to prevent
increases in the LPCH’s chargemaster and had no obligation to notify Anthem of its
contract rates from confidential contracts. 
(Braje Decl., Ex. “K”, Howe Dep. 354:10-23, 440:21-441:24.; Braje Decl.,
Ex. “W”, Rutledge Dep. 168:4-13, 200:25-201:5, 202:22-204:18; Rodriguez Decl.,
Ex. “A”.)  Anthem also produced evidence
that it followed its own procedures with respect to processing, notification
and investigating and reviewing the claims. 
(Walsh Decl., ¶ 18-31; Rodriquez Decl. ¶¶ 27-35, Ex. “E”.)  
To
prove there was no breach of contract when Anthem declined to provide the CME
Agreement between Anthem and LPCH, Anthem submits the depositions of Howe and
Rutledge who both testify that Anthem considers its contracts with providers to
be “proprietary” and that TWC’s contract with Anthem did not allow TWC to see
the underlying contracts with providers. 
It also submits the Administrative Services Agreement, which protects
provider agreements as proprietary. The Court finds that through the Howe and
Rutledge depositions, Anthem has met its initial burden of showing that it was
not contractually required to provide TWC with the CME Agreement.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)
To
prove there was no breach of contract because Anthem followed its notification
and adjudication policies, Anthem submits the declaration of its Director of
Health Benefits Organization Claims Operations for the Central and West
Markets, Bridget Walsh (Walsh), who testified Anthem had a multistep auditing
process, which included reviewing claims for coding and charges and the
accuracy of the claim based upon any applicable contract.  (Walsh Decl., ¶ 11-16.)  Anthem then issued multiple high dollar
notifications for the claims to TWC to begin the audit process.  (Walsh Decl., ¶ 22-40.)  Anthem completed its audit process, which
included calculating the case rate for the treatment, the stoploss payment, the
outlier rate, total allowance and the deduction for prior claim payments.  (Walsh Decl., ¶ 29.) Anthem meets its initial
burden of showing that it met its obligation of notification to TWC.  
Anthem
also submitted the Karmarkar declaration that states that $7,700 of overcharge
from incorrect code billing occurred but fails to meet its burden showing that
it reviewed the coding charges and accuracy of the claims based on the CME
Agreement. (Braje Decl., Ex. “X”, Karmarkar Decl. ¶¶ 37, 38, 44.) Thus, triable
issues exist regarding whether Anthem properly adjudicated the claims for
coding and accuracy under its policies. Summary adjudication is proper only if
it disposes of an entire claim.  (Catalano
v. Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 91, 97 [“summary adjudication is meant
to dispose of an entire substantive area”].) Anthem has not done so. Thus the
court denies summary adjudication of breach of contract. 
 
Breach of
the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
In
the second cause of action, TWC alleges that Anthem breached the duty of good
faith and fair dealing by:
a)      Entering into an agreement with LPCH
which unjustly enriched LPCH;
b)      Allowing LPCH to overcharge patients
and employees;
c)      Failing to notify TWC of high dollar
claims;
d)      Misrepresenting that claims were
“clean and payable”; and
e)      Misleading TWC that Anthem attempted
to secure a discount from LPCH
(SAC, ¶¶ 34-38.)
            According
to the evidence Anthem produced, Anthem retained complete control over their
contracts with providers, including the charge agreements.  (Rodriguez Decl., Ex. “A”, ASA Art. 2 §
s.)  Anthem also presents evidence, as discussed
above, that it followed the procedures for adjudication of claims, and
therefore, did not misrepresent the “clean and payable” nature of the
claims.  
The
elements for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing are:
(a) the existence of a contractual relationship; (b) implied duty; (c) breach;
and (d) causation of damages.  (E.g., Smith
v. San Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49. See also Careau & Co.
v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)  Parties only dispute if Anthem’s actions
constituted a breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
A.    
Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
To
prove there was no breach with respect to the contract and charges, Anthem
submits the ASA, which includes a provision that allows Anthem to build and
maintain their provider network as it wishes. 
(Rodriguez Decl., Ex. “A”, ASA Art. 2 § s.)  The implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing does not extend to create obligations beyond what was contemplated by
the contract.  (Pasadena Live v. City
of Pasadena (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1089, 1094.)  
The
Court finds that through the ASA, Anthem has met its burden of showing that it
did not breach the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing regarding
the contract provisions with LPCH.  
To
prove there was no breach with respect to the failure to notify and the
representations regarding the billing statements from LPCH, Anthem submits the
same evidence as discussed above. 
Similarly to the above discussion, Anthem submits evidence that the
claims went through their adjudication procedures and that there were several
later-identified coding errors.
Anthem
also presents evidence through the ASA that the billing mistakes were within
the margin of error covered in the quality assurance guarantee and, therefore,
cannot be a violation of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing.  (Rodriguez Decl., Ex. “A”,
Schedule C.)  
Anthem is incorrect in their assessment of the ASA’s quality
assurance provision.  The ASA’s quality
assurance provision provides that if the audits that Anthem performs fail to
comply with the Performance Guarantees (97% accurate) Anthem would be required
to pay a penalty.  (Rodriguez Decl., Ex.
“A.”)  A penalty requirement does not
prohibit TWC from seeking legal relief for inaccurate audits.  It also does not protect Anthem from a breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Anthem does not present
any additional evidence that their auditing process successfully audited the
LPCH bills.  
The
Court finds that Anthem has not met its burden of showing that it did not
violate the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing when is assured TWC
that the billing was free of errors because of its adjudication process.
Accordingly, the court denies summary adjudication.  
 
Breach of
Fiduciary Duty 
In
the third cause of action, TWC alleges that Anthem owed a fiduciary duty
because Anthem was the only party with access with sufficient information and
expertise required to review the reasonableness of charges.  TWC alleges that Anthem breached that duty
by:
a)      Entering into an agreement which
unjustly enriched LPCH;
b)      Approving inappropriate invoices
from LPCH;
c)      Overcharging TWC enrollees; and
d)      Threatening the loss of TWC’s access
to Anthem’s insurance network unless TWC paid the invoices.
(SAC, ¶¶ 41-44.)
According
to the evidence Anthem produced, Anthem did not owe TWC a fiduciary duty
because both companies were sophisticated parties whose contract did include a
fiduciary duty provision.  (Rodriguez
Decl., Ex. “A”, Art. 27 § a; Rodriquez Decl., ¶¶ 11-13; Braje Decl., “F”,
Resnick Dep. 24:9-25:13, 28:68.)  
The
elements of a breach of fiduciary duty are (a) the existence of a fiduciary
duty, (b) breach of that duty, and (c) damages caused by the breach.  (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 170, 182.)  Anthem only
disputes whether a fiduciary duty exists between the parties.  
A.     Fiduciary Duty
A
fiduciary duty exists when either a party (1) knowingly undertakes a fiduciary
duty or (2) enters into a relationship which imposes a duty as a matter of law.  (City of Hope Nat’l Med. Ctr. V.
Genentech, Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386.)  
A
fiduciary duty may arise under common law when a party voluntarily accepts or
assumes the confidence of the other party. 
(Hasso v. Hapke (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 107, 140.)
A
contract does not necessarily create a fiduciary duty, even if the parties have
unequal bargaining power or asymmetrical information.  (City of Hope 43 Cal.4th at 387-88.) The
existence of a fiduciary duty is typically a question of law.  (Marzec v. Pub. Emps’ Ret. Sys. (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 889, 915.)  But “it is a
question of fact whether one is… a party to a confidential relationship that
gives rise to a fiduciary duty under common law.  (Hasso 227 Cal.App.4th at 140.)
To
prove that there was no fiduciary duty imposed on Anthem under the ASA, Anthem
submits several sections of the ASA which includes the following provisions. 
The
ASA allows TWC to access Anthem’s contractual relationships and negotiated
rates.  (Rodriguez Decl., Ex. “A”, ASA
Art. 2 § s; Braje Decl., Ex. “D”, Rutledge Dep. At 131:13-132:2.)  Anthem is “strictly” an independent
contractor who administers certain aspects of TWC’s health plans, including the
negotiation of all communications with network providers (“responding to
Provider inquiries, negotiating rates with Providers or auditing Providers”),
and the adjudication of appropriateness of the claims.  (Rodriguez Decl., Ex. “A”, ASA Art. 2 §
s.)  Finally, Anthem’s contracts with
providers, which are used to adjudicate the claims, constitute a “nonpublic
trade secret” and is not available to TWC. 
(Rodriguez Decl., Ex. “A”, ASA p. 2, Art. 2 § s.)
The
Court finds that Anthem has not met its burden of showing that, as a matter of
law, it did not owe a fiduciary duty to TWC. 
The Court also finds that Anthem has not met its burden of showing that,
as a matter of fact, it did not owe a fiduciary duty to TWC given it took sole
responsibility for negotiating contracts with providers, which TWC did not have
access to, sole responsibility for communicating with providers, and their
complete control over the adjudication process. 

For
these reasons, summary adjudication of the third cause of action is denied. 
 
Misrepresentation
In
the fourth and fifth causes of action, TWC alleges that Anthem made
misrepresentations regarding appropriateness of the medical charges of the
pediatric patients, I.C. and J.J..  (SAC,
¶ 49.)
            According
to the evidence Anthem has produced, TWC never relied on the billing statements
produced by Anthem.  (Rodriguez Decl.,
Exs. “E”, “F”, “G”; Rodriguez Decl., ¶¶ 36-41; Braje Decl., Ex. “B”, Rodriguez
Dep. 60:4-21; Braje Decl., Ex. “D”, Rutledge Dep. 285:1-4; Braje Decl., Howe
Dep. 226:20-24; Braje Decl., Calderone Dep. 112:3-21.)  Additionally, Anthem argues that none of the
alleged misrepresentations were material, and Anthem did not have the required
scienter. 
“‘The
elements of fraud [i.e., intentional misrepresentation], which give rise to the
tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.’ [Citation.]” (Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue
Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 837 (“Tenet”).) 
 “[The
tort of negligent misrepresentation is similar to fraud, except that it does
not require scienter or an intent to defraud.” (Tenet, supra, 245
Cal.App.4th at p. 845.)   
A.     Misrepresentation
A
misrepresentation is “material” if a “reasonable man would attach importance to
its existence or non-existence in determining his choice of action.  (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 977.) 
Anthem
identifies four misrepresentations: (a) transplant type, (b) LPCH’s discount,
(c) Anthem’s review of the claims, and (d) LPCH’s services and Anthem’s payment
policies.  TWC only identified the last
two as material misrepresentations in the operative complaint.  (SAC, ¶ 49.)
To
prove that there were no false representations regarding Anthem’s review of the
claims, Anthem presents the same evidence as above: (1) the claims went through
Anthem’s audit process and (2) the process was more than “rechecking the
math”.  (Walsh Decl., ¶ 18-31; Rodriquez
Decl. ¶¶ 27-35, Ex. “E.”)  Anthem also
included the evidence that LPCH identified coding issues.  (Braje Decl., Ex. “X”, Karmarkar Decl. ¶¶ 37,
38, 44.)  Anthem also presents the
quality assurance provision as evidence that Anthem does not guarantee that all
claims are 100% accurate.  (Rodriguez
Decl., Ex. “A”, Schedule C.)
As
discussed above, Anthem is not alleging that the misrepresentation was that the
claims went through the process, but instead that the process was not as
thorough as Anthem represented, and that Anthem repeatedly assured TWC that the
claims were correct despite the coding mistakes that LPCH and Anthem include in
their evidence.  Similarly as discussed
above, Anthem provides the quality assurance guarantee, which imposes a penalty
against Anthem if their adjudications are less than 97% accurate.  
            The
Court finds that Anthem meets its initial burden of showing that it did not
represent the claims as 100% accurate; instead, it represented that the claims
had been through their adjudication procedure. 
(¿¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2)¿¿.) 
            However,
the Court also finds that Anthem did not meet its burden of showing that the
claims had been properly adjudicated in the procedure.  Regardless of whether Anthem only guarantees
that all claims over a specific time period are 97% accurate, Anthem also
guarantees that their adjudication process evaluates claims for deficiencies. 
            Scienter
Anthem
argues that TWC cannot prove scienter or negligence because TWC cannot prove
that Anthem had knowledge of every single line item in a 100+ day stay.  (Motion, p. 16.)
As
stated above, “[t]he tort of negligent misrepresentation does not require
scienter or intent to defraud.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 173.) Instead, “[i]t encompasses ‘[t]he assertion, as a fact,
of that which is not true, by one who has no reasonable ground for believing it
to be true’ [citation], and ‘[t]he positive assertion, in a manner not
warranted by the information of the person making it, of that which is not
true, though he believes it to be true’  [citations].” (Id. at p.
174; Fox v. Pollack (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 954, 962 [“Negligent
misrepresentation is a form of deceit, the elements of which consist of (1) a
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without
reasonable grounds for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce
another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) ignorance of the truth and
justifiable reliance thereon by the party to whom the misrepresentation was
directed, and (5) damages” (emphasis added)].) 
Anthem’s
main contention is that TWC does not provide proof that Anthem was aware of any
inaccuracies in the billing statements. 
(Motion, p. 16.)  
Anthem
produced evidence that the claims went through a thorough and multistep review
by specially trained auditors. (Walsh Decl. ¶¶ 2, 27-28, 39.)  After the review process, Anthem assumes that
every line item is correct.  (Miles
Decl., Ex. “F”, Walsh Depo. 45:6-12.)  A
reasonable company that contracts to review the entirety of claims would follow
its review processes and procedures, including reviewing line items and reviewing
for coding errors and application of the appropriate contract billing amounts.  Anthem does not provide evidence or legal
authority establishing that a reasonable corporation would not review each line
item as a claim as outlined by their own policies. 
To
support the argument that Anthem had the appropriate scienter for intentional
misrepresentation, TWC presents evidence that Anthem did not check to see if
the billing was properly adjudicated based on the CME and that TWC alerted
Anthem to issues with the claim after their third-party audit revealed several
compliance and coding issues.  (Milnes
Decl., Ex. “F”, Walsh Depo. 104:12-105:4; Milnes Decl., Ex. “H”, CERiS Audit
Report.)
Therefore,
Anthem’s argument that it was unaware of the accuracy of the line items goes
directly against its claim that the review process was thorough, and the
third-party audit sent to it by TWC before TWC paid Anthem for the claims. 
For
those reasons, the Court finds Anthem’s scienter argument unpersuasive. 
B.     TWC’s Reliance on Anthem’s
Representations
Anthem
argues that TWC cannot prove reliance because “TWC admits that it never
believed the bills that Anthem sent were true or correct.”  (Motion, p. 11.)  
As
stated above, both Negligent and Intention Misrepresentation require that the
injured party actually relied on the misrepresentation.
Anthem
presents evidence of email communications with TWC indicating that TWC was
skeptical of the total bills and requested additional information about the
claim and charges from the day it received the bill.  (Rodriguez Decl., Exs. “E”, “F.”)
            The
Court finds that Anthem meets its initial burden of showing that TWC questioned
the validity of the billing from the moment it reviewed the claims. 
            However,
TWC submits evidence that TWC relied on Anthem’s representations that the
claims were properly adjudicated despite their concerns when they reimbursed
Anthem for the claims.  (Milnes Decl.,
Ex. “F”, Walsh Depo. Vo. I 46:2-7; Milnes Decl., Ex. “L”, Walsh Depo. Vo. II
151:7-153:17; Milnes Decl., Ex. “C”, Tienken Depo. II at 174:8-13,
223:21-224:14; Rodriguez Decl., Ex. “F”; Milnes Decl., Exs. “R” and “S”; Milnes
Decl., Ex. “T”, Rutledge Depo. Vol. II 329:19-330:10; Miles Decl., Ex. “U”,
Howe Depo. Vol. I 225:8-226”4.)
            For
those reasons, the Court finds Anthem’s reliance argument unpersuasive.  
 
Concealment
            In
the sixth cause of action, TWC alleges that (1) Anthem failed to disclose facts
related to its investigation that it could have never discovered itself, (2)
Anthem knew about the claims for over a year and failed to notify TWC, and (3)
Anthem concealed information regarding LPCH’s pricing, including the following:
a)      The above market contract prices
with LPCH; and 
b)      The increase in LPCH’s chargemaster
above 7%.
(SAC, ¶¶ 58-61.)
            The
elements of concealment are largely the same as intentional misrepresentation:
(1) concealment, (2) a duty to disclose, (3) intentional concealment or
suppression of the fact with intent to defraud, (4) plaintiff was unaware of
the fact and would have changed its course of action if it had known, and (5)
resulting damage.  (Boschma v. Home
Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.)
            Anthem’s
argument against concealment is derivative of its argument against
misrepresentation.  Anthem argues that
either it had no duty to disclose or that the concealments were immaterial.
            Anthem
presents evidence that the ASA protects the CME Agreement with LPCH from
disclosure and does not require Anthem to disclose any additional information
about the changes in LPCH’s chargemaster, which was publicly available.  (Braje Decl., Ex. “K”, Howe Dep. 354:10-23,
440:21-441:24.; Braje Decl., Ex. “W”, Rutledge Dep. 168:4-13, 200:25-201:5,
202:22-204:18; Rodriguez Decl., Ex. “A”; Braje Decl. Ex. “X”, Karmarkar Decl. ¶
50.)  Anthem also presents evidence that it
followed its policies regarding notification of the high dollar claims.  (Walsh Decl., ¶ 18-31; Rodriquez Decl. ¶¶ 27-35,
Ex. “E”.)
            The
Court finds that Anthem has met its burden of showing that the duty to disclose
element of TWC’s concealment claim cannot be established, and TWC has failed to
meet its burden of showing a triable issue of material fact exists.  TWC alleges that Anthem failed to reveal that
it had not conducted a “thorough executive level review” and that it did not
disallow a single claim.  (Opp., p.
13.)  But does not cite to authority or a
portion of the ASA that establishes that Anthem had a duty to disclose this
information.  
            Therefore,
summary adjudication of the seventh cause of action for concealment is granted.
 
Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof.
Code section 17200,
et seq.
            The
Unlawful Business Practices cause of action covers both prongs of the Unfair
Business Practices statute.  (Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200.)  The Fraud Prong
requires (1) defendant’s affirmative misrepresentation, conduct or business
practice, or omission in violation of a duty of defendant to disclose, that (2)
is likely to deceive members of the public. 
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.)
            The
Unfairness Prong requires (1) a business practice; (2) that is unfair, lawful
or fraudulent; and (3) an authorized remedy. 
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.) 
            Anthem’s
sole argument as to the Unlawful Business Practices cause of action is that it
should be adjudicated as the fraud claims. 
(Motion, p. 20.)  
Given
the Court’s finding that triable issues remain as to the misrepresentation
claims, the Court denies summary adjudication of the seventh cause of action
for the violation of the Business & Profession Code section 17200.
 
Negligence
            The
elements of a Negligence cause of action are (1) legal duty owed to the
Plaintiff; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to plaintiff.  (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)
            Anthem
does not present any specific facts or argument regarding the negligence claim
in the Moving Papers.
            Therefore,
the court denies summary adjudication as to the eighth cause of action for
negligence.  
 
CONCLUSION 
The
court grants summary adjudication of the seventh cause of action for concealment
and denies summary adjudication of the other causes of action. 
The
court denies Anthem’s motion for summary judgment.
Defendant
shall give notice.