  Case Number:  19STCV30239    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  74 The Wonderful Company LLC v. Anthem Blue Cross Life and
Health Insurance Company, et al.
Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
BACKGROUND 
            Plaintiff The Wonderful Company LLC
(“TWC”) sues Defendant Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Stanford (“LPCH”) for
alleged improper billing and pricing of medical services, and Defendant Anthem
Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company (“Anthem”) for failing to question
those practices in breach of its contractual and fiduciary obligations as TWC’s
third-party administrator.   
The operative Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) asserts causes of action for (1) breach of contract (against Anthem),
(2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing (against
Anthem), (3) breach of fiduciary duty (against Anthem), (4) intentional
misrepresentation (against all defendants), (5) negligent misrepresentation
(against all defendants), (6) concealment (against all defendants), (7)
violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Section 17200, et. seq. (against all
defendants), and (8) negligence (against Anthem).
            On January 5, 2024, LPCH filed the
instant motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
On August 16, 2024, TWC filed its opposition.

On August 23, 2024, LPCH filed its reply.
            The jury trial is set for November
4, 2024.  
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            No
request for judicial notice has been filed. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            The
court rules on TWC’s objections to LPCH’s evidence as follows. Objection Nos. 1-37,
39-40, 42-51, 53-81, 83-89, 91, 93, and 98 are overruled. Objection Nos. 38, 41,
52, 82, 90, 92, and 94-97 are sustained. 
LPCH’s
Objection Nos. 1-2, 6, 7, 9-11, 13-18, and 25-26 are overruled. Objection Nos. 3,
4-5, 8, 12, 19-24, and 27-31 are sustained. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
 papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
 and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) The
moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
  (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If the moving party carries this burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
 summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
 party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
DISCUSSION  
LPCH moves for summary judgment or summary
adjudication of the SAC’s fourth (4th) cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation, fifth (5th) cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation, sixth (6th) cause of action for concealment, and
seventh (7th) cause of action for violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof.
Code Section 17200, et. seq. (i.e.., the Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”)).
Misrepresentation

In the fourth and fifth causes of action for intentional and
negligent misrepresentation, respectively, TWC alleges that LPCH made misrepresentations
regarding the medical charges of two pediatric patients, IC and JJ, [1]
including the following. 
(a)  
Charging
for ventilation management services when this service was never performed;
(b)  
Charging
for urinalysis testing allegedly performed by the laboratory when these
services were performed bedside, and therefore never rendered by the
laboratory; and 
(c)  
Double
billing for professional services, twice a day, for 35 days, contrary to coding
standards that LPCH represents it follows.
(SAC, ¶¶ 48, 53.)  
According
to the evidence LPCH has produced, TWC, in its discovery responses, “identified
[only] five different categories of charges that it claims LPCH unlawfully
billed for services not rendered [to IC and/or JJ]. [Those categories] are: (a)
charges for ventilation management services that TWC claims are not
documented in the medical records and therefore were not provided; (b) charges
for cross-match and typing services that TWC claims are not documented in
the medical records and therefore not provided; (c) charges for critical
care services under CPT Codes 99291 and 99292 for which TWC claims
there is no documentation to support that the level of care billed was actually
provided by LPCH; (d) charges for urinalysis testing conducted by
a lab when documentation allegedly does not support that the testing was
actually done in the lab; and (e) a charge for a Pediatric Intensive Care
Unit (‘PICU’) Level 3 stay.” (LPCH’s compendium of evidence, filed March 14, 2024 (“LCOE”), Tab 1 –
Declaration of Kristien Karmarkar (“Karmarkar Decl.”), ¶ 8 [emphasis added].)
“‘“The
elements of fraud [i.e., intentional misrepresentation], which give rise to the
tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment,
or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.”’ [Citation.]” (Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of
California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 837 (“Tenet”).)
 “[The tort of negligent misrepresentation is similar to fraud, except
that it does not require scienter or an intent to defraud.” (Tenet, supra,
245 Cal.App.4th at p. 845.)  
A.    Falsity
To
prove that there was no false representation with regard to charges associated
with ventilation management services for JJ[2],
LPCH submits the declaration of its Executive Director of Revenue & Billing Integrity, Kristien
Karmarkar (“Karmarkar”)[3],
who testifies as follows. 
Karmarkar
located each ventilation management charge for JJ and confirmed that medical
documentation supported each charge at issue. (LCOE, Tab 1 – Karmarkar Decl., ¶¶ 10-13.) Specifically,
for each ventilation management services charge, she located flowsheets, which,
contained, among other things, (1) input into the electronic medical record
(EMR) by a respiratory therapist each time they checked a ventilator setting or
made an adjustment and, (2) a time stamp showing the time a setting was made or
adjusted. (Karmarkar Decl., ¶ 11; Exhibit A [a chart Karmarkar testifies shows the date of
service for each ventilation management along with flowsheets that supported
each charge].) 
Based on
her review and approximately 18 years of experience at LPCH, Karmarkar found
nothing that supported TWC’s allegations that LPCH charged for ventilation
management services for JJ that were not performed. (Karmarkar Decl., ¶ 14.) 
The
court finds that through Karmarkar’s
declaration, LPCH has
met its burden of showing that it did not make false representations with
regard to the ventilation management services in dispute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
However, the
court also finds that TWC has met its burden of showing triable issues exist regarding
whether LPCH misrepresented the ventilation management services charges. In response to a deposition question asking whether
LPCH could bill for a nurse that provides ventilation management services
instead of a respiratory therapist, Karmarkar answered no. (TWC’s compendium of evidence
(“TCOE”), Tab B – Declaration of Ashley L. Milnes (“Milnes Decl.”), Exhibit E –
Karmarkar Vol. II Depo., p. 41:10-23.) According to TWC’s expert, Georgeann
Edford (“Edford”), “most of the ventilation management services were performed
by nurses, and thus should have been part of the PICU room rate and not
separately reimbursable.” (TCOE, Tab A – Edford Decl., ¶ 14.) LPCH has not
disputed or objected to that evidence. Therefore, based on TWC’s evidence,
there is a triable issue of material fact regarding whether LPCH properly
billed TWC (through Anthem) for JJ’s ventilation management services. In
addition, LPCH’s Vice President of Revenue Operations Shawn Tienken (“Tienken”)
was asked by counsel: “Would you agree with me that if LPCH does not document a
service, it cannot charge for it”?” (TCOE, Tab B, Exhibit C – Tienken Depo.
Vol. II, p. 172:12-13.) Tienken answered: “That is the standard. That is my
understanding, yes.” (Id. at p. 172:14-15.) LPCH has also disputed or
objected to Edford’s opinion that “the flowsheets in JJ’s medical records are
essentially blank for multiple dates of service, with no information nor data
provided, which indicates that no services were provided, provided, which
indicates that no services were provided for a multi-hour period.” (Edford
Decl., ¶ 14.) In its reply, LPCH argues that the “SAC does not allege fraud
based on lack of medical necessity.” (Reply, p. 3:6-7.) However, LPCH’s
argument does not address the inference that can be drawn from Edford and
Tienken’s testimonies (i.e., there is a triable issue regarding whether LPCH
should have billed for some of JJ’s ventilation management services because
some flowsheets did not contain any information and LPCH only bills those
services that are supported by documentation). 
The
court also finds that triable issues exist with regard to charges for critical
care under CPT codes 99291 and CPT code 99292. (See fn. 3 above for definition
of CPT codes.) Karmarkar testifies that “CPT codes 99292 and 99291 are used to
report the total duration of time spent by a physician providing critical care
services to a critically ill or critically injured patient. …. Critical care,
as defined by the American Medical Association (‘AMA’) is the delivery by a physician(s)
or other qualified healthcare professional for medical care for a critically ill/injured
patient in which there is an acute impairment of one or more vital organ
systems, such that there is a probability of imminent or life—threatening
deterioration of the patient’s condition.” (LCOE, Tab 1 – Karmarkar Decl., ¶ 36.) Karmarkar admits that LPCH’s documentation was not
sufficient to support a critical service charge for JJ for three days,
September 8 through 10, 2017. (Karmarkar
Decl., ¶ 37; fn. 3.) Given Tienken’s
testimony that LPCH cannot charge for a service it has not documented, there is
a triable issue regarding whether there was falsity in some critical services
charges. 
Unlike
the charges for ventilation management services and critical services, however,
the court finds that TWC has not met its burden of showing triable issues exist
as to charges for IC’s crossmatch and typing services. LPCH has met its initial
burden of showing that there was no falsity with regard to those services
through Karmarkar’s declaration, which states (among other things) that Karmarkar
located the results for each electronic crossmatch, ABO/RH Typing, antibody
screen, and HLA tests that TWC identified, and reviewed the supporting
documentation (e.g., the results page) for each of those tests. (Karmarkar Decl., ¶¶ 19-33.) Based on her review of
the records and experience at LPCH, Karmarkar did not find anything that
supports TWC’s allegation that LPCH charged for crossmatch and typing services
for JJ or IC when the service was not performed. (Karmarkar Decl., ¶ 4.) In opposition, TWC argues that
Karmarkar’s declaration did not lay a foundation for her knowledge of the
“highly technical ‘material facts’ she attempts to present.” (Opposition, p.
8:3-4.) The court disagrees. (See Footnote 3 of this Ruling for a discussion of
Karmarkar’s experience.) TWC also argues that, at most, “the Motion shows
testing may have occurred [citation], but not that it was medically necessary
and supported by the medical documentation.” (Opposition, p. 8:5-7.) However,
TWC contradicts itself because it also states that it “is not disputing the
medical necessity of the services provided to IC and JJ. ” (Opposition, fn. 3.)
In addition, the court has sustained LPCH’s objection to the evidence TWC
relies on to argue that the crossmatch and typing services were not supported
by sufficient documentation. (See Ruling on LPCH’s Evidentiary Objection No. 19
above.) 
In
any event, even though the court has found that there are no triable issues as
to the crossmatch and typing services charges, that finding is no consequence because
(1) summary adjudication is only proper if it disposes of an entire claim, not
factual allegations, and, (2) here, triable issues exist regarding whether LPCH
made false representations in its charges for JJ’s ventilation management and
critical services. (Catalano v. Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 91,
97 [“summary adjudication is meant to dispose of an entire substantive area”].)
For the same two reasons, the court need not address at this time whether there
was falsity with regard to the remaining categories of charges (i.e., urinalysis
testing and PICU Level 3). 
B.     Scienter or Negligence
LPCH
argues that TWC cannot prove scienter or negligence because “TWC cannot
establish that the representations were known by those individuals to be false
at the time, or were made recklessly or negligently.” (Motion, p. 14:3-6.) 
            As
stated above, “[t]he tort of negligent misrepresentation does not require
scienter or intent to defraud.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 173.) Instead, “[i]t encompasses ‘[t]he assertion, as a fact,
of that which is not true, by one who has no reasonable ground for believing it
to be true’ [citation], and ‘[t]he positive assertion, in a manner not
warranted by the information of the person making it, of that which is not
true, though he believes it to be true’  [citations].” (Id. at p. 174; Fox v.
Pollack (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 954, 962 [“Negligent misrepresentation is a
form of deceit, the elements of which consist of (1) a misrepresentation of a
past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable grounds for believing
it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact
misrepresented, (4) ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance thereon by
the party to whom the misrepresentation was directed, and (5) damages”
(emphasis added)].)
Here,
TWC has produced evidence raising triable issues of material fact regarding
whether LPCH had reasonable grounds for believing that all of its charges were
true given that  Tienken testified that
LPCH cannot charge for undocumented services and TWC’s expert has testified
some charges did not have documentation. Therefore, the court finds LPCH’s
“negligence” argument unpersuasive. 
As
for scienter, “[t]he requisite state of mind … for actual fraud or intentional
misrepresentation is disbelief in the truth of the statement, i.e., knowledge
of falsity.” (Anderson v. Deloitte & Touche (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 1468, 1476 [italics in original].)
LPCH
argues that TWC cannot establish scienter because “[t]he charges for services
provided to JJ and IC were put through the normal charge and claim review
process, which ran each charge through a set of rules to check for errors and required
all errors to be manually reviewed and cleared before LPCH created a claim.
[Citation.]” (Motion, p. 14:15-18.) 
To
support that argument, TWC cites Paragraph 17 of Tienken’s declaration.
(Motion, p. 14:18.)
However,
the court has sustained TWC’s objection to that testimony on lack of
foundation, hearsay, and speculation grounds because Tienken failed to, among
other things, explain how he arrived at the conclusion that all charges were
put through the normal charge and claim review process. (See Ruling on TWC’s
Evidentiary Objection No. 94.)
LPCH
also argues that TWC cannot establish scienter because (1) charges are
ultimately billed based on the documentation that LPCH’s doctors and nurses
provide, and (2) those professionals did not have any incentive to make
misrepresentations because they are not compensated based on the amount charged
for their services. (Motion, p. 14:7-13.)
However,
there is a triable issue of material fact regarding whether LPCH had knowledge of
falsity because (1) Tienken testified that LPCH does not charge for services
that are unsupported by documentation and (2) Edford testified some charges
were unsupported by documentation yet billed to TWC. 
For
those reasons, the court finds LPCH’s scienter argument unpersuasive. 
C.    Reliance
“Because ‘reliance is the causal mechanism of
fraud’ [citation], … [a] pleading [must have] facts showing [and a plaintiff
must ultimately prove] actual reliance, that is, that the plaintiff suffered
economic injury as a result of his or her reliance on the truth and accuracy of
the defendant’s representations.” (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 217, 228 [emphasis added] (“Chapman”).) “[A]ctual reliance,
or causation, [can] inferred from the misrepresentation of a material fact.” (Id.
at p. 229.) 
Here, the court finds triable issues exist as
to actual reliance because, (1) as explained above, TWC has met its burden of
showing that there is a question of fact regarding whether LPCH misrepresented
material facts (i.e., the charges in dispute), and (2) LPCH has not presented
evidence disproving the allegation that TWC suffered economic injury as a
result of the alleged misrepresentations. 
“‘“Besides actual reliance, [a] plaintiff
must also show ‘justifiable’ reliance, i.e., circumstances were such to make it
reasonable for [the] plaintiff to accept [the] defendant’s statements without
an independent inquiry or investigation.” [Citation.] The reasonableness of the
plaintiff’s reliance is judged by reference to the plaintiff’s knowledge and
experience. [Citation.] “‘Except in the rare case where the undisputed facts
leave no room for a reasonable difference of opinion, the question of
whether a plaintiff’s reliance is reasonable is a question of fact.’
[Citations.]” [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Public Employees’ Retirement System
v. Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 643, 672 [original italics removed;
emphasis added].)
Here,
LPCH suggests that TWC cannot establish justifiable reliance because the
defendant “did not even know that TWC was the party ultimately responsible for
payment. [Citation.] As far as LPCH knew, its bills were going to Anthem as an
insurer responsible for covering the cost of JJ’s and IC’s treatment, not as a
[third-party administrator] of any employer’s self-funded plan.” (Motion, p.
15:22-18.)
However,
as TWC alludes to in its opposition, “[t]he maker of a fraudulent
misrepresentation is subject to liability for pecuniary loss to another who
acts in justifiable reliance upon it if the misrepresentation, although not
made directly to the other, is made to a third person and the maker intends or
has reason to expect that its terms will be repeated or its substance
communicated to the other, and that it will influence his conduct in the
transaction or type of transaction involved.’ [Citation.]” (Geernaert v.
Mitchell (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 601, 605–606, quoting Restatement Second of
Torts section 533 [italics in original].)
Here,
the court finds that TWC has met its burden of showing that triable issues
exist regarding whether LPCH had reason to expect that the charges would be
communicated to TWC. According to TWC’s evidence, Anthem and LPCH entered into
a Centers of Medical Excellence Agreement (the “CME Agreement”). (TCOE, Tab B –
Milnes Decl., ¶ 2;
Exhibit A – a copy of the agreement.) The agreement defines “‘Other Payors’ ….
[to include] …. self-administered or self-insured programs providing Health Benefit Plans, or
employers or insurers” (Id. at p. 3), and states that “Anthem shall use
its best efforts to assure Other Payors compensate Facility and Medical Group
in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.” (CME Agreement,
p. 10, Section 2.21.) TWC argues that since it falls within the definition of
“Other Payors,” a triable issue exists regarding whether LPCH had reason to
know that TWC would rely on the charges. In its reply, LPCH argues that Section
2.21 only applies to “non-Anthem entities that, pursuant to ‘arrangements’ with
Anthem, make direct payments to LPCH,” and that “TWC had no such ‘arrangement’
and made no payments directly to LPCH.” (Reply, pp. 8:24-9:2.) However, the
court has not found that restriction in the language of Section 2.21, and LPCH
has not provided any evidence to support its interpretation. (See Brown v. Goldstein (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 418, 432–433 [“‘The
interpretation of a contract involves “a two-step process: First the court
provisionally receives (without actually admitting) all credible evidence
concerning the parties” intentions to determine ‘ambiguity,’ i.e., whether the
language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged by a party. If
in light of the extrinsic evidence the court decides the language is
‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged, the extrinsic evidence is
then admitted to aid in the second step – interpreting the contract.
[Citation.]” [Citation.]’ [Citations]”].) Therefore, the court finds there is a
question of fact regarding whether LPCH had reason to know
that TWC would rely on the charges. 
LPCH argues
that TWC could not have relied on the billing information that Anthem conveyed
because TWC had no choice but to reimburse Anthem for those charges. (Motion,
p. 15:22-24.) However, that argument does not disprove reliance or TWC’s
allegation that it ended up reimbursing Anthem for charges that were never
supposed to be asserted by LPCH in the first place. 
LPCH also
argues that TWC cannot establish reliance because Anthem was not TWC’s agent.
The court finds LPCH’s agency arguments unpersuasive in light of the Restatement
Second of Torts section 533 (mentioned above). 
For those
reasons, summary adjudication of the fourth and fifth causes of action for
intentional and negligent misrepresentation, respectively, is denied. 
Concealment

“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and
deceit based on a concealment are:(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230,
248 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
“[T]here are two causation elements in a
fraud cause of action. First, the plaintiff’s actual and justifiable reliance
on the defendant’s misrepresentation [e.g., concealment] must have caused him
to take a detrimental course of action. Second, the detrimental action taken by
the plaintiff must have caused his alleged damage.” (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1062; CACI No. 1901 – Concealment.) 
Here, TWC’s concealment claim alleges that
(1) LPCH had a duty to disclose material facts regarding its CDM[4],
(2) LPCH breached that duty by failing to disclose (among other things) that it
had increased its CDM by more than 7% year over year, and (3) as a result of
that concealment, TWC “was forced to pay LPCH’s inflated rates.” (SAC, ¶¶
58-67.) 
The court finds that LPCH has met its burden
of establishing that the reliance element of TWC’s concealment claim cannot be
established, and TWC has failed to meet its burden of showing a triable issue
of material fact exists as to that issue for the following reasons. It is
undisputed that “[r]ather than paying the CDM rates for JJ’s and IC’s claims,
TWC paid the discounted rates negotiated by Anthem.” (UMF ¶ 103.) Therefore, TWC
could not have relied on the CDM rates to pay the alleged “inflated rates” in
the CDM. TWC argues in its opposition that that undisputed fact is
“immaterial.” (Opposition, p. 18:7-9.) The court disagrees in light of the law
cited above and the allegations in the SAC. 
            For those reasons, summary adjudication of the sixth cause of
action for concealment is granted.
Violation
of the UCL 
“‘To
bring a UCL claim, a plaintiff must show either an (1) “unlawful, unfair, or
fraudulent business act or practice,” or (2) “unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising.”’ [Citation.]” (Adhav v. Midway Rent A Car, Inc.
(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 954, 970.) 
Here, LPCH
argues in its moving papers that summary adjudication of the UCL claim is
proper because the “claim covers exactly the same ground as the claims for
intentional and negligent misrepresentation, and should be rejected for the
same reasons [as those other claims].” (Motion, p. 20:23-24.)
However,
the court has found that triable issues exist as to the misrepresentation
claims. 
Therefore,
summary adjudication of the seventh cause of action for violation of UCL is
denied.
 
CONCLUSION 
The
request for summary adjudication of the sixth cause of action for concealment is granted. The
request for summary judgment and summary adjudication of all other claims is denied.


