  Case Number:  23CMCV00544    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  A 23CMCV00544
 Jessica Flores, et al. v. General Motors, LLC
Thursday, October
 31, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON MOST QUALIFIED
AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The complaint
alleges that Defendant issued to Plaintiffs an express warranty in connection
with Plaintiffs’ purchase of a 2022 Chevrolet Silverado made and distributed by
Defendant. The vehicle suffered from defects within the engine, electrical,
emission, and steering system that Defendant allegedly failed to repair within
a reasonable number of attempts in violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (“Act”). 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiffs
request an order to compel Defendant, General Motors, LLC (“GM” or “Defendant.)
to produce its person most qualified (“PMQ”) to testify and produce documents relating
to Defendant’s internal policies and procedures when evaluating consumer’s
requests for repurchase of their vehicles. The topics of inquiry and production
are necessary to support Plaintiffs’ allegation that Defendant willfully
violated the Act. Plaintiffs request an order to strike Defendant’s objections
thereto and order Defendant to produce a witness and documents in response to
the PMQ notice. 
       In
opposition, GM argues it offered to produce a PMQ and documents limited only to
Plaintiffs’ specific vehicle. GM contends it properly objected to categories of
inquiry and production not involving Plaintiffs’ vehicle as such information is
irrelevant. Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to meet and confer about Defendant’s requested
limitation on scope. Defendant has already objected to production of the same
records identified in Plaintiffs’ request for production of documents. 
       Plaintiffs
did not file a reply brief by October 23, 2024, five court days before the
hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005(b).)  
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       If a party fails to appear for a
deposition after service of a deposition notice, without having served a valid
objection, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling the
deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document or tangible thing described in the notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.) The moving party must show good
cause for the deposition and attempt to meet and confer. (Id.) 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       At
issue is an amended PMQ notice served September 22, 2023 detailing 34 matters
for examination and 16 requests for production of documents pertaining to
Plaintiff’s vehicle and the same or similar vehicles, technical service
bulletins (“TSB”), Defendant’s internal policies and procedures, knowledge of
other defects, and Defendant’s proposed remedies. (Mot. Ex. 3.) Defendant did
not serve formal objections and did not provide a witness as noticed. (Nicholas
Yaworski decl., ¶ 18.) 
       Defendant
sent a letter objecting to the notice. (Id., Ex. 4.) Thereafter,
the parties exchanged meet and confer letters beginning on July 31, 2024. (Id.
Exs. 5-6.) Plaintiffs’ counsel asserts that Defendant has not provided a
meaningful or reasonable deposition date. (Id. ¶ 23.) 
       The court
has previously articulated its position on these same issues in multiple discovery
motions against General Motors.  Defendant’s
opposition again offers no substantive or persuasive argument to support its
objections to the PMQ deposition notice or document request. The court has
previously determined that Plaintiffs’ discovery requests fall within the broad
scope of discovery in Song-Beverly cases. 
       While
Defendant may assert an objection based on confidential, proprietary, and trade
secret information, this is not a basis for refusing to produce a witness. Any
written objection to a document request shall comply with the Code. Defendant is
required to provide a privilege log of all documents withheld and the specific
objection asserted to enable the court to determine whether any privilege
applies. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240 subp. (b).) The privilege log must
contain clear descriptions of the documents as set forth in the statute. (Id.)
Regardless, GM did not provide any valid support for the objections it now
asserts in its opposition. 
       Defendant’s
attempt to limit discovery to Plaintiffs’ vehicle only is improper. Plaintiffs
are entitled to discover “other vehicle” evidence. (Donlen
v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154. The requests are
relevant to Plaintiffs’ burden of establishing Defendant’s non-compliance with
its obligations under the Act to reasonably attempt to repair the vehicle. (Oregel
v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.) The
discovery is also relevant to the recovery of civil penalties. (Jensen
v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 136.
       GM has
not provided any evidence that compliance with the document request will be
unreasonably burdensome and oppressive. GM’s remedy is to move for a
protective order, not refuse to respond or unilaterally impose limitations on Plaintiffs’
discovery. GM did not meet its burden of proof on that issue. (West
Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) 
       The
Court has previously refused to consider the six-year-old Declaration of
Huizhen Lu, Defendant’s Senior Technical Consultant, submitted in support of
GM’s contention that the discovery sought includes trade secret and
confidential information. (Cameron Major Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. B.) GM provides a copy
of the same declaration signed on October 25, 2018, that contains generalized
statements about purported trade secret and confidential information which
“may” be contained in the requested discovery. This assertion is vague,
evasive, and speculative. The declaration predates the filing of this action
and the date of manufacture of the vehicle at issue. Defendant’s objections are
not substantiated. 
       Defendant
cannot unilaterally determine what categories of inquiry are subject to
discovery or usurp the court’s determination of whether objections have merit. 
       In
anticipation of GM’s contention that it requires more than 10 days to comply
because it is overburdened by the number of lemon law cases it must defend, the
discovery propounded, and the depositions for which witnesses must be produced,
this is not an issue for the court to resolve. Plaintiffs served the first PMQ
deposition notice on August 22, 2023. (Yowarski Decl., ¶ 15.) Trial is
presently set for January 22, 2025. Over one year later, Plaintiffs have not been
prevented from taking the deposition.  
       Plaintiffs
are entitled to an award of sanctions for Defendant’s failure to proceed with
substantial justification. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.430.) The court reduces the time claimed by Plaintiffs.



Prepare motion, and separate
  statement


$395 x 3 hours


$1,185.00




Appear


.5 hours


197.50




Total


 


$1,382.50



 
V.     
CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to
produce a witness, or witnesses qualified to testify on all topics of inquiry
identified in Plaintiffs’ Notice of Deposition and to comply with the Request
for Production of Documents at Deposition within 10 days without objection, limitation,
or condition. Sanctions of $1,382.50 are imposed against Defendant, General
Motors, LLC and its counsel, Erskine Law, APC, jointly and severally, and
payable to Plaintiffs within 10 days. 
        
 
 