 Case Number:  24CMCV00089    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  A 
24CMCV00089
 Oscar Alberto Ramirez v. Mike Rademaker dba HB Crane Services, et al.
Thursday,
 October 30, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN
 PART PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANT’S FORTY (40) SUBPOENAS, OR
 ALTERNATIVELY, FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER AND/OR TO MODIFY THE SUBPOENAS; REQUEST
 FOR SANCTIONS
 
I.      
BACKGROUND      
      This action
arises from a rear-end collision, automobile accident that occurred on February
28, 2022. Plaintiff alleges claims for negligence against the driver and owner
of the vehicle. 
II.    
ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff argues
that Defendants’ 40 subpoenas served on Plaintiff’s medical providers and
medical facilities are overbroad and violate Plaintiff’s constitutional privacy.
The records are confidential and protected from disclosure. Defendants would
not limit the subpoenas despite efforts to meet and confer. Defendants do not
have substantial justification for issuing the subpoenas, and therefore,
sanctions should be imposed. 
      In opposition, Defendants
argue that all the records are relevant and discoverable since Plaintiff placed
various bodily injuries at issue. Plaintiff does not limit injuries to a single
bodily part. Plaintiff disclosed a prior accident in 2007 which may or may not
have resulted in the same or similar injuries. Defendants are entitled to records
that bear on prior injuries. Defendants are entitled to a complete picture of
Plaintiff’s health and medical history.
      In reply,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants have not addressed any issues raised by
Plaintiff, namely, that the subpoenas are overbroad and infringe on Plaintiff’s
privacy rights. As written, the subpoenas would arguably reach medical records
that are unrelated to any injury Plaintiff suffered as a result of this
incident. 
III.   
DISCUSSION
      The court can quash a subpoena to protect a
party from unreasonable or oppressive demands including unreasonable violations
of the right of privacy. The court has discretion to quash or modify a subpoena
upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including issuing
protective orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
      While Defendants contend that 34 subpoenas
are at issue and not 40, there is no dispute that 13 of the identified subpoenas
seek production of Plaintiff’s medical records. The description of most of the records
sought are identical:
FROM 08/14/2014 TO
PRESENT: A CERTIFIED COPY OF any and all records, reports, charts, graphs,
accident reports, emergency room, records, admit sheets, histories, x-ray
reports, radiographic reports, electrocardiograms, electroencephalograms, lab
reports, nurses' notes, physicians' notes and orders, pharmacy records,
temperature charts, discharge summaries, operative reports, correspondence; any
and all incident reports; any and all other medical information which you have
regarding, Oscar A Ramirez. (Mot., Ex. A.)
      A few subpoenas are specifically
tailored to the production of x-rays, CT scans, electrocardiograms, billing
records, or insurance forms depending on the facility. They are all identical
in scope in that they seek “any and all” such documents or films relating to
Plaintiff from August 14, 2014, to the present.       
      The right to privacy is
protected by the California Constitution. The right may be partially waived if
the medical condition is a basis for the lawsuit. However, the waiver attaches
only to those issues directly relevant to the Plaintiff’s claim and essential
to a fair resolution of his suit. Partial waiver is effected by filing a
lawsuit, but it is narrowly construed. (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833, 839.) The proponent of
discovery has the threshold burden of showing that the records sought are
directly relevant to the claim or defense. (Harris v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 661, 665.) 
      The scope of permitted
inquiry depends on the nature of the injuries which the Plaintiff has brought
to the court. A party’s lifetime medical history is not relevant. Discovery is
limited to the specific injury at issue. (Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d
844, 864.) An order compelling disclosure must be
narrowly tailored so as not to infringe on constitutional rights. (Fults v. Superior Court (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 899, 904.) 
      Plaintiff’s injuries are largely confined to the right
shoulder; cervical, midback, and lumbar spine: 
“Anxiety; Headaches; Post Concussive
Syndrome; Ringing In Both Ears; Neck Spasms; Neck Pain; Cervicalgia; Right
Shoulder Pain; Loss Of Normal Cervical Lordosis; Cervical Spine/ Strain; Disk
Protrusions; Mid Back Pain; Low Back Pain; Loss Of Normal Lumbar Lordosis;
Lower Back Spasms; and Lumbar Spine/ Strain With Radicular Complaints. (Opp.,
Ex. A, .pdf p. 23 l. 6-9.)
      One medical record indicates
Plaintiff was involved in a prior motor vehicle accident in 2007. (Opp. .pdf p.
61.)  
      The description of records
sought is overbroad in that it is not limited in any respect to injuries
suffered as a result of the February 28, 2022, accident, or injuries specific
to Plaintiffs’ spine and shoulders. Speculation over what the records might
contain is not enough to compel disclosure of records. (Davis
v. Superior Court (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017
[“Mere speculation as to the possibility that some portion of the records might
be relevant to some substantive issue does not suffice.”].) Plaintiff’s
disclosure of a prior incident 15 years prior to the incident at issue is not
enough to permit disclosure of Plaintiff’s “entire medical picture” as
Defendants contend, given that Plaintiff’s injuries suffered are limited. 
      Defendants also seek production of insurance
records, which are protected from disclosure and cannot be divulged without
Plaintiff’s consent. (Ins. Code, § 791.13 [Insurance institution, agent, or
insurance-support organization shall not disclose any personal or privileged
information about an individual collected or received in connection with an
insurance transaction without consent of the consumer].) 
      The subpoena for insurance records is
equally overbroad as it is not limited to billing incurred as a result of this
incident or billing for treatment for specific injuries. (Mot., Ex. A, pdf p.
77 [“any and all other information which you have regarding [Plaintiff]”.) Defendants
have not met their burden of establishing that unlimited disclosure of Plaintiff’s
insurance records are directly relevant to issues raised in this litigation. 
      The subpoena served on the California
Highway Patrol requests documents for the same time period that relate to
Plaintiff from police agencies, including written reports, audio, video, and
other camera footage prior to and after the collision. (Mot., Ex. A, .pdf p.
72.) Plaintiff has not demonstrated how government agency reports violate
Plaintiff’s constitutional right of privacy. These records relate directly to
the incident that occurred. 
      Plaintiff is entitled to recover for fees
and costs incurred to prepare this motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2.) The court imposes sanctions of $1,260.00
on Defendants and their attorneys of record, Steve Settles, Esq., And The
Hanover Law Office – West California. 



3 hours to prepare the motion, separate
  statement, and reply $300/hour


$900.00




Appear


300.00




Filing fee


60.00




Total


$1,260.00



 
 
IV.  
CONCLUSION
      Accordingly,
the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s alternative request to modify subpoenas 1-13 to
limit inquiry to records directly relevant to the injuries Plaintiff’s
sustained as a result of this incident and to 
injuries specific to the same body parts since 2014. (Mot. .pdf p. 2, l.
6-18.) The motion is DENIED as to subpoena No. 14 issued to California Highway
Patrol (Mot .pdf p. 2, l. 19.)  Defendants
and their counsel, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay sanctions of
$1,260 to Plaintiff within 10 days. 
 
 