 Case Number:  21STCV28566    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


February 23, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV28566




MOTION


Motion to Seal 




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiffs Bora McCutcheon and Seth McCutcheon




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
              Plaintiffs
Bora McCutcheon and Seth McCutcheon (“Plaintiffs”) move to seal portions of the
court record containing their home address. On August 21, 2023, the case was
called for trial, and the remaining defendant was dismissed from the operative
second amended complaint without prejudice. Accordingly, no opposition has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To grant a motion to seal, the court must expressly find
that: (1) an overriding interest exists that overcomes the right of public
access to the record; (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the records;
(3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see¿McGuan v.
Endovascular Technologies, Inc.¿(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988.)  
 
Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records
are presumed to be open to the public, pursuant to a potent “open court” policy
undergirded by the First Amendment and favoring the public nature of court
proceedings.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c); see NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1178, 1199-10.)  Consequently, pleadings, motions, discovery
documents, and other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation
of the parties; filing under seal requires a court order.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(a); see H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe¿(2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 879, 888.) “Policy reasons to restrict access are ‘anything which
tends to undermine that sense of security for individual rights, whether of
personal liberty or private property, which any citizen ought to feel has a
tendency to be injurious to the public or the public good.’ [Citation.]” (Copley
Press, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 367, 373.)
 
A sealing order must be sought by means of a motion (or
application) and accompanied by a memorandum of points and authorities, as well
as evidence and testimony containing facts sufficient to justify the mandatory
findings required to support a sealing order.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rules
2.550(d) and 2.551(b).)  The proponent of the sealing order must also
conditionally lodge the unredacted matter to be sealed with the
court.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(4).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
             Here, Plaintiffs advance the declaration of Bora
McCutcheon, who states that she is a Deputy City Attorney in the Criminal
Division of the Los Angeles City Attorney’s Office. Her husband, Plaintiff Seth
McCutcheon is also a prosecutor in the Criminal Division of the California
Department of Justice. McCutcheon states that because of their jobs, they
prosecute defendants accused of violent crimes, with mental health and
substance abuse problems. (McCutcheon Decl. ¶ 4–6.) As a result of their jobs
and the potential for threats to their lives as law enforcement, Plaintiffs
argue their home address should be sealed on Court documents to protect their
safety. 
 
The Court finds the factors set forth in California Rule of Court
2.550(d) have been established. The proposed sealing is also narrowly tailored
since it only applies to parts of documents that contain Plaintiff’s home
address. In their motion, Plaintiffs state the address is located in the original
complaint. However, the proposed Order does not state the exact documents and
pages to be sealed in the Court’s record. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.550(e)(1)(B).) Plaintiffs must specify this information in an amended
proposed order, conditionally lodge an unredacted version with the court, and
file a redacted version. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court conditionally grants Plaintiffs’ motion to seal
subject to filing of the proposed order.
 
Plaintiffs shall give notice of the Court’s order, and file proof of
service of such.
 