 Case Number:  20STCV35050    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV35050




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File Cross-Complaint 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Cartage West, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Michael Greenwood



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
March 15, 2022, Plaintiff Michael Greenwood (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
first amended complaint (“FAC”) asserting causes of action for assault,
battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence, and
negligent hiring and supervision. Plaintiff alleges he was performing his
duties as a security guard at a cargo facility at 18055 Harmon Ave. Carson,
California, when he was physically assaulted by Defendant Fermin Antonio
Mazariego Jr. (FAC ¶ 7, 10-11.) Plaintiff sued Defendant Cartage West, Inc.
(“Cartage”) for negligence and negligent hiring and supervision based on
Mazariego’s alleged actions and alleges it owned the premises where the
incident occurred (FAC ¶ 9). 
 
On
October 17, 2023, the Court granted Cartage’s motion for summary adjudication
regarding the negligent hiring, supervision, and retention cause of action, but
denied the motion regarding the negligence cause of action. 
 
             Cartage now moves for leave to file a cross
complaint against Plaintiff’s employer, Andy Frain Services, Inc. Plaintiff
opposes and Cartage replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be
filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or
cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the
complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 412.20(a)(3),
428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time
before the court has set a trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§428.50(b).)   
 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time
limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file
the cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave
to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to
file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of
justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).) The
court must grant leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint so long as the defendant
is acting in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint may file
a cross complaint setting forth “[a]ny cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Cartage brings this motion to file
a cross complaint against Andy Frain Services, Inc. (“Andy Frain”), which was Plaintiff’s
employer during the events of his complaint. Cartage alleges that Andy Frain
contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries by requiring him to work after the
incident, causing him to not receive immediate care, and eventually terminating
his employment. (Parnell Decl. ¶ 6.) Cartage states it learned of these facts
during discovery but did not want to incur the expense of bringing the causes
of actions before the mandatory settlement conference and summary judgment
motion. Cartage argues that in light of the $1,400,000 in damages Plaintiff is
claiming, the interests of justice permit it to file the cross complaint in
order for Andy Frain to contribute to any injuries it caused or exacerbated. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff first argues
there is no legal basis for a cross complaint against Plaintiff’s employer
under Difko Admin. (US) Inc. v. Superior Court (Difko) (1994)
24 Cal.App.4th 126. Under the worker’s compensation system, “a third party
defendant cannot directly seek indemnification against the employer if the
judgment against it represents more than the third party's ‘share’ of the
damages under comparative fault principles. (Lab. Code § 3864.)” (Id. at
133.) Instead, the third-party defendant may seek an offset, but only if
certain conditions are met. 
 
“In Witt v. Jackson, supra, the Supreme
Court held 1) that an employer whose negligence is concurrent with the
negligence of a third party, both joining to cause injury to the employee,
cannot secure reimbursement from the third party for sums paid to the employee
as workers' compensation benefits, and 2) that if the employee sues the third
party in tort, any damages awarded to the employee must be reduced by the
amount of any such workers' compensation payments, to prevent a double
recovery.” 
 
(Id. at 129.)
 
After Witt v. Jackson, the
Supreme Court modified the rule to conform with California’s comparative
negligence doctrine, concluding: “A [negligent] employer may be allowed credit
or reimbursement [for workers' compensation benefits paid to an employee] but
only to the extent the employer's liability in workers compensation exceeds its
share of responsibility for the employee's full tort damages.” (Id. at
129–30 [quoting Associated Construction & Engineering Co. v. Workers'
Comp. Appeals Bd. (1978) 22 Cal.3d 829, 847].) The court in Difko
observed that it was unclear how a third-party defendant may assert an offset:
whether through a cross complaint or answer. (Id. at 130.) The court
declined to follow a previous case allowing a cross complaint and instead
decided that the proper mechanism was through an affirmative defense in an
answer where any of the following scenarios exist: where “the employer does not
seek reimbursement for benefits provided to the employee by an independent
action against the third party defendant, or by joining in the employee's
action as a party plaintiff, or by filing in the employee's action a complaint
in intervention, or applying therein for a first lien against the employee's
recovery, if any.” (Id. at 134–35.) 
 
Here, it does not appear that Andy
Frain joined in Plaintiff’s action or filed an independent action for
reimbursement of benefits. In reply, Cartage cites to unpublished cases to
refute Plaintiff’s argument under Difko, arguing that an employer who
violates a statute, fundamental public policy, or exceeds the risks inherent in
an employment relationship is not covered by worker’s compensation. (See Miklosy
v. Regents of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 902–03.)
Here, the proposed cross complaint alleges that Andy Frain was independently
negligent by not giving aid to Plaintiff after the incident and forcing him to
continue working. Therefore, Cartage argues that this incident falls outside
the scope of worker’s compensation. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that
discovery is now closed in this case and trial is set for June 5, 2024, and
thus, Cartage was dilatory in not bringing this cross complaint sooner. In
reply, Cartage argues it was not dilatory since it conducted Plaintiff’s
deposition on March 23, 2023, and later served subpoenas on Andy Frain and
medical providers. Therefore, between the seven months it learned of Andy
Frain’s potential liability and filed this motion, it was focused on mediation
and the summary judgment motion, and thus, not dilatory.
 
The Court notes that trial and all
related dates were continued to June 5, 2024. (Min. Order, 1/9/24.) Therefore,
discovery is currently open. In addition, while there has been some delay, the
Court does not find the delay to be sufficient to deny the motion. Finally, because
Cartage asserts that the Andy Frain’s conduct may fall outside worker’s
compensation, the Court grants leave to file the cross complaint in the
interest of justice. 
 

CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant Cartage West, Inc.’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. Cartage
West, Inc. is ordered to file and serve
its proposed cross-complaint within ten (10) days of the date of this Order.
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 