 Case Number:  23STCP02880    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  49 Jennifer Haywood v. Snap, Inc.(1) APPLICATION OF BRYAN P. THOMPSON FOR ADMISSION PRO HAC VICE(2) APPLICATION OF MICHAEL KIND FOR ADMISSION PRO HAC VICE MOVING PARTY: (1) Bryan P. Thompson and (2) Michael Kind, as counsel for Petitioner Jennifer HaywoodRESPONDING PARTY:  Unopposed.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Petitioner Jennifer Haywood petitions the Court for an order compelling arbitration and appointing an arbitrator against Respondent Snap, Inc. That petition is set for hearing on November 29, 2023.Bryan P. Thompson and Michael Kind now move to be admitted Pro Hac Vice as counsel for Petitioner Haywood. No opposition was filed.TENTATIVE RULING:Counsel Byran P. Thompson’s Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.Counsel Michael Kind’s Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSION:Applications for Admission Pro Hac ViceA. Legal StandardCalifornia Rules of Court Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written application upon notice by mail to all interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in California, and does not perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40).The application must state: (1) The applicant's residence and office address;  (2) The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;  (3) That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts;  (4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;  (5) The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6)  The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d)).B. Application of Bryan P. ThompsonBased on the Application and attached Declaration, Counsel Thompson is not employed or residing within California (Thompson Decl. ¶¶ 2, 3); the application contains the necessary addresses (id.); the application has the proper admission information for other courts where the attorney is admitted (id. ¶ 4); and the attorney is in good standing in those jurisdictions (Id.) In the previous two years, Counsel Thompson has not appeared in California. (Id. ¶ 7.)Counsel Thompson is to be associated with local counsel Glenn A. Danas. (Id. ¶ 8). Counsel Danas confirms payment of the mandatory application fee to the State Bar on Counsel Thompson’s behalf. (Danas Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.) Finding the requirements of Rule 9.40 satisfied, Counsel Thompson’s Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.C. Application of Michael KindBased on the Application and attached Declaration, Counsel Ni is not employed or residing within California (Kind Decl. ¶¶ 2, 3); the application contains the necessary addresses (id.); the application has the proper admission information for other courts where the attorney is admitted (Id. ¶ 4); and the attorney is in good standing in those jurisdictions (Id.)Counsel Kind has not appeared in California in the previous two years. (Id. ¶ 6.)Counsel Kind is to be associated with local counsel Glenn A. Danas. (Id. ¶ 7). Counsel Danas confirms payment of the mandatory application fee to the State Bar on Counsel Kind’s behalf. (Danas Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.) Again finding the requirements of Rule 9.40 satisfied, Counsel Kind’s Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 20, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court 