  Case Number:  21STCV03338    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  B BERMAN V. CITY
OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.
 
Motion for Summary judgment or in
the alternative summary adjudication
 
Date of Hearing:  August
19, 2024                              Trial Date:  December 2, 2024
Department:   B                                                          Case
No.: 21STCV03338
 
Moving
Party:             Defendants City of Los
Angeles and City of Los Angeles acting by and through the Los Angeles
Department of Water and Power
Responding
Party:       None
                                    
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 27, 2021, plaintiff Thomas Berman filed this
action against defendants City of Los Angeles and Does 1 through 100 for
damages arising from an alleged dangerous condition of public property. Plaintiff
filed amendments to complaint, naming Los Angeles Department of Water &
Power as Doe 1, Northwest Excavating, Inc. as Doe 2, Skansa, Inc. as Doe 3,
Skansa USA, Inc. as Doe 4, and Regional Connector Constructors, Inc. as Doe 5.
 
On December 20, 2021, cross-complainants City of Los Angeles
and City of Los Angeles acting by and through the Los Angeles Department of
Water and Power (the “City”) filed a cross complaint against cross-defendant
Northwest Excavating Inc. alleging equitable indemnity, contribution,
apportionment, declaratory relief, and express indemnity.
 
On November 16, 2023, City filed the instant motion for
summary judgment.
 
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed the complaint as to
Traylor Brothers, Inc. as Doe 6, Skanska, Inc. as Doe 7, and Skanska, USA, Inc.
as Doe 8. 
 
On May 3, 2024, cross-complainant Regional Connector
Constructors, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against cross-defendant Northwest
Excavating, Inc. alleging equitable indemnity, declaratory relief, express
indemnity, and implied indemnity.
 
On July 24, 2024, City requested to dismiss the action with
prejudice as to all parties and all causes of action, but this was rejected
because the request requires signatures of the cross-complainants’ attorneys of
record.
 
On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff requested to dismiss the action
with prejudice as to all parties and all causes of action, but this was
rejected because the request to dismiss entire action/all causes of action must
be signed by all parties.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
GRANT
 
Factual Allegations
 
The incident in question occurred on October 23, 2020, at
approximately 1:15 p.m., near the intersection of S. Flower Street and 7th
Street in Los Angeles, California. (UMF, 1.) Before the incident, Plaintiff and
his business partner, Melvin Kim, decided to have lunch together and rented
Lyft motorized scooters to travel to a restaurant. (UMF, 2-3.) Plaintiff had
previously operated similar scooters on City streets over 50 times and was
familiar with the area. (UMF, 4.)
 
While traveling southwest on S. Flower Street, Plaintiff’s
front tire caught a steel plate in the roadway, causing him to be ejected from
the scooter and land on the roadway. (UMF, 5.) Mr. Kim, who was following a
similar path, did not experience any issues with the steel plate. (UMF, 6.)
Plaintiff attempted to continue walking to the restaurant but had to stop due
to pain. (UMF, 7.) He then used a rideshare service to return home, where his
wife took him to Kaiser for emergency medical treatment. (UMF, 8.) Plaintiff
was diagnosed with fractures in his left knee and right arm. (UMF, 10.)
However, Plaintiff no longer suffers from any pain related to this incident.
(UMF, 11.)
 
Burden on Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, the Court must
apply a three-step analysis: (1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has met his or her initial burden; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue. 
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal. App. 4th 289,
294.)  “[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).)
 
A moving defendant may satisfy the initial burden to show
that one or more elements cannot be established by “presenting evidence that
conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action or by
relying on the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses to show that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, evidence to
establish that element.” (Schmidt v. Citibank, N.A. (2018) 28
Cal.App.5th 1109, 1119; Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 856 [It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out
the absence of evidence.]; Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal. App. 4th 884,
891.) The defendant must present evidence, typically in the form of factually
devoid discovery responses, showing that plaintiff does not have and cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” (Ibid.)
 
Unless and until a defendant meets that burden, the
plaintiff has no burden to present controverting evidence. (Consumer Cause,
Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal. App. 4th 454, 468 [“There is no obligation
on the opposing party . . . to establish anything by affidavit unless and until
the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every element . . .
necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”].) If a defendant fails to meet
that burden, summary judgment must be denied, even if the plaintiff fails to
file an opposition and fails to proffer any evidence.
 
On the other hand, if the defendant “has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials in its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.)
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463,
467.)     
 
LADWP is Not a Proper Party
 
The City argues that the Los Angeles Department of Water and
Power (“LADWP”) is not a proper defendant in this case and should be dismissed.
LADWP is not a separate legal entity from the City of Los Angeles but is
instead a department created by the City. Citing several cases, the City
contends that similar to how a sheriff’s department is considered a subunit of
the county that created it, LADWP is merely a department within the City of Los
Angeles. As such, naming LADWP as an independent defendant is improper, and
therefore, it should be dismissed from the case. 
 
Dangerous Condition
 
The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are
identical to those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) Property owners,
possessors, or controllers generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property to prevent exposing others to unreasonable risks of harm.
(Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)
The existence and scope of this duty are legal questions for the court. (Id. at
36.) If a dangerous condition exists, the property owner has a duty to exercise
ordinary care to either make the condition reasonably safe or provide an
adequate warning to help others avoid harm. (Bridgman v. Safeway Stores,
Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.)
 
A plaintiff alleging injuries from a dangerous condition
must prove that the defendant either: (1) created the dangerous condition, or
(2) knew or should have known about it. (Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc.
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1030, 1036; Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1206.) A defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law if
the plaintiff cannot demonstrate that the dangerous condition existed long
enough to be discovered through ordinary care and inspection. (Ortega, supra,
26 Cal.4th at 1207.) The question of whether a dangerous condition has existed
long enough for a reasonably prudent person to have discovered it is a matter
of fact for the jury. (See id.) Property owners are required to inspect
the premises or take other appropriate actions to determine their condition,
and if they could have discovered the condition through reasonable care, they
are liable for failing to correct it. (See id.) A store owner exercises
ordinary care by conducting reasonable inspections of the areas open to
customers. (See id. at 1205.) For business invitees, frequent
inspections should be conducted. (See id. at 1207.)
 
The City argues that the Plaintiff's claim for a dangerous
condition of public property fails as a matter of law under Government Code
section 835, which outlines the exclusive conditions under which a public
entity can be held liable for such conditions. To establish a prima facie case
under this section, a plaintiff must prove four elements: (1) the property was
in a dangerous condition, (2) the injuries were proximately caused by this
condition, (3) the condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk even with
due care, and (4) the governmental entity had actual or constructive notice of
the condition sufficient to take protective measures. 
 
The City contends that there is no evidence showing that it
either created the dangerous condition or had notice of it prior to Plaintiff’s
fall. (UMFs, 1-11, 15-23.) The steel plate that allegedly caused the
Plaintiff's accident was likely placed by a third party, Regional Connector
Constructors (RCC), as part of a transportation construction project by the Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro). The City asserts
that it had no knowledge of the steel plate’s existence, and there are no
records of complaints or reports related to it. Moreover, the City emphasizes
that even if it had notice or had placed the steel plate, the steel plate does
not constitute a dangerous condition under the law. A dangerous condition is
defined as one that creates a substantial risk of injury when used with due
care. The City argues that the steel plate was not inherently dangerous and
that there is no evidence of prior complaints or reports regarding the plate.
(UMFs, 17-18.). Additionally, the fact that Plaintiff’s companion had no issues
traversing the plate supports the argument that the plate was not a dangerous
condition. (UMF, 6.) Furthermore, the City asserts that the steel plate, even
if considered a defect, is trivial and does not impose liability. The law does
not require public entities to repair trivial defects, and courts have
consistently held that minor defects do not create a substantial risk of
injury. The City argues that the steel plate was a minor condition that a
reasonably careful user would have navigated without issue. (UMF, 21.) The City
also argues that the steel plate was open and obvious, meaning that the
condition itself served as a warning, and the City had no further duty to
remedy or warn about it. The steel plate was clearly visible, and there were no
obstructions that would have prevented Plaintiff from seeing it. (UMF, 23.) 
 
The City also argues that Plaintiff’s claim is barred by the
doctrine of assumption of the risk. This doctrine applies when a defendant owes
no legal duty to protect the plaintiff from risks inherent in an activity.
Under the primary assumption of the risk doctrine, a defendant has no duty to
eliminate inherent risks in the activity that caused the injury, and this acts
as a complete bar to the plaintiff's recovery. The City contends that riding a
motorized scooter, like skateboarding or jet skiing, falls under this doctrine
because it is an activity involving inherent risks that cannot be eliminated
without altering its fundamental nature. (UMFs, 1, 3, 5, 26.) Additionally, the
City argues that Plaintiff expressly assumed the risk of injury when he agreed
to Lyft’s Terms of Use. The Terms included a clear waiver of liability, where
Plaintiff acknowledged the risks involved in using the scooter and agreed to
take full responsibility for any resulting injuries. This express assumption of
risk further precludes the Plaintiff from holding the City liable for his
injuries. (UMFs, 27-29.) Finally, the City maintains that even though the City
was not specifically named in the waiver, the Release benefits the City because
Lyft’s operations, including the use of motorized scooters, depend on City
permits and approvals. Therefore, the City falls within the class of entities
protected by the waiver, effectively barring the Plaintiff's claim against the
City.
 
Plaintiff provides no arguments in opposition.
 
The Court finds that summary judgment should be granted in
favor of the City. First, there is no evidence that the City created or had
notice of the steel plate that allegedly caused Plaintiff’s injury, as the
plate was placed by a third party and the City received no prior complaints or
reports about it. Thus, Plaintiff’s claim under Government Code section 835
fails. Additionally, even if the City had notice, the steel plate does not
constitute a dangerous condition under the law, as Plaintiff’s companion safely
navigated the plate, indicating it was not inherently dangerous. Plaintiff also
provides no evidence to rebut this showing. Moreover, the steel plate, at most,
represents a trivial defect that does not create a substantial risk of injury,
and Plaintiff has not provided evidence of any aggravating factors that would
elevate the plate from a minor condition to a dangerous one. Furthermore, the
steel plate was an open and obvious condition, clearly visible to any
reasonably careful person using the roadway, thereby negating any duty on the
part of the City to warn or remedy it. Lastly, Plaintiff’s claim is barred by
the doctrine of assumption of the risk, as riding a motorized scooter
inherently involves risks that Plaintiff voluntarily assumed, and Plaintiff
expressly assumed these risks when agreeing to Lyft’s Terms of Use, which
included a waiver of liability. For these reasons, the Court concludes that
there are no triable issues of fact as to Plaintiff’s dangerous condition
claim.
 
Therefore, the City’s motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice and submit a Proposed Judgment
for the Court’s signature.