..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Number: 21STCV26854
Plaintiff's Name: Showroom Interiors, LLC dba Vesta Home
Defendant's Name: Adrian Rudomin, Donella Circle, LLC, Tartarus, LLC, and The Kraken, LLC
People's Names:
Company Names:
Places:
Dates:
Events:
Money:
Intentions:
Facts:
Disputes:
Acts:
Agreements:
Laws:
Case Citations:
Statutes:
Roles:
Significant Statements:

Case Summary:
The Plaintiff, Showroom Interiors, LLC dba Vesta Home, filed a complaint against the Defendants, Adrian Rudomin, Donella Circle, LLC, Tartarus, LLC, and The Kraken, LLC, alleging breach of contract, conversion, unjust enrichment, and other claims. The Plaintiff moved for summary judgment or adjudication, arguing that there are no triable issues of material fact. The Court denied the motion, finding that the Plaintiff failed to establish the elements of the alleged causes of action and that the evidence presented was insufficient to show that the Defendants lacked an affirmative defense.

Key Points:
1. The Plaintiff failed to establish the existence of two contracts, the Rochedale Agreement and Donella Agreement.
2. The Plaintiff failed to provide evidence that the Furniture was used for non-staging purposes.
3. The Plaintiff failed to show that the Defendants wrongfully disposed of the Furniture without consent.
4. The Plaintiff failed to establish unjust enrichment, as the evidence showed that the third-party Buyer initially agreed to purchase the Furniture along with the Property.
5. The motion for summary judgment or adjudication was denied.

Conclusion:
The Court denied the Plaintiff's motion for summary judgment or adjudication, finding that the Plaintiff failed to establish the elements of the alleged causes of action and that the evidence presented was insufficient to show that the Defendants lacked an affirmative defense.
