 Case Number:  21STCV26854    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SHOWROOM
  INTERIORS, LLC dba VESTA HOME, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ADRIAN RUDOMIN; DONELLA CIRCLE, LLC;
  TARTARUS, LLC; THE KRAKEN, LLC; and DOES 1 to 40, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV26854
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Date: April 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Showroom Interiors, LLC dba Vesta Home (“Plaintiff” or “Showroom
dba Vesta Home”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants Adrian Rudomin (“Rudomin”), Donella Circle, LLC (“Donella”),
Tartarus, LLC (“Tartarus”) and The Kraken, LLC (“Kraken”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, reply and further briefing papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On July 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
operative Complaint against Defendants Rudomin; Donella, Tartarus, Kraken; and
Does 1 to 40, inclusive ”) (sometimes collectively, “Defendants”)
 for: (1) Breach
of Contract – Donella Agreement; (2) Conversion; (3) Unjust Enrichment; and (4)
Breach of Contract – Rochedale Agreement.   The First Cause of Action alleges a claim
against Adrian, Kraken and Donella for breach of the Donella Contract.  
 
Exhibit “A” to the Complaint is a
contract between Donella and “Showroom Interiors, LLC (“VESTA HOME”), a
Delaware Limited Liability Company.”  Exhibit
“B” to the Complaint is a contract between Halston Home, “a Luxury Division of
Showroom, Inc.” and Tartarus.  
 
            On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed
this instant Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication (the “Motion”). Throughout the Motion and the evidence submitted
in support thereon, the actions are alleged to be by “Defendants,” and not to
individual defendants.  There is no
evidence submitted supporting any alter ego allegations.  On March 13, 2024, Defendants filed their
opposition to the Motion. On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed its reply to the
opposition. 
 
On
April 2, 2024, the Court ordered further briefing to be submitted by April 12,
2024 concerning various issues regarding the Motion. On April 11, 2024,
Defendants filed their supplemental brief. On April 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed
its supplemental brief. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
            In support of the moving papers, Plaintiff submitted the declaration of
Julian Buckner (the “Buckner Declaration”). Defendants object to portions of the
Buckner Declaration. The Court rules on the objections as follows:
            OVERRULED: Paragraphs 3-4,
6-20, 22-23 
            SUSTAINED: Paragraph 5 
 
In support of the opposition, Defendants’ submitted
the declarations of Martin Simone (the “Simone Declaration”)and Adrian Rudomin
(the “Rudomin Declaration”). Plaintiff objects to portions of these
declarations. The Court rules on the objections as follows:
OVERRULED: Paragraphs 15-18, 21-27, 33-40, 42-47, 49-51,
54-55,56, 57, 58, 59, 60-65, 67- 83, 85-86, 88-91, 93, 97, 99-108, 110, 112 (Rudomin
Decl.)
SUSTAINED: 1-5 (Simone Decl.); Paragraphs 4-14, 19-20,
28- 32, 41, 48, 52-53, 66, 84, 87, 92, 94-96, 98, 109, 111 (Rudomin Decl.)
             
 
 
DISCUSSION
            The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) The Code of Civil Procedure §
437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is
to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or
declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within
the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)  
 
As
to each cause of action as framed by the complaint, a plaintiff moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
her proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  
 
Once
the moving party has met that burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)  
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
            moves for summary judgment on the
operative Complaint on the grounds that there is no triable issue of material
fact as to Plaintiff’s causes of action against Defendants Adrian Rudomin;
Donella Circle, LLC; Tartarus, LLC; and The Kraken, LLC (“Defendants”).
Alternatively, Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to the following
issues:
1.     First Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract against Defendants as to the Donella Agreement at
issue herein;
2.     Second Cause of
Action for Conversion;
3.     Third Cause of
Action for Unjust Enrichment;
4.     Fourth Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract against Defendants as to the Rochedale Agreement
at issue herein;
5.     All causes of
action in that Defendants have no valid affirmative defenses to any of
Plaintiff’s causes of action. 
 
First
and Fourth Causes of Action for Breach of Contract
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, plaintiff must plead: “(1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.)
 
Plaintiff
argues it has established the existence of two contracts, the Rochedale
Agreement and Donella Agreement, including Defendants’ promise to pay a monthly
rental rate on the inventory after the initial staging period. Plaintiff
further contends it has shown that Defendants’ breached both of the Agreements by
failing to pay the monthly rental rates on both contracts, failing to pay the
second installment of $20,000.00 of the initial staging fee regarding the
Donella Agreement, using the furniture for non-staging purposes, and selling
the furniture without the knowledge and consent of Plaintiff. Moreover,
Plaintiff asserts it suffered damages from Defendants’ breaches. Additionally,
Plaintiff contends Defendants have no valid legal defenses to breach of
contract because Defendant Rudomin signed both Agreements at issue and both
included the Luxury Lease Provision. Finally, Plaintiff contends Defendant
Rudomin was not coerced into signing the Agreements as the Donella Agreement
was negotiated over weeks or months and Defendant Rudomin claimed in his
deposition that he failed to read the Luxury Lease Provisions in Section 16. 
 
Plaintiff
here is Showroom Interiors, LLC dba Vesta Home, which is a party to the Donella
Agreement in the First Cause of Action.  The
other party to the Donella Agreement is Defendant Donella.  Plaintiff has not provided any evidence upon
which this Court may find that Defendants Rudomin, Tartarus or Kraken could be
held liable under the Donella Agreement.  Moreover, Plaintiff has provided no evidence
with its submission of the Motion that Furniture as it is defined in the Motion
was actually used for “non-staging purposes.” 

 
With
regard to the Fourth Cause of Action, which is alleged against Rudomin, Kraken
and Tartarus, Plaintiff is not a party to the Rochdale
Agreement.   The Rochdale Agreement was between Tartarus
and “Halston Home, a Luxury Division of Showroom, Inc.” and Tartarus.  (Complaint, Exh. “B.”) Setting aside the
issue of the Motion’s being directed to all Defendants, including Defendants
Rudomin and Kraken, which are not named as parties to the Rochdale Agreement,
it does not appear from the evidence presented with the Motion that Plaintiff,
a “Delaware Limited Liability Company dba Vesta Home,” is the same entity as
Halston Home or Showroom, Inc.  Neither the
Motion nor its supporting papers provide any evidence whatsoever that Plaintiff
has any relationship to Showroom, Inc. or Halston Home. 
 
The
proffered evidence with the Motion is insufficient to satisfy Plaintiff’s
initial burden to show that it has proven all the elements of the causes of
action alleged in the Complaint, much less that no triable issue of material
fact exists as to whether Defendants lacked an affirmative defense thereto.  
 
For
the reasons stated above, the Motion is DENIED as to the First and Fourth
Causes of Action.
 


 
Second
Cause of Action for Conversion
The
basic elements of a conversion cause of action are: “(1) the plaintiff's
ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) the defendant's
disposition of the property in a manner that is inconsistent with the
plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages.” (Regent Alliance
Ltd. v. Rabizadeh (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181.)
 
The
Second Cause of Action is alleged against Defendants Rudomin, Kraken and
Donella.  Plaintiff argues that “Defendants”
wrongfully disposed of Plaintiff’s personal property in the form of the Furniture
by virtue of having sold the real property to a third party (the “Buyer”).
Specifically, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants converted Plaintiff’s staging Furniture
used for the Rochedale Agreement and used for the Donella Agreement without
Plaintiff’s consent. Similarly, Plaintiff contends Defendants caused the Furniture
for the Donella Agreement to be used for a non-staging purpose, and that
Plaintiff did not consent to such use. Finally, Plaintiff argues that it was
not allowed access to remove its property because the possession had already
been transferred to the Buyer along with the Donella Property. 
 
T
evidence proffered with the Motion is insufficient to satisfy Plaintiff’s
initial burden to show that a triable issue of material fact does not exist as
to whether Defendants wrongfully disposed of Plaintiff’s staging Furniture
without their consent by selling it to third parties. Plaintiff’s evidence
merely indicates that the parties initially negotiated to have the Furniture
sold to Buyer with the real property. Moreover, as discussed above, the
evidence does not establish that the Furniture was used for non-staging
purposes. 
 
Therefore,
the Motion as to the Second Cause of Action for conversion is DENIED. 


 
Third
Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment
“The
elements for a claim of unjust enrichment are ‘receipt of a benefit and unjust
retention of the benefit at the expense of another.’” (Lyles v.
Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769.)  The Third Cause of Action is alleged against
Rudomin, Kraken and Donella.
 
Plaintiff
argues it rented the Donella furniture to “Defendants” based on the
understanding and agreement that Plaintiff would be repaid. Furthermore,
Plaintiff argues Defendants received the benefit of the Furniture in the
Donella property from Plaintiff, agreed to make monthly rental payments, and
unjustly failed to do so. Plaintiff also argues that Defendants’ retention of
the Donella Furniture comes at the expense of Plaintiff, which has been damaged
and deprived of the use and enjoyment of the Furniture it loaned to Defendants.
Moreover, Plaintiff contends Defendants were unjustly enriched by their use of
the Donella Furniture without paying the Inventory Rental Fee to market the
home for sale and complete the sale, by their non-staging use of the Donella Furniture
without paying Luxury Lease terms and fees, and by their sale of the Donella Furniture
without any right to sell the same. In addition, Plaintiff contends Defendants
purported to credit the purchaser back $300,000.00 for the  home without the Furniture, so that this constituted
the value added to the purchase and Defendants were unjustly enriched by at
least that amount. 
 
The
proffered evidence in the Motion is insufficient to satisfy Plaintiff’s initial
burden to show that a triable issue of material fact does not exist as to
whether Defendants were unjustly enriched at the expense of Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s
evidence shows only that the third-party Buyer initially agreed to purchase the
Furniture along with the Property. The evidence also indicates that once the third-party
Buyer decided not to purchase the Furniture, it was returned to Plaintiff.  Finally, the evidence does not establish that
the Furniture was used for non-staging purposes by Buyer or Plaintiff. 
 
Therefore,
the Motion as to the Third Cause of Action for unjust enrichment is DENIED. 
 
            Damages and Attorney’s Fees 
            Because the Motion is denied as to
each of the Causes of Action alleged in the Complaint,  the Motion as to the issue of entitlement to
damages and attorneys’ fees is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 19th day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



