 Case Number:  22STCV29959    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV29959




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for an Order Granting its Request to Apply or Impress its Lien Against
  Rigoberto Zetina’s Settlement




MOVING PARTY:


Lienholder Los Angeles Unified School
  District 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Rigoberto Zetina 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 14, 2022, Plaintiff
Rigoberto Zetina (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Lyft, Inc.,
Cecilia Jeannette Herrera Hernandez, and Does 1 to 100 for negligence related
to a motor vehicle accident that occurred on October 29, 2020. 
 
On December 12, 2022, non-party Los Angeles Unified School District
(“LAUSD”) filed a Notice of Subrogation Lien under Labor Code sections 3850 et
seq. The Notice states that LAUSD employed Plaintiff at the time of the
incident and had provided workers’ compensation benefits for her injury, and
thus claimed a first lien upon any settlement or judgment in this case. At the
time, the current amount of the lien was $103,148.01. 
 
On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Settlement of Entire
Case.
 
LAUSD now moves to apply or impress its lien against Plaintiff, which
was not apportioned in the settlement. Plaintiff opposes and LAUSD replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“Where the tort of a third party causes injury to an employee . . . section
3852 permits the employee to sue the tortfeasor for all damages proximately
resulting from the injury even though he or she has received from an employer
workers' compensation benefits covering some of the same injuries and resulting
disability. To prevent an employee from retaining both third party damages and
workers' compensation benefits for the same injuries and disabilities, the
Labor Code permits an employer to recover workers' compensation benefits it has
become obligated to pay and/or has paid[.]” (American Home Assurance Co. v.
Hagadorn (Hagadorn) (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1898, 1901-02 [quoting
Abdala v. Aziz (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 369, 374–375].)
 
Labor Code section 3852 reads
in relevant part as follows:
 
“The claim of an employee…for
compensation does not affect his or her claim or right of action for all
damages proximately resulting from the injury or death against any person other
than the employer. Any employer who pays, or becomes obligated to pay compensation,
or who pays, or becomes obligated to pay salary in lieu of compensation…may
likewise make a claim or bring an action against the third person. In the
latter event the employer may recover in the same suit, in addition to the
total amount of compensation, damages for which he or she was liable including
all salary, wage, pension, or other emolument paid to the employee or to his or
her dependents.”
 
“When an employer claims reimbursement rights because it has paid
benefits to an injured worker, it may proceed against a third party tortfeasor
by [1] bringing a direct action, [2] by intervening in an action brought by the
employee or [3] by filing a lien in an action brought by the employee.
[Citation]. (Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. v. Superior Court (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 1502, 1506-07.) 
 
Labor
Code section 3859 states:

“(a) No release or settlement of any claim under this chapter as to either the
employee or the employer is valid without the written consent of both. Proof of
service filed with the court is sufficient in any action or proceeding where
such approval is required by law.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter, an employee
may settle and release any claim he may have against a third party without the
consent of the employer. Such settlement or release shall be subject to the
employer's right to proceed to recover compensation he has paid in accordance
with Section 3852.”

And Labor Code section 3860 provides in relevant part:
 
“(a)
No release or settlement under this chapter, with or without suit, is valid or
binding as to any party thereto without notice to both the employer and the
employee, with opportunity to the employer to recover the amount of
compensation he has paid or become obligated to pay and any special damages to
which he may be entitled under Section 3852, and opportunity to the employee to
recover all damages he has suffered and with provision for determination of
expenses and attorney's fees as herein provided.
(b)
Except as provided in Section 3859, the entire amount of such settlement, with
or without suit, is subject to the employer's full claim for reimbursement for
compensation he has paid or become obligated to pay and any special damages to
which he may be entitled under Section 3852, together with expenses and
attorney fees, if any, subject to the limitations in this section set forth.
(c)
Where settlement is effected, with or without suit, solely through the efforts
of the employee's attorney, then prior to the reimbursement of the employer, as
provided in subdivision (b) hereof, there shall be deducted from the amount of
the settlement the reasonable expenses incurred in effecting such settlement,
including costs of suit, if any, together with a reasonable attorney's fee to
be paid to the employee's attorney, for his services in securing and effecting
settlement for the benefit of both the employer and the employee.
…

(f)
The amount of expenses and attorneys' fees referred to in this section shall,
on settlement of suit, or on any settlement requiring court approval, be set by
the court. . . . Where the employer and the employee are represented by
separate attorneys they may propose to the court . . . for consideration and
determination, the amount and division of such expenses and fees.”
 
Finally,
Labor Code section 3856(b) provides: “If the action is prosecuted by the
employee alone, the court shall first order paid from any judgment for damages
recovered the reasonable litigation expenses incurred in preparation and
prosecution of such action, together with a reasonable attorney’s fee which
shall be based solely upon the services rendered by the employee’s attorney in
effecting recovery both for the benefit of the employee and the employer. After
the payment of such expenses and attorney’s fee the court shall, on application
of the employer, allow as a first lien against the amount of such judgment for
damages, the amount of the employer’s expenditure for compensation together
with any amounts to which he may be entitled as special damages under Section
3852.”
 
“In Quinn v. State of California, 15 Cal.3d 162,
124 Cal.Rptr. 1, 539 P.2d 761 the injured employee pursued an action against a
third party tortfeasor, and his employer's workers' compensation insurer as
subrogee filed therein a statutory lien but did not otherwise participate in
the litigation on behalf of plaintiff. A judgment was rendered for plaintiff
out of which the lien was satisfied, and he moved for an order apportioning his
attorney's fee between himself and his employer. The Supreme Court framed the
issue, ‘(W)hether this statute (Labor Code, s 3856) incorporates the principle
that an active litigant (here the worker) may require the passive beneficiary
of his efforts (here the employer) to contribute toward the payment for the
services of litigant's attorney which produced the recovery.’ [Citation]. The
court held at pages 169-170 that the Legislature had incorporated into the
statute the equitable ‘common fund’ doctrine according to which ‘(O)ne who
expends attorneys' fees in winning a suit which creates a fund from which
others derive benefits, may require those passive beneficiaries to bear a fair
share of the litigation costs.’ [Citations.]” (Kaplan v. Industrial Indem.
Co. (1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 700, 705.)[1]

 
            In Kaplan, the Court of
Appeal applied the reasoning in Quinn (which pertained to section 3856
for judgments) to section 3860, which applies to settlements. (Kaplan, supra,
79 Cal.App.3d at 705-06.) “Our analysis of section 3860, subdivision [e] and
its analogue in section 3856, subdivision (c), viewed in light of the holding
of Quinn, leads us to conclude that the principle of equitable
apportionment of attorneys' fees applies even where both both employee and
employer retain separate attorneys so long as the resulting fund is produced
through the efforts of only one of them.” (Id. at 709.) The court in Kaplan
also observed that retaining an attorney to file a lien or to file a complaint
in intervention is not “active” in contributing to the creation of the
reimbursement fund. (Id.) 
 
To apportion attorney fees on equitable principles, “the
court should proceed first to calculate a reasonable attorney's fee, a fee
which reflects the total services rendered to both beneficiaries of the
recovery. Having fixed that fee, the court must then make a reasonable
apportionment of it between the parties benefitted by the recovery. Such an
apportionment will, of course, often involve only a relatively simple
proportional calculation, but such simplicity will not be the invariable rule.
The court should consider, for instance, whether the worker's attorney's
efforts in disproving a defense under the rule announced in Witt v. Jackson
(1961) 57 Cal.2d 57, 17 Cal.Rptr. 369, 366 P.2d 641, have accounted for a
disproportionate amount of the litigation. Other factors may suggest themselves
to the sound discretion of the courts, acting always under the guidance of the
traditional equitable a principles whose application we have examined above.” (Quinn
v. State of California (1975) 15 Cal.3d 162, 175-76.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
The parties in this case
(Plaintiff, Lyft, and Hernandez) have settled for $500,000. LAUSD asserts no
apportionment was made for its lien. LAUSD asserts its lien currently amounts
to $110,059.70. Plaintiff’s attorney is claiming attorney fees for 40% of the
settlement: $200,000. Litigation costs total $7,000, and medical liens for
treatment obtained outside of workers’ compensation totals approximately
$100,000. 
 
It appears this motion arose after
Plaintiff’s counsel asked LAUSD to reduce its lien amount. In response, LAUSD
argues Plaintiff’s counsel should lower his attorney fees amount. 
 
 In opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute
LAUSD’s lien rights but argues the lien should be reduced by the attorney fees
and litigation expenses incurred in this lawsuit since it did not participate
in the litigation process; Plaintiff asserts that despite agreeing to the
contrary, LAUSD’s counsel did not appear or participate at the mediation where
the parties settled. Plaintiff also argues that 40% attorney fees is a
reasonable fee and argues that under the common fund doctrine, since LAUSD is a
passive beneficiary, it should reduce its lien by 40% to account for the work
of Plaintiff’s attorney.  
 
In reply, LAUSD, argues the 40%
attorney fee is unconscionable, and argues it would be warranted if the case
had gone to trial. Instead, since this case settled after mediation,
Plaintiff’s attorney fees should be 20% to 30%. LAUSD then argues that it
should not have to reduce its lien amount since the amount Plaintiff would
recover (approximately $82,940.30) would be an appropriate apportionment for
general damages. 
 
However, LAUSD does not address
Plaintiff’s arguments regarding the common fund doctrine. The motion itself
only cites to Summers v. Newman (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1021, which addresses apportionment
when the employer is an active beneficiary, rather than passive, and from there
the motion argues that after the attorney’s fees and costs are deducted, LAUSD
is entitled to the total amount of the lien. (See Motion at pp. 6-7.) LAUSD misapplies
the common fund doctrine. As Quinn makes clear, section 3856
“incorporates the principle that an active litigant (here the worker) may
require the passive beneficiary of his efforts (here the employer) to
contribute toward the payment for the services of litigant’s attorney which
produced the recovery.” (15 Cal.3d at 165.) “[T]he conclusion that the employer
should bear his share of such fees rests upon the equitable principle of
apportionment long applied by the courts and upon the Legislature’s
incorporation of such principle into section 3856.” (Id.) “Both the
directive to assess a reasonable fee and the mandate to consider the benefit
to both active and passive beneficiaries of the recovery call for
apportionment.” (Id. at 170 [emphasis in original].) Moreover, the Quinn
court further made clear that its interpretation “will increase the
plaintiff’s present tort recovery and decrease the employer’s recoupment of
past benefits.” (Id. at 174.) “The fact that the employer must pay some
portion of his recoupment to the worker as a share of the attorney’s fee does
not make this payment additional worker’s compensation: the employer’s
payment does not fulfill his obligation under the compensation statute; it
recompenses the attorney for his services.” (Id. at 174 [emphasis
in original].)
 
Here, LAUSD does not appear to
dispute that it is a passive beneficiary, and presents no evidence to the
contrary. The declaration of Stanley Escalante discusses no efforts made to
litigate the case, other than as they relate to protecting the lien. Accordingly,
the Court finds that the common fund doctrine applies and the amount due to
LAUSD must be reasonably apportioned upon proper motion.
 
However, Plaintiff has requested
apportionment in opposition to LAUSD’s motion, rather than file a motion to
apportion attorney’s fees. In particular, no fee agreement or documentation
regarding the costs have been provided to the Court and the parties generally
dispute what constitutes a reasonable attorney’s fee in this case, without much
specificity. Moreover, Plaintiff offers no explanation why 40% should be
deducted from LAUSD’s lien amount. Rather, the proper calculation is for the
Court to determine a reasonable attorney’s fee, “a fee which reflects the total
services rendered to both beneficiaries of the recovery,” and then make
a reasonable apportionment of that amount between the parties that benefitted
by the recovery. (Quinn, supra, 15 Cal.3d at 175-76 [discussing factors
for the court to consider in determining apportionment].) As the parties do not
sufficiently address the issue, the Court does not engage in the apportionment
analysis at this time. For purposes of this motion, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that the full amount of the lien is not recoverable to LAUSD. The
parties shall first meet and confer to determine if an agreement may be
reached.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Los Angeles Unified School District’s
Motion for an Order Granting its Request to Apply or Impress its Lien Against
Rigoberto Zetina’s Settlement.
 
Moving party to provide notice, and file a proof of service of such.
 


