 Case Number:  21STCV33535    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


November
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV33535




MOTION


Motion
  for Leave to Reopen Discovery and Continue Trial




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Manoug Tokatlian and Lena Tokatlian




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Denise Ramorino 



 
MOTION
 
This
case arises from an alleged motor vehicle accident. Defendants
Manoug Tokatlian and Lena Tokatlian (“Defendants”) now move to reopen discovery
and continue trial. Plaintiff Denise Ramorino (“Plaintiff”) opposes, and
Defendants reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on September
13, 2021. Trial was initially set for March 13, 2023.  
 
            On February 27, 2023, at the final
status conference, after the case was not served, the trial date was vacated. 
 
            On October 16, 2023, Defendants
filed their answer. 
 
            On November 2, 2023, at the trial
setting conference, trial was set for November 4, 2024. All discovery/motion
cut-offs attached to that trial date. 
 
            On October 2, 2024, the Court
granted Defendants’ ex parte application and continued trial to January 31,
2025. All discovery and pre-trial motion cut-offs remained attached to the
November 4, 2024 trial date. (Min. Order, 10/2/24.) 
 
            
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
 “Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of
civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)  
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3)  
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(4)  
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5)  
The
addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)  
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)  
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
 
(1)  
The
proximity of the trial date;
(2)  
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;
(3)  
The
length of the continuance requested;
(4)  
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)  
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)  
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
(7)  
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)  
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)  
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
In
determining whether to reopen discovery, the court must consider the necessity
of and reasons for the additional discovery, the diligence or lack thereof by
the party seeking to reopen discovery in attempting to complete discovery prior
to the cutoff, whether permitting the discovery will prevent the case from
going forward on the trial date or will otherwise prejudice any party, and any
past continuances of the trial date.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd.
(b).)¿ 
 
Discussion
 
Defendants ask to reopen discovery for the limited purpose of deposing
four witnesses to Plaintiff’s damages claim who were first disclosed during
Plaintiff’s September 17, 2024 deposition. Defendants also request a 28-day
trial continuance to February 28, 2025. 
 
Defendants argue that on September 17, 2024, Plaintiff testified that
four persons have knowledge of her alleged injuries and the impact on her daily
life: her husband, Cristian Ramorino; her two adult sons that lived with her at
the time of and after the accident, Clark and Frank; and her close friend,
Monica. (Basil Decl. ¶ 21.) Defendants contend these four individuals were not
disclosed in previous discovery responses. (See id. ¶¶ 15–16, Exh. 3 at
3:12–14, Exh. 6 at 4:10–15.)
 
Defendants met and conferred with Plaintiff on September 24, 2024. On
September 30, 2024, Defendants obtained the deposition transcript for the
witnesses’ names but were unable to conduct depositions before the October 4,
2024 discovery cut-off. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues she disclosed her husband Cristian
Ramorino (“Cristian”) as a witness to the accident (Form Interrogatory 12.1)
and sons Klark Kleczek and Francisco Lascano in Form Interrogatory 20.11
(regarding possession of each vehicle involved). (Opp., 2.) In response to
Defendants’ special interrogatory 9, asking for contact information from
persons supporting Plaintiff’s claim for damages, Plaintiff responded: ““[t]he
medical providers whose information has already been given in responses to
Defendant Lena Tokatlian's form interrogatories and Request for of Documents.”
(Basil Decl., Exh. 6.) In a similar interrogatory from co-defendant Lyft,
Plaintiff responded: “Discovery has not been completed, currently they are all
the PERSONS including witnesses and medical providers identified in defendants'
form interrogatories.” (Id., Exh. 7, SROG 14.) 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel, who is Plaintiff’s husband Cristian Ramorino,
asserts that Defendants’ counsel agreed on September 26, 2024 that Cristian
Ramorino would not testify as a witness in this case. (Ramorino Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff
also argues Defendants did not act diligently by arranging Plaintiff’s
deposition near the discovery cut-off. She also argues that Cristian cannot be
compelled to testify against Plaintiff under the spousal privilege and contends
there are limits for deposing counsel. In reply, Defendants do not address the
spousal privilege issue or the limits for deposing counsel. No motion to compel
nor motion for protective order have been filed, and therefore these arguments
are premature. The parties are ordered to meet and confer prior to any further
motion.
 
Nevertheless, the discovery produced by Plaintiff shows that these
four witnesses were not clearly identified in the discovery responses
pertaining to the damages claim. Defendants have therefore acted diligently. Seeing
as trial has already been continued to January 31, 2025, and there are only
four witnesses at issue, it appears there is time for the depositions to be
completed by the trial date. As a result, the motion to reopen discovery is
granted. Given that trial has already been continued, the Court finds there is
insufficient good cause for an additional 28-day trial continuance. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS in part Defendants’ motion to reopen
discovery pertaining to the depositions of the four witnesses identified in
Plaintiff’s September 17, 2024 deposition and shall be limited to the
issue of Plaintiff’s damages claim. 
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a
proof of service of such. 
 