 Case Number:  22STCV17683    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV17683




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Sanctions against Plaintiff’s Counsel of Record




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Tesla Energy Operations, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Tesla Energy
Operations, LLC (“Defendant”) now moves for sanctions against Plaintiffs Puneh Kitchen,
Jonathan Kitchen, and Jesse Kitchen’s (“Plaintiffs”) counsel of record, Thomas
G. Stolpman and his law firm Stolpman Law Group (“Stolpman”) pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 128.5 and 575.2. 
 
            No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 states in pertinent
part: 
 
(a) A trial
court may order a party, the party's attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by another party as a result of
actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay. This section also applies to judicial arbitration
proceedings under Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1141.10) of Title 3 of
Part 3. 
 
(b) For purposes of this section: 
 
(1)
“Actions or tactics” include, but are not limited to, the making or opposing of
motions or the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or
other responsive pleading. The mere filing of a complaint without service
thereof on an opposing party does not constitute “actions or tactics” for
purposes of this section. 
 
(2)
“Frivolous” means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose
of harassing an opposing party. 
… 
 
(f)
Sanctions ordered pursuant to this section shall be ordered pursuant to the
following conditions and procedures: 
(1)
If, after notice and a reasonable opportunity to respond, the court issues an
order pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may, subject to the conditions
stated below, impose an appropriate sanction upon the party, the party's
attorneys, or both, for an action or tactic described in subdivision (a). In
determining what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court shall consider
whether a party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.
(A) A
motion for sanctions under this section shall be made separately from other
motions or requests and shall describe the specific alleged action or tactic,
made in bad faith, that is frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.
…
(2) An
order for sanctions pursuant to this section shall be limited to what is
sufficient to deter repetition of the action or tactic or comparable action or
tactic by others similarly situated.
 
A motion is “frivolous” and in “bad faith” where “any
reasonable lawyer would agree it is totally devoid of merit,” such as when it
is lacking any basis in statutory or case law or made without any necessary
evidence to support it.  (Karwasky v. Zachay (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d
679, 681.)  There must also be a showing of subjective bad faith for
sanctions under Section 128.5.  (See, e.g., In re Marriage of Reese
& Guy (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1220-21.)  The fact a motion
lacks merit is not enough by itself to justify an award of sanctions under
Section 128.5; it is error to award sanctions if it was not unreasonable for
the moving party's attorney to think the issues raised were arguable, and there
is no evidence of subjective bad faith or improper motive.  (Garcia v.
Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20; Bruno v. Superior Court (Gridley)
(1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1359, 1365.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 575.2 states the following:
 
“(a) Local rules promulgated pursuant to Section 575.1 may provide
that if any counsel, a party represented by counsel, or a party if in pro se,
fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof, the court on motion of a
party or on its own motion may strike out all or any part of any pleading of
that party, or, dismiss the action or proceeding or any part thereof, or enter
a judgment by default against that party, or impose other penalties of a lesser
nature as otherwise provided by law, and may order that party or his or her
counsel to pay to the moving party the reasonable expenses in making the
motion, including reasonable attorney fees. No penalty may be imposed under
this section without prior notice to, and an opportunity to be heard by, the
party against whom the penalty is sought to be imposed.
 
(b) It is the intent of the Legislature that if a failure to comply
with these rules is the responsibility of counsel and not of the party, any
penalty shall be imposed on counsel and shall not adversely affect the party's
cause of action or defense thereto.”
 
Furthermore, “[i]f a judge of a court adopts a rule that applies
solely to cases in that judge's courtroom, or a particular branch or district
of a court adopts a rule that applies solely to cases in that particular branch
or district of a court, the court shall publish these rules as part of the
general publication of rules required by the California Rules of Court. . . . Individual
judges’ rules and branch and district rules are local rules of court for
purposes of this section.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 575.1, subd. (c).) 
 
            The Court’s Eighth Amended Standing
Order provides in relevant part: 
 
“Failure To Comply with Final Status Conference Obligations: The PI
Hub Courts have the discretion to require any party or counsel of record who
fails or refuses to comply with this Standing Order to show cause why the court
should not impose monetary, evidentiary, and/or issue sanctions (including the
entry of a default or the striking of an answer) (Code of Civil Procedure,
section 575.2).”
(Eighth Amended Standing Order ¶ 12D.) 
 
The Standing Order further states: “On the trial
date, all parties and/or their trial counsel must appear in person with trial
and exhibit binders in the PI Hub Court assigned to the case.” (Eighth Amended
Standing Order ¶ 14.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant seeks $16,587.22 in monetary sanctions based on
Stolpman’s repeated failures to appear ready for trial in this action. Defendant
lays out the following procedural history.
 
Trial was set in this matter for October 1, 2024. Stolpman failed to
appear at the second final status conference on September 18, 2024, which
caused the Court to set a third final status conference. Defendant contends
this was part of a pattern of delay observed in August 2024, when Stolpman
failed to work with Defendant to prepare the trial binder. Defendant’s counsel
asserts that on August 21, 2024, they sent Stolpman their materials for the
final status conference (Defendant’s witness list, exhibit list, and proposed
statement of the case); Defendant also asked Stolpman to assemble the final
documents. (Sidran Decl. ¶ 4.) On August 22, 2024, Stolpman sent Plaintiff’s
jury instructions, but purported to not understand his office was to assemble
the final documents. Defendant argues that due to this, the trial binder was not
completed before the original final status conference on August 27, 2024. (Id.
¶ 5.) Defendant asserts that Stolpman ultimately cooperated in completing the
joint exhibit and witness lists, and the trial binder was accepted at the third
final status conference on September 23, 2024. (Id. ¶ 7.) 
 
Then, on October 1, 2024, Stolpman arrived late for trial at 9:36 a.m.
Stolpman was not ready for trial and did not have exhibit binders. (Min. Order,
10/1/24.) As a result, the Court, on its own, continued trial to October 2,
2024. Defendant asserts that Stolpman resides in Santa Barbara, and therefore
should have known there would be traffic when traveling to Los Angeles in the
morning. 
 
Defendant argues these are frivolous tactics. Defendant seeks
sanctions to recover attorney fees incurred on September 18, 2024 and October
1, 2024; Defendant’s counsel traveled from the Bay Area and San Diego, to Los
Angeles and stayed overnight to prepare for the trial call. (Forbath Decl. ¶ 3;
Sidran Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
However, based on the above, Defendant has failed to present enough
evidence of Stolpman’s subjective bad faith when delaying with the preparing
the trial binder before the final status conference and when he arrived late to
trial on October 1, 2024.[1]
However, the Court will consider Defendant’s alternative motion for sanctions
under section 575.2. 
 
Based on the history of this case above, Stolpman did not comply with
the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order when he was not prepared and failed
to appear at the final status conference on September 18, 2024 and failed to
appear with the exhibit binders on October 1, 2024. Therefore, monetary
sanctions are warranted.
 
Defendant’s counsel Tracy D. Forbath asserts 11.1 hours were billed
for this motion for sanctions at a $425 hourly rate, and also asserts Associate
Daniel R. Vellado billed 15.7 hours for working on this motion, at $300 per
hour. (Forbath Decl. ¶ 8, 10-11.) Defendant’s counsel David R. Sidran also
billed 2 hours for this motion at a $600 hourly rate. (Sidran Decl. ¶ 21, 24.)
The Court finds that the amount claimed for this motion is excessive; the Court
also notes there was no opposition, and counsel can appear at the hearing
remotely. Therefore, the Court finds that five (5) hours of attorney time, at
the $300 hourly rate is reasonable: $1,500. 
 
Defendant’s counsel Sidran asserts that on October 1, he billed a
total of 4.5 hours, and 1.5 hours for the September 18 FSC. His expenses for
the October 1 trial attendance was $330. Defendant’s counsel Forbath asserts
expenses for attending trial. The Court awards sanctions in the amount of $2,130
(3 hours of Sidran’s time for the FSC and trial, plus expenses). The Court does
not award monetary sanctions for additional counsel to appear at trial, as only
trial counsel was ordered to personally appear.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion for sanctions is GRANTED in part. Counsel for
Plaintiff shall pay $3,630.00 in monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendant
within 30 days. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


