  Case Number:  20STCV13665    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV13665




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Monetary and Issue/or Terminating Sanctions   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transportation Authority




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Dieudonne Ngnie



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 8,
2020, Plaintiff Dieudonne Ngnie (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“Defendant”) for damages resulting from an alleged motor vehicle accident. 
 
Defendant now moves for monetary sanctions and issue or terminating
sanctions based on Plaintiff’s failure to obey the Court’s July 15, 2024 order
compelling Plaintiff to appear at an independent medical examination. Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method
or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may
impose…sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030.) The court may impose the
following sanctions for anyone engaging in a misuse of the discovery process:
(1) monetary sanctions; (2) an issue sanction ordering that designated facts
shall be taken as established or an order prohibiting any party engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims
or defenses; and (3) an evidence sanction prohibiting any party engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in
evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a)–(c).) 
 
The
court may also impose a terminating sanction for misuse of the discovery
process by any of the following: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or
parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process; (2) An order staying further proceedings by that party until an order
for discovery is obeyed; (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the
action, of that party; (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against
that party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(d).)  
 
Failing
to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery, or
disobeying
a court order to provide discovery, constitutes a
misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d), (g).)
“If a party is required to submit to a physical or mental examination under
Articles 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210) or 3 (commencing with Section
2032.310), or under Section 2016.030, but fails to do so, the court, on motion
of the party entitled to the examination, may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may, on motion of the party,
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.410.) 
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly.  But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los
Defensores, supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].)    
 
“Discovery sanctions must be tailored in order to remedy
the offending party's discovery abuse, should not give the aggrieved party more
than what it is entitled to, and should not be used to punish the offending
party.” (Karlsson v. Ford Motor Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1202, 1217.)¿ “Although the court has discretion in
choosing a sanction, this discretion must be exercised in a manner consistent
with the basic purposes of such sanctions, e.g., to compel disclosure of
discoverable information.”¿ (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 1164, 1193 (citation omitted).)¿ “Furthermore, the sanction chosen
should not provide a windfall to the other party, by putting the prevailing
party in a better position than if he or she had obtained the discovery sought
and it had been favorable.”¿ (Ibid. (citations omitted).)¿ “Although not expressly required by
statute, courts have noted that, absent unusual circumstances, nonmonetary
sanctions are warranted only if a party willfully fails to comply with a court
order.” (Aghaian v. Minassian (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 603, 618–19.) 
 
A motion for issue or evidentiary sanctions must be
accompanied by a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(a)(7).)
“A separate statement is a separate document filed and served with the
discovery motion that provides all the information necessary to understand each
discovery request and all the responses to it that are at issue. The separate
statement must be full and complete so that no person is required to review any
other document in order to determine the full request and the full response.
Material must not be incorporated into the separate statement by reference.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(c).)¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            On July 15, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s appearance at a physical examination.
In opposition, Plaintiff asserted he would appear at the examination on July
25, 2024, stating that he was currently residing in Togo for personal family
reasons. Due to this, Plaintiff’s counsel temporarily lost contact with
Plaintiff until July 1, 2024. (Min. Order, 7/15/24.) Accordingly, the Court
ordered Plaintiff to appear on July 25, 2024 at Dr. Russell W. Nelson’s office
for a medical examination. (Ibid.) The Court also imposed $1,125 in
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel of record. 
 
            Defendant now moves for sanctions
arguing that Plaintiff failed to appear at the examination on July 25, 2024. Plaintiff’s
counsel informed Defendant of this on July 25, 2024 and represented that
Plaintiff would return to the United States on August 1, 2024 and would be
available for an examination on August 2, 2024. (Buchongo Decl. ¶ 16.) On
August 2, 2024, Defendant served notice of the examination for August 15, 2024.
However, on August 9, 2024, Plaintiff informed Defendant they were having
issues contacting Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 20.) Plaintiff has failed to appear at
any examination. Defendant argues this has prevented it from defending this
case. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff states he
did not appear for the examination because he is stuck in Togo due to forces
beyond his control. He declares that he first arrived in Togo in December 2023,
and intended to stay temporarily. (Ngnie Decl. ¶ 2.) He further declares: 
 
“Despite my best efforts to return home to California, I have
encountered a series of frustrating obstacles. In May 2024, I purchased a
flight out of Togo, only to be informed at the airport that no flights were
available. This same scenario played out in both August and September 2024 I
would buy a ticket, arrive at the airport ready to depart, and then be told
that no flights could take me out of the country. I firmly believe that the
issue preventing my departure is politically motivated. It appears that forces
beyond my control are interfering with my ability to leave Togo.”
(Ngnie Decl. ¶ 3-4.)
 
Plaintiff asserts he is committed to finding a
way back to California. (Ngnie Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
Plaintiff does not explain why he thinks this is politically
motivated, nor does he attach proof that he paid for airplane tickets in May,
August, and September or proof of other relevant travel documents. Without more
information, the Court is unable to excuse Plaintiff’s non-compliance. Also
missing from Plaintiff’s opposition is any plan by Plaintiff or his counsel for
Plaintiff to return to the United States before trial. 
 
In reply, Defendant notes these deficiencies but also states the
five-year deadline in this case will expire on April 8, 2025. Trial is
currently set for February 27, 2025. 
 
Given Plaintiff’s assertions that he intends to return to the United
States, however tenuous, the Court has insufficient evidence to conclude that
Plaintiff willfully failed to obey the Court’s order. Therefore, the request
for terminating sanctions is denied. However, repeated failures in the future
to show proof of actual efforts to return to the California may result in the
Court concluding there is a pattern of discovery abuse. 
 
Regarding issue sanctions, first, Defendant did not provide a separate
statement. Additionally, the issue sanctions requested here (that Defendant is
not at fault and did not cause damages) is equivalent to terminating sanctions
since it would prevent Plaintiff from succeeding on his case. Therefore,
because the Court concludes that terminating sanctions are not warranted at
this time, the request for issue sanctions is denied. 
 
The Court finds that because Plaintiff failed to appear at the
examination, monetary sanctions are warranted. Defendant requests $3,750 in
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.[1]
This
represents an hourly rate of $250 and the $1,500 examination cancellation. (Buchongo
Decl. ¶ 24.) The Court finds monetary sanctions are warranted for failure to
abide by the order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.410.)
However, the amount requested in excessive. Therefore, the Court awards $2,750
in sanctions (5 hours of attorney time plus the cancellation fee). 
             
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion for Monetary and Issue/or Terminating
Sanctions is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff shall pay monetary sanctions in the reduced
amount of $2,750.00 to counsel for Defendant
within 30 days of this order.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to appear for examination within 30 days.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


