 Case Number:  22STCV21403    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


November
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV21403




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs
  Cruz Bernal Franco and Maria de la Luz Garcia Santos




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants
  Lobo Trucking LLC, Enrique Armando Flores, and K&R Transportation, LLC



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiffs Cruz Bernal Franco Maria de la Luz Garcia Santos
(“Plaintiffs”) move to continue trial. Defendants Lobo Trucking LLC, Enrique
Armando Flores, and K&R Transportation, LLC (“Defendants”) oppose and
Plaintiffs reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on June 30,
2022 alleging injuries from a motor vehicle accident. Trial was initially set
for December 28, 2023. 
 
            Defendants’ answer was filed on
November 7, 2022. 
 
            On November 21, 2023, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related dates to April 18, 2024.

 
            On February 1, 2024, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related dates to October 21,
2024. 
 
            On September 24, 2024, counsel filed
substitution of attorney forms for Plaintiffs.
 
            At the final status conference on
October 7, 2024, after the parties failed to submit their final status
conference documents, the Court continued trial pursuant to oral stipulation,
to November 4, 2024. The discovery/motion cut-off was closed. (Min. Order,
10/7/24.) 
 
            The instant motion to continue was
filed on October 9, 2024. On October 10, 2024, counsel filed motions to be
relieved as counsel.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a continuance.” 
(In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814,
823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering a request for a
trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11,
13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth factors for the
Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff asks the Court to continue trial and all related dates from
November 4, 2024 to March 4, 2025 because Plaintiffs are looking for new
counsel. According to the declaration of Martin Gasparian (“Counsel”),
Plaintiffs’ current counsel of record, “Plaintiffs have indicated they do not
want current counsel to continue on the case and are looking to retain new
counsel. This new counsel will need additional time to prepare for trial.”
(Gasparian Decl. ¶ 2.) In connection with this, Plaintiffs’ counsel has filed
motions to be relieved which will be heard concurrently with this motion. 
 
In opposition, Defendants argue this case “involved a 3 mph
side-scrape between two trucks” and will not require a lot of time for a new
attorney to prepare. Additionally, they argue their experts are ready for trial
and that to continue trial would require them to pay their experts to
re-prepare in the future. 
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ original counsel was Owili K. Eison, who filed the
complaint. On September 26, 2022, Plaintiffs handling attorney was changed to
Mark J. Bloom. Then, on September 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed Substitution of
Attorney forms designating Martin Gasparian as new counsel. 
 
Counsel offers no reason why Plaintiffs want to retain new counsel
shortly after he was retained.[1] In
reply, counsel for Plaintiffs asserts that they elected to retain new counsel
on September 30, 2024, just six days after Counsel substituted into this case. However,
new counsel has not appeared in the case, despite that more than one month has
passed.[2] Plaintiffs
have not sufficiently explained why a belated change in counsel is warranted
and fail to show good cause to continue trial for the length of time requested.
Nonetheless, given counsel’s representation that he stopped working on the case,
the Court would be inclined to grant a short two week continuance. The parties
are ordered to meet and confer and propose a new trial date on which all
witnesses will be available. Discovery and motion deadlines remain closed.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court grants in part Plaintiffs’ motion to continue trial.
 
 
Plaintiffs shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of
service of such.
 
 
 
PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21403




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
(2)  
  Motion to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Cruz Bernal Franco and Maria de
  la Luz Garcia Santos




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiffs
Cruz Bernal Franco and Maria de la Luz Garcia Santos’ (Plaintiffs) counsel of record, Martin Gasparian (Counsel), moves to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs. Counsel contends relief is necessary
because there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. 
 
            No
opposition has been filed for this motion. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in California
Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to discipline for
failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for mandatory
withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051 and
MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form
MC-053 as required.  (Cal Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.)  Counsel states the instant
motion is filed for the following reason: “There has been an irreparable
breakdown of the working relationship between counsel and client.” (MC-052.) Counsel has provided
insufficient information for the Court to grant the motion, particularly in
light of the trial date and the apparent lack of available counsel to
substitute into the case.
 
            Counsel has not shown proof of service of
the moving papers (MC-051, MC-052, MC-053) on all parties who have appeared in
the action, and Plaintiffs. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) While Counsel
asserts Plaintiffs were personally served, there is no proof of service filed,
and no proof of service of the changed hearing date to November 1, 2024.[3]
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion to relieve
counsel.  
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
proofs of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


