 Case Number:  23STCV20843    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV20843




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Carlos Escobar Morales’ Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Carlos Escobar Morales’ (Plaintiff)
counsel of record, Ana Sahagun, Esq./Wilshire Law Firm (Counsel), moves to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. Counsel contends relief is necessary due to
a breakdown in client-attorney communication.  
 
            No
opposition has been filed for this motion. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051 and
MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form
MC-053 as required.  (Cal Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.)  Counsel states the instant
motion is filed for the following reason: “Pursuant to CPRC 1.16(b)(4) the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for attorney to carry
out representation effectively. Pursuant to CPRC 1.16(b)(10) counsel believes
in good faith, in proceeding before a tribunal, that the tribunal will find the
existence of other good cause for withdrawal. There has been a breakdown in communication
with client, and we cannot actively move forward with the case.” (MC-052.) 
 
            Again, the proof of service does not
show that Plaintiff was afforded the minimum notice period. Code of Civil
Procedure section 1005 requires “written notice” of a motion including the
date, time and location of the hearing on a motion. A moving party’s failure to
serve the notice of motion and moving papers on a non-moving party violates the
basic principles of procedural due process under the federal and state
constitutions – notice and an opportunity to be heard.¿ (Logan v. Zimmerman
Brush Co. (1982) 455 U.S. 422, 428 [minimum due process requires notice and
opportunity for hearing appropriate to the nature of the case]; Horn v.
County of Ventura (1979) 24 Cal.3d 605, 612 [due process principles require
reasonable notice and opportunity to be heard].) Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1005(b), moving papers must be served and filed at least 16 court days
before the hearing, and increased by five calendar days if mailed.[1] Therefore, in
this case, the moving papers needed to be mailed by October 9, 2024. 
 
Here,
the proof of service and Counsel’s declaration show the moving papers were
served by mail on October 14, 2024. 
 
            Therefore, because Counsel did not provide
the minimum notice period (accounting for the extra days for service by mail),
the motion to be relieved is denied on procedural grounds. 
 
This
is the second time this defect has been observed. (See Min.
Order, 8/22/24.) Failure to comply with the Court’s orders may result in the
motion being denied with prejudice or sanctions.
 
In addition, the declaration of counsel only indicates that the
client’s address has been confirmed by conducting a property and asset search
to locate the client. This is insufficient to confirm that the address is
current. Counsel must attempt other methods, for example those listed in
paragraph 3b2.
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion to relieve
counsel.  
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
proofs of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 


