 Case Number:  22STCV15320    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV15320




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Costs; Request for Sanctions




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Cielo Guzman




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Dial Transport Inc. and Venerando Bautista 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On May 9, 2022, Plaintiff Cielo Guzman
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Dial Transport Inc. (“Dial”)
and Venerando Bautista (“Bautista”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for damages
related to a motor vehicle accident.¿¿ 
 
            Plaintiff now moves for costs and
sanctions after Defendants purportedly canceled their expert’s deposition.
Defendants oppose. No reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 states in pertinent
part: 
 
(a) A trial
court may order a party, the party's attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by another party as a result of
actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay. This section also applies to judicial arbitration
proceedings under Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1141.10) of Title 3 of
Part 3. 
 
(b) For purposes of this section: 
 
(1)
“Actions or tactics” include, but are not limited to, the making or opposing of
motions or the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or
other responsive pleading. The mere filing of a complaint without service
thereof on an opposing party does not constitute “actions or tactics” for
purposes of this section. 
 
(2)
“Frivolous” means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose
of harassing an opposing party. 
… 
 
(f)
Sanctions ordered pursuant to this section shall be ordered pursuant to the
following conditions and procedures: 
(1)
If, after notice and a reasonable opportunity to respond, the court issues an
order pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may, subject to the conditions
stated below, impose an appropriate sanction upon the party, the party's
attorneys, or both, for an action or tactic described in subdivision (a). In
determining what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court shall consider
whether a party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.
(A) A
motion for sanctions under this section shall be made separately from other
motions or requests and shall describe the specific alleged action or tactic,
made in bad faith, that is frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.
…
(2) An
order for sanctions pursuant to this section shall be limited to what is
sufficient to deter repetition of the action or tactic or comparable action or
tactic by others similarly situated.
 
A motion is “frivolous” and in “bad faith” where “any
reasonable lawyer would agree it is totally devoid of merit,” such as when it
is lacking any basis in statutory or case law or made without any necessary
evidence to support it.  (Karwasky v. Zachay (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d
679, 681.)  There must also be a showing of subjective bad faith for
sanctions under Section 128.5.  (See, e.g., In re Marriage of Reese
& Guy (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1220-21.)  The fact a motion
lacks merit is not enough by itself to justify an award of sanctions under
Section 128.5; it is error to award sanctions if it was not unreasonable for
the moving party's attorney to think the issues raised were arguable, and there
is no evidence of subjective bad faith or improper motive.  (Garcia v.
Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20; Bruno v. Superior Court (Gridley)
(1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1359, 1365.) 
 
California Rules of Court, rule 2.30
 
Under California Rules of Court, rule 2.30,  
 
“[i]n
addition to any other sanctions permitted by law, the court may order a person,
after written notice and an opportunity to be heard, to pay reasonable monetary
sanctions to the court or an aggrieved person, or both, for failure without
good cause to comply with the applicable rules. For the purposes of this rule,
"person" means a party, a party's attorney, a witness, and an insurer
or any other individual or entity whose consent is necessary for the
disposition of the case. If a failure to comply with an applicable rule is the
responsibility of counsel and not of the party, any penalty must be imposed on
counsel and must not adversely affect the party's cause of action or defense
thereto.”  
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.30(b).)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff argues he scheduled Defendants’ expert Dr. Mehta’s
deposition for September 23, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. (after Defendants failed to
provide dates). The deposition took place on September 23, 2024, and lasted one
hour. However, because Plaintiff required more time, a second deposition was
sought. Defendants offered October 1, 2024 as a possible date, and it appears
Plaintiff accepted. On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff emailed Defendants that
Dr. Mehta’s witness fee check was being mailed. On September 30, 2024,
Defendants informed Plaintiff that Dr. Mehta had not received the payment.
After Plaintiff sent Defendants a copy of the check, at 7:50 p.m., Defendant
stated the deposition needed to be continued because Dr.  Mehta had not received payment. Due to this
last-minute cancellation, Plaintiff obtained a certificate of non-appearance
and incurred $936 in fees from the deposition service. (Exh. G.) 
 
Plaintiff now brings this motion to recover this cost. 
 
However, Plaintiff fails to cite which California Rule of Court was
violated by this purported conduct. Therefore, sanctions under rule 2.30 are
not warranted. As for sanctions under section 128.5, Plaintiff fails to show
that the conduct, here, cancelling an expert deposition after the deponent
failed to receive payment, was frivolous and in bad faith. Based on Plaintiff’s
assertions, it appears they received prior notice that Dr. Mehta required
payment in advance of the deposition. (Ulyshen Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Therefore, without further evidence demonstrating Defendants’ bad
faith and frivolous conduct, the motion is denied. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion for costs and sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 