  Case Number:  21STCV24488    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KYLE MADISON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL THEODORE, ET AL., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV24488
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TO TRIAL
 
Date: 
  May 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Kyle Madison
RESPONDING PARTY:        None as of May 9, 2024
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition has been filed as
of May 9, 2024.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of a dispute over the
enforcement of a money judgment. The currently operative fourth amended
complaint (the “4AC”) alleges: (1) statutory voidable transfers; and (2) common
law voidable transfers. 
Plaintiff filed the Motion to Continue Trial (the “Motion”)
currently before the Court on April 17, 2024. 
The Court advanced the hearing date on the Motion from July 1, 2024 to
May 14, 2024 on April 22, 2024. 
Plaintiff served Defendant with a Notice of Ruling on April 22, 2024.
 
DISCUSSION
            Legal Standard
            Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides
that the court has the power to “amend and control its process and orders so as
to make them conform to law and justice.” “[T]he power to determine when a
continuance should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.”
(Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) A trial court has
wide latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or
denying of continuances. (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49
Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
 
            A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or ex
parte application, with supporting declarations. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(b).) The party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably
practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. (Ibid.) 
 
            Each request for a continuance must
be considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) Good cause may be present where a
party has not been unable “to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts” or there has been a “significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c)(6)-(7).) 
 
            California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when
determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court
considers factors such as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there
was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any
party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best served
by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(d).)
 
            Analysis
            Plaintiff asks that the Court
continue the trial date and all discovery, motion cut-off and related dates for
six months, from July 8, 2024 to January 8, 2025.  The Motion asserts that Plaintiff requires a
trial continuance because: 1) he has been unable to obtain essential evidence
despite diligent efforts; 2) discovery will not be completed sufficiently
before the existing trial date to allow him to prepare for trial; 3) the case
has taken longer than usual to prepare for trial; and 4) the interests of
justice will be served by a continuance. 
Plaintiff argues that his inability to complete discovery and prepare
for trial is due to Defendants’ bad faith refusal to cooperate in
discovery.  (Motion, Mink Dec., ¶¶11-16.)  Plaintiff’s counsel also has a time conflict
with the current trial date, as he is also trial counsel on a case in
Department 78 of this court that is set to begin on July 1, 2024.  (Id. at ¶17.)
            
            The current trial date is less than
two months away and Plaintiff is seeking a short continuance of six months. This
case was filed on July 2, 2021, so there is no issue with the five year rule
for bringing cases to trial.  Trial has
been continued four times since it was first set.  The Court cautions the parties that it
expects cooperation in discovery and that the case will be ready for trial on
the date it is setting through this order. 
Counsel should note that this case will take precedence for trial before
any other matter filed after this case, unless an order for preference has been
granted.
 
            Although the parties have not
stipulated to a continuance, no timely opposition has been filed.  
 
            In light of these facts, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated the 14th of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



