  Case Number:  23STCV25809    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Burbank Rogers Place I, LLC
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff John Hopson
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Strike
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Burbank Rogers Place I, LLC
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff John Hopson
 
 
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
        
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff John Hopson filed his Complaint against
Defendants Burbank Rogers Place I, LLC and Luxe at Burbank on causes of action
arising from Plaintiff’s tenancy with Defendants. 
 
On March 4, 2023, Defendant Burbank Rogers Place I, LLC (“Defendant”)
filed its Demurrer and its Motion to Strike. In support of each of these
filings, Defendant concurrently filed a Declaration of Samuel D. Frasher and a
Proposed Order. 
 
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Oppositions to the Demurrer and
the Motion to Strike. 
 
On April 4, 2024, Defendant filed its Replies in support of the
Demurrer and the Motion to Strike. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Demurrer
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
“When any ground for
objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).)
 
“A demurrer to a
complaint or cross-complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or
cross-complaint or to any of the causes of action stated therein.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).)
 
“In reviewing the sufficiency
of a complaint against a general demurrer, we are guided by long-settled rules.
We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed. Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation,
reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318, citations and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the second through sixth causes of action in the
Complaint.  
 
1.         
Second
Cause of Action — Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
To establish a breach of the implied warranty
of habitability, Plaintiffs must establish (1) “the existence of a material
defective condition affecting the premises’ habitability,” (2) “notice to the
landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant’s discovery
of the condition,” (3) “the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the
deficiency, and” (4) “resulting damages.” (Erlach
v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action for breach of implied
warranty of habitability, arguing that the pleading is ambiguous about the
allegedly uninhabitable conditions. (Demurrer, p. 4:11–22.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that the following conditions
were allowed at the subject property during Plaintiff’s tenancy: (1) leaking
roof; (2) infestation of insects; (3) defective plumbing; and (4) rodents and
vermin. (Complaint, ¶ 11.)
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
second cause of action for breach of implied warranty of habitability. 
 
2.         
Third
Cause of Action — Nuisance
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“Anything which is
injurious to health, including, but not limited to, the illegal sale of
controlled substances, or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully obstructs the free
passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay,
stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway, is a
nuisance.” (Civ. Code, § 3479.)
 
“A public nuisance is one
which affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any
considerable number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage
inflicted upon individuals may be unequal.” (Civ. Code, § 3480.)
 
“Every nuisance not
included in the definition of the last section is private.” (Civ. Code, §
3481.)
 
“The remedies against a private nuisance
are: 1. A civil action; or, 2. Abatement.” (Civ. Code, § 3501.)
 
The elements of an action for private nuisance are: (1) the
plaintiff must prove an interference with their use and enjoyment of their
property; (2) the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment
of the land must be substantial, i.e., that it causes the plaintiff to suffer
substantial actual damage; (3) the interference with the protected interest
must not only be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must
be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable
interference with the use and enjoyment of the land. (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia
Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262–63, quoting San Diego
Gas & Elec. Co. v. Super. Ct. (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938.) 
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of action for nuisance, arguing:
(1) that the allegations are uncertain and ambiguous; and (2) that portions of
the cause of action are barred by the landlord-tenant relationship. (Demurrer,
p. 5:1, 5:10.) Defendant further demurs that this cause of action is redundant
with the fifth cause of action for negligence. (Reply, p. 2:14–15.)
 
The Court disagrees with Defendant’s arguments. 
 
        Among other things, Plaintiff alleges:
(1) that the conditions discussed regarding the second cause of action have
interfered with Plaintiff’s comfortable enjoyment of the subject property; (2)
that the interferences were substantial; (3) that the interferences were
indecent and offensive to the senses of Plaintiff and the public at large; and
(4) Plaintiff has suffered personal injuries from Defendant’s failure to abate
the nuisance. (Complaint, ¶ 38–41.)
 
        These allegations are sufficiently
certain and unambiguous to withstand demur. 
 
        Further, the Court is unaware of any
authority for the proposition that a legal relationship (as opposed to a
third-party relationship) will obviate a claim for nuisance. Rather, case law
contains numerous examples of tenants suing landlords for nuisance claims.
(See, for example, Peviani v. Arbors at Cal. Oaks. Prop. Owner, LLC (2021)
62 Cal.App.5th 874, 880, 890–898.)
 
Finally,
even if the third and fifth causes of action are duplicative
in that they are simply different theories of liability, “[t]he court must, in every stage of an
action, disregard any error, improper ruling, instruction, or defect, in the
pleadings or proceedings which, in the opinion of said court, does not affect
the substantial rights of the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 475.) Arguing
duplicative theories does not affect the Parties’ substantial rights. Thus, it is
not appropriate at this stage for the Court to prevent such alternate theories
of liability. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
third cause of action for nuisance. 
 
3.         
Fourth
Cause of Action — Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the
tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.) 
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress, arguing: (1) that Plaintiff is trying to
convert a negligence claim into an intentional tort in order to claim punitive
and exemplary damages; (2) that the acts alleged are not so extreme and
outrageous to exceed all bounds of human decency; (3) that the allegations are
conclusory; and (4) that not all the elements of the cause of action have been
alleged. (Demurrer, pp. 6:17–7:1.)
 
The Court disagrees with Defendants’ arguments. 
 
Among other things, Plaintiff alleges: (1) that that Defendant’s
conduct of failing to maintain the subject property and allowing slum living
conditions to persist is extreme and outrageous conduct; (2) that Plaintiff
suffered severe mental and emotional distress; and (3) that Defendant’s conduct
is the direct and proximate cause of Plaintiff’s distress. (Complaint, ¶¶ 48–50.)
 
These allegations sufficiently address each of elements for this cause
of action and are not conclusory. Furthermore, a trier of fact could reasonably
find that the conditions alleged do constitute extreme and outrageous conduct
that implicates tort liability. 
 
The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the fourth cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
4.         
Fifth
Cause of Action — Negligence 
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
In order to
state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action for negligence, arguing
that the allegations are uncertain and ambiguous because the conditions are
never described. (Demurrer, p. 7:9–15.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that the following conditions
were allowed at the subject property during Plaintiff’s tenancy: (1) leaking
roof; (2) infestation of insects; (3) defective plumbing; and (4) rodents and
vermin. (Complaint, ¶ 11.)
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
fifth cause of action for negligence.  
 
5.         
Sixth
Cause of Action — Violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“A landlord of a dwelling may not demand
rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase, or issue a three-day
notice to pay rent or quit pursuant to
subdivision (2) of Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, if all of the
following conditions exist prior to the landlord’s demand or notice: 
 
(1)            
“The dwelling substantially lacks any of the
affirmative standard characteristics listed in Section 1941.1 or violates
Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and declared
substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code
because conditions listed in that section exist to an extent that endangers the
life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants
of the dwelling. 
 
(2)      
“A public officer or employee
who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after inspecting the
premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord’s agent in writing of his
or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the substandard conditions. 
 
(3)            
“The conditions have existed and have not
been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice specified in
paragraph (2) and the delay is without good cause. For purposes of this
subdivision, service shall be complete at the time of deposit in the United States
mail. 
 
(4)            
“The conditions were
not caused by an act or omission of the tenant or lessee in violation of
Section 1929 or 1941.2.” 
 
(Civ.
Code, § 1942.4, subd. (a)(1)–(4).) 
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the sixth cause of action for violation of Civil
Code section 1942.4, arguing that the allegations are uncertain and ambiguous
regarding: (1) the conditions cited; (2) the government housing enforcement
agency referred to; and (3) any citation. (Demurrer, pp. 7:22–8:4.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that the following conditions
were allowed at the subject property during Plaintiff’s tenancy: (1) leaking
roof; (2) infestation of insects; (3) defective plumbing; and (4) rodents and
vermin. (Complaint, ¶ 11.)
 
In addition, Plaintiff alleges: (1) “[a]t various times during
plaintiffs’ tenancies a public officer responsible for the enforcement of
housing laws noted the substandard conditions in the SUBJECT PROPERTY and
ordered the defendants by written notice . . . to abate the nuisances and/or
repair the substandard conditions . . . ”; (2) that Defendant did not abate the
conditions within 35 days of the issuance of the notices; and (3) that
Defendants continued to demand and accept rent and illegally served 3-Day
Notices to Pay Rent or Quit, both in violation of Civil Code section 1942.4.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 63–65.)
 
        These allegations are sufficiently
certain and unambiguous for the cause of action to withstand demur.
Furthermore, for the purposes of a demurrer, the Court must assume the truth of
the allegations. A copy of the alleged notices need not be attached to the
Complaint. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
sixth cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1942.4. 
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
II.      
Motion
to Strike
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall
not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: 
 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)
 
“The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
“A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must
quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to
strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications
in a notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322(a).)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to strike Plaintiff’s allegations that
implicate punitive and/or exemplary damages, as well as Plaintiff’s prayers for
such relief and for attorney’s fees. (Motion to Strike, p. 2:1–10.)
 
The Court disagrees with Defendant’s argument. 
 
Plaintiff has
alleged that Defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. Plaintiff is
entitled to so allege; it will ultimately be Plaintiff’s burden to prove that
he is entitled to the relief he seeks.¿¿ 
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 