  Case Number:  23TRCV02503    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative  Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 September 24, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02503   CASE NAME:                        Cleta  Diego Gonzalez De Ramirez, et al. v. Jane Khanh Pham, et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Jane Khanh Pham  and joinder by Defendant Donna’s Cocktail, Inc.   RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs Cleta Diego Gonzalez De Ramirez,  Isabel Ramirez Diego, Graciela Ramirez Diego, Maynor Ramirez Diego, and Cleta  Diego Gonzalez De Ramirez as guardian ad litem for Deysi Ramirez Diego and  Saira Ramirez Diego  TRIAL DATE:                        Not  set  MOTION:                              Motion to Stay Proceedings   Tentative Rulings:                  GRANTED in part.  Defendant’s CMC statement indicates that the  criminal case may take 1-2 yeas to resolve, which is an extremely long span of time.  The Court hopes to have a more definitive  terminus of the criminal proceedings and will call the parties back  periodically for updates on the status of the criminal case.      I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual   On August 2,  2023, Plaintiffs Cleta Diego Gonzalez De Ramirez, Isabel Ramirez Diego,  Graciela Ramirez Diego, Maynor Ramirez Diego, and Cleta Diego Gonzalez De Ramirez  as guardian ad litem for Deysi Ramirez Diego and Saira Ramirez Diego (“Plaintiffs”)  filed this personal injury action against Defendants Defendant Jane Khanh Pham  and joinder by Defendant Donna’s Cocktail, Inc. (“Defendants”) for motor  vehicle and general negligence.    On January  29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint alleging the  same causes of action.   In the FAC,  Plaintiffs allege that on March 17, 2023, Tomas Ramirez (Decedent), was driving  southbound on Vermont Ave in his 2006 Honda Civic. Defendant Pham was driving a  2016 Volkswagen Tiguan eastbound on Rosecrans Ave. when she failed to stop at a  red light at the intersection of Vermont Ave. and Rosecrans Ave., striking Mr.  Ramirez’s vehicle. The FAC alleges that the collision caused the death of Mr.  Ramirez, and that Pham was in the course and scope of her employment with  Defendant Donna’s at the time of the incident. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant  Pham was driving under the influence of alcohol after becoming intoxicated  during her shift as a bartender at Donna’s with the knowledge, permission and  consent of her employer, Donna’s.   The  FAC also alleges that it was custom and practice for bartenders to drink on the  job at Donna’s. (FAC, ¶¶10-11.)   Defendant Pham, and Defendant  Donna’s (by joinder), move to stay the case pending resolution of a related  criminal case against Pham.    B. Procedural   On August 27, 2024, Defendant  Pham filed the instant motion to stay the action pending resolution of criminal  proceedings.    On August 28, 2024,  Defendant Donna’s filed a joinder to the motion.    On September  6, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.    No reply has  been filed.   II. ANALYSIS   A. Legal Standard    In deciding  whether to stay proceedings when a civil defendant faces parallel criminal  charges, courts engage in a two-step process. First, the decision should be  made “‘in light of the particular circumstances and competing interests  involved in the case’ . . . This means the decision maker should consider ‘the  extent to which the defendant’s fifth amendment rights are implicated.’  [Citation.]” (Keating v. Office of Thrift Supervision (9th Cir. 1995) 45  F.3d 322, 324.)  Second, the court should consider: “(1) the interest of  the plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any  particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay;  (2) the burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on  defendants; (3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases,  and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not  parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the  pending civil and criminal litigation.” (Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court  (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885; Keating, supra, 45 F.3d at p.  325.)    “[I]t has  been consistently held that when both civil and criminal proceedings arise out  of the same or related transactions, an objecting party is generally entitled  to a stay of discovery in the civil action until disposition of the criminal  matter. The rationale of the federal cases is based on Fifth Amendment  principles as well as the inherent unfairness of compelling disclosure of a  criminal defendant's evidence and defenses before trial.¿Under these  circumstances, the prosecution should not be able to obtain, through the medium  of the civil proceedings, information to which it was not entitled under the  criminal discovery rules.” (Pacers, Inc. v. Super. Ct. (1984) 162  Cal.App.3d 686, 690, citations omitted.) “It is not enough that the witness  fears incrimination from answering the questions; the fear must be¿reasonable¿in  light of the witness's specific circumstances,¿the content of the questions,  and the setting in which the questions are asked. In other words, the privilege  protects only against ‘real dangers,’ and not ‘remote and speculative  possibilities.’¿It is the trial court's function to determine whether such a  ‘real danger’ exists.¿‘[Some] discretion must rest in the court whereby it may  prevent the mantle of protection from being turned into a cloak for fraud and  trickery.’ If the court, in the exercise of its discretion, determines that no  threat of self-incrimination is evident, then the burden of showing the danger  of self-incrimination shifts to the individual asserting the privilege.” (Troy  v. Super. Ct. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1006, 1011, quotations and citations  omitted, emphasis in original.)   B. Discussion                Defendant Pham has met her burden of  proof here on the motion to stay. The civil and criminal proceedings clearly  arise out of the same set of facts, and Defendant’s fear of self-incrimination appears  to be reasonable in light of these circumstances.   Additionally,  to the extent that the parties’ citations to Keating and other cases are  relevant, assessment of these factors point in favor of a stay. (Keating,  supra, at 324; accord Avant! Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2000) 79  Cal.App.4th 876, 885.) The interest of Plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously  and the potential prejudice to Plaintiffs of delay do not outweigh the burden  on Defendant Pham that would arise from waiving her privilege against  self-incrimination while criminal proceedings on the same issues are ongoing.  The Court’s interests are minimal here in comparison to protection of Defendant  Pham’s privilege against self-incrimination, and there are at most minimal  interests here regarding (1) persons not parties to the civil litigation and  (2) the public in the civil and criminal litigation.               The Court GRANTS the motion in part.  The Court agrees with Plaintiffs’ argument that the stay should be limited to  discovery as to Defendant Pham. Defendant Pham’s Fifth Amendment privilege  against self-incrimination does not extend to others. If other parties or third  parties wish to invoke their Fifth Amendment rights, a limited stay does not  stop them from doing so.   While  discovery proceedings against Pham will be stayed, discovery as to other  parties and third parties may proceed.    III.  CONCLUSION   For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED in  part. Discovery as to Defendant Pham is stayed pending resolution of the  related criminal proceeding against her.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.