  Case Number:  24TRCV00836    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  P MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATIONThe court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULINGDefendant Malty Automotive, Inc., dba Redondo Mitsubishi’s Motion to compel Arbitration and request for stay is GRANTED. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration.BACKGROUNDTae Wong Jeong (“Plaintiff”) commenced this action on March 11, 2024, by filing his Complaint against Malty Automotive, Inc. (“Defendant”) for (1) intentional misrepresentation; (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200; and (4) violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act. The Complaint arises out of Plaintiff’s April 19, 2023 purchase of a used 2014 Mercedes-Benz S-Class VIN WDDUGSFB1EAQ45945 from Defendant pursuant to a written contract (the "Agreement").On May 15, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel arbitration and request for stay in accordance with a written arbitration agreement within the Agreement entered into between Plaintiff and Defendant.Plaintiff filed his opposition brief on June 6, 2024; Plaintiff only opposes the motion as it relates to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for violation of California’s Consumer Legal Remedies Act.Defendant filed its reply brief on June 20, 2024.LEGAL AUTHORITYBoth the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) and the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) “are driven by a strong public policy of enforcing arbitration agreements.” (Weiler v. Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Services, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 970, 979.) “Thus, a court generally must compel arbitration in accordance with the agreement when requested by one of the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; 9 U.S.C. § 2.)” (Id.)Both the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) and the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) “are driven by a strong public policy of enforcing arbitration agreements.” (Weiler v. Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Services, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 970, 979.) “Thus, a court generally must compel arbitration in accordance with the agreement when requested by one of the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; 9 U.S.C. § 2.)” (Id.)DISCUSSIONPlaintiff does not dispute the existence of the agreement to arbitrate between the parties. Instead, Plaintiff only opposes the motion as it relates to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for violation of California’s Consumer Legal Remedies Act. Plaintiff argues that the court should deny the motion with respect to this claim because California law prohibits arbitration of claims for public injunctive relief. In support, Plaintiff cites McGill v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945. There, the arbitration agreement both prohibited the arbitrator from awarding any relief other than individual relief, and prohibited the parties from pursuing class action, private attorney general, or any other representative actions in court. Cumulatively, the California Supreme Court held that this amounted to a prohibition on seeking injunctive relief of any type in any forum, and held that such a provision was invalid. (McGill, supra, 2 Cal.5th at 961-962.)The Agreement here included the following regarding arbitration:1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL.2. IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICPATE AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATIONS.3. DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A LAWSUIT AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.(Defendant’s MTCA at p. 3; Declaration of Onsy Malty ¶ 2; Ex. 1 at p. 5.)Furthermore, the Agreement’s arbitration provision provides that:Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, any allegation of waiver of rights under this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or anyresulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. If federal law provides that a claim or dispute is not subject to binding arbitration, this Arbitration Provision shall not apply to such claim or dispute. Any claim or dispute is to be arbitrated by a single arbitrator on an individual basis and not as a plaintiff in a collective or representative action, or a class representative or member of a class on any class claim. The arbitrator may not preside over a consolidated, representative, class, collective, injunction, or private attorney general action. You expressly waive any right you many have to arbitrate a consolidated, representative, class, collective, injunction, or private attorney general action…Any arbitration under this Arbitration Provision shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.) and not by any state law concerning arbitration…If any part of this Arbitration provision, other than waivers of class rights, is deemed or found to be unenforceable for any reason, the remainder shall be enforceable….(Defendant’s MTCA at pp. 3-4; Declaration of Onsy Malty ¶ 2; Ex. 1 at p. 5.)The court finds that McGill is distinguishable from the instant case and as such, the holding in McGill is inapplicable. As noted above, the holding in McGill is that an arbitration agreement that both prohibits the arbitrator from awarding any relief other than individual relief and prohibits the parties from pursuing class action, private attorney general, or any other representative actions in court amounts to a prohibition on seeking injunctive relief of any type in any forum and is therefore invalid and unenforceable. The Agreement here does not appear to prohibit Plaintiff from seeking injunctive relief in any forum (i.e., in court); rather, a consolidated, representative, class, collective, injunction, or private attorney general action are prohibited from being brought in arbitration. Accordingly, the Agreement does not amount to a prohibition on seeking injunctive relief in any forum and the holding in McGill is therefore inapplicable and cannot be used as a bar to enforce the Agreement.CONCLUSIONDefendant Malty Automotive, Inc., dba Redondo Mitsubishi’s Motion to compel Arbitration and request for stay is GRANTED. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration.