 Case Number:  23CHCV00395    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 7/12/24
Case #23CHCV00395
 
DEMURRER TO THE
ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 5/22/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Luis Rojas
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Martha Cuevas
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire complaint:
            1.  Strict Liability
            2.  Negligence
 
RULING: The demurrer is overruled.  Answer is due within 20 days.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of dog bite sustained by Plaintiff
Martha Cuevas (Plaintiff).  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Luis Rojas (Rojas) owned the dog which bit her causing
injuries.  
 
On 2/20/23, Plaintiff filed this action against Rojas,
Qildero Macario and Does 1-25 for: (1) Strict Liability and (2)
Negligence.  After Plaintiff failed to
respond to Rojas’ meet and confer efforts, on 5/22/24, Rojas filed and served
the instant demurrer to the entire complaint. 
Plaintiff has not opposed or otherwise responded to the demurrer.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Rojas argues that the 1st cause of action for
strict liability “fails and must be stricken” because “the Complaint fails to
identify the actual owner of the dog;” “[t]he Complaint does not even mention
the address (and or location) from whence the dog escaped;” and “the Complaint
fails to identify who was supposed to have actual control of the dog.”  (See Demurrer, p.3:23-26).
 
Rojas argues that the 2nd cause of action for
negligence/negligence per se fails for the same reasons – i.e., Plaintiff has
failed to adequately allege who owned the dog that bit her.  
 
Contrary to Rojas’ assertion, Plaintiff has adequately
alleged that Rojas was one of the owners of the dog.  Specifically, the Complaint alleges that
“[a]t all relevant times herein, Defendants were the owners of the DOG, within
the meaning of Civil Code Section 3342.” 
(See Complaint ¶26).  Rojas
cites no authority for the proposition that a dog cannot have more than one
owner.  Nor has Rojas cited any authority
for the proposition that a Plaintiff must allege the address or location from
which the dog came/escaped or who, other than the owners, was supposed to have
actual control of the dog.  
 
The allegations that that the dog that attacked Plaintiff
was “owned, controlled, and possessed by Defendants” which includes Rojas and that
the dog escaped from Defendants’ property are sufficient to state the claims
for strict liability and negligence against Rojas.  (See Complaint ¶¶14-18, 26, 42, 45).  Even if someone other than the alleged owners
of the dog were supposed to have control of the dog at the time of the
incident, Rojas cites no authority which states that such facts would relieve
the owner or owners of the dog from liability for the injuries allegedly caused
by their dog.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is overruled.  Answer is due within 20 days.
 
The Court notes that although the hearing was reserved
for a demurrer with motion to strike and the document filed by Rojas is titled
as a “Demurrer With Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint,” a separate motion
to strike has not been filed.  Based on
Rojas’ request to “grant this demurrer and strike both causes of action under
Code of Civil Procedure Sec. 430.10(e), i.e., failure to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action,” it appears that Rojas did not separately move
to strike the complaint.  (See
Demurrer, p.4:20-22).  
 
 