  Case Number:  21CHCV00247    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 7/12/24
Case #21CHCV00247
 
MOTION FOR
ATTORNEY FEES
 
Motion filed on 3/13/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Jeffrey Harris and Austin Harris,
Co-Trustees of the Harris Family Trust
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Helene Stahl and Extensions
Plus, Inc.
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
awarding Plaintiff attorneys’ fees and costs in the total amount of $73,118.75
comprised of $63,643.75 in attorney fees, $7,575.00 in expert fees and $1,900
in fees for the instant motion.

 
RULING: The motion is granted, in part, and
denied, in part, as set forth below.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arose out of the alleged breach of a
commercial lease and guaranty of the lease. Plaintiff Jeffrey Harris and Austin
Harris, Co-Trustees of the Harris Family Trust (Plaintiff)
were the landlord and Defendant Extensions Plus
(Extensions Plus) was the tenant and Defendant Helene Stahl (Stahl) was the
guarantor (collectively, Defendants). 
Possession of the premises was not at issue as the tenant no longer
occupied the premises.  Plaintiffs
contended that the commercial tenant made unpermitted alterations causing
substantial damages to the property and then abandoned the premises with past
due rent owing to set up their business in a new location.  On 3/30/21, Plaintiffs filed this action for:
(1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing and (3) Common Count.  On
10/22/21, Defendants filed answers to the complaint.   
 
After a court trial, on 1/30/24, the Court entered judgment
in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants on Plaintiff’s complaint.  (See 1/30/24 Judgment).  Plaintiff was awarded damages in the amount
of $203,387.50, prejudgment interest in the amount of $50,036.50 for a total
award of $253,424.00.  Id.
 
On 3/13/24, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order awarding Plaintiff attorneys’ fees and costs in the total
amount of $73,118.75 comprised of $63,643.75 in attorney fees, $7,575.00 in
expert fees and $1,900 in fees for the instant motion.  Defendants have opposed the motion and
Plaintiff has filed a reply to the opposition. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
Attorney’s fees are recoverable as an item of costs when
authorized by contract, statute or law.  See
CCP 1033.5(a)(10).
 
Civil Code 1717 provides, in relevant part: 
 
“(a) In any action on a contract,
where the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which
are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of
the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be
the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party
specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's
fees in addition to other costs.
 
Where a contract provides for
attorney's fees, as set forth above, that provision
shall be construed as applying to the entire contract, unless each party was
represented by counsel in the negotiation and execution of the contract, and
the fact of that representation is specified in the contract.
 
Reasonable attorney's fees shall be
fixed by the court, and shall be an element of the costs of suit.
 
Attorney's fees provided for by
this section shall not be subject to waiver by the parties to any contract
which is entered into after the effective date of this section. Any provision
in any such contract which provides for a waiver of attorney's fees is void.
 
(b)(1) The court, upon notice and
motion by a party, shall determine who is the party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this section,
whether or not the suit proceeds to final judgment. Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the party prevailing on the contract shall be the party
who recovered a greater relief in the action on
the contract. The court may also determine that there is no party prevailing on
the contract for purposes of this section.”
 
The lease agreement/contract which provided the basis for
this action contained the following attorney fee provision: 
 
“Attorney's Fees. If any
Party or Broker brings an action or proceeding involving the Premises whether
founded in tort, contract or equity, or to declare rights hereunder, the
Prevailing Party (as hereafter defined) in any such proceeding, action, or
appeal thereon, shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys' fees. Such fees may
be awarded in the same suit or recovered in a separate suit, whether or not
such action or proceeding is pursued to decision or judgment. The term,
"Prevailing Party" shall include, without limitation, a Party or
Broker who substantially obtains or defeats the relief sought, as the case may
be, whether by compromise, settlement, judgment, or the abandonment by the
other Party or Broker of its claim or defense. The attorneys' fees award shall
not be computed in accordance with any court fee schedule but shall be such as
to fully reimburse all attorneys' fees reasonably incurred. In addition, Lessor
shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys' fees, costs and expenses incurred in
the preparation and service of notices of Default and consultations in
connection therewith, whether or not a legal action is subsequently commenced
in connection with such Default or resulting Breach ($200 is a reasonable
minimum per occurrence for such services and consultation).”
 
(See
Complaint, Ex.A; Cordero-Sacks Decl., Ex.1).

 
Similarly, the Guaranty provides: 
 
“In the event any action be brought
by said Lessor against Guarantors hereunder to enforce the obligation of
Guarantors hereunder, the unsuccessful party in such action shall pay to the
prevailing party therein a reasonable attorney’s fee.  The attorney’s fee award shall not be
computed in accordance with any court fee schedule, but shall be such as to
full reimburse all attorney’s fees reasonably incurred.”
 
Id.
 
Based on the 1/30/24 Judgment, Plaintiff is the
prevailing party in this action.  As
such, Plaintiff is entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees, not  “unlimited legal fees” as claimed in the
motion.  (See Motion, p.2:4).
 
The amount of attorney’s fees to be awarded is left to
the sound discretion of the trial court. 
PLCM Group (2000) 22 C4th 1084, 1095-1096, internal citations
omitted.  Further, it has been held that experienced
trial judges are the best judge of the value of professional services rendered in
their courts and their judgment will only be disturbed on appeal if it is
clearly wrong and an abuse of discretion. 
Id.  A trial court may make
its own determination of the value of the services without expert
testimony.  Id.  
    
In calculating a reasonably attorney fee award, the trial
court begins with the “lodestar” (the number of hours reasonably spent
multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate). 
Id.  The reasonable hourly
rate is the rate prevailing in the community for similar work.  Id.   
 
Here, the Court finds that the hourly rates ranging from
$375/hour for associate work and $375-$475/hour for principal work to be
reasonable.  However, the Court finds
that the amount of time claimed to have been spent is excessive.  The billing entries are extremely vague.  (See Cordero-Sacks Decl., Ex.2).  For example, many of the entries are merely
titled “Draft” without any indication of what was being drafted.  Id. 
Other examples of vague billing entries are those titled “Reduced
Hourly” without any indication of what task was performed at the reduced rate.  Id.
 
As such, the Court finds that a 25% reduction of the
attorneys’ fees requested is warranted.  
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to support its
request for an award of expert fees.  In
the motion, Plaintiff merely argues that Plaintiff is “entitled to recover
reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs as provided for in the
Commercial Lease and Guaranty, which includes expert witness fees.”  (emphasis in original) (See Motion, p.5:28-p.6:3).
 
An award of contractual attorneys’ fees may not include
expenses expressly denominated by statute as nonrecoverable cost items, such as
expert fees not ordered by the court, postage, telephone and copying charges.  See Carwash of America-PO LLC
(2002) 97 CA4th 540, 544; Hsu (2005) 126 CA4th 1330, 1340-1342
(disapproving Bussey (1990) 225 CA3d 1162, 1166); Jones (2005)
127 CA4th 542, 550-551.
 
It has been held by some courts that a contract provision
which allows the prevailing party to recover “all necessary expenses,” or
similar broad language, may permit an award of expert fees not ordered by the
court.  Here, it cannot be argued that
the attorney’s fee provisions in the lease and/or guaranty are so broad as to cover
expert fees.  (See Complaint,
Ex.A; Cordero-Sacks Decl., Ex.1).  The
only reference to recovering costs and expenses in the attorney’s fee provision
contained in the lease relates to costs and expenses “incurred in the
preparation and service of notices of Default and consultations in connection
therewith, whether or not a legal action is subsequently commenced in
connection with such Default or resulting Breach ($200 is a reasonable minimum
per occurrence for such services and consultation).”
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff is awarded $49,157.81
in attorneys’ fees (($63,643.75 + $1,900.00) = $65,543.75 – 25% ($16,385.94) =
$49,157.81).  Plaintiff’s request for
expert fees is denied.   
      
 
       
 
 
 