


[1]
Board of Rights Chairwoman Oh stated that her notes showed that Berger arrived
for the briefing with Ilagan, but she guessed that her notes were
inaccurate.  AR 549.  


[2]
Although Officer Datro, Lt. Bluestein, Lt. Grasso, and Captain Wendling also
testified (see Pet. Op. Br. at 8), neither party cited their testimony.  Of these witnesses, only Officer Datro was
present at the safety briefing; the others testified about the appropriate
penalty.  See AR 3.  


[3] Presumably,
the Chief of Police signed an order for the two-day suspension, but it is not
in the record.


[4] A
complaint was filed against Odom for insubordination for his refusal to wear
the vest and stating: “I’ll just wear my common-sense hat.”  AR 163, 809. 
Opp. at 9, n. 3.


[5]
Gutierrez is correct that the City is not entirely correct.  Reply at 7. 
There is no testimony at AR 162 about what he said.  As for the City’s other cites, Fisco could
not recall Gutierrez’ exact words, but he did not hear Gutierrez say: “I’m not
fucking wearing a vest”, and he would have remembered if he heard that.  AR 342. 
Odom heard Gutierrez ask “why”.  
AR 622.


[6]
The correct citation is AR 376, at which Jackson testified that he did not hear
any profanity from Gutierrez or anyone else, and that it would be unusual for
someone to utter it.


[7] Board
member Mann stated to Officer Fisco: “What I’m confused about is, so if you
didn’t hear anybody, how did you know whether or not you were wearing the vest
or not?” AR 349.  After Gutierrez’s
counsel’s additional questioning, Fisco testified that  he knew they were not wearing vests and doing
so was only something that was brought up in the meeting.  AR 350. 


[8]
The City adds that Sexton testified
that he did not recall whether Berger’s blue shirt stated “Supervisor” or
“Instructor.” AR 440.  Fisco testified in
the same vein that the blue polo should have had writing on it, but it was
early and he did not recall.  AR 346,
356.  Berger testified that he was
wearing a polo shirt that did not have any rank insignia but did state
“Supervisor” on the arm.  AR 705-06.


[9] Gutirrez
relies on the fact that the Department investigation into whether he said this
was classified as “Not Resolved”.  AR
809.  He argues that the City presented
no additional evidence at the hearing that could change the Not Resolved
finding.  Every witness who testified
denied hearing Gutierrez use profanity and that they would have remembered had
he done so because it would have been highly unusual.  Pet. Op. Br. at 15; Reply at 8.  Gutierrez fails to show that the outcome of
the IA investigation has any preclusive effect or bearing on the Board of
Rights evidentiary hearing. 
 


[10]
At the hearing, he was not directly asked whether he made this statement, but
he did testify that he did not partake in the murmuring that opposed the
decision for everyone to wear safety vests. 
AR 763.

