 Case Number:  18STCV05562-2    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  A14 BackgroundPlaintiffs Marci Higer (“Higer”) and Brad¿Waisbren¿(“Waisbren” and collectively “Plaintiffs”) were tenants at the storage facility located at 3421 Gillespie in Acton, CA (the “Property”).¿ On August 03, 2017, a tumultuous rainstorm resulted in flooding on the Property, damaging Plaintiff’s stored chattels.¿ On February 02, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a Government Tort Claim with Defendant County of Los Angeles (COLA), which was ultimately denied on May 21, 2018.¿ ¿ On November 18, 2018, Plaintiffs filed their initial Complaint against COLA and Defendants Los Angeles County of Regional Planning, Los Angeles County Department of Public Works, Los Angeles County Flood Control District, and Los Angeles County Waterworks District No. 37, Acton, alleging ten (10) cause of action sounding in (1)¿Negligence, (2) Inverse Condemnation; (3) Public Nuisance; (4) Private Nuisance; (5) Premises Liability; (6) Premises Liability–Willful Failure to Warn (Civ. Code § 846); (7)¿ Trespass; (8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (9) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (“NIED”); (10) Dangerous Condition of Public Property–Gov. Code §§ 830–840.6.¿ Plaintiffs’¿principle¿contention is that the flooding on the property was caused and exacerbated by the design, construction, and maintenance of the county’s neighboring roads and flood water infrastructure, which allegedly carried large amounts of storm runoff directly to Plaintiffs’ property as a de facto catch basin.¿  On June 10, 2019, prior to any Answer from any defendant, Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging ten (10) causes of action sounding in (1)¿Inverse Condemnation, (2) Negligence; (3) Public Nuisance; (4) Private Nuisance; (5) Premises Liability; (6) Trespass; (7)¿Premises Liability–Willful Failure to Warn (Civ. Code § 846) ; (8) NIED; (9) Dangerous Condition of Public Property (Gov. Code §§ 830–840.6); and (10)Violations of the California Public Records Act Request, Gov. Code § 6250¿et al.¿ Plaintiff named only two of the previously named defendants in the initial complaint, COLA and Defendant Los Angeles County Flood Control District (“LAFCD” and¿collectively “Defendants”).¿ ¿ On December 12, 2019, the Court sustained Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC, with leave to amend.¿ Plaintiff filed their Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on January 10,¿2020¿alleging four (4) causes of action for (1) Inverse Condemnation (2) Risk of Peculiar Kind (Gov. Code § 815.6); (2) Dangerous Condition of Public Property¿(Gov. Code §§ 830–840.6); and Violation of the California Public Records Act (Gov. Code § 6250).¿ ¿ On July 09,¿2020¿the Court sustained Defendants’ Demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action, with leave to amend and overruled the demur as to the fourth cause of action.¿ Plaintiffs filed the Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on August 03,¿2020¿realleging four (4) causes of action for (1) Inverse Condemnation (2) Risk of Peculiar Kind (Gov. Code § 815.6); (3) Dangerous Condition of Public Property¿(Gov. Code §§ 830–840.6); and (4) Violation of the California Public Records Act (Gov. Code § 6250).¿  On October 20, 2020, the Court sustained Defendants’ Demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action to Plaintiffs’ TAC, providing Plaintiffs with leave to amend. On April 05, 2021, Plaintiffs filed the Fourth Amended Complaint realleging four (4) causes of action for (1) Inverse Condemnation, (2) Violation of Gov. Code § 815.6; (3) Dangerous Condition of Public Property (Gov. Code §§ 830, 835, 835.2); and (4) Violation of the California Public Records Act (Gov. Code § 6250).  On July 16, 2021, the Court sustained Defendants’ Demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action to Plaintiffs’ Fourth Amended Complaint, providing Plaintiff’s with leave to amend. On October 14, 2021, Plaintiffs filed the Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”) realleging four (4) causes of action for (1) Inverse Condemnation, (2) Violation of Gov. Code § 815.6; (3) Dangerous Condition of Public Property (Gov. Code §§ 830, 835, 835.2); and (4) Violation of the California Public Records Act (Gov. Code § 6250). On December 15, 2021, Defendants filed a Demurrer with Motion to strike. Subsequently, the Demurrer was overruled and the Motion to Strike was Denied on January 20, 2022. On February 18, 2022, Defendants filed their Answer. Informal Discovery Conferences (“IDCs”) were held on August 23, 2022; September 06, 2022; September 13, 2022; and October 04, 2022.  On October 14, 2022, Defendants filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment set for hearing on November 19, 2022.  On October 18, 2022, Defendants filed an Ex Parte Application to Continue the Trial Date (“Ex Parte Application”). The Court was dark and the matter was heard in Department A15 on October 19, 2022. The Ex Parte Application was continued to allow it to be head by Judge Morgan in Department A14.   On October 31, 2022, the Court heard Defendants’ Hearing on Ex Parte Application to Continue the Trial Date. The Ex Parte Application was granted and the Motion for Summary Judgment was continued to March 16, 2023. On February 01, 2023, the Motion for Summary Judgment was continued to May 02, 2023.On February 24, 2023, the Motion for Summary Judgment was continued to May 02, 2023.On May 02, 2023, the Motion for Summary Judgment was continued to July 25, 2023. On May 15, 2023, the Motion for Summary Judgment was continued to November 28, 2023. Discovery issues have been prevalent throughout this period. On November 14, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition to the instant Motion for Summary Judgment.On October 23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Production of Documents (Set Three) against COLA set for hearing date December 12, 2023.  On October 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed two motions seeking to compel responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set Two) and (Set Three) against LACFCD. On November 22, 2023, Defendants filed their Reply. On December 12, 2023, a hearing was held on the Motions to Compel against COLA and LACFCD. The Court took the matter under submission. Later that same day, the Court granted the motions and ordered the following:Plaintiffs Marci Higer and Brad Waisbren’s Motion to Compel Defendant Los Angeles County Flood Control District’s Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set Two) is MOOT.  Plaintiffs Marci Higer and Brad Waisbren’s Motion to Compel Defendant Los Angeles County Flood Control District’s Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set Three) is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs Marci Higer and Brad Waisbren’s Motion to Compel Defendant County of Los Angeles’ Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set Three) is GRANTED, subject to a privilege log. Responses were ordered to be turned over within 30 days of the Court Order. The Court continued the Motion for Summary Judgment, Final Status Conference (“FSC”), and jury trial. The Court The court ordered that Plaintiffs may file and serve a supplemental opposition the Motion for Summary Judgment on or before February 12, 2027 and that Defendants may file and serve a supplemental reply in support of the Motion for Summary Judgment on or before February 22, 2024. The Court accepted the oral stipulation by the parties, made in open court, to extend the deadline under CCP § 583.310 for bringing this case to trial through September 30, 2024 and directed the parties to prepare a writing stipulation memorializing the oral stipulation. The Court notes that Waisbren has filed two Motions for Terminating Sanctions, addressed by the Court in a separate Tentative Statement of Decision. The Court excludes a summary of the motions and their accompanying and/or related filings for clarity. As of the hearing, the Court’s supplemental briefing schedule has not been filed. It is the Court’s intent to impose evidentiary sanctions. (See Motion for Terminating Sanctions Statement of Decision) regarding the outstanding discovery at issue, Requests for Production, Set Three. As such, the Court addresses the Motion for Summary Judgment with the evidence provided prior to Requests for Production, Set Three.AnalysisStandard for Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication – A party may move for summary judgment in any action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (a).)  Similarly, a party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c subd. (f)(1).)  Summary adjudication will be granted if it completely disposes of a cause of action, affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.  (Id.)  A motion for summary adjudication may be made in the alternative to a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c subd. (f)(2).)  To prevail on a motion for summary judgment, the evidence submitted must show there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c subd. (c).)  The defendant moving for summary judgment does not need to conclusively negate an element of the plaintiffs’ cause of action, but only to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action. . .cannot be established. . .or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Ridgefield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849 (citing Code Civ. Proc. § 437c subd. (o)(2).)  Once the moving party has met the respective burden, the burden shifts to the responding party who must demonstrate that a triable issue of material fact exists.  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c subd. (p).)  The responding party must not rely on allegations or denials in the pleadings or answer alone, but “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Id.) When ruling on a summary judgment motion, the trial court must consider all inferences from the evidence, even those contradicted by the moving party’s evidence.  The motion cannot succeed unless the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other evidence.  (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Foods, Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 833, 841.)  In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of material fact, “‘[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment . . . .’”  (Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198–1199, as modified on denial of reh'g (Feb. 10, 2004).)  “In other words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.”  (Jackson v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.)-----Defendants move for summary judgment as to all of Plaintiff’s claims in the Fifth Amended Complaint. Defendants argue that (1) Plaintiffs cannot meet the element of causation as to the causes of action for inverse condemnation, breach of mandatory duty, and dangerous condition of public property under Biron v. City of Redding (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1264 (“Birion”); (2) Defendants did not violate the Public Records Act because they produced all responsive, non-privileged documents in its possession in response to Plaintiff Marc Higer’s Public Records Act request before this action was filed; and (3) Plaintiff Brad Waisbren lacks standing for the alleged violation of the Public Records Act because he did not make a Public Records Act request to Defendants.Procedural IssuesPlaintiffs argue that Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is procedurally deficient as they have not delineated the specific causes of action in their motion nor their Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts. Cal. Rules of Court 3.1350(b) states that each “specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty” to be stated in the motion and the separate statement in the event summary adjudication is sought. Cal. Rules of Court 3.1350(d)(1)(A) and (B) states that the separate statement must separately identify:(A) Each cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion; and(B)  Each supporting material fact claimed to be without dispute with respect to the cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion.Plaintiffs rely on Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 169, 171, for the assertion that the Court must deny Defendants’ motion for summary judgment for their failure to address all of the material allegations of the complaint. However, Plaintiffs misconstrue Teselle, which stated that “the moving party must comply with the provisions of subdivision (b)(1) and its separate statement must address the allegations of material fact in the complaint. If … the moving parties fail to do so, the motion for summary judgment must be denied.” (Teselle, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at 171.) While Defendants failed to delineate each cause of action in their motion and separate statement, they did not fail to comply with the requirements in Code of Civil Procedure section 437c subdivision (b)(1), which states: The motion shall be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken. The supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denying the motion.Subdivision (b)(1) merely requires a moving party to have a separate statement setting forth all undisputed material facts in support of their motion. While the California Rules of Court specify more specific requirements for the separate statement, such as separately identifying each cause of action, Plaintiffs fail to provide any authority stating that a failure to separately identify each cause of action in the separate statement constitutes grounds for denying the motion. Thus, the Court considers the merits of Defendants’ motion.Defendants present the following undisputed material facts regarding the 500-year storm event: On August 3, 2017, a massive storm event caused extensive flooding throughout the Acton area (“2017 Storm”). (Defendants’ Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 1.) Analysis of the rainfall data for the storm event shows it exceeded a 500-year frequency. (UMF 2.) Plaintiffs allege that the 2017 Storm caused flooding damage to their personal property stored in containers at a storage facility which Plaintiffs leased in the unincorporated County of Los Angeles, located at 3421 Gillespie Ave., Acton, California (“Subject Property”). (UMF 3.) The Subject Property is located within an area that includes storm drains owned and operated by the County of Los Angeles (“County”) and the Los Angeles County Flood Control District (“District”). (UMF 4.) The County owns and maintains four culverts in the local area near the Subject Property: (1) Gillespie Ave @ Soledad Canyon Road – Mile Marker (“MM”) 0.01; (2) Soledad Canyon Road @ MM 23.82; (3) Syracuse Ave @ MM 0.31; and (4) Syracuse Ave @ MM 0.35. (UMF 5.) The four County culverts have a maximum capacity which would accommodate the flow approximately produced by 10-to-25-year storm events. (UMF 6.)The District owns and maintains two facilities that provide flood control protection in thelocal area that includes the Subject Property: PD 1709 and PD 2470. (UMF 7.) PD 1709 is a storm drain system located in the vicinity of Crown Valley Road and Aliso Street in Acton. (UMF 8.) PD 1709 is designed to accommodate a maximum flow and capacitybased on a 25 year storm event. (UMF 9.) PD 2470 is a detention basin located at Meadowlark Elementary School near the intersection of Sacramento Ave and Wisconsin Street in Acton. (UMF 8.) PD 2470 is designed to accommodate a maximum flow and capacity based on a 25 year storm event. (UMF 10.) The maximum capacity of the District and County and flood control facilities in the area of the Subject Property, described above, are far below a 500-year storm event. (UMF 11.) The August 3, 2017, storm event produced flows that exceeded the design capacity of these flood control facilities. (UMF 11.) Operating at maximum capacity, these flood control facilities could not accommodate the flows generated by the August 3, 2017, storm event. (UMF 11.) The flooding to the Subject Property would have occurred even if the District and County facilities had operated perfectly. (UMF 11.)The 5AC refers to two additional District flood control facilities: PD 1940 and PD 1986. (UMF 12.) However, these facilities are located outside of the area tributary to the Subject Property and do not provide flood control protection for the local area that includes the Subject Property. (UMF 12.) Therefore, their design capacity is not relevant. (UMF 12.)Defendants present the following undisputed material facts regarding the Public Records Act Request: Plaintiff Marci Higer submitted two separate PRA requests in March of 2019. (UMF 13.) These requests were numbered 3860 and 3864. (UMF 13.) Plaintiff Brad Waisbren is not listed as a requester on either request. (UMF 14.) Defendants, through the Department of Public Works conducted a reasonable and diligent search of its records in response to the PRA requests 3860 and 3864. (UMF 15.) On June 11, 2019, Defendants disclosed 225 pages of responsive public records to Plaintiff Higer. (UMF 16.) The 225 page disclosure included a record labeled with the batestamp number 000008. (UMF 17.) Defendants did not assert any exemptions to disclosure or otherwise withhold any public records determined to be responsive to PRA request 3860 or 3864. (UMF 18.)Request for Judicial NoticeDenied. The Court need not take notice of its own file and tentative opinions are not judicially noticeable.Evidentiary ObjectionsPlaintiffs object to the Declaration of Dr. Iraj Nasseri. The Court rules as follows:1. OVERRULE.2. OVERRULE.3. OVERRULE 4. OVERRULE 5. OVERRULE.6. OVERRULE7. OVERRULE.8. OVERRULE 9. OVERRULE. 10. OVERRULE. The Court notes that Exhibit 5 is illegible, but even if it were not so, Plaintiffs’ objections appear to be based on a difference in opinion than a proper evidentiary objection.11. OVERRULE. The Court notes that Exhibit 6 is illegible. Plaintiffs claim the plans for PD1709 are not attached to Exhibit 6, but there is no way for the Court to assess this objection. 12. OVERRULE. Although Nasseri has not defined what area is actually in “the area tributary to the Subject Property,” the Court finds that Nasseri may give an opinion based on a reasonable interpretation of the word.13. OVERRULE14. OVERRULE 15. OVERRULE. Plaintiffs state there is no Mile Marker at Soledad Canyon Road with the number MM23.82, but they provide no evidence to support this assertion. 16. OVERRULE17. OVERRULE18. OVERRULE19. OVERRULEPlaintiffs object to the Declaration of Melissa M Lara. The Court rules as follows:20. OVERRULE.21. OVERRULE.22. OVERRULE. 23. OVERRULE. Plaintiffs assert that Exhibit 4 is not a true and correct copy of the letter as Exhibit 4 does not include the “225 pages” that were responsive. However, Plaintiffs fail to support this with sufficient evidence showing otherwise. 24. OVERRULE. Same reasoning as No. 23. Plaintiffs object to the Declaration of Laura T. Jacobson:25. OVERRULE.26. OVERRULE. 27. OVERRULE.28. OVERRULE. Even though she did not create the document, she declares that her office sent the letter containing the responsive records. Thus, Ms. Jacobson would have personal knowledge of the document sent by her office. Defendants object to the Declaration of Plaintiff Brad Waisbren:1. OVERRULE.2. OVERRULE.3. OVERRULE.4. OVERRULE.5. OVERRULE.6. OVERRULE.7. OVERRULE.8. OVERRULE.9. OVERRULE.10. OVERRULE.11. OVERRULE.12. OVERRULE.13. OVERRULE.14. OVERRULE.15. OVERRULE.16. OVERRULE.17. OVERRULE.18. OVERRULE.19. OVERRULE.20. OVERRULE.Defendants object to the Declaration of Plaintiffs’ Designated Expert William Shaffer:1. OVERRULE.2. OVERRULE.3. OVERRULE.4. OVERRULE.5. OVERRULE.6. OVERRULE.7. OVERRULE.8. OVERRULE.9. OVERRULE.10. OVERRULE.11. OVERRULE.12. OVERRULE.13. OVERRULE.14. OVERRULE.15. OVERRULE.16. OVERRULE.17. OVERRULE.18. OVERRULE.19. OVERRULE.20. OVERRULE.21. OVERRULE.22. OVERRULE.23. OVERRULE.24. OVERRULE.25. OVERRULE.26. OVERRULE.27. OVERRULE.28. OVERRULE.Defendants object to the Declaration of Plaintiff Marci Higer:1. OVERRULE.2. OVERRULE.3. OVERRULE.4. OVERRULE.5. OVERRULE.6. OVERRULE.7. OVERRULE.8. OVERRULE.9. OVERRULE.10. OVERRULE.11. OVERRULE.12. OVERRULE.13. OVERRULE.14. OVERRULE.15. OVERRULE.16. OVERRULE.17. OVERRULE.18. OVERRULE.19. OVERRULE.20. OVERRULE.21. OVERRULE.22. OVERRULE.Causation for Inverse Condemnation; Breach of Mandatory Duty (Violation of Government Code section 815.6); and Dangerous Condition of Public PropertyBased on the foregoing, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs cannot prove causation because the undisputed material facts demonstrate that the historic, high intensity, 500-year 2017 Storm produced flows far beyond the capacity of the District and County flood control and drainage facilities, and that Defendants’ facilities simply could not accommodate the overwhelming flows produced by the 2017 Storm. Defendants claim that the flooding to the Subject Property would have occurred even if the District and County facilities had operated perfectly. Defendants rely on Biron, which requires “a showing of ‘ “a substantial cause-and-effect relationship excluding the probability that other forces alone produced the injury.” [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (Belair, supra, 47 Cal.3d at p. 559, 253 Cal.Rptr. 693, 764 P.2d 1070.)” to impose inverse condemnation liability. (Biron, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at 1279.) There, the court found that “the public improvement did operate perfectly, but the storm exceeded the design capacity” such that “[n]ature was a superseding cause of the flooding” and there was no substantial causation. (Id. at 859-860.) The court relied on the trial court’s findings: “[i]t found that City’s storm drain pipes were operating free of any obstructions. It found that the storm drain system did not fail, and that it performed as designed on a 10-year storm design. However, the system was overwhelmed with water because the storm was consistent with a 100-year storm, rather than a 10-year storm.” (Id. at 859.)In opposition, Plaintiffs call into question the reliability of Defendants’ evidence, particularly the Gumbel analysis relied upon by Mr. Nasseri. As discussed above in Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections, the Court declines to consider Mr. Nasseri’s conclusions based on the Gumbel Analysis due to Mr. Nasseri’s failure to authenticate the Los Angeles County Department of Public Works Gumbel Extreme Value Type – Rainfall Frequency Analysis – Automatic Rain Gage Results for Rain Gage No. 250 – Acton Camp attached as Exhibit 3. Further, Plaintiffs assert that in order to independently verify the Gumbel Analysis, they require all of the data used to produce that Gumbel Analysis relied upon by Defendants and Mr. Nasseri. Mr. Nasseri’s conclusions based on the Gumbel Analysis which used historical data from 1956 to 2007 show that Defendants may have evidence which Plaintiffs, as the opposing party, need to successfully oppose the motion. Plaintiffs also argue that it is inaccurate and inappropriate to directly compare AL487 observed data from the storm event to the 250D historical data. While AL487 is closest to the Subject Property, it has only been in operation since 2008 and does not have the length of records necessary for a Gumbel analysis. Thus, Mr. Nasseri relied on 250D historical data. However, Plaintiffs argue that the two stations are poorly correlated resulting in a severe overestimation of the return period of the Storm Event. Specifically, Plaintiffs point out that a comparison of AL487 annual maxima rainfall data to 250D annual maxima rainfall data shows that the extreme precipitation values for AL487 are considerably higher than those for 250D for both 15-minute and 1-hour events, using a point over threshold technique. (Shaffer Decl. Exhibit 1 and Exhibit 2). Plaintiffs assert that it is much more reliable to use this approach compared to simply and directly using the AL487 rainfall event value with the 250D estimated rainfall frequencies as the vastly different return periods (i.e., 4-years versus 500-years) demonstrate the unsuitability of Mr. Nasseri’s approach. (Shaffer ¶ 21.) According to Plaintiffs’ calculations, the Storm Event was under a 25-50 year event. In reply, Defendants challenge Plaintiffs’ evidence of a declaration from their retained expert witness and civil engineer, William Shaffer. Defendants argue that Plaintiffs failed to establish Mr. Shaffer’s minimum competence and the declaration lacks foundation to establish his expertise in flood control hydrology. Further, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs do not explain why it was inappropriate of Dr. Nasseri to perform a Gumbel analysis using the closest rain gauge that has a sufficient historical record to perform such analysis. Finally, Defendants state that Plaintiffs do not sufficiently challenge the design capacity of Defendants’ flood control infrastructure, thereby conceding that the Defendants’ infrastructure was designed to accommodate a 25-year event.The Court finds that Defendants fail to satisfy their burden of proving no triable issue of fact as to Plaintiffs’ claims for Inverse Condemnation; Breach of Mandatory Duty (Violation of Government Code section 815.6); and Dangerous Condition of Public Property. Defendants only address the issue of causation, arguing that the flood and drainage facilities did not substantially cause Plaintiffs’ damages. However, the evidence Defendants rely upon is inadmissible since the exhibits used by Mr. Nasseri are improperly authenticated. Further, even if the conclusions based on the Gumbel Analysis was admissible, contrary to Defendants’ arguments in reply, Plaintiffs provide sufficient evidence raising a triable issue of fact as to whether the Storm Even was actually a 500 year event as Defendants claim, or a 25-50 year event as Plaintiffs claim. The Court also finds Plaintiffs’ arguments regarding why the Grumbel analysis using the rainfall data from 250D rather than AL487 to raise a triable issue of fact as to the causation element of Plaintiffs’ causes of action. The Court finds that Plaintiffs may properly rely on the opinion testimony of their expert witness William Shaffer. Mr. Shaffer testifies that he has a B.S. in Civil Engineering from Loyola Marymount University; he is a licensed Professional Civil Engineer in California; he is a Project Engineer at EEC Environmental and has been employed there since 2016; his job duties include managing a wide variety of civil and environmental engineering projects including land development, utility design, surveying, hydrologic analysis, water and wastewater treatment, environmental remediation, and construction projects with 10 years of engineering experience in these areas; and that he is familiar with the allegations made in the Fifth Amended Complaint in this case. (Shaffer Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.) The Court finds that Mr. Shaffer sufficiently established his competency to offer his expert opinion on the severity of the 2017 storm and the capacity of Defendants’ infrastructure. Thus, the Court DENIES Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to Inverse Condemnation; Breach of Mandatory Duty (Violation of Government Code section 815.6); and Dangerous Condition of Public PropertyPlaintiff Brad Waisbren’s Standing to Sue under the Public Records ActFinally, the Court considers Plaintiff Brad Waisbren’s standing to sue under the Public Records Act. Defendants argue that Plaintiff Waisbren does not have standing with respect to the fourth cause of action, “Violations of the California Public Records Act” because The 5AC alleges that the County has failed to disclose certain public records in response to two separate PRA requests identified as “PRR 3680 and PRR 3684” (5AC at ¶¶ 239 and 240), but these requests were submitted only by Plaintiff Higer and not Plaintiff Waisbren.In opposition, Plaintiffs assert that a member of the public requesting public records is not required to fill out the DPW form: “YOU ARE NOT REQUIRED TO FILL OUT THIS FORM IN ORDER TO RECEIVE PUBLIC RECORDS UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT. COMPLETING THIS FORM IS OPTIONAL. THE INFORMATION REQUESTED BELOW, HOWEVER SERVES TO ASSIST OUR EMPLOYEES IN PROCESSING YOUR PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST.”(Lara Decl., Exhibit 1, Pages 1 and 2). Plaintiffs assert they completed the forms together, and even though they only wrote “Marci Higer” as the person requesting the records, Plaintiffs point out that the form does not require every person requesting the information to be listed. In support of this, Plaintiffs state that filling out the form is optional. Based on both Plaintiffs’ communications with Defendants regarding the CRPA requests and the fact that filling out the forms were optional, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have shown both Plaintiffs sought disclosure of public records such that Plaintiff Waisbren has standing to sue. Violation of the Public Records Act The Court next turns to whether Defendants violated the Public Records Act. Defendants assert that the undisputed material facts show a reasonable search was undertaken, and all reasonably identifiable responsive records were disclosed. Defendants state they did not claim that any responsive records identified in that search were withheld by exemption or privilege. Further, Defendants point out that the 5AC identifies no legitimate records nor category of records that were withheld. Defendants argue that the list of records or categories of records that Plaintiffs identify in the 5AC were disclosed, go beyond the scope of Plaintiffs’ requests, would not have been responsive to the requests, are not in Defendants’ records, or do not exist. Defendants specifically address the records that Plaintiffs specifically identify as being improperly withheld in the 5AC ¶ 263:First, Plaintiffs state Defendants have not produced “[t]he permits for the grading and paving on Michigan in Acton, CA.” (5AC ¶ 263.) Defendants assert that no responsive public records were identified through Defendants’ reasonable search.Second, Plaintiffs state Defendants have not produced “[t]he building plans, grading plans, feasibility studies, drainage and storm plans for Meadowlark Elementary School.” (5AC ¶ 263.) Defendants assert that if these records existed, they would not be Defendants’ records since the Acton Agua-Dulce Unified School District, that built the school and presumably has responsibility for its maintenance, is a separate legal entity not affiliated with either Defendant. Furthermore, Defendants state that this specific request was not included, nor would be responsive to anything requested in PRA requests 3860 or 3864.Third, Plaintiffs state Defendants have not produced “[t]he letter referenced in Defendants Bates Stamped CPRA 0000009 which references ‘a completed letter was sent to Construction Division inquiring on why the basin hasn’t been maintained and requesting it to be cleaned.’” (5AC ¶ 263.) Defendants assert that that was in fact disclosed by Defendants on June 11, 2019.Fourth, Plaintiffs state Defendants have not produced “[a]ll of the emails between Amir Ibrahim, Phil Doudar, Faye Conaway, Jemellee Cruz, Paul Melillo and Toan Duong in regards to PD 2470.” (5AC ¶ 263.) These individuals are DPW employees. However, Defendants assert that these emails were not actually requested by Plaintiff Higer in either requests, and, therefore, were not and could not have been identified through a reasonable search, and thus disclosed. Further, Defendants state these specific individual employees were not included in either PRA request because they were not known at the time, but identified through the records produced by Defendants. Fifth, Plaintiffs state Defendants have not produced claim “[a]ll of the interoffice emails in regards to the maintenance of PD2470.” (5AC ¶ 263.) Defendants assert that these emails go beyond the scope of anything requested through either PRA request 3860 or 3864. Furthermore, even if it were properly requested, Defendants state it would not have been a reasonable request under the Public Records Act, as it is overly vague, overbroad, or burdensome, and could not lead to a focused search for identifiable records.Sixth, Plaintiffs state Defendants have not produced “[a]ll of the interoffice emails in regards to the maintenance of any drainage, storm drain maintenance, feasibility studies, ditch maintenance, culverts, manhole and drain maintenance reference in the CPRA request.” (5AC ¶ 263.) Like the fifth request, Defendants assert that these emails also go beyond the scope of either PRA request 3860 or 3864, and even if they were properly requested, it would not have been a reasonable request under the Public Records Act, as it is vague and overbroad, and could not lead to a focused search for identifiable records.Seventh, Plaintiffs state Defendants have not produced “[c]opies of the routines and location maps referenced by Jemellee Cruz as referenced by her email date Thursday, April 3, 2003 regarding PD2470 and Meadowlark School – Defendants Bates Stamp 000010.” (5AC ¶ 263.) Defendants argue that this instance of improper withholding has obviously been identified by Plaintiffs through the records produced by Defendants, as evident by the inclusion of Defendants’ batestamp number 000010 and cannot be credibly argued that this record would have been reasonably identifiable under the scope of either request. Furthermore, Defendants state the substance of the batestamp email speculates that some record may be created in the future where DPW employee Jemellee Cruz states, “[w]e will set up the routines & location maps once we receive the transfer document,” but does not indicate that such records were ever created. In opposition, Plaintiffs assert that Defendants are liable for their non-responsiveness and unlawful and intentional delays to document requests under the strict timetables as provided for in the CPRA. Plaintiffs state that Defendants never claimed any exemptions such as withholding records pertaining to pending litigation and were not subject to privacy concerns. Plaintiffs also reassert the documents identified in the 5AC paragraph 263 as items which Defendants failed to produce. However, Plaintiffs do not support this with any argument or evidence. Plaintiffs further state that Defendants failed to provide all rain gauge data requested on October 6, 2023, which demonstrates their continued violation of the CPRA. Plaintiffs also state that Defendants failed to provide responsive documents within the statutory time. Plaintiffs point out that Defendants invoked their 14 day extension to respond to all three of the CPRA requests, however this was past the 10 day deadline. (Lara Decl., Exhibit 3)In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ complaint about how Defendants processed the 2019 CPRA requests is irrelevant. Defendants also assert that Plaintiffs present no conflicting evidence to support a conclusion that Defendants have withheld responsive records to the 2019 CPRA requests, and specifically the five categories to which Defendants allegedly did not respond. Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs’ new allegation that Defendants are continuing to violate the CPRA goes beyond the scope of the pleadings. Finally, Defendants assert that Plaintiffs’ complaint that Defendants took 50 days to respond to their CPRA requests is irrelevant since timeliness has no remedy.“The judicial remedy set forth in the CPRA is available only to a person or entity who is seeking disclosure of public records and only where the public entity is allegedly improperly withholding those records.” (County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 119, 127.) “The Act provides no remedy for failure to timely comply with a request for records.” (Rogers v. Superior Court (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 469, 483.) The Court finds Plaintiff’s untimeliness arguments to be meritless as Rogers sets forth that there is no remedy for a failure to timely comply with requests for records. Further, Plaintiffs have not supported their assertion that Defendants failed to disclose all documents responsive to the CPRA’s as listed in 5AC paragraph 263. Finally, as Defendants point out, Plaintiffs cannot rely on the October 6, 2023 request as it is beyond the scope of the pleadings. ¿ (See AARTS Productions, Inc. v. Crocker Nat’l Bank (1986) 179 Cal. App. 3d 1061, 1064-1065 [“[T]he trial court must identify the issues framed by the pleadings since it is these allegations to which the motion must respond by establishing a complete defense or otherwise showing there is no factual basis for relief on any theory reasonably contemplated by the opponent’s pleading.”].) Thus, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to Violation of the California Public Records Act. ConclusionBased on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Moving Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s causes of action for Inverse Condemnation; Breach of Mandatory Duty (Violation of Government Code section 815.6); and Dangerous Condition of Public Property; and GRANTS Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s cause of action for Violation of the California Public Records Act.