 Case Number:  22AVCV00979    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a tortious interference action.
Plaintiff SourceOne Payroll Services, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendant
Mary Jane Tan (“Tan”) was an employed by Plaintiff from October 23, 2017 to
August 17, 2022 as an operations manager and, as part of her employment, Tan
(1) had access to confidential and proprietary information, (2) signed and
acknowledged receipt of Plaintiff’s confidentiality provision, and (3)
understood the sensitive nature of the information she had access to. Plaintiff
presents that the confidential and proprietary information that Tan had access
to was protected by password authorization. Plaintiff further alleges that
after leaving employment, Tan (1) started a payroll processing business after
she left her employment; (2) downloaded confidential and proprietary
information from Plaintiff’s database and used the information to solicit
Plaintiff’s customers; (3) used the confidential trade secret information as a
basis to provide competitive bids to solicit Plaintiff’s customers; (4) called
Plaintiff’s vendors and requested commission checks that were contractually
owed to Plaintiff to be paid to Tan instead; and (5) called the Employment
Development Department to cut off access for Plaintiff to service its
customers, resulting in the cut off of access to at least six of Plaintiff’s
customers. 
 
On November 26, 2022, Plaintiff
filed its Complaint alleging five causes of action for: (1) Misappropriation of
Trade Secrets; (2) Breach of Contract; (3) Conversion; (4) Unfair Competition;
and (5) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations. 
 
On January 10, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an amendment to the Complaint changing the fictitious name of Doe 1 to M
Business Solutions. M Business solutions is included in the causes of action
directed to Tan. 
 
On January 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an amendment to the Complaint, subsequently approved by the Court,
changing the incorrect name of M Business Solutions to M Business Solutions LLC
(“M Business”). The Court hereinafter addresses both defendants collectively as
“Defendants.”
 
On February 22, 2023, Tan filed
her Answer.
 
On March 06, 2023, Defendants
filed a collective Answer.
 
Tan has now filed two Answers to
the Complaint. The Court sets an OSC RE: Striking of Answer to address the
issue. 
 
On December 04, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a Motion to Continue Trial Date, subsequently continued to August 21,
2024. 
 
On February 07, 2024, an Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was held. 
 
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff
filed two motions: (1) Motion to Compel Defendant Mary Jane Tan Further
Responses to Demand for Production of Documents, Set One; and (2) Motion to
Compel Defendant M Business Solutions LLC Further Responses to Demand for
Production of Documents, Set One.
 
On April 02, 2024, Defendants
filed their Oppositions.
 
On April 05, 2024, Plaintiff
filed its Replies.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Compelling Further Responses to
Requests for Production (“RFPs”) – “Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with
this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §
2017.010.)¿For discovery purposes, information is regarded as relevant “if it
might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or
facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court¿(2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A motion to compel further responses to a
demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based
on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or
incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2031.310(a).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Notice of the motion must be given within 45
days of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or
before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A motion to compel further production must
set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by
the inspection demand. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc., §¿2031.310(b)(1).) In¿Digital
Music News LLC v Superior Court¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the
Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there¿is¿“a disputed fact that is
of consequence in the action and the discovery sought will tend in reason to
prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove
or disprove the fact.”¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
If the moving party has shown good cause for
the requests for production, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections. (Kirkland v.¿Sup. Ct¿(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92,
98.)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
“The court shall limit the scope of
discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that
discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Cal. Code of Civ.¿Proc. §
2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party’s subjective
intent to create burden, or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
actually respond. (See¿West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court In and For Los Angeles County¿(1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However,
where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face, no such evidence is
necessary. (See¿Obregon v. Superior Court¿(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
424, 431.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Trial courts are vested with “wide
discretion” to allow or prohibit discovery. (Williams v. Superior Court¿(2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 540.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
-----
 
Meet and Confer Requirement – A motion to compel further shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
2016.040. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(2).) This requirement has been
met. (See both motions, Decl. Sam Donabedian at ¶¶ 5-6.) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Though
the RFPs are directed to two different defendants, the RFPs are substantially
similar and the Court shall address them together.
 
As to Tan, the following RFPs are
at issue:
 
·        
RFP No. 11: Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATED TO
bank statements for M Business Sole Proprietorship EIN Number 84-4221803 from
2019 to the present.
·        
RFP No. 13: Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATED TO
payments YOU have received from PLAINTIFF’S past customers RELATED TO payroll
services YOU have provided to PLAINTIFF’S past customers from 2019 to the
present.
 
(See Mtn. to Compel Further RE:
Tan, Separate Statement; Mtn. to Compel Further RE: Tan, Decl. Sam Donabedian at Exh. B.) 
 
As to M Business, the following
RFPs are at issue:
 
·        
RFP No. 10: Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATED TO
bank statements for M Business Sole Proprietorship EIN Number 84-4221803 from
2019 to the present.
·        
RFP No. 12: Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATED TO
payments YOU have received from PLAINTIFF’S past customers RELATED TO payroll
services YOU have provided to PLAINTIFF’S past customers from 2019 to the
present.
 
(Mtn. to Compel Further RE: M
Business, Separate Statement; Mtn. to Compel Further RE: M Business, Decl. Sam
Donabedian at Exh. B.) 
 
The Court notes that Defendants
did not provide a separate statement as required by Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345. 
 
At issue in both motions are: (1)
bank statements of M Business only, and (2) any and all documents related to
payments Defendants have received from Plaintiff’s past costumers related to
payroll services Defendants have provided to Plaintiff’s past customers from 2019
to the present. 
 
Plaintiff presents that it is
amenable to change the dates at issue from “2019 to the present” to “2019 to
March 2022.” (See Mtn. to Compel Further RE: Tan, Separate Statement 8:26-28;
Mtn. to Compel Further RE: M Business, Separate Statement 9:8-10.) 
 
The issues presented by Plaintiff
are: (1) M Corporation is a corporate entity and does not have a right to
privacy, (2) Plaintiff can satisfy tests set out in case precedent regarding
privacy as the documents are relevant, (3) Tan, voluntarily entered bank
account information into Plaintiff’s client CRM system and was accepting direct
payments for a variety of services she was allegedly performed for Plaintiff’s
customers during the time she was employed by Plaintiff and cannot now seek to
shield such information; (4) no protective order was entered into and  Defendants did not file a motion for a
protective order; and (5) such documents can only be produced via a document
request. 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff
cannot meet its burden to show direct relevance or a compelling need. The Court
notes that this section of Defendants opposing papers contain an argument attempting
to cite to what looks to be a deposition; however, there is no declaration from
counsel and no exhibit to authenticate the citation. (See Cal. Evid. Code §
1401.) As such, the Court cannot consider this argument. The remaining
arguments are: (1) the information can be obtained through less intrusive means
such as deposition; and (2) if the Court finds that the documents are relevant,
Defendants should be allowed to redact statements to only include transactions
or payments which are applicable to this matter.
 
Plaintiff’s Replies address case
citation by Defendants, and reiterate that the documents requested are relevant
and that there are no other realistic means to acquire the documents. 
 
As
stated, ante, a motion to
compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc., §¿2031.310(b)(1).) In¿Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court¿(2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that
there¿is¿“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”¿¿Here, Plaintiff
has shown good cause for the document demands as such documents are directly
relevant to the case as Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants used Plaintiff’s
internal trade secret information including but not limited to price mechanisms
and business practices implemented for each client based on client needs and
the amount acquired from such alleged actions. Plaintiff has further shown that
it has uncovered $37,000.00 that was paid directly to Defendants by one of its
customers during the time of her employment and, as alleged, there were at
least six customers that terminated Plaintiff and engaged Defendant and
Defendants inserted an EIN number and social security number linked to a bank
account into Plaintiff’s CDM system during her employment. (See Mtn. to Compel
Further RE: Tan, Decl. Sam Donabedian
at ¶ 9; Mtn. to Compel Further RE: M Business, Decl. Sam Donabedian at ¶ 9.)
 
As to
privacy, although not constitutionally protected, a corporation still enjoys a
right to privacy in its confidential information, including financial
information. (See SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243
Cal.App.4th 741, 755-56.) Whether discovery requests infringe on that right is
resolved by balancing whether the discovery “ ‘appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence’ ” against the corporate right of
privacy. (Id. at 756 [internal citations omitted].)
 
The RFPs
directed to Tan and M Business concerning M Businesses bank statements and
payments are relevant, as discussed ante. As such, the burden is on the objecting party to justify the
objections. (Kirkland v.¿Sup. Ct¿(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) Defendants
state that a deposition would be less intrusive while citing to El Dorado
Savings & Loan Assn. v. Superior Court (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 342, 346
(“El Dorado Savings”), summarized by Defendants as “refusing to order
disclosure of employee personnel file where the relevant information could be
obtained through “less intrusive means, such as deposing.” (Opposition to Mtn.
to Compel Further RE: M Business 4:24-5:6; Opposition to Mtn. to Compel Further
RE: Tan 5:4-13.) No argument is provided as to how El Dorado Savings
applies to the action at hand, rather Defendants have only provided a general statement
that a deposition is a less intrusive means through which a party can obtain
information. As such, Defendants have not justified their objections, which
also include boilerplate objections such as overbroad, unduly burdensome,
harassing, and vague and ambiguous. (See Mtn. to Compel Further RE: Tan,
Separate Statement; See Mtn. to
Compel Further RE: Tan, Separate Statement, Decl. Sam Donabedian, Exh. C; Mtn.
to Compel Further RE: M Business, Separate Statement; Mtn. to Compel Further
RE: M Business, Decl. Sam Donabedian at Exh. C.) The Court notes that Defendants’ responses use the term
“interrogatory.” (See ibid.)
 
The
Motion to Compel Defendant Mary Jane Tan Further Responses to Demand for
Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED as to RFP No. 11 and the Motion to
Compel Defendant M Business Solutions LLC Further Responses to Demand for
Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED in its entirety. 
 
As to RFP
No. 13, directed to Tan, individually, the RFP requests for “any and all
documents;” however, both parties appear to be in agreement that this response
would lead to the production of bank documents. No argument is provided for
other documents. A privacy privilege
is implied from the right to privacy to privacy guaranteed by California
Constitution, article I, section 1. Matters that fall within the zone of
privacy established by the California Constitution and case law are protected
unless an adequate countervailing interest is shown. (Britt v. Superior
Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864-865; Morales v. Superior Court
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 283, 287.) Those matters include personal financial
affairs. (SCC Acquisitions, Inc., supra, 243 Cal.App.4th 741,
754-755.) “In determining whether disclosure is required, the court must
indulge in a careful balancing of the right of a civil litigant to discover
relevant facts, on the one hand, and the right of the third parties to maintain
reasonable privacy regarding their sensitive personal affairs, on the other.
[Citation.] The court must consider the purpose of the information sought, the
effect that disclosure will have on the affected persons and parties, the
nature of the objections urged by the party resisting disclosure and
availability of alternative, less intrusive means for obtaining the requested
information. [Citation.] Based on an application of these factors, the more
sensitive the nature of the personal information that is sought to be
discovered, the more substantial the showing of the need for the discovery that
will be required before disclosure will be permitted. [Citations.]” (Ibid.)
“If an obvious invasion of interest fundamental to personal autonomy is
involved, then the compelling interest test applies. If the invasion is less
central, or is in bona fide dispute, then a general balancing test applies.” (Fair
Employment & Housing (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 896, 903.)
 
For the same reasons discussed, ante,
Plaintiff has shown good cause and Defendants’ have not justified their
objections. 
 
Plaintiff has only requested
documents related to payments Tan has received from Plaintiff’s past customers.
As such, it appears that all transactions or payments responsive to this
request would be applicable to this matter as Tan is not “forced to disclose
the entirety of her bank statements.” (See Opp. to Mtn. to Compel Further RE:
Tan 5:22-25.) 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Compel
Defendant Mary Jane Tan Further Responses to Demand for Production of
Documents, Set One is GRANTED as to RFP No. 13.
 
The Court limits the wording of
production to 2019 to March 2022, as suggested by Plaintiff.  
 
-----
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests sanctions in
the amount of $1,185.00 [2.5 hrs @ $450.00 + $60 filing fee] for the Motion to
Compel Further as to M Business and $2,985.00 [6.5 hrs @ $450.00 + $60.00
filing fee] for the Motion to Compel Further as to Tan. 
 
The Court notes that these
motions and their concurrently filed papers are substantially similar and it is
unclear why there is a difference of four hours in time spent between the
motions. 
 
Defendants argue that sanctions
are unjustified as there is no misuse of discovery due to the “overbroad nature
of the requests and their implications on Defendant’s privacy, Defendant had to
persist in her objections and refusal to produce the documents as requested”
and “[a]s such, Defendant has engaged in no misconduct which would support
sanctions.” (See Opp. to Mtn. to Compel Further RE: Tan 6:5-10; Mtn. to Compel
Further RE: M Business 5:25-6:3.) 
 
“Except as provided in
subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310.) 
 
While the privacy objections may
be justified to an extent, there does not appear to be substantial
justification as Defendants have neglected to argue a variety of their
objections such as overbroad, unduly
burdensome, harassing, and vague and ambiguous.
 
The Court notes that the request for sanctions by Plaintiff on an RFP
matter triggers Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.050 which reads, in relevant part: 
 
Notwithstanding any
other law, and in addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
chapter, a court shall impose a one-thousand-dollar ($1,000) sanction, payable
to the requesting party, upon a party, person, or attorney if, upon reviewing a
request for a sanction made pursuant to Section 2023.040, the court finds any
of the following:
(1) The party,
person, or attorney did not respond in good faith to a request for the
production of documents made pursuant to Section 2020.010, 2020.410, 2020.510,
or 2025.210, or to an inspection demand made pursuant to Section 2031.010.
(2) The party,
person, or attorney produced requested documents within seven days before the
court was scheduled to hear a motion to compel production of the records
pursuant to Section 2025.450, 2025.480, or 2031.320 that is filed by the
requesting party as a result of the other party’s, person’s, or attorney’s
failure to respond in good faith.
(3) The party,
person, or attorney failed to confer in person, by telephone, letter, or other
means of communication in writing, as defined in Section 250 of the Evidence
Code, with the party or attorney requesting the documents in a reasonable and
good faith attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning the request.
 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.050(a).)
 
Accordingly, the Court imposes a sanction of $1,000.00 on Defendants and
their counsel of record, Mika Marie Hilaire, jointly and severally.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff SourceOne Payroll
Services, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Defendant Mary Jane Tan Further Responses to
Demand for Production of Documents, Set One, is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’ SourceOne Payroll
Services, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Defendant M Business Solutions LLC Further
Responses to Demand for Production of Documents, Set One, is GRANTED.
 
Defendants Mary Jane Tan and M
Business Solutions are ordered to provide the responses to their respective
Demand for Production of Documents, Set One, within 30 days of this Court
Order.
 
The Court imposes a sanction of $1,000.00 on
Defendants Mary Jane Tan and M Business Solutions and their counsel of record,
Mika Marie Hilaire, jointly and severally.