  Case Number:  23PSCV03996    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  H Deuschel
v. Atlas Springs Company, Inc., et al., Case No. 23PSCV03996
 
ORDER ON DEMURRER
The Court will reach the merits of Defendants’
demurrer provided that Defendants cure the
notice deficiency identified below at or before the time of hearing or Plaintiff appears at
the December 13, 2024 hearing despite the notice deficiency. Assuming these
conditions are met, the Court intends to
rule as follows: Defendants’ demurrer is sustained as to the third cause of action but is otherwise overruled.
The Court grants Plaintiff 20 days’ leave to amend. Any First Amended Complaint
filed by Plaintiff must be signed. In the event Plaintiff chooses not to amend
his complaint, Plaintiff must file a signature page for his complaint
forthwith. 
 
I.        Background 
Plaintiff Michael
Deuschel (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows: 
          Plaintiff, an adaptive person, owns a
1998 Dodge B3500 converted camper van (the “subject vehicle”) that serves as
his dwelling. Plaintiff contracted with Atlas Springs Company, Inc. (“Atlas
Springs”) to repair the subject vehicle in June 2021. Atlas Springs’ Chief
Executive Officer is Fernando Gutierrez (“Gutierrez”). When Plaintiff
complained about Atlas Springs’ failed products and workmanship, Atlas Springs
stole the subject vehicle and extorted him to sign a liability release before
they would release the subject vehicle to him.
On
December 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action
against Atlas Springs and Gutierrez (together “Defendants”), as well as Does
1-20 for:
           1.       Breach
of Contract,
     2.       Negligent Repair,
     3.       Product Liability,
     4.       Personal
Injury,
     5.       The
Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. § 121011 et seq.,
     6.       California
Civil Code § 51 et seq., The Unruh Civil Rights Act,
     7.       Negligence,
and
     8.       Intentional
and Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
Pending
before the Court is Defendants’ demurrer to the complaint. 

II.      Legal Standard
A demurrer
may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) 
“A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may
take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land
Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].) 
 
III.     Discussion 
Atlas
Springs and Gutierrez (together, “Defendants”) demur, per Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, to the first through eighth causes of action Plaintiff’s
complaint, on the basis that they each fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action and are uncertain.
 
          A.       Notice 
At
the outset, the demurrer originally came on calendar for hearing on October 2, 2024;
the Court, at that time, continued the hearing to the instant date and directed
Defendants to give notice to Plaintiff “forthwith and to file proof of service
of said notice at least nine court days prior to the continued hearing date.” 
There
is nothing on the docket reflecting that Defendants’ counsel provided notice of
the December 13, 2024 hearing date to Plaintiff. The following analysis, then,
is contingent upon Defendants’ counsel filing a proof of service, on or
before the hearing, reflecting notice to Plaintiff of the instant hearing date. 
The
Court notes that Plaintiff made an appearance on October 2, 2024, when the
hearing was continued. In the event Plaintiff appears on December 13, 2024, the
Court will proceed to the merits of the demurrer.
 
          B.       Meet
and Confer         
On
October 2, 2024, the Court elected to continue the hearing on the instant
demurrer to December 13, 2024 on the basis that it was not accompanied by a
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 meet and confer declaration. Defendants’
counsel has since filed a compliant declaration. 
 
          C.       Merits 
As
an initial matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s complaint includes causes
of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Negligent Repair, (3) Product
Liability, (4) Personal Injury, (5) The Americans with Disabilities Act (42
U.S.C. § 121011 et seq.), (6) California Civil Code § 51 et seq. (The Unruh
Civil Rights Act), (7) Negligence, and (8) Intentional and Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress. 
Defendants
purport to demur to each and every cause of action in the complaint; however,
the demurrer contains no analysis of the sixth through eighth causes of action.
The Court summarily overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth through eighth
causes of action on this basis. 
 
First
Cause of Action (i.e., Breach of Contract) 
“[T]he elements of a cause of action
for breach of contract are (1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) 
Defendants
assert that Plaintiff fails to specify the essential terms of the contract and
what provisions were breached. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff has alleged that
“Defendants evaluated Plaintiff’s 1998 Dodge van for suspension repairs/rebuild
and front wheel alignment,” “advised [him] to rebuild his front and rear
suspension,” “instructed him to obtain specific front-end steering and
suspension replacement parts,” “advised him to add two new rear leaf springs
(per side) to the existing five-leaf-springs sets for additional support,” and “agreed
to install new bushings and u-bolts during their installation.” (Complaint, ¶ 6.) 
Plaintiff
has alleged that he “accepted the contract,” “obtained the replacement parts
for his front and rear suspensions and steering at his expense” and “presented
the parts to Defendants.” (Id., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff has alleged that
“Defendants rebuilt the front-end suspension and steering,” “manufactured two
new rear leaf-springs and installed them to existing five-leaf-spring sets in
the rear of the van for a total of seven leaf-springs, per side,” “removed the
existing shock mounts that were welded to the rear axle and rewelded two new
shock mounts in place,” “installed two new rear shocks” and subcontracted the
alignment to a nearby alignment mechanic/shop,” thereafter advising that the
work was complete. (Id., ¶¶ 8-12.) Plaintiff has alleged that “he paid
for the work and Defendants returned [his] keys and vehicle to him.” (Id.,
¶ 12.) 
Plaintiff
has alleged that Defendants breached the contract by misrepresenting the status
of the alignment, claiming it was realigned when it was not, and by making
“multiple workmanship errors,” which are identified in Paragraph 8.[FN1]
Defendants
also assert that Plaintiff “fails to provide evidence of damages” and complain
that he “fails to provide any invoices, receipts, or specific amounts paid that
would substantiate the alleged costs incurred.” (Dem., 4:22 and 5:4-5.)
Plaintiff need not attach documentary evidence of his damages to his complaint.
Plaintiff has alleged that he was damaged because he “had to pay for urgent
repairs” and “must obtain additional repairs.” (Id., ¶ 10.)[FN2] Plaintiff has also alleged that Defendants refuse to repair their flawed work.
(Id., ¶¶ 11 and 13.)[FN3]
Defendants’
demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.
 
Second
Cause of Action (i.e., Negligent Repair)
A
claim for negligent repair requires pleading the elements of negligence, that
is “duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.” (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680,
687.)
Defendants
assert that Plaintiff “fails to specify what repairs were conducted, how they
were negligent, and how this alleged negligence directly resulted in damages.”
(Dem., 6:11-13.) They further assert Plaintiff has not alleged the existence of
a duty. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff has alleged the existence of a duty in
Paragraph 27 and has pled breach, causation, and damages as set forth above.
Defendants’
demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled.
 
Third
Cause of Action (i.e., Product Liability)
“[I]n a products liability case the
plaintiff in order to recover in strict liability in tort must prove that he
was injured by a defect in the product and that the product was defective when
it left the hands of the retailer or manufacturer; whereas to recover in
negligence the plaintiff must prove the same two elements plus an additional
element, namely, that the defect in the product was due to negligence of the
defendant.” (Jiminez v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1971) 4 Cal.3d 379,
383.)
Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants
are the manufacturer of the rear leaf springs. (Complaint, ¶ 29.) Plaintiff,
however, has not alleged that the product itself was defective or that it
caused him injury.
Defendants’ demurrer to the third
cause of action is sustained, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Fourth
Cause of Action (i.e., Personal Injury)
Defendants
assert that Plaintiff has failed to allege that their conduct was the proximate
cause of his injuries. (Dem., 6:24-25.) The Court disagrees. “The term
‘personal injury’ . . . includes not only physical injury, but also affront or
assault to the emotional well-being of a person.” (Chatton v. National Union
Fire Ins. Co. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 846, 855.) 
In
addition to the allegations set forth above, Plaintiff has alleged that
Defendants tried to get Plaintiff to sign a unilateral release of liability and
that, after he refused, they stole the subject vehicle, refused to return it,
and “threatened that they would make him miss his medical appointments by
withholding his van from him until he signed.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 13, 15 and 16.)
Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants’ acts and omissions “caused personal
injury to Plaintiff (Promisee), who sustained injuries other than economic
loss.” (Complaint, ¶ 31.)
Defendants’
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled.
Fifth
Cause of Action (i.e., The Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. § 121011
et seq.)
“A Title III claim
[of the ADA] . . . requires that a plaintiff establish that (1) he or she is
disabled within the meaning of the ADA; (2) that the defendants own, lease, or
operate a place of public accommodation; and (3) that the defendants
discriminated against the plaintiff within the meaning of the ADA.” (Roberts
v. Royal Atlantic Corp. (2d Cir. 2008) 542 F.3d 363, 368).
The Court determines
that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged these elements, in Paragraphs 15-19,
36-39, and 41. Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause
of action is overruled. 
Any
First Amended Complaint filed by Plaintiff must be signed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
446(a), 128.7(a).) In the event Plaintiff chooses not to amend his complaint,
Plaintiff must file a signature page for his complaint forthwith. 


