 Case Number:  21STCV05526    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Reconsideration filed by Plaintiff Robert
Joiner.
 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On February 11, 2021, Plaintiff Robert Joiner
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Terrence Lloyd Hutchinson
(“Defendant”), alleging a cause of action for negligence, stemming from a motor
vehicle collision that occurred on February 11, 2019, wherein Plaintiff
sustained injuries due to Defendant’s conduct.
On August 11, 2022, the Court dismissed the
entire action without prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
581(b)(3), when Plaintiff did not appear for Non-Jury Trial.
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to set aside the dismissal pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
473(b) and seeks reconsideration of the dismissal pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1008.

Legal Standard
Under Code of
Civil Procedure § 1008 (a), “When an application for an order has been made to
a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend,
or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by
affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order
or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law
are claimed to be shown.”
Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b) provides for mandatory and discretionary relief from dismissal.
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her
legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b). Where such an application
for discretionary relief is made, the motion shall be accompanied by a copy of
the answer or pleading proposed to be filed, or the application will not be
granted. (Id.) The court must grant relief from dismissal where the
application is accompanied by an attorney affidavit attesting to his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Id.) In either case, the
application must be made within a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six
months after the judgment. (Id.)
“ “Apart from
any statute, courts have the inherent authority to vacate a default and default
judgment on equitable grounds such as extrinsic fraud or extrinsic mistake.
“Extrinsic fraud usually arises when a party is denied a fair adversary hearing
because he has been ‘deliberately kept in ignorance of the action or
proceeding, or in some other way fraudulently prevented from presenting his
claim or defense.’ ” In contrast, the term “extrinsic mistake” is “broadly
applied when circumstances extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a
party a hearing on the merits. [Citations.] ‘Extrinsic mistake is found when
[among other things] ... a mistake led a court to do what it never
intended....’ ” ” (Bae v. T.D. Service Co. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 89,
97-98, citations omitted; accord Rappleyea, supra, at pg. 981 [“After
six months from entry of default, a trial court may still vacate a default on
equitable grounds even if statutory relief is unavailable”].)
Further, the Bae
court held that “A party may seek equitable relief from a default and default
judgment by filing a motion in the pertinent action or
initiating an independent action. ‘[A] motion brought to do so may be made on
such ground even though the statutory period [for relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) ] has run.’ Because a motion for equitable
relief is ‘direct,’ rather than ‘collateral,’ extrinsic fraud or mistake may be
demonstrated by evidence not included in the judgment roll or record relating
to the judgment.” (Bae, supra, at pg. 98, citations omitted.)
“[R]elief under
the doctrine of extrinsic mistake is subject to a “stringent three-part
formula. “ ‘[T]o set aside a [default] judgment based upon extrinsic mistake
one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted party must demonstrate
that it has a meritorious case. Second [ ], the party seeking to set aside the
default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not presenting a defense to
the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must demonstrate diligence in
seeking to set aside the default once. . .discovered.’ ” ” (Bae, supra,
at pg. 100, citations omitted; see also Rappleyea, supra, at pg. 982
[equitable relief should be granted in only exceptional circumstances].)
Discussion
At the October
3, 2023 hearing, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion as to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 473 and 1008. The Court continued the hearing, however, to
allow Plaintiff time to provide a supplemental briefing as to setting aside the
dismissal on equitable grounds.
This motion has now
been continued three times: on October 3, 2023; on November 20, 2023; and on
January 19, 2024.
No supplemental
briefing has been filed with the Court.
Therefore, the
Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration.
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
motion for reconsideration. 
 