 Case Number:  21STCV16634    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Set Aside Dismissal filed by Plaintiffs
Michelle Alexis Cruz, Aaron Michael Fuentes, and Dominic Liam Fuentes.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
On May 3, 2021, Plaintiffs Michelle Alexis
Cruz, Aaron Michel Fuentes, and Dominic Liam Fuentes (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
filed a complaint against Ruth V. Rakayla and Does 1 through 100 for a
negligence cause of action.
On May 9, 2023, the case was set for an OSC
re dismissal for failure to file proof of service of summons and
complaint.  Plaintiffs did not appear,
and the Court dismissed the action without prejudice.
On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed this
motion to set aside the dismissal.
No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…” (Code Civ. Pro., §473, subd. (b).) 
To qualify for relief under section 473,
the moving party must act diligently in seeking relief and must submit
affidavits or testimony demonstrating a reasonable cause for the
default. (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 234.) 
“In a motion under section 473 the initial
burden is on the moving party to prove excusable neglect by a “preponderance of
the evidence. [Citations]”” (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d
619, 624.) “The moving party has a double burden: He must show a satisfactory
excuse for his default, and he must show diligence in making the motion after
discovery of the default.” (Id. at 625.)
 
Discussion
Plaintiffs’ counsel
contends dismissal occurred because his office marked the case as
settled/closed in the computer program used to manage cases, and as such, no
alerts were made for the hearing which counsel missed. (Kohanarieh Decl., ¶P 3,
4.) 
 
No opposition
has been filed.
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff has established the dismissal occurred due to counsel’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect due to his poor health at the time of the
dismissal. Further this motion was filed diligently, six months after the
dismissal.
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the dismissal is
GRANTED.   
Conclusion The Court SETS ASIDE the dismissal entered on May 9, 2023.The Court sets an OSC re dismissal for
failure to file proof of service, or in the alternative a Trial Setting Conference,
on April __, 2024, at 8:30 am in Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (c)(1)(B), the Court ORDERS Plaintiffs’ counsel Ramin Ray
Kohanarieh to pay $250 to the State Bar Client Security Fund, and to file proof
of payment with the Court, within 30 days.
The Court sets an OSC re proof of payment of
$250 by counsel Ramin Ray Kohanarieh to the State Bar Client Security Fund on April
__, 2024, at 8:30 am in Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice.  