 Case Number:  22STCV22419    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Estate of Jaklin Rasekhnia, et
al. v. Philips North America, LLC, et al.



Case No.:                    22STCV22419


Complaint Filed:                   7-12-22 




Hearing Date:            5-23-2024 


Discovery C/O:                     None




Calendar No.:            8


Discover Motion C/O:          None




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             7-1-2024



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR
IN THE ALTERNATIVE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES
MOVING
PARTIES:           Defendants Apguard
Medical Inc. and Falih Audish, RCP (Doe 1)
RESP.
PARTIES:                 Plaintiffs The
Estate Of Jaklin Rasekhnia, Estate of Masoud Kohan, Josephine Kohan, George
Kohan, and Joseph Kohan
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
            Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  The Court orders the Complaint filed by
Plaintiffs against Defendants dismissed. 
 
I.               
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A defendant or
cross-defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action … cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
 
“Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  
 
“Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
II.            
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
            On
May 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a request for judicial notice of Defendant
Apguard Medical Inc.’s website, which “advertises that ‘established in 1987,
Apguard Medical Inc. was created to bring about “a better home medical
equipment experience” it the San Fernando Valley, Los Angeles and Ventura
Counties...’”  (Request for Judicial
Notice, p. 2:11-14 [emphasis removed].)
 
            The
request for judicial notice is DENIED because the Court “may not take judicial
notice of the truth of the contents of a website.”  (LG Chem, Ltd. v. Superior Court of San
Diego County (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 348, 362, fn. 7.)
 
III.          
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
A.   
Plaintiffs’ Objections 
 
            On
May 10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a request for judicial notice of the entire
declaration of John Heaston III (“Heaston”), which was filed with the moving
papers, arguing that the declaration lacks foundation, contains improper expert
testimony or opinion, and lacks foundation as to the expert’s special
knowledge, skill, experience, training, education, and basis of the opinion. 
 
            Plaintiffs’
objection to the “entire” Heaston declaration is OVERRULED.  The Court finds that the expert has laid
sufficient foundation.  
 
            The
Court notes that Plaintiffs only objected to Heaston’s declaration.   
 
B.   
Defendants’ Objections 
            
            On
May 17, 2024, Defendants Apguard Medical Inc. (“Apguard”) and Falih Audish, RCP
(“Audish”) (collectively, “Defendants”) filed evidentiary objections to the
declaration of Michael Sheahan (“Sheahan”), which was filed with the opposition
papers.  
 
            The
Court rules on Defendants’ objections as follows. 
 
            Objection
No. 1 is SUSTAINED as to Paragraphs 4, 5, and 7 for lack of foundation.  It is unclear from the declaration and
attached exhibit what evidence the expert is relying on to form the conclusions
in those paragraphs.  
 
            Objection
No. 1 is also SUSTAINED as to Paragraph 6 because that paragraph is irrelevant
to the instant motion; defendant Phillips is not one of the parties currently moving
for summary judgment or adjudication.  
 
            Objection
No. 1 is OVERRULED as to other paragraphs in Sheahan’s declaration. 
 
            With
regard to Objection No. 2: “The trial court has broad discretion to determine whether
proposed expert testimony lacks the necessary foundation to be reliable,
relevant and admissible.”  (People v.
Fortin (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 524, 531.) 

 
            “The
foundation required to establish the expert’s qualifications is a showing that
the expert has the requisite knowledge of, or was familiar with, or was
involved in a sufficient number of transactions involving the subject matter of
the opinion.”  (Howard Entertainment,
Inc. v. Kudrow (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1115.)
 
            Here,
Sheahan only states the following in his declaration:
 
I am
a career health care professional and licensed Respiratory Therapist with
twenty-five years of experience in technical, clinical, educational, and
administrative aspects of my profession. 
Through my experience in hospitals, businesses, state societies, and
academic institutions I have demonstrated the ability needed to deliver quality
education, training and insight in a wide variety of medical environments.
 
(Sheahan Decl., ¶ 1.)
 
            The
above paragraph is insufficient to show that the expert has the requisite
knowledge to opine regarding (1) the interpretation, meaning, and significance
of Reskihana’s breathing rate noted in the Ventilator’s logs, (2) the
Ventilator’s features, (3) the Ventilator’s alleged disconnection, (4) Audish’s
alleged failure to satisfy the standard of care, or (5) the cause of Rasekhnia’s
death. 
 
            Accordingly,
Objection No. 2 to the entire Exhibit 1 attached to Sheahan’s declaration is
SUSTAINED. 
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION 
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, arguing that they are immune from strict
liability, Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the applicable statute of
limitations, and they met the applicable standard of care. 
 
A.   
Whether Defendants are Immune From the First
Cause of Action for Strict Products Liability 
 
“The issue whether a defendant
falls within the scope of the strict liability doctrine generally is a question
of law [citation].”  (Bay Summit
Community Assn. v. Shell Oil Co. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 762, 778, fn. 10 (“Bay
Summit”).)
 
“However, the issue becomes a
factual one where the facts regarding the extent of the defendant’s
participation in the enterprise are disputed.” 
(Bay Summit, supra, 51 Cal.App.4th at p. 778.)
 
“California’s products liability
doctrine ‘provides generally that manufacturers, retailers, and others in the
marketing chain of a product are strictly liable in tort for personal injuries
caused by a defective product.’ 
[Citations.]”  (Taylor v.
Elliott Turbomachinery Co., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 564, 576 (“Taylor”);
Romine v. Johnson Controls, Inc. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 990, 1010
[“Traditionally, under the doctrine of strict products liability, all
defendants in the chain of distribution are jointly and severally liable,
meaning that each defendant can be held liable to the plaintiff for all damages
the defective product caused”].)
 
“[T]he California Supreme Court
explained three decades ago, the basis for imposing strict products liability
on a particular defendant is that ‘he has marketed or distributed a defective
product.’  [Citation.]”  (Taylor, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th
at p. 575; Daly v. General Motors Corp. (1978) 20 Cal.3d 725, 739
[“Regardless of the identity of a particular defendant or of his position in
the commercial chain the basis for his liability remains that he has marketed
or distributed a defective product”].)
 
“Another phrase for this notion of
responsibility is the ‘stream of commerce’ theory.  [Citation.] 
‘[S]trict liability may attach even if the defendant did not have actual
possession of the defective product or control over the manner in which the
product was designed or manufactured.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Taylor, supra,
171 Cal.App.4th at pp. 575-576.)  “[That]
nexus of liability is present, as one court succinctly summarized, if the
plaintiff’s evidence establishes ‘(1) the defendant received a direct financial
benefit from its activities and from the sale of the product; (2) the
defendant’s role was integral to the business enterprise such that the
defendant’s conduct was a necessary factor in bringing the product to the
initial consumer market; and (3) the defendant had control over, or a
substantial ability to influence, the manufacturing or distribution process.’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at p. 576.)  “It is
plaintiff’s burden to produce evidence of these factors linking the
injury-producing product with a particular entity in the stream of commerce of
that product.”  (Ibid.)
 
In Murphy v. E. R. Squibb &
Sons, Inc. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 672 (“Murphy”), a case the parties discuss
here, the California Supreme Court considered “whether a retail pharmacy is
strictly liable for injuries caused by an inherent defect in a drug.”  (Id. at p. 676.)
 
To answer that question, the
Supreme Court determined that it was “critical … to determine if the
dominant role of a pharmacist in supplying a prescription drug should be
characterized as the performance of a service or the sale of a product”
because “as a general rule … ‘those who sell their services for the guidance of
others ... are not liable in the absence of negligence or intentional
misconduct.’  [Citation.]”  (Murphy, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p.
677 [emphasis added].)  
 
For example, in Carmichael v.
Reitz (1971) 17 Cal.App.3d 958 (“Carmichael”), the Murphy
court noted, “[a] doctor who prescribed a drug purchased by the patient at a
pharmacy was held not to be strictly liable for injuries resulting from its
use.”  (Murphy, supra, 40
Cal.3d at p. 677.)  “In response to the
argument of the [Carmichael] plaintiff that the doctor was ‘in a sense a
retailer’ of the drug, the [California Court of Appeal] stated that the doctor
prescribed the medication only as an aid to effect a cure and was not in the
business of selling the drug.”  (Ibid.)  “The [Carmichael] court observed,
‘[T]he distinction between a transaction where the primary objective is the
acquisition of ownership or use of a product and one where the dominant purpose
is to obtain services has not been obliterated. 
Where the services sought are professional in character, the distinction
applies a fortiori.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid. [italics
in original].)  
 
In addition to Carmichael,
the California Supreme Court in Murphy discussed one New Jersey case
which “held that a dentist was not strictly liable for injuries caused by a
needle which broke during the course of treatment due to a latent defect.”  (Murphy, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p.
677.)  “The [New Jersey] court
characterized the difference between a sale and a service as follows: ‘[T]he essence
of the transaction between the retail seller and the consumer relates to the article
sold.  The seller is in the business
of supplying the product to the consumer. 
It is that, and that alone, for which he is paid.  A dentist or physician offers, and is paid
for, his professional services and skill. 
That is the essence of the relationship between him and his
patient.’  [Citation.]”  (Ibid. [italics in original].)
 
            However,
unlike a doctor and dentist, the Supreme Court in Murphy noted that “a
pharmacist is engaged in a hybrid enterprise, combining the performance of
services and the sale of prescription drugs.” 
(Murphy, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p. 678.)
 
            Therefore,
to decide whether sales or service predominated the role of a pharmacy, the
Supreme Court expanded its inquiry (beyond the principles articulated in the
two cases above) by turning to enacted statutes.  (Murphy, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p.
679.)  The Supreme Court noted that the
Business and Professions Code section 4046 “showed “that the practice of
pharmacy is not only a profession [citation], but also a ‘dynamic
patient-oriented health service that applies a scientific body of
knowledge to improve and promote patient health by means of appropriate drug
use and drug related therapy’ [citation]. 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid. [italics
in original].)  
 
The Supreme Court also considered
policy reasons.  (Murphy, supra,
40 Cal.3d at pp. 680–681 [“If pharmacies were held strictly liable for the
drugs they dispense, some of them, to avoid liability, might restrict
availability by refusing to dispense drugs which pose even a potentially remote
risk of harm, although such medications may be essential to the health or even
the survival of patients.  Furthermore,
in order to assure that a pharmacy receives the maximum protection in the event
of suit for defects in a drug, the pharmacist may select the more expensive
product made by an established manufacturer when he has a choice of several
brands of the same drug”].)
 
“Based on its analysis of the role
of a pharmacist, the court in Murphy held that a pharmacy in dispensing
prescription drugs is performing a service and therefore is not strictly liable
for an inherent defect in a drug.”  (Ontiveros
v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 424, 432.)
 
Here, Defendants produce the
following evidence to prove that their role in their interactions with
Rasekhnia (“Decedent”) was predominantly to perform a service instead of distributing
or selling the Ventilator.  
 
Transcripts from Audish’s
deposition.  
 
During his deposition, Audish
testified as follows.  When asked what he
does for a living, he testified that he is a respiratory therapist by
trade.  (Defendants’ Separate Statement,
filed March 4, 2024, Exhibit E – Audish
Deposition, Vol. I (“Audish Vol. I Depo”), p. 10:23-25.)  He has been a respiratory therapist since
1985 and received his AA degree in respiratory from San Diego University of
Health and Sciences.  (Audish Vol. I
Depo., p. 11:1-13.)  A person has to be
licensed to be a respiratory therapist, and he has been licensed continually
since 1984.  (Audish Vol. I Depo., p.
11:14-20.)  
 
Defendants
also submit a declaration from Ashraf Elsayegh, MD, FCCP (“Dr. Elsayegh”) as
evidence. The doctor testifies that he is a physician licensed to practice
medicine in California, and, since 2007, has worked in private practice,
specializing in Pulmonary Disease, Sleep Disorders, Internal Medicine and
Diaphragm Disorders.  (Declaration Of
Ashraf Elsayegh, M.D., FCCP, filed on March 4, 2024 (“Elsayegh Decl.”), ¶¶
1, 4.)  In the latter capacity, he is,
among other things, the Pulmonary Director of the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
(ALS) Clinic at Cedars Sinai Medical Center (from 2006 to present) and a member
of the International Ventilator User Network – an Affiliate of the Post-Polio
Health International (from 2015 to the present).  (Elsayegh
Decl., ¶ 4.)  Dr. Elsayegh’s area of special
interest and area of research is respiratory muscle dysfunction in
neuromuscular patients.  (Elsayegh Decl., ¶ 5.)  Since 2006, he has served as an Assistant
Clinical Professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, David Geffen
School of Medicine, in the Department of Pulmonology and Critical Care.  (Elsayegh
Decl., ¶ 6.)  
 
Dr.
Elsayegh opines that “[t]he standard of care for practicing Respiratory Care
Providers in California does not discuss the setting of available settable
alarms on the Trilogy 100 Non-Invasive Ventilator.”  (Elsayegh
Decl., ¶ 16.)  
 
Instead, the setting of available
alarms “is ordered at the discretion of physicians on a case by case
basis.”  (Elsayegh
Decl., ¶ 16.)  
 
Indeed,
the following facts are undisputed. 
 
“On May 24, 2019 the Decedent, a 66
year old, bedridden, paralyzed, nonverbal patient was admitted to Cedars Sinai
Medical Center for a multiple number of life threatening medical ailments,
including chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure (the chronic build up of
excess carbon dioxide in the blood stream).” 
(Plaintiffs’ Response to Defendants’ Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts (the “Parties’ UMF”), 1.) 

 
 “October 9, 2019, in anticipation of
Decedent’s discharge from the hospital, Decedent’s pulmonologist, Mohammad A.
Ansari, M.D., (hereinafter ‘Dr. Ansari’) wrote an order for a Trilogy 100
Ventilator so that Decedent could continue with her respiratory therapy
treatments at home.”  (Parties’ UMF, 2.)
 
 “Once Dr. Ansari wrote his order for that
Ventilator, a case manager at Cedars Sinai Medical Center contacted Defendant
Apguard, one of their preferred licensed respiratory medical equipment
suppliers, to provide the Trilogy 100 Ventilator for home use by the
Decedent.”  (Parties’ UMF, 4 [emphasis
added].)  “Defendant Apguard is a medical
equipment supplier, licensed by the State of California, focusing on providing
respiratory care equipment, such as the Trilogy 100 Ventilator, to patients for
use at home when discharged from the hospital.” 
(Parties’ UMF, 5.)  “On October
16, 2019, Defendant Audish, a Respiratory Care Provider employed by Apguard
received the order for Decedent’s Trilogy 100 Ventilator.”  (Parties’ UMF, 6.) 
 
Audish
testified during his deposition that his duties were that when he received an
order from Dr. Ansari, his job was to, among other things, program the machine
to match the doctor’s orders.  (Audish
Vol. I Depo., p. 52:1-13.)
 
Defendants also submit Heaston’s
declaration, a Respiratory Care Practitioner who received his degree in
Respiratory Therapy CPTC (1991), Respiratory Therapy AARRT from Independence
University (2018), and Respiratory Therapy. 
(Heaston Decl., filed March 4, 2024, ¶ 1.)  Heaston has been registered as a Respiratory
Care Practitioner with the Respiratory Care Board of California and has served
as a Respiratory Care Practitioner in good standing in California since
1992.  (Heaston Decl., ¶ 2.)  From 1998 to the present, he has worked as a
sales executive, marketing manager, and regional accounts manager for a number
of respiratory care companies specializing in the marketing and sales of
respiratory care equipment, specifically in Mechanical Ventilation.  (Heaston Decl., ¶ 4.)  In his position as a Marketing Manager, Sales
Trainer, Senior Sales Account Manager, and Regional Sales Specialist with
Philips Healthcare/Respironics, he was trained and has extensive knowledge of
the software programs associated with the Trilogy 100 Ventilator that are
needed to properly investigate the ventilator’s functionality, including
proprietary software programs, such as Direct View and Care Orchestrator, that
are routinely used to evaluate the ventilator’s functionality and patient data
to determine the conditions in which a reported patient event occurred while
using a Trilogy 100 Ventilator.  (Heaston
Decl., ¶ 7.)  
 
            Heaston
opines, among other things, as follows. 
“Dr. Ansari’s stated rationale for the home use of the Trilogy 100
Ventilator was that the ‘patient will require nocturnal, PRN, non-invasive
ventilation to reduce hypercapnia. 
The patient will require nocturnal (as well as intermittent daytime)
ventilatory treatment to reduce hypercapnia’ [citation].”  (Heaston Decl., ¶ 12 [emphasis added].)  “Dr. Ansari’s instructions were for the
Trilogy 100 Ventilator to be set up by Defendant Audish in the non-invasive
AVAPS-AE mode.  That means ‘Average
Volume Assured Pressure Support’ with ‘Auto EPAP’ which is Respironics
proprietary mode.  The mode adapts to the
patient providing a fixed Volume goal where pressure is adjusted up and down to
maintain the targeted volume setting.”  (Heaston Decl., ¶ 13.)  “The AVAPS-AE mode is FDA cleared as a Non
Invasive only mode, it is not intended for trached or intubated patients
commonly referred to as ‘Life Support.’ 
If a patient becomes incapable of spontaneous breathing, other
ventilation types would need to be employed and ordered by the physician in
charge.”   (Heaston Decl., ¶ 15.)  “The AVAPS AE mode utilization would be
contrasted by a Trilogy I 00 Ventilator set in an Invasive mode,
requiring breath types such as Assist Control or Pressure Control Ventilation,
in combination with other features. 
These are very common invasive breath types that are used in mechanical
ventilation, inside and outside of hospitals all over the world.”  (Heaston Decl., ¶ 15 [italics in
original].)  
 
            The Court
finds that based on the evidence above, Defendants have met their burden of
showing that their predominant role in their interactions with the Decedent was
to provide a professional service, specifically, respiratory therapy through
the Ventilator.  Indeed, they even had to
be licensed to offer such services; their job was not merely delivering the
Ventilator but making sure the Ventilator carried out its health-related
purposes for the Decedent.  Further, in Murphy,
the California Supreme Court noted a “pharmacist who fills a prescription is in
a different position from the ordinary retailer because he cannot offer a
prescription for sale except by the doctor's order.  In [that] respect, [the pharmacist] is providing
a service to the doctor and acting as an extension of the doctor in the
same sense as a technician who takes an X-ray or analyzes a blood sample on a
doctor's order.”  (Murphy, supra
40 Cal.3d at p. 679 [emphasis added].) 
Here, like a pharmacist, Defendants were merely acting as an extension
of Dr. Ansari since they could only set up the Ventilator pursuant to and in
accordance with the doctor’s orders. 
 
            Accordingly,
the burden shifts to the Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists regarding whether the Defendants’ role in their
interactions with the Decedent was predominantly to provide service. 
 
            In their
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Audish testified during his deposition that
“he only provided equipment pursuant to his contractual relationship with Cedar
Sinai, and not services.”  (Opposition,
p. 14:23-25 [emphasis removed], citing Plaintiffs’ Additional Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts, filed May 9, 2024 (“AUMF”), 24; also
citing Plaintiffs’ Compendium of Evidence, filed May 9, 2024 (“COE”), Exhibit 4
– a copy of Audish Vol. I Depo., pp. 27:25-28:1-8.)
 
            However,
the Court has reviewed Exhibit 4 in the Plaintiffs’ COE and noticed that the Plaintiffs
did not attach Pages 27 and 28 from Audish’s Volume I deposition transcripts.  Page 28 is also missing from the Defendants’
copy of the deposition transcripts. 
 
            The Court
has also reviewed AUMF 24 and notes it only states: “Apguard owed a duty to
Decedent Rasekhnia and Plaintiffs to, without limitation, manufacture, design,
distribute, provide, lease, and/or rent life-saving ventilators and/or BiPAP
machines, including, without limitation, the Subject Ventilators that are
reasonably safe.”  In the AUMF,
Plaintiffs cite Sheahan’s declaration and an Exhibit of the Ventilator manual
to support that statement. 
 
            However,
the Court has sustained Defendants’ objections to the relevant portions of
Sheahan’s declaration. 
 
            In
addition, to meet their burden, Plaintiffs “shall not rely upon the allegations
or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable
issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
 
            Plaintiffs
also argue that Murphy is distinguishable because in Murphy,
there was a statute that dictated that pharmacists were service providers while
here, Defendants have not cited “similar statutes that support a finding that
it is to be treated similarly because of its, at best,
hybrid enterprise.” 
(Opposition, p. 17:17-21.23.)
 
            However, in
their reply, Defendants cite Business and Professions Code section 3702. 
 
Subdivision (a)(5) of that statute states:
“Respiratory care as a practice means a health care profession employed
under the supervision of a medical director in the therapy, management,
rehabilitation, diagnostic evaluation, and care of patients with deficiencies
and abnormalities which affect the pulmonary system and associated aspects of
cardiopulmonary and other systems functions, …,” including “[t]he transcription
and implementation of the written and verbal orders of a physician and surgeon
pertaining to the practice of respiratory care.”  (Emphasis added.)  
 
According to subdivision (c) of
Section 3704 of the Business and Professions Code: “‘Medical director’ means a
physician and surgeon who is a member of a health care facility’s active
medical staff and who is knowledgeable in respiratory care.” 
 
Subdivision (d) of the same section
states, “‘[r]espiratory care’ includes ‘respiratory therapy’ or ‘inhalation
therapy,’ where those terms mean respiratory care.”  
 
Here, it is undisputed that Audish
provided the Ventilator services pursuant to Dr. Ansari’s orders. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds
Plaintiffs’ argument unpersuasive. 
 
For the reasons set forth above,
the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden of showing
that Defendants are not immune from strict products liability. 
 
Accordingly, summary adjudication
of the first cause of action for strict products liability is GRANTED. 
 
B.   
Whether Plaintiffs’ Negligence Claims are Barred
by the Applicable Statute of Limitations
 
Defendants also move for summary
adjudication of the second cause of action for negligence (failure to warn) and
third cause of action for negligence lack merit, arguing that those claims are
barred by the statute of limitations in Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5
(“Section 340.5”). 
 
“Section 340.5 is part of an
interrelated legislative scheme enacted to deal specifically with all medical
malpractice claims.”  (Young v. Haines
(1986) 41 Cal.3d 883, 894.)  The statute
is part of the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 (MICRA).  (Chosak v. Alameda County Medical Center
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 549, 555.)
 
The statute states in relevant
part:
 
In an action for
injury or death against a health care provider based upon such person’s
alleged professional negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall
be three years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff
discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have
discovered, the injury, whichever occurs first.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5 [emphasis added].)  
 
“As used in section 340.5, the word
‘injury’ means both the physical condition and its negligent cause.”  (Munoz v. Purdy (1979) 91 Cal.App.3d
942, 945 (“Munoz”).)
 
The statute defines a health care
provider as “any person licensed or certified pursuant to Division 2
(commencing with Section 500) of the Business and Professions Code, or licensed
pursuant to the Osteopathic Initiative Act, or the Chiropractic Initiative Act,
or licensed pursuant to Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1440) of Division
2 of the Health and Safety Code; and any clinic, health dispensary, or health
facility, licensed pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 1200) of the
Health and Safety Code.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 340.5(1).)
 
Business and Professions Code
section 3702, the statute that Defendants cited in their reply and the Court
has discussed above, falls under Division 2 of the statutory scheme.  (Chosak v. Alameda County Medical Center
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 549, 560 [“Division 2 is entitled, ‘Healing Arts.’  Running from sections 500 through 4999, it
regulates not only physicians, but also dentists, chiropractors, audiologists,
dietitians, physical therapists, nurses, psychologists, optometrists,
pharmacists, veterinarians, and a variety of other health-related professions.  The division imposes licensing, certification,
or registration requirements for the various professions, with the strictness
of these requirements varying among the disciplines”].)
 
It
is also undisputed that: “Since its inception in 1987, Defendant Apguard has
been a durable medical equipment company, licensed by the State of California,
specializing in providing respiratory care equipment, such as Trilogy 100
Ventilators, to their patients for use at home when discharged from the
hospital.”  (Parties’ UMF, 52.)  In addition, Audish testified that he
is a licensed respiratory care provider.  (Audish
Vol. I Depo., p. 11:14-20.)  
 
Plaintiffs have not presented any
evidence disputing the above findings (e.g., Apguard and Audish are licensed in
California to provide respiratory therapy). 
 
In addition, according to Section
340.5(2): “‘Professional negligence’ means a negligent act or omission to act
by a health care provider in the rendering of professional services, which act
or omission is the proximate cause of a personal injury or wrongful death,
provided that such services are within the scope of services for which the
provider is licensed and which are not within any restriction imposed by the
licensing agency or licensed hospital.”  
 
“A claim arises out of professional
negligence “if the injury that is the basis for the claim was caused by conduct
that was directly related to the rendition of professional services.  [Citation.]” 
(Divino Plastic Surgery, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 78
Cal.App.5th 972, 984.)
 
Here, the second cause of action
for negligence (failure to warn) alleges that Apguard failed to warn the Plaintiffs
regarding the dangers of a detached hose, an alarm’s inability to go off,
and/or the safe use of the Ventilator. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 37, 38, 39.)  In the
third cause of action for negligence, Plaintiffs allege that Apguard breached
its duty to Decedent “when it negligently programmed, deprogrammed, set-up,
designed, and/or set the Subject Ventilator’s alarm system such that the
Subject Ventilator’s alarm failed to go off to notify DECEDENT RASEKHNIA’s
family, including JOSEPHINE KOHAN, that the Subject Ventilator had stopped
delivering its critical oxygen flow and pressure to DECEDENT RASEKHNIA.”  (Compl., ¶ 51.) 
 
            The Court
finds that both of those claims arise out of professional negligence since the
basis of the claims was caused by conduct that was directly related to the
Defendants’ rendition of professional services. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court finds that the statute of limitations in Section 340.5 applies to
Plaintiffs’ negligence claims. 
 
“A plaintiff in a medical
malpractice action must satisfy the requirements of both the one-year and the
three-year limitations periods.”  (Drexler
v. Petersen (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 1181, 1189 [209 Cal.Rptr.3d 332, 338]
 
As shown above, “under the statute,
‘[a] medical malpractice action must be commenced within one year after the
patient ‘discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have
discovered’ his ‘injury.’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5.)”  (Gutierrez v. Mofid (1985) 39 Cal.3d
892, 895.)
 
Here, it is undisputed that “[o]n
July 4, 2020, the Plaintiffs knew that the reason why their mother was brain
dead was because Defendant Apguard’s Respiratory Care Provider, Defendant
Audish, had been accused by another respiratory therapist that by failing to
set the alarms, the family was not alerted when the hose detached from the
vented mask.”  (Parties’ UMF, 66.)
 
It is also undisputed that “[o]n
July 4, 2020 Plaintiffs knew that it was Defendant Audish who was responsible
for the Decedent being declared brain dead because he failed to set the Trilogy
100 Ventilator alarms.”  (Parties’ UMF,
68.)
 
Based on those undisputed facts,
Plaintiffs had to commence their medical malpractice action against Defendants
by July 4, 2021, that is, within one year of July 4, 2020, the date they
discovered, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered,
that the reason Decedent became brain dead was because of Defendants’ alleged
negligence in setting the Ventilator alarms. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that
Defendants have met their burden of showing that Plaintiffs’ negligence claims
have no merit by proving their statute of limitations defense. 
 
Therefore, the burden shifts to
Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as
to that defense. 
 
Here, Plaintiffs have failed to
meet that burden.  Plaintiffs only argue:
“Because garden variety negligence-based and products liability theories apply
to causes of action brought against Apguard as the provider, distributor,
vendor, lessor, and/or retailer of the Subject Ventilator, Apguard’s arguments
that Plaintiff’s Complaint is untimely are incorrect or at the very least
create an issue of triable fact.” 
(Opposition, p. 20:3-11 [emphasis removed].)  The point the Plaintiffs are attempting to
make through that statement is lost on the Court.  Most importantly, as stated above, Plaintiffs
have failed to show that Section 340.5 does not apply to their negligence
claims and have claimed it is “undisputed” that on July 4, 2020, they had
reason to know the Defendants were negligent. 
In addition, the Court has found that Defendants are immune from strict
liability.  Therefore, Plaintiffs have
failed to show that their negligence claims are not barred by the one-year
statute of limitations in Section 340.5. 
 
For those reasons, summary
adjudication of the second and third causes of action for negligence is
GRANTED.  
 
C.   
Whether Defendants Complied with the Standard of
Care at all Times and Did Not do Anything to Cause Decedent’s Death or
Plaintiffs’ Harm and, Therefore, are Entitled to Judgment in Their Favor  
 
Finally, Defendants move for
summary judgment, arguing that they complied with the applicable standard of
care. 
 
Given the Court’s findings above,
granting summary adjudication of the first cause of action for strict products
liability and the second and third causes of action for negligence are barred
by the applicable statute of limitations, the issue regarding whether
Defendants complied with the applicable standard of care is moot.  However, even if the Court were to consider
that issue, the Court finds that the Defendants would have met their burden of
showing that no triable issues exist as to that issue, and Plaintiffs would
have failed to meet their burden of showing triable issues exist because (1)
Defendants have produce expert testimony attesting to their compliance with
applicable standard of care and (2) Plaintiffs’ have not produced admissible
evidence that Defendants failed to comply with the applicable standard of care.
 (Heaston Decl., ¶¶ 10, 11, 14, 26; Elsayegh Decl., ¶¶
40-43.)   In addition, Plaintiffs did not submit any
evidence disputing the Defendants’ expert’s testimony that there were
unauthorized alterations to the settings Audish had initially set and that it
was those alterations that caused Decedent’s injuries.  (Elsayegh
Decl., ¶¶ 23-32, 44.)  
 
            For the
reasons set forth above, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
            
 
            