  Case Number:  23CHCV01757    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  11/13/24




Case
  Name: Carol Demirjian, Steve Demirjian v. Guenther Ventures LLC d/b/a Neon
  Retro Arcade, Mark Guenther, Mia Mazadiego, and Does 1-100




Case No.
  23CHCV01757



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

NOVEMBER 13, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL LARRY LARSON TO
APPEAR FOR DEPOSITION AND TO PRODUCE DOCUMENTS, REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV01757

 
Motion
filed: 9/23/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Guenther Ventures LLC d/b/a
Neon Retro Arcade, Mark Guenther, and Mia Mazadiego
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Carol Demirjian and
Steve Demirjian, and Larry Larson, respectively
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court to compel Larry Larson to attend and testify at
deposition, as well as to produce for inspection any documents demanded by the
Deposition Subpoena, and to impose monetary sanctions against Larry Larson in
the amount of $2,397.50.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED. The requests for monetary sanctions are DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from an alleged breach of a commercial lease
agreement and corresponding guaranty. 
 
On June 15, 2023, Plaintiffs Carol Demirjian and Steve
Demirjian (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants
Guenther Ventures LLC d/b/a Neon Retro Arcade (“Guenther Ventures”), Mark
Guenther (“Guenther”), Mia Mazadiego (“Mazadiego”), and Does 1 through 100,
alleging two causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract against Guenther
Ventures, and (2) Breach of Guaranty against all Defendants. Plaintiffs allege
that they and Guenther Ventures entered into a commercial lease for property
located at 8943 Reseda Boulevard, Northridge, CA 91324 (the “Premises”), which
Guenther Ventures breached by failing to make rent payments and causing damages
to the Premises. (Compl. ¶¶ 8, 10.) Defendants filed their Answer to the
Complaint on July 11, 2023.    


On September 23, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion
to Compel Deposition of Larry Larson (“Larson”) (the “Motion”). Subsequently,
Plaintiffs and Larson filed their respective Oppositions to the Motion on
October 29, and 30, 2024.
 
On November 5, 2024, Defendants submitted their Reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A party seeking discovery
from a person who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral
deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of
business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may
command: (1) only the attendance and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the
production of business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony
of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.020.)¿ 
¿ 
A service of a deposition
subpoena shall be effected a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to
provide the deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any
designated documents and, where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable
time to travel to the place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd.
(a).)¿ 
 
Personal service of any
deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a resident of
California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to
produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the subpoena
so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A deponent who
disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt without the
necessity of a prior order of the court directing compliance by the witness.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿ 
¿ 
A “written notice and all
moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question
or to compel production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty
deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty
deponent agrees to accept service by mail¿or electronic service¿at an
address¿or electronic service address¿specified on the deposition record.”¿
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346.)¿ 
¿
A.   
Motion to
Compel Deposition
 
Defendants bring the Motion under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.280, asserting that Larson acted as
Plaintiffs’ managing agent. Alternatively, Defendants argue that, even if
Larson is not a managing agent of Plaintiffs, he should still be compelled to
attend the deposition under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, contending
that Larson has evaded personal service of the Deposition Subpoena.
 
The Court proceeds to examine each
of these grounds in turn.
 
1)     
Larson as
Plaintiffs’ Managing Agent
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.280 provides, in part, “The service of a deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is
effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or ... [a]
managing agent ... of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for
inspection and copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
 
To determine whether a particular deponent is managing agent
of one of the parties, and thus is a party-affiliated deponent for which
deposition subpoena is not required, state courts look to federal court
decisions that apply a similar managing
agent test. (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible
& Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 601 (Lopez).)
“[A] ‘managing agent’ need not also be an employee, officer, or
director.... This conclusion
is consistent with analysis by federal courts, which have recognized that a
third party (such as an independent contractor or former officer) may be deemed
a party's ‘managing agent’ upon a factual showing that the deponent currently
serves in that functional role.” (Ibid., citing United States v.
Afram Lines, Ltd. (1994) 159 F.R.D. 408, 413.) (Underlines added.)
 
            In Waters v.
Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 885(Waters), the
California Supreme Court summarized a three-factor test to determine whether a
particular deponent is a “managing agent” of one of the parties:
(1) does the person exercise
judgment and discretion in dealing with the party's matters; (2) can the person
be expected to comply with the party's directive to appear; and (3) can the
person be anticipated to identify himself or herself with the party's interests. (Id.
at p. 896.)
 
            Here, Defendants argue
that Larson acted as Plaintiffs’ managing agent because he served as Plaintiffs’
real estate broker and attorney, (Mot. at pp. 4-5), exercised judgment and
discretion over listing the Premises and vetting prospective clients, (Reply at
p. 2), and was subject to Plaintiffs’ practical influence. (Id. at p.
3.)
 
            In response, Plaintiffs
contend that they engaged Larson in 2021, long before this lawsuit, to act as
their attorney in writing letters to Defendants, and later retained Larson to
act as their real estate broker to market the Premises for lease after
Defendants prematurely vacated the Premises. (Steve Demirjian Decl. ¶ 2.)
Plaintiffs assert, however, that Larson was not and has never been their
employee; instead, he served as an independent contractor specifically for
listing one of their properties. (Ibid.) Additionally, Larson does not
manage Plaintiffs’ rental properties or any other type of business. (Ibid,
Larson Decl. ¶ 4.) Furthermore, Plaintiffs’ counsel, Aren Kavcioglu
(“Kavcioglu”) objected to the Notice of Deposition and informed Defendants that
Larson was not an employee or managing agent of Plaintiffs. (Kavcioglu Decl. ¶¶
4-5.)
 
            Based on the records
above, the Court finds insufficient evidence to establish that Larson is
Plaintiffs’ managing agent. First, there is no factual showing that, aside from
the 2021 transaction, Larson currently holds any functional role for Plaintiffs.
(Lopez, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 601.) Second, even assuming
Larson continues to act as Plaintiffs’ independent contract, there is no
evidence that he can be expected to comply with Plaintiff’s directive to appear
at the deposition. Third, while Larson may have assisted Plaintiffs
as a broker in marketing the property and as an attorney in prior
communications, Defendants have not demonstrated that Larson currently holds an
alignment or interest sufficiently strong to identify him with Plaintiffs in
this litigation. Courts have recognized that the managing agent designation
requires a level of loyalty or affiliation suggesting that the deponent will
advocate for or act in the party’s interest. (See Waters, supra,
58 Cal.2d at p. 896.) Since Defendants have not shown any current or ongoing
relationship beyond prior transactional roles, the Court finds that Larson’s
interests in this matter are too attenuated to meet the managing agent
standard.
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the Motion on this
basis.
 
2)      Larson as a Non-party
 
Except for the deposition of a
party's officers, directors, managing agent, and employees – which may be taken on simple
notice (see Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.280, subd. (a), 2025.240) – discovery from a nonparty may be obtained only by “deposition subpoena”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (b).) (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 130.) (Italics in original.)
 
Here, since the Court finds insufficient evidence to
establish that Larson qualifies as a managing agent, he must be treated as a
non-party for discovery purposes. Accordingly, any deposition of Larson
requires a properly served deposition subpoena rather than simple notice.
Without managing agent status, Larson’s non-party designation is determinative
of the method by which Defendants may seek discovery from him.
 
Defendants argue, in the alternative, that Larson
should be compelled to attend the deposition and produce documents under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1.
                 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 states, in relevant
part, “If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of
books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a
court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
(Underlines added.)
 
The Court notes that Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1 permits the Court to enforce a subpoena if it
has been validly issued and served. However, Defendants have failed to demonstrate
that a Deposition Subpoena was served on Larson. Rather, it is undisputed that only
a Notice of Deposition, dated September 3, 2024, was served upon Plaintiffs’
counsel – not non-party Larson. (Green Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. “4;” Larson Decl. ¶¶
5-6.)
 
Given that Larson was not
personally served with a Deposition Subpoena, the Court finds that Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1 does not apply in these circumstances.
 
As to Defendants’ claim that Larson
evaded personal service, the Court finds this assertion is not supported by
sufficient evidence.
 
Defendants present a copy of
email correspondence from USA Legal Inc. detailing its attempts to personally
serve Larson with the Deposition Subpoena. The email indicates that attempts
were made on July 3, 5, 8, and 9, 2024. The correspondence notes that on each
occasion, “The door is locked.” (Green Decl. Ex. “2.”) Notably, on July 9,
2024, the notes state, “no access to door no car in the parking lot. Verified
by security ... defendant is not in...” (Ibid.)
 
In contrast, Larson attests that “[d]uring the period between July 3, 2024
and July 9, 2024, I was not in Los Angeles. I was in my residence in Las Vegas,
Nevada. I was not evading personal service.... I was present in Los Angeles in August
2024 and September 2024, and I am not aware of any attempt to personally serve
me with a deposition subpoena in August or September 2024.” (Larson Decl. ¶ 5.)
Furthermore, Larson declares that “Even though I have never been personally
served with a deposition subpoena in this case, I informed Noah Green that I
was in Washington, and offered to have my deposition taken when I returned,
likely the beginning of 2025[.]” (Id. ¶ 6, Ex. “1.”)
 
            Accordingly,
the Court finds insufficient evidence to support Defendants’ claim that Larson
evaded the personal service. Given that the timing of service attempts occurred
around the July 4th holiday, it suggests the attempts may have failed due to
Larson’s office closure, as noted by the service provider. Combined with
Larson’s declaration offering to schedule the deposition upon his return from
Washington, the Court concludes that Defendants have not shown sufficient evidence
of evasion.
 
            Based
on the above, the Court finds that Defendants failed to personally serve
non-party Larson with the Deposition Subpoena, as mandated by Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2020.210 and 2020.220. 
 
Therefore,
the Court DENIES the Motion on this ground. 

 
B.    
Monetary
Sanctions
 
Defendants seek monetary sanctions against Larson in
the amount of $2,397.50.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450,
subdivision (g), “If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall
impose monetary sanction ... in favor of the party who noticed the deponent and
against deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
 
As the Court has denied the Motion, it finds that the
monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision
(g) are inapplicable. 
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendants’ request for
monetary sanctions.
 
Additionally, in their Oppositions, Plaintiffs and
Larson request monetary sanctions against Defendants, under the authority of
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a), for alleged misuse
of discovery.
 
However, while Defendants are unsuccessful in making
their instant Motion, the Court does not find that Defendants bring the Motion without
substantial justification to constitute misuse of discovery. 
 
Therefore, the Court, in its discretion, DENIES the
requests for monetary sanctions by Plaintiffs and Larson.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendants’
Motion to Compel Larry Larson to Appear for Deposition and to Produce Documents
is DENIED.
 
Defendants’
request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs’
request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.
 
Non-party
Larry Larson’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.
 
Moving
party to give notice.