

 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged dental malpractice. On August
29, 2023, Plaintiff Reah Sybirski (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint for Dental
Medical Malpractice against Defendant Vladimir Polyakov. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Vladimir
Polyakov, D.D.S., and Vladamir Polyakov, D.D.S., Inc. (collectively,
“Defendants”) for Dental Malpractice, Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, and Intentional Misrepresentation. 
 
On May
14, 2024, Defendants filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike the FAC. 
 
On May 7,
2024, the Court entered an order relating Reah Sybirski v. Nikou Zarabian,
LASC Case No. 23STLC05564, with this action being deemed the lead case.
(05/07/24 Minute Order.)
 
On May
20, 2024, this action was reassigned to the Honorable Latrice A.G. Byrdsong
sitting in Department 25 at Spring Street Courthouse. 
 
On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint to
Include Claim for Punitive Damages in Complaint and to Reclassify Under
Unlimited Jurisdiction. On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amended motion of
the same. On June 11, 2024, Defendants opposed the motion. On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff
replied.
 
On June 3, 2024, this action was reassigned to the Honorable Karine
Mkrtchyan sitting in Department 25 at Spring Street Courthouse.
On June 20, 2024, Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint was Sustained, with 20-days leave to amend the Complaint.  On June 20, 2024, Defendants’ Motion to
Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint was Granted, with 20-days leave to
amend.  
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
indicates having recently discovered information that would support claims for
intentional torts and punitive damages. Plaintiff contends amendment will
facilitate resolution of all disputes between the parties and that Defendants
will suffer no prejudice if amendment is permitted, as these claims are already
plead in the First Amended Complaint and discovery has just begun. Plaintiff
contends to have discovered evidence showing Defendants’ conduct was highly
unusual and improper. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
opposition, Defendants contend that permitting amendment would only delay
formal resolution of this matter and would not further justice. Defendants
contend that if the Court is inclined to grant leave to amend, the Court should
condition such leave on precluding Plaintiff from reclassifying this case or
adding a prayer for punitive damages to compensate Defendants for any inconvenience.
Defendants contend Plaintiff’s new facts were due to unexcused delay, since
Plaintiff admits in the moving papers that she was aware of the documents
giving rise to these new facts when she filed the Complaint.
 
            Defendants
then contend that Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally deficient for failure to
file a proof of service, and for not including a copy of the proposed amended
complaint with the moving papers. Defendants contend Plaintiff’s motion does
not state which allegations are proposed to be added or where in the proposed
amended pleading they are to be located, and in fact no new additional
allegations are included. Defendants also note that Plaintiff did not attach
the report of Dr. Reznick to her declaration, which inhibits Defendants’
ability to determine whether the evidence is proper. Defendants contend the
Court must treat Plaintiff the same as if she were represented by an attorney.
Defendants further contend that Plaintiff’s declaration fails to satisfy the
requirements of Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), of the California Rules of Court,
such as not indicating why the proposed amendment is necessary or proper or
when the facts giving rise to the proposed new allegation were discovered, but
then inconsistently claims she was aware of the report from Dr. Reznick before
she filed the Complaint.
 
Defendants
contend Plaintiff’s motion fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section
425.13 and fails to show a substantial probability of prevailing on her
punitive damages claim. Defendants also contend Plaintiff failed to provide
expert evidence to support her negligence claim or any other claim.
 
REPLY
 
            On
reply, Plaintiff contends she filed a proof of service with the Amended Motion
on May 29, 2024, as it was inadvertently omitted from the original motion filed
on May 28, 2024. Plaintiff then contends the FAC is attached to the motion and
that no additions or deletions are requested to the FAC. Plaintiff contends the
purpose of this motion was only meant to satisfy the procedural requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure 425.13, and that the FAC otherwise already sufficiently
pleads a basis for punitive damages. Plaintiff also contends the proposed FAC
is based on information and evidence that supports claims for intentional
misrepresentation and intentional infliction of emotional distress against
Defendants. Plaintiff further contends the motion satisfies the requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13 and that her declaration details when
she discovered that amendment was necessary. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Discussion

A.               
Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint to Include
Claim for Punitive Damages 
            The trial court has discretion to allow
amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) “Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial,
in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow
the amendment of any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “There is a policy of
great liberality in permitting amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the
proceeding.” Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945, citation
omitted. “An application to amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s
sound discretion.” Ibid., citation omitted. “In any action
for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care
provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint
or other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading
that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed. The court may allow the
filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the
party seeking the amended pleading and on the basis of the supporting and
opposing affidavits presented that the plaintiff has established that there is
a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant
to Section 3294 of the Civil Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13, subd. (a).)
A
party seeking leave to amend must attach a copy of the proposed pleading to the
motion for leave to amend. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1).) A
motion for leave to amend must also state what allegations are proposed to be
added or deleted to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number the additional or deleted allegations or located.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(2)-(3).) Under Rule 3.1324,
subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate declaration must
accompany a motion for leave to amend and must specify: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subd. (b).) 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s motion does not
comply with Rule 3.1324 of the California Rules of Court. Defendants correctly
note that there is no proposed amended complaint attached to the motion or
served with the motion. In fact, Plaintiff admits that there are no new
allegations to be added and contends the FAC is otherwise sufficient as is.
(See Reply, 4:7-15.) Furthermore, on June 20, 2024, the Court sustained
Defendants’ First Amended Complaint to the second cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress and third causes of action for intentional
misrepresentation with 20 days leave to amend. 
Thus, there is no operative pleading before the Court.  
 
While the Court understands Plaintiff intended to
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13 to add punitive damage
allegations by first seeking permission from the Court to do so, the proposed
amended pleading still needs to formally demand punitive damages. “(a) A complaint or cross-complaint
shall contain both of the following:… (2) A demand for judgment for the relief
to which the pleader claims to be entitled. If the recovery of money or damages
is demanded, the amount demanded shall be stated.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.10,
subd. (a).) The proposed amended pleading must also specify the location of
those allegations in the proposed amended pleading. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subd. (a)(2)-(a)(3). 
 
Thus, the Court finds that the Amended Motion
is deficient. Furthermore, the subject motion is moot in light of the Court’s
June 20, 2024 ruling.  The Court
acknowledges that Plaintiff is representing herself in pro per; however,
pro per litigants “are held to the same standards as attorneys.” Kobayashi
v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 536, 543. 
Plaintiff’s request for leave
to amend is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 

B.        Motion
to Reclassify
“(a) The plaintiff,
cross-complainant, or petitioner may file a motion for reclassification within
the time allowed for that party to amend the initial pleading. The
defendant or cross-defendant may file a motion for reclassification within the
time allowed for that party to respond to the initial pleading. The court, on
its own motion, may reclassify a case at any time. A motion for
reclassification does not extend the moving party's time to amend or answer or otherwise respond. The
court shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification,
regardless of any fault or lack of fault, if the case has been
classified in an incorrect jurisdictional classification.
 
(b) If a party
files a motion for reclassification after the time for that party to amend that party's initial pleading or to respond
to a complaint, cross-complaint, or other initial pleading, the court shall
grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification only if both of the
following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The case is
incorrectly classified.
(2) The moving
party shows good cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
            The Court finds that the Amended Motion contains no arguments in
support of reclassification of this action from limited civil to unlimited
civil. “Contentions are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned
argument and citations to authority. [Citation.]” (Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) The Court will not
speculate as to the reasons Plaintiff moved for reclassification. Additionally,
in light of the Court’s June 20, 2024 order, there is no operative pleading
before the Court. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the
Motion to Reclassify without prejudice.  
 
 
II.        Conclusion 
 
            In sum, Plaintiff’s Amended Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint to
Include Claim for Punitive Damages in Complaint and to Reclassify Under
Unlimited Jurisdiction is
DENIED.   