

 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff Platte River Insurance Company
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Gary Zathraeus, Karen
Zathraeus, Nagla Orlando (“Orlando”), RCH Construction (“RCH”), and Does 1
through 20, inclusive (collectively, the “Defendants”) alleging a single cause
of actin for Interpleader. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following: on or about July 2,
2021, Plaintiff executed and delivered State of California, Contractor’s State
License Board surety bond numbered PR2725532 (the “Bond”) in the penalty amount
of $15,000 on behalf of Defendant RCH, as principal. (Complaint, ¶ 9; Ex. 1.)
The effective date of the Bond is July 2, 2021. (Complaint, ¶ 9.) Multiple
claims against Plaintiff relating to the Bond have been made or may be made, by
two or more persons or entities which are such that they may give rise to
multiple liability or liability exceeding the bond penalty. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) 
 
Plaintiff is informed and believes, as Bond claimants
allege, that Bond claimants at the time of filing of the interpleader complaint
were homeowners. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) By bringing the Complaint, Plaintiff seeks
to compel all claimants to the Bond to interplead and litigate their several
claims. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff denies liability in whole or in part to
any or all of the claimants and admits to no amount payable to any claimant.
(Complaint, ¶ 12.) Defendants Gary and Karen Zathraeus have made a claim to
Plaintiff against the Bond as has Defendant Orlando. (Complaint, ¶¶ 13-14.) The
claims relate to damages caused by Defendant RCH in performing construction
work on the homes of Defendants Karen and Gary Zathraeus, as well as Defendant
Orlando. (Complaint, ¶¶ 13-14.) 
 
On June
8, 2023, pursuant to a Request for Dismissal filed by Plaintiff, Defendants
Gary and Karen Zathraeus were dismissed from this action without prejudice.   
 
On September
29, 2023, Defendant Orlando filed an Answer to the Complaint setting forth a
general denial as well as affirmative defenses. 
 
On
November 8, 2023, Defendant RCH filed an Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant
Motion to Deposit Bond Amount, Cancel and Exonerate Bond, Discharge Liability,
for Attorney Fees and Costs, and to be Dismissed. Pursuant to the motion,
Plaintiff seeks an order “(1) awarding [Plaintiff] attorney fees of $5,392.00
and $775.05 for costs under section 386.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure; (2)
authorizing [Plaintiff] to deposit with the clerk of the court the applicable amount
of the $15,000 contractor’s disciplinary bond number PR2725532 . . . it issued
on behalf of [Defendant] RCH . . . net of awarded fees and costs, with
requested $6,167.05 for fees and costs resulting in a net deposit of $8,832.95;
(3) cancelling and exonerating the Bond in the full amount of $15,000; (4)
releasing and discharging [Plaintiff] from liability to all persons for all
breaches of the Bond including costs and attorney fees that may be awarded as
costs; and (5) dismissing [Plaintiff] with prejudice upon [Plaintiff’s] deposit
of $8,832.95 with the clerk of this court.” (Not. of Mot. at p. 1:27-2:9.) 
 
On June
11, 2024, Defendant Orlando filed an opposition to the motion only as to the
issue of attorneys’ fees. On June 24, 2024, Defendant RCH filed an opposition
to the motion.
 
On July
2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff argues
that the bond is a statutory bond; requests an order authorizing it to deposit
the applicable bond amount; requests costs and attorneys’ fees; requests that
the bond be canceled and exonerated on deposit; and requests that its liability
to be discharged upon deposit.   
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
opposition to the motion, Defendant Orlando contends that the Court should
decrease Plaintiff’s requested attorneys’ fees by six hours at a minimum.
 
            In its
opposition to the motion, Defendant RCH raises the following arguments: (1) the
exoneration of the Bond is premature and should remain in full force and effect;
(2) there is only one claim on the Bond and therefore CCP § 386(b) is
inapposite; and (3) an award of attorney’s fees is premature.     
 
 
 
REPLY
 
            On
reply, Plaintiff argues that the Bond’s purpose is satisfied by deposit; CCP §
386(b) applies to interpleader actions; and Plaintiff’s request for fees is
reasonable and entirely for pursuit of its stakeholder’s remedy. Additionally,
Plaintiff asserts that neither Defendants RCH nor Orlando argue that Plaintiff
cannot deposit the penal sum of the Bond with the Court and that neither party
contests the dismissal with prejudice of Plaintiff from this action. Lastly,
Plaintiff contends that neither party contests that Plaintiff is entitled to
attorney’s fees and costs, with Defendant Orlando contesting only the amount
and Defendant RCH contesting only the timing. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Depositing Bond Amount,
Cancelling and Exonerating the Bond, Discharging Liability, Attorneys’ Fees and
Costs, and Dismissing Plaintiff     
A.               
Legal Standard/Applicable Law 
“In interpreting
the terms of a contract of suretyship, the same rules are to be observed as in
the case of other contracts.” (Civ. Code § 2837.) “A surety or guarantor is one
who promises to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage of another, or
hypothecates property as security therefor.” (Civ. Code § 2787.) 

According to Civ. Code §
7071.5, a contractor’s bond is of the benefit of the following:
(a) A
homeowner contracting for home improvement upon the homeowner’s personal family
residence damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter by the licensee.
(b) A property
owner contracting for the construction of a single-family dwelling who is
damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter by the licensee. That
property owner shall only recover under this subdivision if the single-family
dwelling is not intended for sale or offered for sale at the time the damages
were incurred. 
(c) A person
damaged as a result of a willful and deliberate violation of this chapter by
the licensee, or by the fraud of the licensee in the execution or performance
of a construction contract.
(Civ. Code, § 7071.5, subds.
(a)-(c).)   
“A bond given as a condition of
a license or permit shall be continuous in form, remain in full force and
effect, and run concurrently with the license or permit period and any and all
renewals, or until cancellation or withdrawal of the surety from the bond.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 995.440.) 
Under CCP § 995.430, a bond
remains in force and effect until the earliest of the following events:
(a) The
sureties withdraw from or cancel the bond or a new bond is given in place of
the original bond.
(b) The
purpose for which the bond was given is satisfied or the purpose is abandoned
without any liability having been incurred. 
(c) a judgment of liability on
the bond that exhausts the amount of the bond is satisfied. 
(d) The term
of the bond expires. Unless the statute providing for the bond prescribes a
fixed term, the bond is continuous. 
(Code Civ.
Proc. § 995.430, subds. (a)-d).) 
“[W]henever
conflicting claims are or may be made upon a person for or relating to personal
property, or the performance of an obligation, or any portion thereof, such
person may bring an action against the conflicting claimants to compel them to
interplead and litigate their several claims. The order of substitution may be
made and the action of interpleader may be maintained, and the applicant or
interpleading party discharged from liability to all or any of the conflicting
claimants, although their titles or claims have not a common origin, or are not
identical but are adverse to and independent of one another.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 386, subd. (a).) 
“Any person, firm,
corporation, association or other entity against whom double or multiple claims
are made, or may be made, by two or more persons which are such that they may
give rise to double or multiple liability, may bring an action against the
claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b).) “The applicant or interpleading party may
deny liability in whole or in part to any or all of the claimants.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 386, subd. (b).) “The applicant or interpleading party may join as a
defendant in such action any other party against whom claims are made by one or
more of the claimants or such other party may interplead by cross-complaint;
provided, however, that such claims arise out of the same transaction or
occurrence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b).) 
“A party to an
action who follows the procedure set forth in Section 386 . . . may insert in
his motion, petition, complaint, or cross complaint a request for allowance of
his costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action. In ordering the
discharge of such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party his
costs and reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been
deposited with the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.6, subd. (a).)  
B.        Discussion
  

            Plaintiff argues that
it is a mere stakeholder in this dispute with no interest in the sum in
dispute. (Memorandum of Points and Authorities at p. 3:10-11.) Plaintiff “moves
to deposit the $15,000 bond amount, net of allowed attorney fees and costs; to
cancel and exonerate the Bond; for [Plaintiff’s] liability to be discharged;
and for it to be dismissed without prejudice upon deposit.” (Memorandum of
Points and Authorities at p. 3:11-14.) 
 
 
 
1.         Evidence
in Support of the Motion

            In support of the motion, Stacie L. Brandt (“Brandt”) declares the
following: on January 22, 2024, she sent an e-mail to counsel for Defendants
Orlando and RCH notifying them that Plaintiff intended to deposit $15,000.00,
net of fees and costs, with the court, and asking if they were amendable to
stipulating to reduce the fees and costs of deposit. (Brandt Decl., ¶ 2.) Receiving
no response from either attorney, on May 4, 2024, counsel wrote to them again
offering the option of stipulating to deposit. (Brandt Decl., ¶ 2.) On May 10,
2024, she received a response from Defendant Orlando’s counsel that they would
stipulate, but by then the instant motion was mostly drafted, as she responded
on May 14, 2024. (Brandt Decl., ¶ 2.) 
            Plaintiff
incurred attorneys’ fees of 11 hours at $245.00 for associates and $295.00 for
partner and $703.40 in costs prior to the filing of the motion which consisted
of filing the interpleader, serving the Defendants, and following up with
Defendants about resolution and depositing the bond amount. (Brandt Decl., ¶ 3;
Ex. 2.) Attorneys’ fees of 8.6 hours were incurred to prepare the instant
motion and accompanying declarations. (Brandt Decl., ¶ 3.) In sum, Plaintiff
requests total attorneys’ fees and costs of $5,932.00. (Brandt Decl., ¶ 3.)
Brandt sets forth her hourly rate of $295.00 and the hourly rate of Brandon T.
Molloy of $245.00 per hour, and the time spent by counsel in this action.
(Brandt Decl., ¶ 3.) 
            Juston
Hinton (“Hinton”) also presents a declaration in support of the motion. Mr.
Hinton declares that Plaintiff issued the Bond. (Hinton Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. 1.)
Defendant Orlando claims $15,000.00 from the Bond, which Defendant RCH
disputes. (Hinton Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff is a mere stakeholder with no interest
in the amounts claimed or in any portion thereof. (Hinton Decl., ¶ 4.) 
2.         Depositing the Bond 
            The
parties do not dispute that Plaintiff can deposit the Bond amount with the
Court. The Court, however, finds that Plaintiff’s reliance on CCP § 386(b) is
inapposite. Also, CCP § 386(c) provides that “[a]ny amount which a plaintiff .
. . admits to be payable may be deposited by him with the clerk of the court at
the time of the filing of the complaint . . . in interpleader without first
obtaining an order of the court therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (c).)

            Thus, the Court finds
that Plaintiff can deposit the Bond amount with the Court. 
3.         Cancelling and
Exonerating the Bond and Other Relief 
            While
the Court has found that Plaintiff can deposit the Bond, the Court does not
find merit in Plaintiff’s argument that the Bond should be cancelled and
exonerated upon deposit because the purpose for which the Bond was given has
not been satisfied. 
            First,
the Court notes that Plaintiff did not provide any admissible evidence that the
purpose for the Bond has been satisfied. Moreover, Defendant Orlando denied any
damage as did Defendant RCH in their respective Answers to the Complaint. Thus,
there remains a dispute as to whether the purpose for which the Bond was given
has been satisfied. Plaintiff has not withdrawn or canceled the Bond, the Bond
term has not expired, and there has been no judgment of liability on the Bond.
Thus, none of the conditions set forth in CCP § 995.430 have been met to cancel
and exonerate the Bond. 
The Court also finds that Plaintiff’s
citation to Karton v. Ari Design & Construction, Inc. (2021)
61 Cal.App.5th 734 is inapposite as such case concerned a motion for attorneys’
fees. 
Additionally, the Court notes
that in the Complaint, Plaintiff moves for cancellation and exoneration of the
Bond pursuant to CCP § 995.430(c). (Complaint, ¶ 18.) Such section of the Code
of Civil Procedure states that a bond will remain in force and in effect until
“[a] judgment of liability on the bond that exhausts the amount of the bond is
satisfied.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 995.430, sudb. (c).) Here, however, there has
been no judgment of liability on the Bond.
The Court therefore DENIES
WITHOUT PREJUDICE Plaintiff’s request to cancel and exonerate the Bond. As
such, the Court finds it inappropriate to dismiss Plaintiff from this action at
this time and DENIES such request WITHOUT PREJUDICE due to the fact that
Plaintiff has not made a showing to exonerate and cancel the Bond. 
Thus, Plaintiff’s request for
discharging of liability is inappropriate at this time as is Plaintiff’s
request for attorneys’ fees and costs and such requests are therefore DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  
Accordingly, given that Plaintiff has not
made the requisite showing for all of its requested relief, the motion is GRANTED
IN PART. 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
request to deposit the Bond amount with the Court.
The Court DENIES WITHOUT
PREJUDICE Plaintiff’s requests to cancel and exonerate the Bond, to be released
and discharged from all liability, for attorneys’ fees and costs, and to be
dismissed from this action with prejudice. 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion
to Deposit Bond Amount, Cancel and Exonerate Bond, Discharge Liability, for
Attorney Fees and Costs, and to be Dismissed is GRANTED IN PART.
 
            The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to deposit the Bond amount with the Court.
 
The Court
DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Plaintiff’s requests to cancel and exonerate the Bond,
to be released and discharged from all liability, for attorneys’ fees and
costs, and to be dismissed from this action with prejudice. 

 
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 