  Case Number:  21CHCV00215    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
01-02-25
Case
# 21CHCV00215, Canning, et al. v. Kerwin
Trial
Date: None set.
 
MOTION TO DISMISS CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTIES: Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Ryan Canning and Patricia Bogarin
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shawn Kerwin
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Dismiss
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shawn Kerwin’s Cross Complaint.
 
RULING: Motion is denied,
without prejudice.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
March 19, 2021, Plaintiffs Ryan Canning and Patricia Bogarin (Plaintiffs), in
pro per, filed a complaint for conversion, breach of written agreement, breach
of oral partnership agreement, breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment,
abuse of process, and breach of oral rental agreement.  On April 23 and 26, 2021, Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Shawn Kerwin (Defendant), in pro per, filed a cross-complaint
for assault and battery, defamation of character, corporate defamation, abuse
of personal credit, embezzlement and misuse of business funds negligence
leading to theft of all personal property, fraud, profiteering and investment
fraud, then answered the complaint.
 
In
November 2023, Defendant filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in the Eastern District
of California.  This Court stayed this
action.  On February 26, 2024, Defendant’s
debts were discharged.  (Declaration of
George Schwartz, Esq., ¶ 3, Exh. A – Order of Discharge dated 2/26/24.)  On May 22, 2024, the Court found that
Defendant’s bankruptcy had been discharged, and the stay on this case was
lifted.  Plaintiffs’ complaint was
discharged as a debt.
 
On
May 6, 2024, Defendant filed a status report indicating his wishes to proceed
on his cross-complaint against Plaintiffs.
 
On
July 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to dismiss Defendant’s cross-complaint
for failure to prosecute.  Plaintiffs
argued the cross-complaint should be dismissed because Defendant filed for
bankruptcy in the Eastern District of California, and this action was stayed as
result.  Plaintiffs provided no authority
to support dismissing on these grounds, and the Court denied the motion without
prejudice.
 
On
July 10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an amended motion to dismiss the
cross-complaint with supporting legal authority and evidence.  Plaintiffs cited several cases indicating
that the cross-complaint should be dismissed because the bankruptcy trustee had
taken control of the case, but none of the cited cases are binding upon this
Court.  The Court ordered Plaintiffs to
address the issues of preemption and standing by the bankruptcy court in a
written noticed motion.  
 
On
October 24, 2024, Plaintiff Ryan Canning filed a case management statement stating
Plaintiffs’ intent to dismiss this case based on the bankruptcy trustee’s
decision to not pursue Defendant’s cross-complaint.  
 
On
October 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this second amended motion to dismiss
reiterating the same arguments as the July 10 motion.  
 
No
opposition has been filed.
 
SUMMARY
OF ARGUMENTS
Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant no longer has standing to pursue his cross-complaint, and
only the bankruptcy trustee has standing to pursue the cross-complaint.  Defendant listed the cross-complaint as a
bankruptcy asset in his bankruptcy petition meaning the bankruptcy trustee now
has control of Defendant’s cross-complaint. 
The trustee declined to prosecute the cross-complaint.  Pursuing the cross-complaint causes Plaintiffs
extreme inconvenience and hardship.  The
Court notes that Plaintiffs have not supported their motion with any binding California
or Ninth Circuit authority.
 
No
opposition has been filed. 
 
Although
Plaintiffs’ argument hinges on the bankruptcy trustee having standing to pursue
the cross-complaint, Plaintiffs did not serve this motion to dismiss on the
trustee.  (10/29/2024 - Proof of
Service.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard  
“The court may dismiss without prejudice the
complaint in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made under the
applicable provisions of Chapter 1.5 (commencing with Section 583.110).”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (g)
 
Plaintiffs do not cite a specific statutory basis in
the California Civil Code to support this motion.  Accordingly, the Court only looks to federal
law.
            
            Chapter 7 bankruptcy and
bankruptcy estates
Plaintiffs argue the Chapter 7 trustee in Defendant’s
bankruptcy case has the sole authority to administer the property in
Defendant’s bankruptcy estate but has refused to pursue Defendant’s
pre-bankruptcy claims in the cross-complaint. 
 
“The commencement of Chapter 7 bankruptcy
extinguishes a debtor’s legal rights and interests in any pending litigation,
and transfers those rights to the trustee, acting on behalf of the bankruptcy
estate.”  (M & M Foods, Inc.
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 554, 562.)  The
trustee is “the representative of the bankruptcy estate, is the real party in
interest, and is the only party with standing to prosecute causes of action
belonging to the estate once the bankruptcy petition has been filed.”  (Ibid. [quoting Kane v. Nat’l Union
Fire Ins. Co., 535 F.3d 380, 385 (5th Cir.2008) (per curiam)]
[internal quotation marks omitted].)  “Property
of the estate” includes “all legal or equitable interests of the debtor in
property as of the commencement of the case” including prepetition causes of
action.  (11 U.S.C. § 541(a)(1); M
& M Foods, Inc., supra, 196 Cal.App.4th at p. 562.)  
 
A Chapter 7 debtor may not prosecute his or her own
cause of action belonging to the bankruptcy estate unless the trustee abandons
the claim.  (Bostanian v. Liberty
Savings Bank (1996) 52 Cal.App.4th 1075, 1081.)  Bankruptcy estate property can be abandoned
by three methods: (1) after notice and hearing, the trustee may unilaterally
abandon property that is “burdensome” or “of inconsequential value” (11 U.S.C.
§ 554(a)); (2) after notice and hearing, the court may order the trustee to
abandon such property (11 U.S.C. § 554(b)); or (3) “any property which
has been scheduled, but which has not been administered by the trustee at
the time of closing of a case, is abandoned by operation of law (11 U.S.C. §
554(c)).”  (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman
Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 1003.) 
Scheduled property is that which the Chapter 7 debtor lists on the schedule
of assets and liabilities.  (See 11
U.S.C. § 521(a)(1)(B)(i).)  
 
The Court focuses on the third abandonment method
because Defendant listed his cross-complaint on his schedule of assets and
liabilities.  (Schwartz Dec., Exh. B -
Schedule A/B: Property, at p. 2.)  
 
The Court now addresses whether the case is closed. 
 
The bankruptcy
case is still open, and only the trustee has standing to pursue the
cross-complaint.
A
Chapter 7 order of discharge does not close or dismiss a bankruptcy case.  (In re Steiner (E.D. Cal. 1983) 55
B.R. 1, 1.)  The case closes once the
bankruptcy estate is fully administered and the bankruptcy court discharges the
trustee.  (11 U.S.C. § 350(a).)
 
Neither
party presents evidence showing a final decree or order from the Eastern
District Bankruptcy Court stating the bankruptcy case has closed.
 
Accordingly,
the bankruptcy case remains open, and only the trustee has standing to pursue
Defendant’s cross-complaint.
 
The evidence does
not support a finding that the trustee has abandoned the cross-complaint.
A
trustee who wishes to abandon property during the life of the bankruptcy case must
do so “overtly.”  (See Martin v.
Gladstone (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 681, 691 [citing In re Wilton Armetale,
Inc. (3d Cir. 2020) 968 F.3d 273, 284].) 
“[W]hen the evidence of abandonment is clear, any abandoned causes of
action revert to their prior owner.”  (Ibid.)  The trustee overtly abandons property through
written notice to creditors of the trustee’s intention to abandon
property.  (11 U.S.C. § 554(a).) 
 
Plaintiffs
believe that only the trustee has standing to pursue the cross-complaint based
on their belief that the trustee has not pursued the cross-complaint.  (Schwartz Dec., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiffs do not present evidence of the
trustee’s overt or express refusal to pursue the cross-complaint.  Therefore, the evidence does not show that
the trustee has not abandoned or refused to pursue the cross-complaint.
 
Accordingly,
the cross-complaint has not been abandoned. 

 
            Plaintiffs do not present
sufficient evidence to show hardship and inconvenience.
Plaintiffs
argue that allowing the cross-complaint to remain causes Plaintiffs extreme
inconvenience and hardship.  Plaintiffs
assert Defendant’s claims will not be prosecuted or brought to trial and that
they are incurring unnecessary appearances, costs and attorney fees because
Defendant’s cross-complaint is pending.  
 
Plaintiffs
do not present legal support for this argument or evidence of the increased
costs and burden. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs waive this argument.
 
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’ motion to dismiss Defendant’s
cross-complaint is denied, without prejudice.
 
Plaintiffs to give notice.