  Case Number:  20STCV33804    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  29 
Defendants’ Motions to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoenas
 
Tentative
 
The
Court will hear from counsel regarding whether there is proof of personal
service of the motion and supporting papers on the nonparty deponents.
 
Background
 
On September 3, 2020, Plaintiff Charles
Volpe (“Plaintiff’) filed this action asserting one cause of action for
negligence against Defendants James Pierre, Shana Pierre, and Courtney Pierre
(collectively, “Defendants”), arising out of a motor vehicle accident that
occurred on September 13, 2018. Defendants filed answers on March 24 and
September 1, 2022 and January 18, 2023.
 
On or about October 10, 2023, Defendants issued
nonparty deposition subpoenas to (1) Hawthorne Surgery Center and (2)
California Sport and Spine. (Mendoza Decls., ¶ 4 & Exhs. B.) The deponents
were personally served with the subpoenas. (Id., Exhs. C.) Each of the
nonparties communicated with Defendants’ counsel, but neither nonparty appeared
for deposition or complied with the subpoena. (Id., ¶¶ 7-11 & Exhs D-F.)

 
On February 13, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motions to compel
compliance with the deposition subpoenas. Defendants also seek sanctions. No
opposition has been filed.
 
There is no proof of service on file showing
personal service of the motions to compel on the nonparty deponents. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery … by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) The process by which a
party may obtain discovery from a person who is not a party to the action is
through a deposition subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (b).) Personal
service of the deposition subpoena on the nonparty is required. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b).)
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the
following: (a) Only the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only
the production of business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the
testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.020.)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has
been served fails to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness,
the court may impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section
2020.240 [contempt and an action for civil damages under section 1992].” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or
to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60
days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd.
(b).)
“If the court determines that the answer or production sought is
subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production
be made on the resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd.
(i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act,
section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process”
to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.” Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Except
as specifically modified by the Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of
Civil Procedure sections 1985 through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)¿ 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), states, in relevant part, that
in connection with an order directing compliance with a subpoena, quashing it,
or modifying it, “the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification.”¿ 
A motion to compel a nonparty to answer
questions or produce documents “must be personally served on the nonparty
deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or
electronic service.” (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1346.)
Discussion
 
Defendants
move for orders under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), to
compel compliance with the subpoenas served on nonparties California Sport and
Spine and Hawthorne Surgery Center. 
 
Defendants have shown that the nonparties were properly served with the
deposition subpoenas and did not comply with them. (Mendoza Decls. ¶¶ 4-11 &
Exhs. B-F.) 
 
Defendants have not, however, filed a proof of service showing personal
service of the motions and supporting papers on the nonparties. This is
required. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1346.) A “caused to be served” declaration is
not proof of personal service.
 
Accordingly, absent proof of service, the Court must deny the motions.
 
If proof of service is shown, the Court is prepared to grant the motions
in part.
 
The Court is prepared to grant the motion to compel the attendance and
testimony of the nonparty deponent. All substantive requirements, and all procedural
requirements (other than proof of personal service of the motion on the
deponent), are satisfied.
 
The Court is prepared to grant the motion to compel production of documents
in part. 
 
Good cause has been shown for the documents described in Request Nos. 1,
2, 8, 9, 19, and 20. 
 
Categories 3, 4, 6, and 7 are narrowed; production is ordered only as to
communications, agreements, and other documents relating to the treatment of
Plaintiff. As narrowed, good cause is shown. 
 
The request to compel production of documents in Categories 5, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22, and 23 is denied; good cause not shown. 
 
The request to compel production of documents in Category 24 is denied as
it is incomprehensible, at least as framed as a document request. 
 
The requests for
sanctions are denied. Sanctions are requested under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.2, which grants the Court discretion to award sanctions “if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).) Here, neither the nonparty
deponents nor anyone else opposed the motions, and so the Court cannot find
that any such opposition was made in bad faith or without substantial
justification.
 
Conclusion
 
The
Court will hear from counsel regarding whether there is proof of personal
service of the motion and supporting papers on the nonparty deponents.
 
The requests for sanctions are denied.
 
Defendants to give notice.