 Case Number:  21STCV21454    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendants’ Motions to Continue Trial   TENTATIVE   The motions to continue  trial are granted in part.   BACKGROUND  This case arises out of an automobile accident on August 26, 2019,  near the intersection of Babcock Avenue and Kittridge Street in Los Angeles. On June 8, 2021, Plaintiff Dominique Johnston (“Plaintiff”) filed  her complaint against John Fitzgerald Gomillion (“Gomillion”), Uber  Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), and Does 1 through 20 asserting causes of action  for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence.  Uber and  Gomillion filed their answers on January 3 and January 11, 2022. On filing, the case was assigned a trial date of December 6,  2022.   In November 2022, based on a stipulation of the parties, the Court  continued the trial date to April 10, 2023.   In February 2023, based on a second stipulation of the parties, the  Court continued the trial date to January 2, 2024.  In October 2023, on Uber’s motion, based  largely on Uber’s argument that Plaintiff had only recently alleged new  injuries and new treatment, the Court continued the trial date to April 9,  2024. On February 13, 2024, Gomillion moved to continue trial based on a  substitution of counsel in January 2024.   Uber joined that motion.  The  Court, on Gomillion’s ex parte application, advanced the hearing on the motion to  February 28.  On February 28, the Court  denied the motion. Two days later, on March 1, 2024, Uber filed a new motion to  continue trial.  Three days later, Gomillion  filed a new motion to continue trial, and on that same day both Uber and  Gomillion filed ex parte applications to continue trial or advance the hearings  on their motions.  The Court advanced  both hearings to March 19. On March 8, Gomillion filed a notice of joinder in Uber’s  motion.  On March 11, Plaintiff filed a  combined opposition to both motions.  On  March 14, Uber and Gomillion each filed a reply (and Gomillion joined in Uber’s  reply). LEGAL  STANDARD    Code of Civil Procedure section 128,  subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control  its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The  power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the  discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44  Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of  calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park  Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)   “[T]he dates assigned for a trial are  firm.  All parties and their counsel must  regard the date set for trial as certain.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).)   “Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a  continuance must be considered on its own merits.”  (Id., rule 3.1332(c).)   “The court may grant a continuance only on an  affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances that  may indicate good cause include:   “(1) The unavailability of an essential lay  or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;   (2) The unavailability of a party because of  death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (3) The unavailability of trial counsel  because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (4) The substitution of trial counsel, but  only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in  the interests of justice;   (5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The  new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to  conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's  involvement in the case;   (6) A party's excused inability to obtain  essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent  efforts; or   (7) A significant, unanticipated change in  the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for  trial.”     (Cal. Rules of  Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)     Subdivision(d)  of the same rule sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed  when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court  considers factors such as:     “(1) The proximity of the trial date;   (2) Whether there was any previous  continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;   (3) The length of the continuance  requested;   (4) The availability of alternative means to  address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a  continuance;   (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses  will suffer as a result of the continuance;  (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential  trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a  continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  (7) The court's calendar and the impact of  granting a continuance on other pending trials;  (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in  another trial;   (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a  continuance;   (10) Whether the interests of justice are  best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing  conditions on the continuance; and   (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant  to the fair determination of the motion or application.”     (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).)   DISCUSSION   There are two  motions to continue trial currently before the Court.  For ease of reference, the Court begins with  Gomillion’s.   Gomillion previously  moved to continue trial based on a recent substitution of counsel.  The Court denied that motion on February 28,  2024.  Gomillion’s new motion, filed on  March 4, is largely a rehash of these same arguments, supported by a  declaration from counsel that is based primarily on statements made “on  information and belief.”  (See Vahdat  Decl., ¶¶ 5, 7, 8, 13.)  Those statements  are inadmissible hearsay.  A voluntary substitution  of counsel shortly before trial is not good cause for a trial continuance, and  Gomillion has still not shown that the substitution of counsel was anything  other than voluntary.   Gomillion also makes  certain arguments that echo Uber’s, and Gomillion joins Uber’s motion, to which  the Court now turns.   Uber’s arguments  for a trial continuance are primarily based on its contention that there has  been an excused inability to obtain essential testimony, including testimony  from treaters, experts, and a second deposition of Plaintiff.  (Brick Decl., ¶¶ 12-15, 24-28, 32-34.)  (Uber also argues about the inability to  obtain a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff, but Uber’s motion for  such an examination was heard and denied on March 15.)  Plaintiff argues that Uber should have sought  this discovery earlier in the case, but much of it relates to Plaintiff’s somewhat recent  allegations of new injuries and new treatment, which could not have been  obtained at an earlier stage of the case.   Plaintiff also notes that there  have been three prior continuances, and that the last continuance, granted in October  2023, was ordered specifically so that Uber and Gomillion would have additional  time to conduct discovery relating to Plaintiff’s new injuries and treatment.   After considering all of the  evidence and argument presented by each party, as well as each of the  circumstances and factors set forth in California Rules of Court, rule 1.332,  the Court rules as follows:   1.       The motions to continue are granted in part.  Trial is continued for approximately 30 days.   2.       The Final Status Conference and all expert discovery deadlines are  reset based on the new trial date.   3.       Fact discovery deadlines are not extended, but as to the pending  motion to compel a second deposition of Plaintiff (filed on February 27, 2024),  the Court will consider advancing that motion (either by stipulation or ex  parte application) and, if it is granted, allowing the deposition to proceed  before trial, notwithstanding the fact discovery deadline.   The ruling is based primarily  on the showing of Uber and Gomillion regarding the extensive amount of expert  discovery that must be completed in this matter (including, but not limited to,  34 non-retained experts identified by Plaintiff) and the limited time available  to complete this discovery under the Code.   CONCLUSION   The Court GRANTS  in part the motions to continue.  The Court CONTINUES trial for  approximately 30 days, to May 9, 2024.   The Court resets the Final Status Conference and all expert discovery  deadlines based on the new trial date.Final Status Conference is continued to 04/25/2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 29 at Spring 
Street Courthouse. Non-Jury Trial is continued to 05/09/2024 at 08:30 AM in Department 29 at 
Spring Street Courthouse.   The COURT does not extend  the deadlines for fact discovery, except as set forth in this ruling.   Counsel for  Uber is ordered to give notice.