  Case Number:  23CHCP00494    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47 Date: 2/1/24 Case #23CHCP00494   PETITION COMPEL  ARBITRATION  &  APPOINT A  NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR   Petition filed on 12/21/23.     MOVING PARTY: Petitioner Kevork Antablian RESPONDING PARTY: Respondent State Farm Mutual Automobile  Insurance Company NOTICE: ok   RELIEF REQUESTED: An order  compelling Respondent State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company to  arbitrate the dispute with Petitioner Kevork Antablian and appointing a neutral  arbitrator.      RULING: The petition is granted as set forth  below.     SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY   This action arises out of a motor vehicle collision that  occurred on 1/5/21 involving a vehicle (the Vehicle) driven by Petitioner  Kevork Antablian (Petitioner) and owned by Richard Patterson.  At the time of the incident, the Vehicle was  insured through Respondent State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company  (State Farm).  The case against the  driver of the other vehicle involved in the collision has settled for the  $15,000 policy limit.  Petitioner seeks  underinsured coverage from State Farm.   Petitioner has made a demand for the remainder of the underinsured  motorist policy of $250,000.   Petitioner’s counsel’s attempts to come to an agreement  with State Farm’s counsel for the appointment of an arbitrator have been  unsuccessful.  On 11/2/23, State Farm’s  counsel provided the names of four proposed arbitrators.  On 11/7/23, Petitioner’s counsel rejected  State Farm’s proposed arbitrators and proposed Lars Johnson, Esq., at Signature  Resolution, as arbitrator.  On 11/9/22,  Petitioner served a Demand for Arbitration on State Farm pursuant to the  insurance policy.  (Herron Decl., Ex.1,  2).  Despite follow-ups, Petitioner did not  receive a response from State Farm regarding his  proposed arbitrator.        The petition also notes that State Farm has failed to:  (1) fully respond to Petitioner’s discovery and (2) to withdraw or place on  hold subpoenas regarding Petitioner’s education and employment records.  Petitioner contends a case number is  necessary to file motions to compel and motions for protective orders.       On 12/21/23, Petitioner filed (served on 12/22/23) the  instant petition seeking an order compelling State Farm to arbitrate the  dispute with Petitioner and appointing a neutral arbitrator.  State Farm has opposed the petition and  Petitioner has filed a reply to the opposition.    ANALYSIS   Where there is an agreement to arbitrate and one party  refuses to do so, upon petition, the Court has the authority to compel  arbitration of the controversy.  See  CCP 1281.2.  Similarly, upon petition the  Court has the authority to appoint a neutral arbitrator.     State Farm agrees that a written agreement to arbitrate  exists and agrees to arbitrate.   Therefore, State Farm contends that there is nothing to be  compelled.  (See Opposition,  p.2:6-10).  However, State Farm provides  a list of four proposed arbitrators in case the Court is inclined to grant the  petition and appoint an arbitrator: (1) Jonathan  Brenner, (2) Honorable Judge Robert Moss, (3) Honorable Judge Andrew Kauffman  and (4) Honorable Judge James Crandall.   The Honorable Judge James Crandall was one of the names previously  proposed by State Farm and rejected by Petitioner.    In the reply, Petitioner notes that State Farm failed to  respond to his proposal of Lars Johnson, Esq. as a proposed arbitrator and  contends that State Farm caused Petitioner to unnecessarily expend time and  money filing and serving the instant petition.   In the reply, Petitioner proposes Lars Johnson,  Esq. and Christopher J. Day, Esq. as proposed arbitrators.   Without citing any authority, Petitioner requests that  the Court order State Farm and/or its counsel, Cullins & Grandy, LLP to  reimburse Petitioner’s counsel the filing fee of $454 plus an amount the Court  deems just and proper for the preparation of the petition and reply, filing and  hearing on the petition.     CCP 1281.6 provides, in relevant part,    “When a petition is made to the  court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court shall nominate five persons  from lists of persons supplied jointly by the parties to the arbitration or  obtained from a governmental agency concerned with arbitration or private  disinterested association concerned with arbitration. The parties to the  agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may  within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees from the court jointly  select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is among the nominees. If  the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the five-day period, the court  shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.”    CONCLUSION   There is no dispute that this matter is subject to  arbitration pursuant to a written agreement.   Based on the petition, opposition, reply and CCP 1281.6,  from the lists provided by Petitioner and State Farm, the Court nominates: (1)  Jonathan Brenner, (2) Honorable Judge Robert Moss, (3) Honorable Judge Andrew  Kauffman, (4) Lars Johnson, Esq. and (5) Christopher J. Day, Esq. as proposed  arbitrators.   If the parties do not jointly select an arbitrator within  five days of the hearing on this petition, they are to notify the courtroom and  the court will appoint an arbitrator from among the five nominees set forth  above.     Petitioner’s request for an award of fees and costs is  denied.   The Court notes that the exhibits attached to the  declaration of Tamiko Herron filed in support of the petition are not  electronically bookmarked as required.  See  CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  Counsel are warned  that failure to comply with this requirement in the future may result in  matters being continued so that papers can be submitted in compliance, papers  not being considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.    