 Case Number:  22STLC05413    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  52 Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant
Arch Insurance Company’s Motion for an Order to Deposit Bond Funds and Restrain
Prosecution of Actions
Cross-complainant/cross-defendant
Arch Insurance Company (Arch) moves for an order permitting it to deposit $25,000
in bond funds with the court (minus $10,651.72 in costs and attorney fees),
dismissing it from this action, and restraining actions against it.
Deposit
of Funds
Code
of Civil Procedure section 386(b) provides that when someone “against whom
double or multiple claims are made,” that party may “file a verified
cross-complaint in interpleader, admitting that it has no interest in the money
or property claimed …  and alleging that
all or such portion is demanded by parties to such action, and apply to the
court upon notice to such parties for an order to deliver such money or
property or such portion thereof to such person as the court shall direct.”  
Arch
shows grounds for an order permitting it to deposit $25,000 with the
court.  Its verified cross-complaint for
interpleader admits it has no interest in the money except any remaining funds
or attorney fees and costs under Code of Civil Procedure section 386.6.  (Cross-Comp., ¶ 19.)  Arch establishes that numerous parties have
made claims to its bond.  (Quinones
Decl., ¶¶ 5-15.)    
Dismissal
Code
of Civil Procedure section 386.5 provides, “Where the only relief sought
against one of the defendants is the payment of a stated amount of money
alleged to be wrongfully withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit that he
is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and
that conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to
the action, upon notice to such parties, apply to the court for an order
discharging him from liability and dismissing him from the action on his
depositing with the clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may,
in its discretion, make such order.”
Arch
shows good cause for such an order.  Lainey
Quinones, a senior claims examiner for Arch (Quinones Decl., ¶ 1), states, “Arch
is unable to determine which claimant had priority to the Bond funds.  Arch is a mere stakeholder with no interest in
the amount or any portion of the Bond.  Having
no other alternative, Arch filed the subject Cross-Complaint for Interpleader
solely based on its role as surety for Defendant Entron.”  (Id., ¶ 16.)  Upon depositing the funds, Arch will be
discharged from liability and dismissed from this action.
Restraining
Actions
Arch
moves to restrain the prosecution of the cross-complaint filed by Tywon White
in this action and the cross-complaint against Arch by Deocarlo Guirnela and
Dawn Guirnela in a separate action, Consolidated Electrical Distributors,
Inc. v. Deocarlo Guirnela, et al., case No. 22STLC05402.
            Code of Civil Procedure section
386(f) provides, “After any such complaint or cross-complaint in interpleader
has been filed, the court in which it is filed may enter its order restraining
all parties to the action from instituting or further prosecuting any other
proceeding in any court in this state affecting the rights and obligations as
between the parties to the interpleader until further order of the court.”  
            Arch establishes grounds for an
order restraining actions against it. 
The parties to be restrained are parties to this action.  Tywon White is a cross-defendant and
cross-complainant in this action. 
Deocarlo Guirnela and Dawn Guirnela are cross-defendants to Arch’s
cross-complaint.  Under section 386(f),
this court has power to restrain them from further prosecuting “any other
proceeding in any court in this state,” including their cross-complaint against
Arch in case No. 22STLC05402. 
Costs
and Attorney Fees
            Arch requests an award of $10,621.72,
including $935.72 in filing fees and $9,716 in attorney fees.  Code of Civil Procedure section 386.6(a)
provides, “A party to an action who follows the procedure set forth in Section
386 or 386.5 may insert in his motion, petition, complaint, or cross complaint
a request for allowance of his costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in
such action.  In ordering the discharge
of such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party his costs and
reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been deposited
with the court.”
            Arch’s cross-complaint (¶¶ 19 &
prayer, ¶ 5) and this motion request costs and reasonable attorney fees.  Arch presents sufficient evidence of these
expenses.  (Martinez-Genzon Decl., ¶¶
10-11, Ex. 2.)  The court exercises its
discretion to award Arch $10,621.72 in expenses.
Disposition
            Cross-complainant/cross-defendant
Arch Insurance Company’s motion for an order depositing bond funds and to
restrain prosecution of actions is granted.  
The
court hereby awards Arch Insurance Company $10,651.72 in attorney fees and
costs, to be deducted from the $25,000 penal sum of its bond.  
Arch
Insurance Company is ordered to deposit the balance of $14,348.28 with
the court within 20 days.  Upon deposit
of the funds, the bond shall be exonerated and Arch Insurance Company shall be
discharged from all liability under the bond and shall be dismissed from this
action with prejudice.  Upon deposit of
the bond funds, the Court will deposit the sum of $14,348.28 in an interest-bearing
account until a final determination is made as to how the bond funds will be distributed.
The
court hereby restrains the parties to this action from prosecution of
any further legal action against the bond. 
The court specifically restrains (1) cross-complainant Tywon White from
prosecuting his cross-complaint against Arch Insurance Company, and (2) cross-defendants
Deocarlo Guirnela and Dawn Guirnela from prosecuting their cross-complaint
against Arch Insurance Company in Consolidated Electrical Distributors, Inc.
v. Deocarlo Guirnela, et al., case No. 22STLC05402. 