 Case Number:  23CHCV00793    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
01-13-25
Case
# 23CHCV00793, Mercado v. City of Los Angeles, et al.
Trial
Date: 06-09-25
 
MOTION TO SUBSTITUTE SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST
 
MOVING
PARTY: Successor Georgina Roque
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Order
substituting Georgina Roque as Plaintiff.
 
RULING: Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
This
personal injury action arises from an incident that occurred on October 24,
2022.  Plaintiff Elidia Mercado (Plaintiff)
filed this suit against defendants City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles,
and 7-Eleven, Inc. on March 20, 2023, alleging general negligence and premises
liability.  The complaint alleges
Plaintiff suffered injuries when her wheelchair struck a metal rod in a parking
lot and she fell from her wheelchair.
 
On
October 17, 2024, the deceased Plaintiff’s sister filed this motion to
substitute herself as Plaintiff’s successor in interest.  No opposition has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
“A cause of action that survives the death of the
person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor
in interest . . . and an action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal
representatives or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.)  After the death of a plaintiff, the court,
on motion, shall allow a pending action that does not abate to be continued by
the decedent’s personal representative or successor-in-interest.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)  “‘Decedent’s successor in interest’ means the
beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who
succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is
the subject of a cause of action.”  (Code. Civ. Proc., § 377.11.)
 
The person seeking to commence or continue a pending
action as the decedent’s successor-in-interest shall execute and file an
affidavit or declaration stating: (1) the decedent’s name, (2) the date and
place of decedent’s death, (3) that no proceeding is now pending in California
for administration of the decedent’s estate, (4) a copy of the final order
showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the
successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s estate was administered, (5) either
the affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest or the affiant
or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in
interest, with facts in support thereof, (6) that no other person has a
superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for
the decedent in the pending action or proceeding, and (7) that the statements
are true, under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a)(1)-(7).)

 
Additionally, a certified copy of the decedent’s
death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).) 
            
Plaintiff Mercado passed away on May 16, 2024 in West
Covina, CA.  (Declaration of Georgina
Roque, ¶ 2, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff’s sister,
Georgina Roque, moves for an order permitting her substitution as the Successor
in Interest to Plaintiff’s causes of action. 
(Motion, p. 4:24-26.)  
 
Ms. Roque’s declaration is filed with the motion and satisfies
the requirements of Civil Procedure Code section 377.32, subdivision (a).  The declaration states Ms. Roque is
Plaintiff’s successor in interest as defined by Section 377.11.  (Roque Dec., ¶ 3, Exh. A.)  No personal representative has been appointed,
no proceeding is now pending in California for administration of Plaintiff’s
estate, and no other person has a superior right to commence this proceeding or
be substituted for Plaintiff.  (Roque Dec.,
¶¶ 4-5.)  Further, Ms. Roque has attached
certified copy of the Plaintiff’s death certificate to the declaration as
required under Section 377.32, subdivision (c). 
(Roque Dec., ¶ 6, Exh. A.)
 
ORDER and CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the motion to appoint Plaintiff
Mercado’s sister Georgina Roque as successor in interest is granted.
 
Georgina Roque to give notice.