 Case Number:  22STCV32478    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 4, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: October 21, 2024
            
CASE:                         Ken Houang, et al. v. Rochelle H.
Sterling, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV32478            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Rochelle H. Sterling, individually and as
trustee of the Sterling Family Trust, and Beverly Hills Properties, LLC 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Ken
Houang and Shelly Houang, individually and as Guardian ad Litem for Liam
Kenneth Houang
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a habitability action that was filed on October 4, 2022.
Plaintiffs, who are and were tenants at a residential apartment complex, allege
that Defendants permitted the premises to develop extensive uninhabitable
conditions and allowed those conditions to persist in violation of statutes and
municipal ordinances. Plaintiffs seek monetary and injunctive relief.
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of all causes of action.

            
TENTATIVE RULING:
            
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
//
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
            Defendants
move for summary judgment. As Defendants have not demonstrated their
entitlement to summary adjudication of all causes of action, Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of each cause of action.
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
//
Plaintiffs’ Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiffs
object to portions of the Declaration of Paul H. Burleigh in support of the
motion. The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
            Objection
No. 1: SUSTAINED. Counsel for Defendants does not have personal knowledge
of the authenticity of these materials. Consequently, Defendants’ Exhibit E
lacks authentication and shall not be considered.
 
            Objection
No. 2: SUSTAINED. Counsel for Defendants does not have personal knowledge
of the authenticity of these materials. Consequently, Defendants’ Exhibit F
lacks authentication and shall not be considered.
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for breach of the
implied warranty of habitability.
 
The elements of a cause of action
for breach of the implied warranty of habitability “are the existence of a
material defective condition affecting the premises' habitability, notice to
the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant's
discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct
the deficiency, and resulting damages.” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing,
LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)
 
The first cause of action
specifically alleges that Defendants failed to provide habitable premises
because the rental unit developed mold following water infiltration and was
infested with cockroaches and other insects. (Complaint ¶ 24.) 
 
            Defendants
first argue that Plaintiffs were bound by a “Mold Addendum” and a “Pest
Addendum” which imposed obligations upon Plaintiffs regarding maintenance of
the rental unit, and Plaintiffs’ failure to comply with those obligations defeats
the claim for breach of the warranty of habitability. Defendants’ sole
authority for this position is the unpublished opinion Grabowiec v.
Schopmeyer (Cal. Ct. App. Mar. 17, 2014) No. G047312, 2014 WL 1007833. As
counsel for Defendants should know, unpublished authorities may only be cited
when relevant for the purposes of the doctrines of law of the case, res
judicata, or collateral estoppel, or when relevant to a criminal or
disciplinary action because it states reasons for a decision affecting the same
defendant or respondent in another such action. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule
8.1115(b).) Barring those exceptions, unpublished authorities “must not be
cited or relied on.” (Id. Rule 8.1115(a).) Indeed, the first
page of Grabowiec, like all unpublished opinions, expressly recites this
rule above the caption of the case. As this is not a criminal matter and
Defendants do not offer this opinion as the law of the case nor for res
judicata or collateral estoppel purposes, the Court refuses to consider
Defendants’ improper citation. Since Defendants offer no valid authority for
this position, the Court finds the contentions regarding the Mold and Pest
Addenda to be entirely unpersuasive.
            Defendants
next argue that Plaintiffs failed to give notice within a reasonable time of
the presence of mold in the rental unit, because Plaintiffs were aware of or
suspected the existence of mold for four months prior to the date Defendants
were notified. Defendants’ contention regarding the suspicion of mold is based
entirely on improperly authenticated emails which are not admissible. (See
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact No. 26.) Defendants have
therefore failed to demonstrate that Plaintiffs failed to give notice within a
reasonable time because they have failed to offer admissible evidence
supporting that position.
 
Finally, Defendants contend that
Plaintiffs did not grant Defendants a reasonable time to remedy the mold
infiltration because Plaintiff Shelly Houang cleaned the mold on the same day
notice was given and before Defendants’ technician arrived. (SSUMF No. 31;
Defendants’ Exh. C p.83:17-20.) Thus, Defendants contend they were not given a
reasonable opportunity to remedy the defect. Defendants’ argument is deficient
in several respects. First, cleaning mold from a wall surface is on its face
not equivalent to remedying the infiltration of mold and taking precautions to
prevent its recurrence. Second, Plaintiffs also allege cockroach infestations
as part of the deficiencies, which Defendants do not address except in the
context of the “Pest Addendum,” which is not persuasive as stated above. Thus,
even if Defendants had established that they were not permitted a reasonable
opportunity to cure the mold deficiency, that argument does not address all the
allegations raised as to this cause of action. The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
            The Court
therefore finds that Defendants have not demonstrated that Plaintiffs cannot
prevail on this cause of action. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the First Cause of Action is
DENIED.
 
Second Cause of Action: Negligence
 
            Defendants
also contend that the second cause of action for negligence is without merit.
 
            To prevail
on a claim for negligence, a plaintiff must establish that the defendant (1)
owed a duty to the plaintiff; (2) that the defendant breached that duty; (3)
that the defendant’s acts or omissions caused injury: (4) that resulted in
damage to the plaintiff. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200,
1205.) 
 
            Defendants
first assert that the Mold and Pest Addenda shifted the duty owed to
Plaintiffs. That contention is entirely unsupported by legal authority and is
therefore disregarded.
 
Defendants next argue that
Defendants did not breach any duty for the reasons stated above with regard to
mold, and because Plaintiffs did not properly cooperate with Defendants’
efforts to remove pests. These are not the only relevant allegations offered in
the Complaint regarding the conditions on the premises, as Plaintiffs also
allege, inter alia, water intrusion, leaks, water damage, lack of
sanitary plumbing, holes in ceilings and interior walls, broken kitchen
cabinets, and other building code and health and safety violations. (Complaint
¶¶ 18, 31.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is
to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or
declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within
the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991)
231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.) As Defendants do not address the remaining
allegations, their contentions as to a few of Plaintiffs’ charges are not
sufficient to shift their burden on summary adjudication. 
 
            Finally,
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs have not shown that their injuries were
caused by any of the conditions in the rental unit which have been alleged.
Defendants’ arguments rest entirely on deposition testimony from the adult
Plaintiffs wherein they admit that they did not have any formal diagnosis of
any of their claimed health problems which was caused by any of the conditions
alleged to exist in the unit. (See SSUMF No. 34.) This contention is
insufficient. “Summary judgment law in this state, however, continues to
require a defendant moving for summary judgment to present evidence, and not
simply point out through argument, that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854 [emphasis
added].) Admissions that the Plaintiffs did not have formal diagnoses does not
demonstrate that such diagnoses could not be reasonably obtained. Defendants
have not carried their burden with respect to this argument, and, for that
reason, the burden of proof does not shift to Plaintiffs.
 
            As
Defendants’ challenges to the second cause of action lack merit, Defendants are
not entitled to summary adjudication of this claim.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Second Cause of Action is
DENIED.
 
Third Cause of Action: Nuisance
 
            Defendants
contend that Plaintiffs cannot prevail on the third cause of action for
nuisance.
 
            As stated
in Civil Code section 3479:
 
Anything which is
injurious to health, including, but not limited to, the illegal sale of
controlled substances, or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully obstructs the free
passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay,
stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway, is a
nuisance.
 
(Civ. Code § 3479.) A nuisance which affects an entire
community or neighborhood or which affects a “considerable number of persons”
is a public nuisance. (Civ. Code § 3480.) Any other nuisance is a private
nuisance. (Civ. Code § 3481.)
 
            Although
the Complaint does not specify whether it alleges a public or a private
nuisance, the Complaint does not allege injury to a community, neighborhood, or
large number of persons. (See generally Complaint.) Further, while the
opposition to this motion does not expressly concede the issue, Plaintiffs’
arguments and authorities focus exclusively on private nuisances. (See
Opposition pp. 19-20.) The Court therefore construes the issue as alleged in
the Complaint to be one of private nuisance only.
 
            Defendants
contend that Plaintiffs cannot prevail on a claim for private nuisance because
they consented to the presence of mold and cockroaches by failing to give
timely notice of mold and refusing to permit Defendants to conduct pest control
treatment after complaints of cockroaches. It is true, as Defendants claim,
that Plaintiffs must demonstrate a lack of consent to prevail on a claim for
nuisance. (See, e.g., Dept. of Fish & Game v. Sup. Ct. (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 1323, 1352; Birke v. Oakwood Worldwide (2009) 169
Cal.App.4th 1540, 1548.) However, Defendants’ evidence regarding the failure to
give timely notice of mold and refusal to permit pest control treatment are
again based on inadmissible evidence. (SSUMF Nos. 17, 26.) Further, the
Complaint also alleges injuries arising from water damage, separate and apart
from mold infiltration. (Complaint ¶ 43.) To succeed, a motion for summary
adjudication must address all allegations in support of the targeted cause of
action.  (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.) By failing to address all allegations in
the Complaint, Defendants have not carried their burden on summary
adjudication.
 
            Finally,
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs cannot establish negligence, which is a
prerequisite to a nuisance claim, for the reasons stated with respect to the
second cause of action. As the Court has rejected Defendants’ challenge to that
claim, this argument fails. 
 
            For the
foregoing reasons, Defendants are not entitled to summary adjudication of this
claim. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication of the Third Cause of Action is DENIED.
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
 
//
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 4,
2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 