 Case Number:  22STCV04378    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 4, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: March 11, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         G&P Group, Inc, v. City National
Bank
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV04378            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS; REQUEST
FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff G&P Group, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant City
National Bank
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/03/22: Complaint filed.
·        
01/05/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
06/08/23: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
07/07/23: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract stemming from a commercial
banking agreement. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant placed Plaintiff into a
distressed loan program without justification and offered overdrafts to
Plaintiff only to abruptly discontinue them, forcing Plaintiff out of busines. 
 
            Plaintiff moves
to compel further responses to requests for production propounded to Defendant.

            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED.
Defendant is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without
objections within 30 days of this order. 

 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $15,375 against
Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally. Payment is to be made within
10 days of this order.  
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for production propounded to Defendant. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit
or too general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate
statement filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This
burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).) The 45-day
requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
Plaintiff served the requests for
production at issue on this motion on February 22, 2023. (Declaration of Damion
Robinson ISO Mot. ¶ 2.) Defendant served its initial responses on June 12,
2023. (Id. Exh. 1.) Defendant provided supplemental responses on
September 29, 2023, which were verified on October 2. (Id. ¶ 11; Exh.
4.) Defendant made a rolling production of documents through December 5, 2023.
(Id. ¶¶ 16-17.) Following an Informal Discovery Conference on May 30,
2024, in which Defendant agreed to permit an attorney-eyes-only review of
responsive documents, the parties agreed in writing that the deadline to move to
compel as to the materials at issue on this motion would be tolled until two
weeks after the parties declared an impasse. (Id. ¶¶ 43-46; Exh. 14.) Although
no express declaration of an impasse was ever made, Plaintiff’s counsel
cancelled a planned further inspection of documents based on this dispute on
June 26, 2024. (See Exh. 18.) This motion was filed and served on July 2, 2024,
and thus is timely.
 
//
 
//
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a
declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to
resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
The Declaration of Damion Robinson
attached to the moving papers describes the extensive efforts the parties
undertook to informally resolve this dispute, including multiple
meet-and-confer exchanges, an informal discovery conference, and in-person
inspection of responsive documents as a solution to confidentiality concerns. (Robinson
Decl. ¶¶ 2-53.) Plaintiff has satisfied the statutory meet-and-confer
requirements.
 
Good Cause
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to Requests for Production Nos. 13, 19, and
20. Request No. 13 seeks all documents reflecting the policies, procedures,
standard operating procedures and/or guidelines of Defendant’s Special Assets
Division (“SAD”) program from 2020 through the present. (Robinson Decl. Exh. 1
No. 13.) Request No. 19 seeks all documents reflecting any policies,
procedures, or guidelines relating to overdrafting of business accounts in
effect from 2020 through the present. (Id. No. 19.) Request No. 20 seeks
all documents relating to any changes to those policies, procedures, or
guidelines. (Id. No. 20.) These materials are facially relevant to the core
allegations asserted by Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 5-15; 28-79.) 
 
Defendant’s Amended Responses
 
            Defendant’s
amended responses asserted a series of boilerplate objections before promising
to produce certain materials. With respect to Request No. 13, Defendant
asserted objections based on the attorney-client privilege, work product
doctrine, privacy rights, proprietary or confidential business information,
overbreadth, undue burden, irrelevance, not being reasonably calculated to lead
to admissible evidence, and duplicative of other requests, before agreeing to
produce “policies memorialized in CNB’s Credit Manual and SAD Manual” from the
period up to February 2, 2022 “that are relevant and responsive to this
request.” (Robinson Decl. Exh. 4 No. 13.) Defendant’s amended response to
Request No. 19 is substantively identical. (Id. No. 19.) Defendant’s
amended response to Request No. 20 is similar, except that Defendant promised
to produce “policies reflecting changes to overdrafting.” (Id. No. 20.) The
responses do not identify with particularity the documents which will be
produced. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.280(a).) The responses also do not
identify with particularity what documents are subject to the objections
asserted. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240.) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that, despite promising at an Informal Discovery Conference to make
all responsive documents available for inspection, Defendant would not confirm
that it was producing the full set of responsive SAD Manuals, would only
produce one version of the Credit Manual from “late 2021,” and would not make
any revisions to the Credit Manual available. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 52, Exh. 18.) Plaintiff
therefore argues that Defendant did not produce all responsive documents and,
further, that Defendant’s objections are too general because they do not
identify with particularity the materials to which they apply. 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant first argues that Plaintiff’s motion was premature
because, in the intervening period, the parties conducted a further viewing of
additional versions of the SAD and Credit Manual on August 14, 2024, and
produced versions of 42 policies referenced in the Manuals on August 16.
(Declaration of Sam Bodle ISO Opp. ¶¶ 19-23.) Plaintiff concedes that further
materials were made available and adds that Defendant produced additional
documents on September 20, 2024, that are facially responsive. (Supplemental
Declaration of Damion Robinson ISO Reply ¶ 16, Exh. 10.) Plaintiff contends,
nonetheless, that the supplemental production is inadequate because Defendant
did not produce general lending and underwriting guidelines, risk management
policies, or forms, templates, and other similar documents which were
referenced or hyperlinked in the documents which were produced. (Id. ¶¶
6-7.)
 
            Defendant
characterizes these documents as “additional requests” which are beyond the
scope of the requests for production. The Court disagrees. The requests sought
documents (1) reflecting policies, procedures, standard operating procedures,
and guidelines relating to the SAD program; (2) reflecting policies,
procedures, standard operating procedures, and guidelines relating to
overdrafting; and (3) relating to changes to those materials. The requests are
broadly worded but facially relevant to the claims asserted in this action, and
Plaintiff is correct that such materials are potentially responsive to the
requests as written. Defendant’s assertion that further responses would be
unduly burdensome is unsupported by admissible evidence, as counsel for
Defendant is not competent to testify as to the burden of production, and that
objection is therefore meritless. Defendant’s relevance objection is similarly
meritless, as the materials sought are facially relevant to the allegations in
the Complaint. Defendant’s remaining objections are not even addressed in the
opposition, and therefore must be deemed waived. 
 
            The Court
therefore finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling further,
code-compliant responses without objections. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
also requests sanctions against Defendant and its counsel, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $17,500.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 authorizes the Court to impose
monetary sanctions on any attorney engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process by requiring that attorney to pay the reasonable expenses incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(h)
requires the Court to impose sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
            Here,
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $17,500 against Defendant and its
counsel, jointly and severally, which would reflect 23 hours and 20 minutes of
attorney time at Attorney Robinson’s claimed rate of $750 per hour. (Robinson
Decl. ¶ 59.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that he has incurred 17.5 hours of
attorney time in preparation of this motion, plus 7 anticipated hours for the
reply, in addition to 20 hours of meeting and conferring that were previously incurred
but not sought to be reimbursed. (Id. ¶ 61.) At the outset, the Court does
not have a reply declaration quantifying the actual number of hours spent on
preparing the reply papers but finds that 3 hours is a reasonable amount of
time for preparing the 10-page reply brief and supplemental evidence.  Thus, if justified, the Court is inclined to
award attorney’s fees for a total of 20.5 hours reasonably incurred.
 
            Defendant
opposes an award of sanctions because it contends that its behavior has been
reasonable and accommodating, while Plaintiff’s demands have continually
escalated beyond reason. The Court is not persuaded as it relates to these
document requests. In response to these requests for production of facially
relevant documents, Defendant asserted boilerplate objections, failed to
specify responsive documents, failed to identify documents which would not be
produced, and, despite agreeing to make all responsive materials available for
inspection, failed to do so. Had Defendant carried out the production made on
August 16, 2024 as its original production, Defendant’s claim that it acted
with substantial justification might have some force, even though that
production was incomplete. Instead, Defendant stalled for over eighteen months.
Even if Plaintiff has engaged in similar tactics with respect to other
discovery procedures, as Defendant claims, discovery is not a tit-for-tat
exercise where one party’s misconduct justifies another’s. The Court therefore
awards sanctions in the amount of $15,375,
reflecting the 20.5 hours of attorney time reasonably incurred on this motion.  
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is
GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses
without objections within 30 days of this order.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $15,375 against
Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally. Payment is to be made within
10 days of this order.  
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 4, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 