  Case Number:  21STCV44398    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 4, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: April 22, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         3BTech Inc. v. Great Northern Ins. Co.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV44398            
 
MOTION TO
DISQUALIFY COUNSEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Great Northern Insurance Co. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff 3BTech,
Inc. 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
12/06/21: Complaint filed.
·        
02/08/23: Case deemed related to 22STCV39646 3BTech
Inc. v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co., et al. and to 23PSCV00016 3BTech Inc.
v. Pro-Com Products, Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
This is a breach of contract action.
In one of several lawsuits arising from the same incident, Plaintiff seeks
coverage for the loss of inventory destroyed by a fire while in the care of the
insured non-party Pro-Com Products, Inc.
 
Defendant Great Northern Ins. Co
moves to disqualify Paul K. Schrieffer and the firm of P.K. Schrieffer LLP as
counsel for Plaintiff 3BTech, Inc. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Disqualify
Counsel is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
            
Defendant Great Northern Ins. Co
moves to disqualify Paul K. Schrieffer and the firm of P.K. Schrieffer LLP as
counsel for Plaintiff. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
128(a)(5) states that “[e]very court shall have the power...to control in
furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all
other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in
every matter pertaining thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(5).) “‘A trial
court's authority to disqualify an attorney derives from the power inherent in
every court [t]o control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a
judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.
[Citations.]’ [citation] ‘. . . The paramount concern must be to preserve
public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of
the bar. The important right to counsel of one's choice must yield to ethical
considerations that affect the fundamental principles of our judicial process.’
[citation]” (Kirk v. First American Title Ins. Co. (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 776, 791-792.) 
 
In ruling on a motion to
disqualify, the court should weigh: (1) the party's right to counsel of choice;
(2) the attorney's interest in representing a client; (3) the financial burden
on a client of change of counsel; (4) any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification
motion; and (5) the principal that the fair resolution of disputes requires
vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel. (Mills Land &
Water Co. v. Golden West Refining Co.  (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 116,
126.) Whether an attorney should be disqualified is a matter addressed to the
sound discretion of the trial court. (Henriksen v. Great American Savings
& Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.) 
 
            Defendant moves to
disqualify Plaintiff’s counsel on the basis that counsel’s representation of
Plaintiff is directly adverse to Chubb Limited, the parent corporation of Great
Northern Insurance Company. Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s counsel has
previously and is currently representing Chubb and other subsidiaries in
various insurance coverage disputes. The Rules of Professional Conduct categorically
prohibit a lawyer from simultaneously representing clients who are directly
adverse in the same tribunal (Cal. R. Prof. Conduct 1.7(d)(3)), and only permit
representation which is directly adverse to a current or former client outside
of that prohibition on the condition of informed written consent. (Rule 1.7;
1.9.) Although Defendant offers a raft of evidence to demonstrate the
substantive similarity in the representations, Defendant pointedly does not
contend that Plaintiff’s counsel has ever represented Great Northern, only
other entities with which Defendant claims affiliation. Moreover, Defendant offers
no authority addressing whether parent and subsidiary corporations are
considered the same “client” for the purpose of this inquiry, and merely
presumes the affirmative in arguing this motion. The same must be said of
Defendant’s argument that acting as legal counsel for CFC Underwriting – an
insurance syndicate which includes some Chubb subsidiaries among its members – equates
to representation of Chubb or Great Northern Insurance Company.  Again, Defendant’s contention is unsupported
by any facts establishing a “substantial relationship” between the allegedly
conflicting legal engagements nor by any law justifying the link between
representation of a Lloyd’s syndicate and representative of a syndicate member
or the member’s parent or sister corporation. 
The Court is not inclined to override Plaintiff’s right to counsel of
its choice based on mere presumption. Defendant has not carried its burden to
demonstrate that counsel for Plaintiff should be disqualified.
 
//
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Disqualify
Counsel is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 4,
2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 