 Case Number:  23STCV18206    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
4-11-24 c/f 2-8-24 c/f 11-15-24
Case
#23STCV18206
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
ARBITRATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Sunlight Financial LLC, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff, Rex Wise
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Arbitration
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff Rex Wise alleges defendants Solgen Construction,
LLC, Sunlight Financial, LLC and Cross River Bank, denies ever executing a
30-year loan agreement for the financing of solar panels to Plaintiff’s
residence. Plaintiff sought to cancel the contracts, but defendants refused. 
 
Plaintiff seeks a Public Injunction enjoining Solgen
Construction, LLC from engaging in solar panel installations without adhering
to certain standards, due to prior fraudulent activities.
 
On August 1 and 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint and
first amended complaint for Fraudulent Concealment; Negligence; Violations of
The Elder Abuse And Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (Welfare &
Institutions Code §15610.07, Et Seq.); Violations Of The Rosenthal Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act (Civil Code §1788, Et Seq.); Violations Of The Home
Solicitation Sales Act (Civil Code §1689.5, Et Seq.); Violations Of Business
And Professions Code §7150, et seq.; Violations Of The Truth In Lending Act (15
U.S.C. § 1601, Et Seq.); Violations Of The Credit Services Act (Civil Code
§1789.10, Et Seq.); and, Violations Of The Unfair Competition Law (Business
& Professions Code §17200, et seq.)
 
On November 1, 2023, Sunlight Financial LLC filed a notice
of stay of proceedings based on the filing of a Chapter 11 Bankruptcy petition
on October 31, 2023. On November 2, 2023, the court stayed the entire case. On
January 16, 2024, Sunlight Financial filed a notice of termination of stay. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Evidentiary
Objections: Overruled.
 
Defendants Sunlight Financial LLC and Cross River Bank move
to compel arbitration. On February 8, 2024, the court heard the motion
following a continuance from November 15, 2023, and ordered bankruptcy stay.
The court raised concern with the January 16, 2024, filed notice of termination
of stay filed by Sunlight Financial, LLC given the identification of Sunlight
Financial LLC in the bankruptcy petition. [Notice of Stay of Proceedings.] The
notice of termination of stay provides no indication of the bankruptcy status
of Sunlight Financial, LLC notwithstanding the filed termination of the stay. Barring
further evidence of the either dismissal from the bankruptcy or direction from
the Bankruptcy Trustee, the court deferred consideration. (M & M Foods,
Inc. v. Pacific American Fish Co., Inc. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 554, 560-561;
Bostanian v. Liberty Savings Bank (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 1075, 1083-1084.) 
 
The court found no bar to
proceeding with the request for Cross River Bank, but expressed concern over potential
piecemeal adjudication, if all parties were not participating in arbitration,
including non-joining party, Solgen Construction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2,
subd. (c-d).) The court therefore elected to again continue the hearing with
invited supplemental briefing for clarification. 
 
Sunlight Financial LLC and Cross River Bank represent that
the automatic bankruptcy stay was lifted as a result of the approved Chapter 11
plan for Sunlight Financial, LLC. Sunlight Financial, LLC also represents
trustee approval is no longer required. As for Solgen Construction, moving
parties maintain it is not a necessary party for arbitration. Moving parties
instead request a stay of the action as to Solgen. 
 
Plaintiff in supplemental opposition references the prior
fraud and forgery arguments against formation of the contract, as well as new
argument based on recently released case law. Plaintiff maintains the conduct
of the parties remains “inextricably linked,” yet Solgen remains no part of the
motion. 
 
Sunlight Financial LLC and Cross River Bank in reply challenge
the new arguments in the supplemental opposition and beyond the parameters of
the order. Notwithstanding, Defendants challenge the case authority. Defendants
deny any necessary interconnection with Solgen and reiterate the ability of
Plaintiff to proceed against Solgen. Finally, Defendants maintain the formation
of contract arguments are “irrelevant” to the present motion. 
 
The supplemental brief provides no supporting documents
regarding the represented approval of the plan or law regarding the release
from the trustee upon the approval of the plan. Plaintiff provides no challenge
to the argument. The court therefore elects to consider the arbitration motion.
 
Moving parties maintain the arbitration agreement was both
executed and covers the subject dispute. Plaintiff in opposition denies any
execution of the agreement, and contends the documents contain forged
signatures. Moving parties in reply maintain Plaintiff accepted installation of
the solar panels and understood the panels were not installed for free, but
required compensation in the form of the executed loan.
 
“A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing
controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy
if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless
it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
California law creates a general presumption in favor of
arbitration. In a motion to
compel arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence
the existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by
the agreement. “‘Under “both
federal and state law, the threshold question presented by a petition to compel
arbitration is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.”’” (Long v. Provide Commerce, Inc. (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 855, 861.) “Private arbitration is a
matter of agreement between the parties and is governed by contract law.” (Platt Pacific, Inc. v. Andelson (1993)
6 Cal.4th 307, 313.) In a
motion to compel arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of
evidence the existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is
covered by the agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence a ground for denial (e.g., fraud,
unconscionability, etc.). (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin'l Securities Corp.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414; Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164–165; Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Ctr.,
Inc. (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 754, 758.) Any challenges to the formation of the arbitration agreement
should be considered before any order sending the parties to arbitration. The trier of fact weighs all evidence, including
affidavits, declarations, documents, and, if applicable, oral testimony to
determine whether the action goes to arbitration. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Ctr.,
Inc., supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at p. 758.)
 
The court accepts
the existence of the loan agreement/finance contract with the incorporated
Arbitration Provision. [Declaration of Justin Carpenter, Ex. A; Declaration of
Adam McNeile.] The documents contain a “DocuSign” certificate of completion,
whereby a signature of Rex Wise was adopted from a “pre-selected style” using a
certain IP address and time stamp verified on August 7, 2022, between 11:41
a.m. and 11:45 a.m. 
 
Plaintiff in
opposition challenges the validity of the DocuSign executed document on grounds
that Rex Wise suffers from hearing impairment, “difficulty comprehending
written materials,” and lacks “technological” literacy. Plaintiff concedes Solgen
salesperson Calaif Parks arranged the subject transaction, but denies ever
receiving any emailed proposal (notwithstanding the technological illiteracy).
Any alleged proposal was directed to an improper e-mail address, and Plaintiff
never otherwise approved the subject transaction via (electronic) signature.
Plaintiff lacks the ability to electronically sign documents, especially
documents he denies ever receiving. [Declaration of Rex Wise.]
 
The court considers the submitted
phone call transcripts for context. In
conversations with a Sunlight Financial representative and Christine, daughter
of Plaintiff, it was explained how the email was invalid and denial of any
loan. The conversation was recorded with the transcripts provided. [Declaration
of Alexandra Hider.] The December 6, 2022, conversation acknowledges Plaintiff
“signed up for Solar,” but was lacking a copy of the contract. The
representative confirmed the account was active and offered to send over the
contract via email. Christine offered to provide an alternative email address,
but the representative was only able to deliver documents to customer email.
Plaintiff denied the existence of any email in the first place, which led to
the parties discussing the terms over the phone call. The parties appear to
acknowledge all terms of the agreement, 1.99% interest rate, $35,549.22 amount,
and a 17 month duration for the first portion conditioned on a tax credit, with
a potential increase in costs without a tax credit beginning on the 18th
payment. The representative lacked information on the installer. The paucity of
information appears in part based on the sales representative actually
arranging the contract of which neither Plaintiff nor Sunrise was aware of the
exact installer at the time of the purported transaction. Plaintiff also
authorized Christine to speak on behalf of him with the finance company. It was
also agreed the agreement would be provided by mail. 
 
On December 20,
2022, Sunlight was identified as the originator of the loan and Cross River as
the servicer. Notwithstanding, Sunlight confirmed no loan existed due to the
lack of any signature though withdrawals were occurring from an unspecified
account of Plaintiff. The agent later confirmed a DocuSign agreement. 
 
On March 15,
2023, Gloria Hardy called on behalf of Plaintiff whereby it was again it was
questioned why payments were being deducted in service of the loan for an
installed solar panel system without any city permit or public utility consent.
The call appeared to focus on the lack of an operational system and the
required payment (account deductions) before any solar power was provided to
the home, rather than any denial of the agreement. The agent ultimately told
Plaintiff and Gloria Hardy that responsibility for pulling the permit and
having Southern California Edison utility company sign off on the panel
installation falls onto the installer. 
 
It remains
undisputed that the relied upon email was not the correct email address for Rex
Wise. It remains unclear how such an email was created and who exercises
control over the account. [Declaration of Christine Lau.] The court also
accepts the denial by Rex Wise as to ever engaging in any signature, albeit an
admission to not necessarily understanding electronic signature programs like
DocuSign. Nevertheless, it also remains effectively agreed upon that money was
in fact deducted from a bank account under the control of Rex Wise. Nothing in
the opposition in any way accounts for the ability of the loan originator or
loan servicer to deduct the funds. The court also finds apparent acceptance of
the installed solar panel system on the home, even without proper permits. A
construction person or crew knowingly installed said panels and/or other system
items, with the knowledge of Rex Wise, as opposed to committing of some form of
trespass or property damage. Again, the motion otherwise lacks any denial of
approval of the panels or some form of uninvited panel installation to the
home. 
 
The opposition
also emphasizes the cancellation of the loan itself. The sought after cancellation
of the loan constitutes an acknowledgment of the loan itself and therefore a
valid argument as to enforcement of the arbitration agreement in that a dispute
over terms of the loan agreement or the work performed by a
contractor/subcontractor (e.g. a working solar panel system) constitutes an
item within the purview of the arbitration clause. [Carpenter Decl., Ex. A.]
Still, the court considers the defenses to enforcement, as required under the
standard. 
 
The first
substantive challenge identifies fraud in the execution doctrine. Fraud in the
execution occurs where “‘the fraud goes to the
inception or execution of the agreement, so that the promisor is deceived as to
the nature of his act, and actually does not know what he is signing, or does
not intend to enter into a contract at all, mutual assent is lacking, and [the
contract] is void. In such a case it may be disregarded without the necessity
of rescission.’” (Citation.) (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th at p.
415 (internal quotation marks omitted).) Plaintiff relies on the lack of a
valid email address and therefore purported forged signature, as the basis of
support.
 
The argument appears to somewhat
conflate the electronic signature requirement forgery argument with the fraud
in the execution doctrine, given the articulated definition requires an actual,
executed agreement. The court however appreciates that Plaintiff was potentially
unaware of the nature of the purported agreement, again, notwithstanding the
provision of banking information and the subsequent installation. In other
words, while certain information was apparently provided by Plaintiff, such as
bank account payment routing information, and the indisputable awareness of the
solar panel installation to the home, the court accepts the argument of a
misunderstanding of the terms of the agreement, and therefore an inability to
assent to the apparently executed terms.
 
The alleged forgery of the
electronic signature relies on argument based on the close proximity of the time
signatures listed in the DocuSign verification. The court cannot determine the
basis of a forgery simply founded on assumptions of the technological acumen of
Rex Wise without context of whether the agreement was actually executed in
person with the sales representative or purportedly via e-mail transaction, in
which case Rex Wise never received any e-mail based on the agreed upon invalid
email address. Under the latter scenario, the court could certainly find
evidence of an invalid agreement in that the execution of the agreement
constituted an invalid action under laws governing electronic signatures.
 
“If
parties have agreed to conduct a transaction by electronic means and a law
requires a person to provide, send, or deliver information in writing to
another person, that requirement is satisfied if the information is provided,
sent, or delivered, as the case may be, in an electronic record capable of
retention by the recipient at the time of receipt. ...” (Civ. Code, § 1633.8,
subd. (a).)
 
“[I]f a
statute, regulation, or other rule of law requires that information relating to
a transaction or transactions in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce be
provided or made available to a consumer in writing, the use of an electronic
record to provide or make available (whichever is required) such information
satisfies the requirement that such information be in writing if--
(A)
the consumer has affirmatively consented to such use and has not withdrawn such
consent;
(B)
the consumer, prior to consenting, is provided with a clear and conspicuous
statement--
(i)
informing the consumer of (I) any right or option of the consumer to have the
record provided or made available on paper or in nonelectronic form, and (II)
the right of the consumer to withdraw the consent to have the record provided
or made available in an electronic form and of any conditions, consequences
(which may include termination of the parties' relationship), or fees in the
event of such withdrawal;
(ii)
informing the consumer of whether the consent applies (I) only to the
particular transaction which gave rise to the obligation to provide the record,
or (II) to identified categories of records that may be provided or made
available during the course of the parties' relationship;
(iii)
describing the procedures the consumer must use to withdraw consent as provided
in clause (i) and to update information needed to contact the consumer
electronically; and
(iv)
informing the consumer (I) how, after the consent, the consumer may, upon
request, obtain a paper copy of an electronic record, and (II) whether any fee
will be charged for such copy;
(C)
the consumer--
(i)
prior to consenting, is provided with a statement of the hardware and software
requirements for access to and retention of the electronic records; and
(ii)
consents electronically, or confirms his or her consent electronically, in a
manner that reasonably demonstrates that the consumer can access information in
the electronic form that will be used to provide the information that is the
subject of the consent; and
 
(15
U.S.C.A. § 7001(c)(1).)
 
The motion lacks any indication of
compliance with this requirement, and Plaintiff presents counter declarations
establishing a lack of compliance. The court therefore finds the purported
electronic signature of Rex Wise renders the agreement voidable under the
doctrine of fraud in the execution based on lack of sufficient assent. (Jones v. Solgen Construction, LLC (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 1178  [318 Cal.Rptr.3d 313, 330-332.] The court
therefore declines to enforce the subject arbitration agreement, due to the
failure to establish a valid, enforceable agreement for purposes of enforcing
the contract. The court finds no necessity for a further continuance in order
to conduct an evidentiary hearing, and makes it ruling from the submitted
pleadings. [Id.] Nothing in the denial of this motion in any reflects on
the merits of the contract itself given the performance of certain terms.
 
The court additionally returns to
the piecemeal litigation concerns of the subject arbitration. The court,
as a matter of policy, avoids potential piecemeal adjudication of cases, and
maintains all parties either participate in arbitration or remain with the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (c-d).) The
right of a trial court to refuse arbitration on the possibility of conflicting
rulings remains an upheld statutory rule. (Whaley
v. Sony Computer Entertainment America, Inc.
(2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 479, 485-486; Henry
v. Alcove Investment, Inc. (1991) 233
Cal.App.3d 94, 101-102.) “The third party litigation exception set forth in
section 1281.2(c) only applies when the court determines that three conditions
are satisfied. (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real
Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959,
967-968, 153 Cal.Rptr.3d 135 [exception applies when: (1) party to arbitration
agreement also a party to a pending court action with a third party; (2) third
party action arises out of the same transaction or series of transactions; and
(3) there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact].) Once all three conditions are satisfied, section 1281.2(c) identifies
four options from which the trial court may choose, including denial or stay of
arbitration proceedings, among other things. (Id. at p. 968, 153
Cal.Rptr.3d 135.) These options are entrusted to the trial court's discretion.
(Avila, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p.
840, 230 Cal.Rptr.3d 42.)” (Williams v. Atria Las Posas (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1054.)
 
While moving parties dismissed the
participation of Solgen Construction in the supplemental brief, the court
declines to decouple the other parties’ involvement. The coverage language of
the arbitration agreement itself requiring arbitration of installation issue.
The claims present an intertwined challenge regarding the improper installation
of the panels without a permit or approval from Southern California Edison, yet
the continuing withdrawal of funds from Plaintiff’s bank account for a
non-functioning system. The dismissal of another parties conduct insufficiently
addresses the concerns raised by the court. The motion is therefore denied on
this basis as well.
 
In summary, the motion to compel
arbitration is denied due to the failure to establish an enforceable agreement,
and failure to avoid the possibility of piecemeal arbitration given the
entangled nature of the claims. Moving defendants are ordered to file a
responsive pleading within 30 days from the date of this order.
 
This order is appealable. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1294, subd. (a).)
 
Moving Defendants to provide notice to all parties.
 