 Case Number:  23STCV20599    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
 4-11-24
Case
#: 23STCV20599
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
TRANSFER & CONSOLIDATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, William Manuel 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, Cesar Segovia
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Transfer and Consolidate
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
The
subject action involves three parcels of property: 1724 S. Alma St., San Pedro,
1323 S. Dodson St., San Pedro, and 800- W. 1st St., Los Angeles. Plaintiff
William Manuel concedes title to the properties remains either jointly held or
solely held in the name of defendant Cesar Segovia, but maintains a series of
agreements between the parties supports claims legal title to all three based
contributions to the properties by Plaintiff.
 
On
August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Quiet Title (three separate
causes of action), Conversion, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, Replevin, Trespass to Chattels, and
Breach of Contract. On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of related
cases with UDP2201396 (Segovia v. Manuel) and CVPS2301660 (Manuel v. Segovia).
On October 16, 2023, the court declined to find UDP2201396 related to the
instant case, 23STCV20599. 
 
On
November 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint for Quiet Title (three
separate causes of action), Conversion, Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, Replevin, Trespass to
Chattels, and Breach of Contract. Defendant answered the first amended
complaint on January 16, 2024. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Evidentiary
Objections: Overruled.
 
Plaintiff
William Manuel moves to transfer Riverside Superior Court case, CVPS2301660,
Manuel 28 v. Segovia, to Los Angeles County Superior Court, and consolidation
of the actions. Plaintiff seeks a
transfer of the action on grounds that the majority of the witnesses reside in
Los Angeles County; the cases all share a common core of facts regarding the
tort course of conduct by Defendant; and, concern over inconsistent factual
findings and judgments. Defendant
Cesar Segovia opposes the motion on grounds that the motion fails to comply
with the procedural requirements for a transfer. Defendant maintains the motion
constitutes an improper collateral challenge to the unlawful detainer action,
whereby Plaintiff failed to raise any and all defenses regarding the claim to
title. Defendant next challenges the evidentiary standard of proof. Plaintiff
in reply reiterates the separately filed actions as a function of the locations
of the properties, and seeks relief based on common questions of law and fact.
Plaintiff denies any relevance to the unlawful detainer action. 
 
The
Riverside County case involves a property located at 2091 S. Ramits Way, Palm
Springs. Manuel filed a complaint for quiet title on the property. Plaintiff
concedes that the Riverside County quiet title action was necessarily filed
there, due to the location of the real property. “Subject to the power of the court to transfer
actions, the proper county for the trial of an action under this chapter is: (a)
Where the subject of the action is real property or real and personal property,
the county in which the real property, or some part thereof, is located.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 760.050, subd. (a).)
 
“Except
as otherwise provided in Section 396a, if an action or proceeding is commenced
in a court having jurisdiction of the subject matter thereof, other than the
court designated as the proper court for the trial thereof, under this title,
the action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the court where commenced, unless
the defendant, at the time he or she answers, demurs, or moves to strike, or,
at his or her option, without answering, demurring, or moving to strike and
within the time otherwise allowed to respond to the complaint, files with the
clerk, a notice of motion for an order transferring the action or proceeding to
the proper court, together with proof of service, upon the adverse party, of a
copy of those papers. Upon the hearing of the motion the court shall, if it
appears that the action or proceeding was not commenced in the proper court,
order the action or proceeding transferred to the proper court.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 396b.) 
 
A
plaintiff may move for retransfer based on the relied upon criteria. (Scribner v. Superior Court
(1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 764, 766.) A motion to transfer is governed by Code of
Civil Procedure section 403: “A judge may, on motion,
transfer an action or actions from another court to that judge’s court for
coordination with an action involving a common question of fact or law within
the meaning of Section 404.¿ The motion shall be supported by a declaration stating
facts showing that the actions meet the standards specified in Section 404.1,
are not complex as defined by the Judicial Council and that the moving party
has made a good faith effort to obtain agreement to the transfer from all
parties to each action.¿ Notice of the motion shall be served on all parties to
each action and on each court in which an action is pending.¿ Any party to that
action may file papers opposing the motion within the time permitted by rule of
the Judicial Council.¿ The court to which a case is transferred may order the
cases consolidated for trial pursuant to Section 1048 without any further
motion or hearing.”
 
“Coordination of civil actions
sharing a common question of fact or law is appropriate if one judge hearing
all of the actions for all purposes in a selected site or sites will promote
the ends of justice taking into account whether the common question of fact or
law is predominating and significant to the litigation; the convenience of
parties, witnesses, and counsel; the relative development of the actions and
the work product of counsel; the efficient utilization of judicial facilities
and manpower; the calendar of the courts; the disadvantages of duplicative and
inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments; and, the likelihood of settlement
of the actions without further litigation should coordination be denied.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 404.1.)
 
A party filing for a motion to
transfer and consolidate an action from another court must first make a
good-faith effort to obtain agreement of all parties to the proposed transfer
and consolidation. (California Rules of Court, rule 3.500, subd. (b).) The
party must also submit a declaration stating facts showing that (1) the actions
are not complex; (2) the moving party has made the good faith effort to obtain
agreement from all parties; and (3) the moving party has notified all parties
of their obligation to disclose to the court any information they have as to
any other transfer motions. (Id. at subd. (c).)
 
Plaintiff submitted a declaration
with proof of efforts to obtain a stipulation, and the basis of the motion.
[Declaration of Marilyn Smith.] The court concurs that the quiet title actions
and personal property claims are not complex.
 
While Plaintiff procedurally
complied with the requirements, the court finds no logical or legally supported
basis for a transfer of an action involving real property in Riverside County.
The court declines to consider the unlawful detainer action. The prior court
declined to deem the unlawful detainer action related to the subject action in
its October 16, 2023, order. The Riverside County quiet title complaint was
filed on November 29, 2023, after the denial of related cases to the unlawful
detainer action. Whether any defenses over title were raised or waived at the
time of the unlawful detainer constitutes argument beyond the scope of
consideration for the instant motion. Neither party presents any record from
the unlawful detainer action, and the court declines to speculate. 
 
The court therefore denies the
motion on grounds of insufficient legal support for transferring an action
involving real property in another county. The court declines to consider
unmade arguments. The court therefore also declines to consider
the criteria for consolidation of cases. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1048; Todd-Stenberg v.
Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978; Fisher
v. Nash Bldg. Co.
(1952) 113 Cal.App.2d 397, 402.) 
 
The motion is denied.
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 