 Case Number:  23STCV07389    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



CALIMA ELECTRIC, INC., a California corporation,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE HATCH GROUP, INC., a California corporation; ROLLING GREENS
  NURSERY, INC., a California corporation; SL RETAIL OWNER LLC, a Delaware
  limited liability company; and DOES 1 THROUGH 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV07389
 Hearing Date:   6/11/24
 Trial Date:        11/12/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Calima
  Electric, Inc.’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant The Hatch
  Group, Inc.’s Employee Hector Vasques and the Production of Documents
  Described in the Notice of Deposition; and
Plaintiff Calima
  Electric, Inc.’s Request for Order Awarding Monetary Sanctions Against The
  Hatch Group, Inc., Hector Vasques and Their Attorney of Record, Neda Cate,
  Esq., in the Sum of $3,750.



 
I. Background
A. Relevant
Procedural History
On January 2, 2024,
January 16, 2024, and January 19, 2024, Calima Electric requested, in writing,
that THG provide dates for the scheduling of depositions of THG’s employees
Shanon Johnson and Hector Vasques. Calima contends that Shanon Johnson has been
THG’s PMQ, and that THG has identified Johnson and Vasques as witnesses in this
action.
In response, THG failed
to provide any deposition dates.
Accordingly, on January
30, 2024, Calima served deposition notices noticing the deposition of Shanon
Johnson for February 22, 2024, and the deposition of Hector Vasques for
February 28, 2024. Both deposition notices included 15 categories of document
for production.
On February 15, 2024,
THG’s counsel Neda Cate, Esq. served objections to Plaintiff’s deposition
notices. The objections claimed that neither the witness nor THG’s attorney of
record were available on the scheduled deposition dates. THG also generally and
specifically objected to each of the 15 categories of documents that were requested
in Plaintiff’s deposition notices.
On February 20, 2024,
Calima wrote to THG and agreed to continue the depositions of Shanon Johnson
and Hector Vasques and requested that THG provide alternative deposition dates
by Friday, February 23, 2024. The letter also explained why THG’s objections to
Calima’s production requests were defective. 
THG failed to respond
to Calima’s February 20, 2024, letter or to provide any dates for the
depositions or agree to produce any documents responsive to Calima’s deposition
notices.
On March 6, 2024,
Calima once again wrote to THG and requested deposition dates.
That same day, Neda
Cate responded indicating that she would consult with the clients and respond.
THG and Neda Cate
failed to follow-up or provide any deposition dates.
On March 13, 2024,
Calima again reached out to THG and requested deposition dates.
That same day, Neda
Cate replied by stating that she had not gotten dates from the clients and would
continue to reach out to them. Neda Cate added that if Calima felt it had to
file a motion to compel, Cate would “understand.”
As of April 15, 2024,
THG had still failed to produce Hector Vasques or produce any documents in
response to the deposition notice for Hector Vasques.
The above summary is
derived from the moving papers and is not disputed in substance in the
oppositions before the Court.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On April 15, 2024,
based on the non-production of Hector Vasques and the requested documents,
Plaintiff Calima Electric filed a motion to compel the deposition of and
production from Hector Vasques, plus a request for monetary sanctions against
THG, Hector Vasques, and counsel, Neda Cate, Esq. The motion contends that the
deposition of Hector Vasques is sought because THG identified Vasques as a
person with information surrounding the construction project from which this
dispute arose.
On May 9, 2024, THG
filed a combined opposition to Plaintiff’s motion and to a similar motion heard
and granted in relation to Shanon Johnson on May 22, 2024. The opposition
almost exclusively relied on arguments that, in essence, THG was attempting to
settle the case through an April 18, 2024, mediation with Rolling Greens, which
Plaintiff did not join, causing the mediation to fail, after which THG decided
to “now … focus[] on litigating this case,” giving Calima dates for the
depositions of Shanon Johnson and Hector Vasques (May or June 2024). THG argued
that the dates provided to Calima mooted Calima’s motion and that sanctions
would be unjust where THG was attempting to resolve this case rather than
filing motions.
On May 29, 2024—one
week after the court granted the separate motion related to Shanon Johnson on
May 22, 2024—THG filed a second opposition arguing that the motion to compel
the deposition of Hector Vasques should be denied because after good faith
efforts, counsel has discovered that Hector Vasques no longer works for THG,
making the deposition notice ineffective as to THG and necessitating a
deposition subpoena of Hector Vasques. THG also argues that sanctions are not
merited because counsel operated with the best information they had until counsel
discovered that Hector Vasques no longer worked for THG.
On June 3, 2024, Calima
filed a reply that argues that this motion should be granted as to compelling
the deposition of Hector Vasques insofar as counsel for THG is not credible.
Calima argues in the alternative that if the Court determines that Hector
Vasques can no longer be deposed according to the deposition notice served on
THG, then THG should be ordered to disclose Mr. Vasquez’s last known contact
information to Calima. Calima last argues that sanctions are merited because
Calima’s counsel requested that THG’s counsel confirm Hector Vasques’s
employment as early as January 2024 and counsel never confirmed Hector
Vasques’s non-employment until May 29, 2024, well after counsel had served
objections to the deposition notice on February 15, 2024, stretching
credibility.
Calima’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Compel Deposition
and Request for Sanctions
A.
Motion to Compel Deposition: DENIED in part and GRANTED.
1. Legal Standard
If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
2. Court’s Determination
THG
has filed a declaration from counsel, in which counsel relates receiving
information from THG on May 29, 2024, to the effect that Hector Vasques is no
longer a THG employee. (Opp’n, Cate, Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Even though the reply
challenges the veracity of this representation (see, e.g., Reply, pp. 2-3),
there are no separately filed objections in the record based on foundation,
hearsay, or other grounds. There is therefore no serious challenge to the Cate
declaration and its position that Hector Vasques is no longer a THG employee,
other than veracity as discussed above. The Court credits THG’s reply and its
evidence in the form of counsel’s declaration. Relying on this representation,
the Court determines that because THG has no control over Hector Vasques, there
is, as of May 29, 2024, no statutory basis to compel the deposition of Hector
Vasques pursuant to the January 30, 2024, deposition notice.
Calima’s
motion is thus DENIED as relates to compelling the deposition of Hector Vasques
based on the January 30, 2024, deposition notice.
The
Court also DENIES the motion as relates to the production of documents.
The
production requests are addressed to Hector Vasques for documents in his
custody and control, not in THG’s. (Mot., Gharakhani Decl., Ex. 3, pp. 2
[defining You as Hector Vasques], 5-7 [production requests].) It is not clear
how the Court can order THG to produce documents that were supposed to be under
Hector Vasques’s control. The reply highlights the lack of clarity. (See, e.g.,
Reply, p. 7 [“It is unclear, how THG can either produce documents in Mr.
Vasques’ custody or compel Mr. Vasques to produce responsive documents if Mr.
Vasques is not under THG’s ‘control.’ THG’s Opposition and Cate’s declaration
are also silent on this issue.”].)
On
balance, the Court agrees with the opposition: To obtain documents from Hector
Vasques that are under his control, Calima must serve a subpoena on Hector
Vasques. (See Opp’n, p. 3 at § II.) However, the Court finds that sanctions are
merited against THG and counsel as discussed below.
However,
the Court does GRANT Calima’s request for an order compelling THG to disclose
Hector Vasques’s last known contact information, since this information should have
been provided to Calima’s counsel long ago once this fact was ascertained.
B.
Request for Sanctions: GRANTED in part.
1. Legal
Standard
If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
The court may award sanctions under
the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery,
even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion
was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party
after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
2. Court’s
Determination
First, the Court determines that
even though a deposition of Hector Vasques and production of documents from him
cannot be granted based on the January 30, 2024, deposition notices, sanctions
are merited against THG and counsel, Neda Cate, Esq., for failing to submit to
an authorized method of discovery prior to Hector Vasques leaving THG and
making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to
discovery on February 15, 2024. It is not clear on what basis Neda Cate
represented that Hector Vasques was not available for deposition when his
employment was seemingly not confirmed until May 29, 2024. (Opp’n, Cate, Decl.,
¶¶ 4-6.)
Next, the Court notes that it does
not sanction Hector Vasques for lack of sufficient evidence as to his
involvement in the discovery objections and proceedings generally.
Last, the Court determines that
$3,750 in sanctions for the moving papers is reasonable. The sanctions are
comprised of (1) a fee rate of $750 per hour for an experienced practitioner
whose declaration supports this fee rate by showing counsel’s experience and
skill; and (2) ten total hours reasonably expended and to be expended in
relation to this motion and an identical motion for the deposition of Shanon
Johnson, with this request limiting itself to five hours for Hector Vasques.
Sanctions are thus GRANTED in part
(no Vasques) in the amount of $3,750 against THG and counsel, Neda Cate, Esq.
(SBN 274971).
 
III. Conclusion
A. Motion to Compel Deposition
Plaintiff Calima Electric, Inc.’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of
Defendant The Hatch Group, Inc.’s Employee Hector Vasques and the Production of
Documents Described in the Notice of Deposition is DENIED in part and GRANTED
in part.
B. Request for Sanctions
Plaintiff Calima Electric, Inc.’s Request for Order Awarding Monetary
Sanctions Against The Hatch Group, Inc., Hector Vasques and Their Attorney of
Record, Neda Cate, Esq., in the Sum of $3,750 is GRANTED in part in the
amount of $3,750 against The Hatch
Group, Inc. and counsel, Neda Cate, Esq. (SBN 274971) alone.
Defendant The Hatch Group, Inc. and counsel, Neda Cate, Esq. (SBN
274971), are ordered, jointly and severally, to remit sanctions of $3,750 to
Plaintiff Calima Electric, Inc. within 30 days of this order. 