 Case Number:  21STCV24789    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PHYSICIAN ASSISTANT, RTAL INC., a California corporation,
  JOHN NICHOLAS BARTOLOZZI, an individual,
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
UNITED LAB SERVICES INC., a California corporation,
  ANABELLE MYERS, an individual, and DOES 1-10,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  21STCV24789
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 5, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  2



 
 
 
Plaintiffs and Judgment Creditors Physician
Assistant, RTAL Inc., a California Corporation, and John Nicholas Bartolozzi
move for a Motion for Assignment Order and for Order Restraining Judgment
Debtor.  
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Assignment Order and for Order Restraining Judgment Debtor.  
 
 
Background
 
          On July 6, 2021, Plaintiffs/Judgment Creditors
Physician Assistant, RTAL Inc., a California Corporation and John Nicholas
Bartolozzi (“Creditors”) filed the instant action against Defendants/Judgment
Debtors United Lab Services Inc., a California corporation, Anabelle Myers, an
individual, (collectively “Debtors”) and DOES 1-10.  The Complaint asserted causes of action for: 
 
(1)  Breach of Contract
(2)  Breach of the Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing
(3)  Open Book Account
(4)  Account Stated
(5)  Unethical Business Practices in
Violation of California Business & Professions Code § 17200. 
 
On January 17, 2023, the Court
granted Creditors’ judgment in the total amount of $76,648.55 against Debtors.  
 
On March 9, 2023, Creditors filed
the instant Motion for Order of Assignment of Payments and for Order
Restraining Judgment Debtor from Assigning or Otherwise Disposing of the Right
to Payments (the “Motion”).  Creditors
filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to their Motion on May 19, 2023.  On May 31, 2023, Debtors filed an untimely opposition
with no proof of service attached.   
 
The instant motion was set for a
hearing on June 1, 2023, but was reset for July 25, 2023.  On July 13, 2023, the hearing was reset for
October 5, 2023. 
 
Legal Standard for Assignment Order
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 708.510(a)¿states, in¿relevant¿part:¿ 
 
(a) Except as otherwise
provided by law, upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion,
the court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or
to a receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with¿Section 708.610)
all or part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the
right is conditioned on future developments, including but not limited to the
following types of payments: 
(1) Wages due from the
federal government that are not subject to withholding under an
earnings
withholding order. 
(2) Rents. 
(3) Commissions. 
(4) Royalties. 
(5) Payments due from a
patent or copyright. 
(6) Insurance policy loan
value. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 708.510(c) further provides: 
 
[I]n determining whether to
order an assignment or the amount of an assignment pursuant to subdivision (a),
the court may take into consideration all relevant factors, including the
following: 
(1) The reasonable
requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of persons
supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor. 
(2) Payments the judgment
debtor is required to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of other
judgments and wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for
support. 
(3) The amount remaining due
on the money judgment. 
(4) The amount being or to
be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned. 
 
Legal Standard for Order Restraining
Judgment Debtor 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 708.520 provides that “[w]hen an application is made pursuant
to¿Section 708.510¿or thereafter, the judgment creditor may apply to the court
for an order restraining the judgment debtor from assigning or otherwise
disposing of the right to payment that is sought to be assigned.”¿(Code Civ.
Proc., § 708.520(a).)¿“The court may issue an order pursuant to this section
upon a showing of need for the order.” (Id., § 708.520(b).) 
 
Discussion
 
          On January
17, 2023, a judgment was entered in favor of Creditors and against Debtors.  (Cohen Decl., ¶ 6.  As of March 9, 2023, the amount due and owing
is $77,719.53, including accrued interest plus post-judgment costs incurred.  (Id. at ¶ 7.) 
The judgment is final, and enforcement thereof is not stayed.  (Id. at ¶ 8.)
          Creditors now move for
assignment of rights to payment of money from Debtors’ vendors and customers,
as well as other various sources, “not yet ascertained at anytime in the future
until the Judgment has been satisfied in full.” 
(Cohen Decl., ¶ 9.)  Judgment
Debtors oppose on the grounds that Judgment Creditors rely on CCP § 708.510 as
a “Blanket” assignment order.  (Opp., Pg. 2.)  Judgment
Debtors argue that since Judgment Creditors failed to identify any persons or
entities from which Judgment Debtor has a right of payment, their motion for
assignment order should be denied.  (Opp., Pg. 2.) 

Creditors also seek an order
restraining Debtors and/or any servant, agent, subsidiary, employee, or
attorney of Debtors and/or any person in concert and participating with Debtors
from encumbering, assigning, disposing, or spending its interest in all rights
to payment thereunder until judgment has been satisfied in full.  (Cohen Decl, ¶ 10.)  Creditors do not provide any justification
for restraint.  Debtors argue the
restraining order fails because Creditors have failed to identify assignable
property belonging to Debtors that is subject to CCP § 708.510. 
Section 708.510 provides a new procedure for
reaching certain forms of property that cannot be reached by levy under a writ
of execution, such as the nonexempt loan value of an unmatured life insurance,
endowment, or annuity policy. (16 Cal. Law Revision Com. Rep. (1982) p. 1525.)
It also provides an optional procedure for reaching assignable forms of
property that are subject to levy, such as accounts receivable, general
intangibles, judgments, and instruments.¿(Ibid.) This section does not
make any property assignable that is not already assignable. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Creditors do not
identify the property they seek to assign. Therefore, the Court cannot
adjudicate Creditors’ motion. Further, as discussed above, the code does not
permit a “blanket” assignment order.  
 
Additionally, Creditors do
not state why they need a restraining order. Further, Creditors did not
personally serve Debtors with the restraining order and did not include a
notice that "failure to comply with the order
may subject the judgment debtor to being held in contempt of court."¿(Code
Civ. Proc., §708.520, subd. (d).) 
 
Considering the foregoing,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order of
Assignment of Payments and for Order Restraining Judgment Debtor from Assigning
or Otherwise Disposing of the Right to Payments is denied.  
 
It is so ordered. 
          
 