

TENTATIVE
Defendants’ Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff to
Submit to an Independent Medical Examination and their Request for Sanctions in
the Amount of $4,515.00 are both DENIED.
 
 

Background
This
case arises out of allegations of sexual harassment and gender discrimination.
Lylonnie Correa (“Plaintiff”) alleges that while working at El Pollo Loco
restaurant, owned by W.K.S. Restaurant Corporation, Nathan Olivares
(“Olivares”) sexually harassed her on multiple occasions. (Complaint, ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff alleges that she informed Olivares the sexual harassment was
unwelcome and informed two separate managers but was only met with reduced
hours. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7, 8, and 14.) After no corrective action was taken,
Plaintiff sent management a letter on January 11, 2022, informing them that she
would be resigning within a week if Olivares was not disciplined. (Complaint, ¶
10.) Human resources for the restaurant called Plaintiff, acknowledged receipt
of her letter, and stated they were going to investigate. (Complaint, ¶ 11.)
The investigation concluded that no sexual harassment had occurred. (Complaint,
¶ 12.) Plaintiff considered her employment terminated by January 26, 2022.     
 
The
initial Complaint was filed by Plaintiff on February 2, 2022. W.K.S. Restaurant
Corporation and Olivares (collectively, “Defendants”) filed the instant Motion
for an Order Compelling Plaintiff to Submit to an Independent medical
Examination and Request for Sanctions in the Amount of $4,515.00 (“Motion”) on September
6, 2023. An opposition (“Opposition Papers”) was filed on September 26, 2023.
No reply was filed.  
 
Discussion
 
Legal
Standard
The governing
rule is CCP § 2032.020 which provides: “(a) Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
2019.010), by means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the
action, (2) an agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or
under the legal control of a party, in any action in which the mental or
physical condition (including the blood group) of that party or other person is
in controversy in the action.”
 
CCP §
2032.250(b) provides that: “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with
a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
Analysis
Defendants
argue that because Plaintiff placed her mental and emotional health at issue
via her Complaint, they are entitled to conduct an independent medical
examination (IME) of Plaintiff’s mental health status as per CCP § 2032.020.
Although Defendant is correct, Plaintiff argues pursuant to CCP § 2032.320(b) – CCP §
2032.320(c)(2), the Court shall not order a mental examination if (1) no claim
is being made for mental and emotional distress over and above that usually
associated with the physical injuries claimed, and (2) no expert testimony
regarding this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial
in support of the claim for damages.
 
In her
Opposition Papers, Plaintiff states both stipulations clearly. Additionally,
the Court sees no showing of exceptional circumstances.    
 
Conclusion
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for an Order Compelling
Plaintiff to Submit to an Independent Medical Examination and their Request for
Sanctions in the Amount of $4,515.00 are both DENIED.
 
Defednants
are ordered to give notice.  
 
 