 Case Number:  23STCP01926    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



IN RE GREAT PLAINS MANAGEMENT CORPORATION, 
 
                                  Petitioner,
  
         
 


 Case No:  23STCP01926
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 5, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  5



 
 
 
Petitioner and Transferee Great Plains
Management Corporation (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition for Approval for
Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights (the “Petition”). 
 
The Court GRANTS the Petition. 
 
 
Background
 
          On May 31, 2023, Petitioner filed the Petition seeking approval of
transfer of structured settlement payment rights.  Payee Teresa Vidaurre (“Vidaurre”) will
transfer to Petitioner future payments totaling $136,800.00 in exchange for a
purchase price of $86,480.00. According to the Petition: (1) Vidaurre entered
into a structured settlement agreement as defined in Ins. Code § 10134(j) for
the settlement of claim for damages arising in connection with a personal
injury claim (Petition at ¶ 1); (2) the structured settlement agreed to by the
Payee provides for certain lump sum and/or periodic payments (Id. at ¶
2); (3) the original underlying party initially required to make payments to
the Payee pursuant to the terms of the structured settlement agreement is New
York Life Insurance & Annuity Corp., who is the structured settlement
obligor (Id. t ¶ 3); (4) in order to fulfill its obligation to make
structured settlement payments to Vidaurre, New York Life Insurance &
Annuity Corp. purchased an annuity contract from New York Life Insurance
Company who is the annuity issuer (Id. at ¶ 4); (5) concurrently with
the purchase of the annuity contract, New York Life Insurance & Annuity
Corp. may have also entered into a separate Qualified Assignment Agreement
pursuant to Cal. Ins. Code § 10134(i) (Id. at ¶ 5); and (6) Vidaurre and
Petitioner have entered into a proposed Transfer Agreement as further defined
in Ins. Code § 10134(o) for the sale of the structured settlement payment
rights (Id. at ¶ 6). 
 
          On
July 19, 2023, Petitioner filed and served a Notice of Errata and Errata to the
Petition stating that it was being filed to reflect the correct the true and
correct name of the Vidaurre. Petitioner also filed and served the declaration
of Vidaurre in support of the Petition on July 19, 2023. Petitioner also filed
and served a Notice of Supplemental Filings in Compliance with Ins. Code §
10139.5(F)(2) on July 19, 2023. The Notice of Supplemental Filings includes,
among other documents, the Proposed Transfer Agreement, a copy of the
California Disclosure Statement, a listing of payee dependents together with
their age, and the Annuity Contract. 
 
          On
July 31, 2023, Petitioner filed and served the Petition, Notice of Hearing, and
Notice of Supplemental Filings on Interested Party stating that Karen Vidaurre
is an additional interested party to the transfer, as well as a proof of
service indicating that Karen Vidaurre was served with the aforementioned
documents on July 27, 2023. On July 31, 2023, Petitioner filed and served a
Notice of Waiver from Karen Vidaurre which states that Karen Vidaurre consents
to the transfer and that the transfer may proceed without her being present at
the hearing. 
 
          The
Petition is unopposed. 
                     
Discussion
 
          Compliance
with California Insurance Code, Section 10139.5(f)(1)
          
Under California Insurance Code, Section
10139.5(f)(1), all petitions for approval of transfer of structured settlement
payment rights must be filed by the transferee in the county where the payee is
residing at the time of the agreement, or if the payee is domiciled outside of
California, in the county of the settlement obligor or annuity issuer. 
 
The declaration of Vidaurre in support of the
Petition states that she resides in Los Angeles County, California. Therefore,
the Court finds that the Petition was filed in the correct county and venue is
proper.  
 
Compliance with California Insurance Code,
Section 10139.5(f)(2)
 
          California
Insurance Code, Section 10139.5(f)(2) provides that not less than 20
days prior to the scheduled hearing on any petition for approval of a transfer
of structured settlement payment rights under this article, the transferee
shall file with the court and serve on all interested parties a notice of the
proposed transfer and the petition for its authorization.  Included with the notice of the proposed
transfer, a transferee must include a listing of each of the payee’s
dependents, together with each dependent’s age. 
(Cal. Ins. Code § 10139.5(f)(2)(C).) 
Cal. Ins. Code § 10139.5(f)(2)(A) requires the transferee to file with
court and serve on interested parties “[a] copy of the transferee’s current
petition and any other prior petition, whether approved or withdrawn, that was
filed with the court in accordance with paragraph (6) of subdivision (c).”  Information regarding previous transfers or
attempted transfers may be provided by providing copies of pleadings,
transaction documents, or orders involving any previous attempted or completed
transfer or providing the court a summary of available information regarding
any previous transfer or attempted transfer. 
(Cal. Ins. Code § 10139.5(c)(6).) 

 
          Petitioner
has filed the proposed transfer agreement (Notice of Supplemental Filings at
Exhibit A) and the disclosure form required by California Insurance Code,
Section 10136(b) (Id. at Exhibit B). The declaration of Vidaurre states
that she is widowed and has no minor children and Petitioner has provided a
list stating that Vidaurre has no dependents. 
(Vidaurre Decl. at ¶ 2; Notice of Supplemental Filings at Exhibit C.)  Petitioner has provided the Court with the
Qualified Assignment and Release (Notice of Supplemental Filings at Exhibit E.)
Counsel for Petitioner, Eugene A. Ahtirski, declares that all attempts to
locate the underlying settlement agreement have been unsuccessful and that reasonable
efforts have been made to locate the settlement agreement. (Notice of
Supplemental Filings at Exhibit E.) 
 
          Thus,
the Petition complies with California Insurance Code, Section
10139.5(f)(2).  All procedural
requirements have been satisfied. 
 
Compliance with California
Insurance Code, Section 10139.5 
Under California Insurance Code,
Section 10139.5, a transfer of structured settlement payment rights is not
effective unless the transfer has been approved in advance in a final court
order.  In order to approve the transfer,
the Court must make the following findings pursuant to California Insurance
Code, Section 10139.5:
 
1) The transfer is in the best
interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the
payee's dependents.
          
2) The payee has been advised in
writing by the transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the
transfer and has either received that advice or knowingly waived that advice in
writing.
          
3) The transferee has provided the
payee with a disclosure form that complies with Insurance Code section 10136
and the transfer agreement complies with Insurance Code sections 10136 and
10138.
          
4) The transfer does not
contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or other government
authority.
          
5) The payee reasonably
understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth
in the disclosure statement required by Insurance Code section 10136.
          
6) The payee reasonably
understands and does not wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel the
transfer agreement.
          
According to the declaration of Vidaurre
in support of the Petition:
(1) she is 75 years old, widowed
with no minor children, and has never been under any court order to pay child
or spousal support to any individual entity or agency (Vidaurre Decl., ¶ 2); (2)
she is currently facing financial hardship and has agreed to sell a portion of
her interests in her structured settlement to the Petitioner to reduce that
hardship (Id., ¶ 3); (3) the original structured settlement was the
result of the settlement of a personal injury claim for her husband who was
injured at work and lost both of his arms (Id., ¶ 4); (4) she has no
medical issues that require future annuity payments and the future structured
settlement payments that she is now selling were not intended to be used to pay
for future medical care or medical treatment (Id.); (5) she has not
completed any prior transfers (Id.); and (6) if approved, she will
receive the sum of $86,480.00 in exchange for the sale and transfer of 100
monthly payments in the amount of $1,368.00 which will become due and payable
commencing July 1, 2023 through October 1, 2031 (Id., ¶ 5). 
 
Vidaurre further declares that she
believes the amount is fair and reasonable. (Id., ¶ 6). Vidaurre also
states that: (1) the funds from this transfer are necessary because she has
several goals that she will not be able to accomplish without the use of the
monies such as repairing and restoring her home, paying down unsecured credit
card debt, and paying down medical bills (Id., ¶ 7); (2) she read and
received the written disclosure and was advised therein to seek independent
legal or financial advice from an accountant or lawyer as to the implications
of the transfer (Id., ¶ 11); (3) she has decided to waive that advice (Id.);
(4) she understands the nature and terms of the transfer agreement, the
transfer itself, and the terms set forth in the disclosure statement (Id.,
¶ 12); (5) she is entering into the transaction with Petitioner under he own
free will and volition (Id.); (6) she does not wish to cancel the transfer
agreement (Id.); and (7) she received and reviewed copies of the
purchase agreement offered by Petitioner, a copy of the Petition, a copy of all
disclosures required by California Insurance Code, Section 10136, and an
advisory statement of her rights to seek independent counsel and financial
advice in connection with the Petition. (Id.)  Vidaurre states that the proposed transfer of
structured settlement payment rights is in her best interest. (Id. ¶
14.)
Petitioner provided a disclosure
form that complies with California Insurance Code, Section 10136 (Notice
of Supplemental Filings at Exhibit B) and a transfer agreement that complies
with California Insurance Code, Sections 10136 and 10138 (Notice of
Supplemental Filings at Exhibit A.)  The
transfer will not contravene any applicable statute or known order of a Court
or other governmental authority.  
 
A review of the Petition reveals
that it includes the evidence necessary to make the findings required under
California Insurance Code, Section 10139.5. 
 
The Petition is therefore GRANTED.

Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 
 