 Case Number:  23STCV09705    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ALEJANDRO TORRES,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
MIRNA MARTINEZ, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  23STCV09705
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 5, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  7



 
 
 
Defendant Mirna Martinez (“Defendant”) filed a
demurrer to Plaintiff’s unlawful detainer complaint. 
 
Defendant’s demurrer
to the complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Background
 
          On May 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed an unlawful detainer complaint
against Defendants. The complaint arises from an alleged failure to pay rent.
The complaint alleges that Defendants were served with a 3-Day Notice to Pay
Rent or Quit (the “Notice”) and that Defendants failed to comply with the
Notice. The Notice is attached as Exhibit 2 to the complaint. Proof of service
as to the Notice is attached as Exhibit 3 to the complaint. 
 
          On
May 18, 2023, Defendant Mirna Martinez (“Defendant”) filed a demurer to the
complaint. Defendant’s demurrer is made on the following grounds:  (1) the complaint is not verified; (2)
Plaintiff failed to comply with proper legal procedure to open an unlawful
detainer case due to a failure to comply with the amended Covid-19 Tenant
Protections Resolution; and (3) Plaintiff failed to comply with proper legal
procedure to open an unlawful detainer case due to a failure to file a copy of
the notice terminating tenancy with the Los Angeles Housing Department pursuant
to Los Angeles Municipal Code, Sections 151.09.C.9 and 165.05.B.5. 
 
          In
opposition to the demurrer, Plaintiff contends that: (1) Plaintiff properly
pled their cause of action for unlawful detainer based on non-payment of rent;
(2) a general demurrer will be overruled where the pleading, liberally
construed, and accepted as true, states any viable claim for relief under any
theory; and (3) in event that the Court is inclined to sustain the demurrer,
Plaintiff requests leave to amend. No reply brief was filed.
 
Deficiencies in Defendant’s Demurrer
 
          Initially,
the Court finds that Defendant has failed to provide reasoned argument with
citations to authority to support a ground for the demurrer raised in the
notice of motion.  Defendant contends
that Plaintiff failed to comply with proper legal
procedure to open an unlawful detainer case due to a failure to comply with the
amended Covid-19 Tenant Protections Resolution; however, the memorandum of
points and authorities in support of the demurrer neither sets forth a citation
to legal authority on such point nor reasoned argument on such point and the
Court finds that Defendant has waived such contention under Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215. 

           
Legal Standard
 
           In an unlawful detainer action, on or before
the day fixed for his appearance, the defendant may appear and answer or
demur.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1170.) A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.”  (Ibid.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.
App. 3d 902, 905.) Accordingly, “[w]hether the plaintiff will be able to prove
the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.) A general demurrer may
be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) Although
Courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to
support the allegations plead to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.
California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
 
          Where
a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff
to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state
a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240,
245).  
 
 
Discussion
          
Deficiencies in Defendant’s Demurrer
 
          Deficiencies
in Defendant’s Demurrer
 
          With
a single exception discussed in the section, Defendant has not supported any of
the assertions in the demurrer.  It
appears that the demurrer uses boilerplate argument that do not apply in a
logical way to the allegations here.  
 
For example, Defendant’s first ground for
demurrer state that “there is no lawfully verified complaint on file.”  (Demurrer at 3:6-9.)  However, contrary to this statement, the
verification is attached to the complaint.
 
As to all the other issues raised by the
demurrer with the exception of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, Defendant has
failed to provide reasoned argument with citations to authority to support a
ground for the demurrer raised in the notice of motion.  Defendant asserts that Plaintiff failed to
comply with proper legal procedure to open an unlawful detainer case due to a
failure to comply with the amended Covid-19 Tenant Protections Resolution;
however, the memorandum of points and authorities in support of the demurrer
neither sets forth a citation to legal authority on such point nor reasoned
argument on such point and the Court finds that Defendant has waived such
contentions (Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support
them with reasoned argument and citations to authority”].)
 
Applicability of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff
failed to comply with Los Angeles Municipal Code, Sections 151.09.C.9
and 165.05.B.5. Plaintiff’s opposition to the demurrer fails to address such
argument. 
Los
Angeles Municipal Code, Section 151.09.C.9 provides that in an action to
recover possession of a rental unit, the landlord shall serve on the tenant a
written notice setting forth the reasons for the termination and “[a] copy of
any written notice terminating a tenancy shall be filed with the Department
within three business days of service on the tenant.” Los Angeles Municipal
Code, Section 165.05.B.5 provides that in an action to recover possession
of a rental unit, the landlord shall serve on the tenant a written notice
setting forth the reasons for the termination and “[a] copy of any written
notice terminating a tenancy shall be filed with the Department within three
business days of service on the tenant.” 
Here, the complaint alleges that Defendants rented the Premises and that
the Premises are in the city limits of Los Angeles. The Los Angeles Municipal
Code requires that a copy of a written notice to terminate tenancy be filed
with the Department of Housing. Plaintiff’s opposition does not respond to the
argument of Defendant that Plaintiff failed to comply with the Los Angeles
Municipal Code and therefore the complaint is defective. The complaint does not
allege compliance with the aforementioned Municipal Code sections.  By not addressing Defendant’s argument,
Plaintiff has conceded the point.    
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the complaint is therefore SUSTAINED with 20 days
leave to amend.
 
          Defendant is ordered to
give notice. 
          