  Case Number:  22STCV05079    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Assured Lender Services, Inc.’s Demurrer with
Motion to Strike
Assured Lender Services, Inc.’s Demurrer is sustained.
The Motion to Strike is denied as moot.  
Plaintiffs Niki Alexander Shetty and Adina Zaharescu
brought this case against Defendants Thomas Block, S.B.S. Trust Deed Network,
New Haven Financial, Inc., Sue Emrek, and Doe defendants 1 to 20, related to
Defendants’ involvement with a loan and deed of trust for the property at 4351
La Barca Drive, Tarzana, California (the “Property“). Plaintiffs’ causes of
action in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) are: (1) Wrongful Foreclosure; (2)
Quiet Title; (3) Cancellation of Instrument; (4) Declaratory Relief; (5)
Violation of Regulation Z of the Truth in Lending Act; (6) Fraud; (7)
Accounting; and (8) Unfair Business Practices. 
On March 24, 2022, S.B.S. Trust Deed Network (“SBS”)
filed a declaration of nonmonetary status. Plaintiffs did not file an objection.

On February 20, 2024, the Court granted motions for summary
judgment filed by Defendants Block and Emrek based on its determination that
one or more elements of each of Plaintiffs’ claims failed as a matter of law. 
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an amendment to
the FAC naming Assured Lender Services, Inc. (“ALS”) as Doe 1.
On April 29, 2024, ALS served and filed a declaration
of nonmonetary status. On May 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an objection to ALS’s
declaration. 
The motion now before the Court is ALS’s Demurrer with
Motion to Strike.  Plaintiffs did not
file an opposition.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
The Court grants ALS’s Request for Judicial Notice in
its entirety.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Demurrer
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the
complaint states a cause of action. Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747. When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally,
and any defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper
judicial notice. Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
968, 994. A demurrer tests the pleadings alone, not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d
902, 905. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.30, 430.70. The only
issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.
Motion to Strike
A motion to strike lies only where the pleading has
irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. Code Civ. Proc. § 436. Motions to strike are used to
reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer
(i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). §§ 435, 436. The policy of
the law is to construe the pleadings “liberally … with a view to substantial
justice.” § 452. In ruling on a motion to strike, the allegations in the
complaint are considered in context and presumed to be true. “[J]udges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” Clauson v. Sup.Ct. (Pedus
Services, Inc.) (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
Section 2924l
ALS argues that Plaintiffs’ claims against it are
barred by Civil Code Section 2924l.[1] 
“The trustee in nonjudicial foreclosure is not a true
trustee with fiduciary duties, but rather a common agent for the trustor and
beneficiary.“ Kachlon v. Markowitz (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 316, 335)
(citations omitted).  Section 2924l,
subdivision (a), provides, in relevant part, that “In the event that a trustee
under a deed of trust is named in an action or proceeding in which that deed of
trust is the subject, and in the event that the trustee maintains a reasonable
belief that it has been named in the action or proceeding solely in its
capacity as trustee, and not arising out of any wrongful acts or omissions on
its part in the performance of its duties as trustee, then, at any time, the
trustee may file a declaration of nonmonetary status….” Parties have fifteen
days from the service of the declaration to object, and “[a]ny objection shall
set forth the factual basis on which the objection is based….” § 2924l, subd.
(c). 
“In the event that no objection is served within the
15-day objection period, the trustee shall not be required to participate any
further in the action or proceeding, shall not be subject to any monetary
awards as and for damages, attorneys’ fees or costs, shall be required to
respond to any discovery requests as a nonparty, and shall be bound by any
court order relating to the subject deed of trust that is the subject of the
action or proceeding.” § 2924l, subd. (d). 
After the time to object expires, if a
party “determine[s] that the trustee should participate in the action because
of the performance of its duties as a trustee, the parties may file and serve
on all parties and the trustee a motion pursuant to Section 473 of the
Code of Civil Procedure that specifies the factual basis for the demand.
Upon the court’s granting of the motion, the trustee shall thereafter be
required to participate in the action or proceeding…” § 2924l, subd. (e). “For
purposes of this section, ‘trustee’ includes … substituted
trustees and agents of the beneficiary or trustee.” § 2924l, subd. (g).
Here, SBS was the trustee under the deed
of trust at the time the FAC was filed. SBS filed a declaration of nonmonetary
interest, and Plaintiffs failed to object. Therefore, regarding this action,
SBS is only a nominal defendant, not liable for monetary damages or attorney’s
fees, and is not required to participate in these proceedings.
The Court takes judicial notice of the fact that on
March 8, 2024, after receiving judgment in his favor, Defendant Block, the
beneficiary of the deed of trust, recorded a substitution of trustee naming ALS
as substituted trustee under the deed of trust. RJN at p. 89; Ex 4. While
section 2924l, subdivision (g), provides that “‘trustee’ includes … substituted
trustees,” it is unclear from the text alone if a substituted trustee,
subsequently named as a defendant, is required to file a new declaration of nonmonetary
interest. Considering the purpose of section 2924l, to limit the required
participation of trustees, including substituted trustees, the Court concludes
that a substituted trustee is not required to file a new declaration. This interpretation
is supported by section 2934a subdivision (d)(1), which provides, “A trustee
named in a recorded substitution of trustee shall be deemed to be authorized to
act as the trustee under the mortgage or deed of trust for all
purposes from the date the substitution is executed by the mortgagee,
beneficiaries, or by their authorized agents.” (Emphasis added). Moreover, a
trustee is generally not required to submit a new declaration of nonmonetary
interest after the complaint is amended. See Bae v. T.D. Service Co. of
Arizona (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 89, 105, fn. 14. Therefore, the Court
concludes that neither the substitution of trustees nor Plaintiffs’ naming ASL as
a defendant required ASL to file a new declaration of nonmonetary
interest.  
Though not required to do so, ASL filed a declaration
of nonmonetary interest, which Plaintiffs timely objected to. However, Plaintiffs’
objection is deficient for two reasons. First, as discussed above, ASL is
entitled to the protection of section 2924l based on SBS’s unopposed declaration
of nonmonetary interest. Because the fifteen-day window to object to SBS’s
declaration has passed, Plaintiffs can only require ASL to participate by
filing “a motion pursuant to Section 473 of the Code of Civil Procedure that
specifies the factual basis for the demand.” § 2924l, subd. (e). Plaintiffs
failed to file such a motion. Second, Plaintiffs’ objection did not “set forth
the factual basis on which the objection is based.” § 2924l, subd. (c).
Accordingly, ASL is entitled to the protections of § 2924l, is only a nominal
defendant not subject to monetary awards and is not required to participate in these
proceedings. Moreover, ASL is bound by the Court’s order granting
summary judgment to Block and Emrek, which previously rejected Plaintiffs’ claims
on these issues. See § 2924l, subd. (d). 
Because ASL is not liable for money judgments and is
bound by the Court’s previous judgment, Plaintiffs’ complaint does not and
cannot allege facts entailing them to relief. Accordingly, ASL’s demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend. 
Collateral Estoppel
ASL further argues that the Plaintiffs’ claims are likewise
barred by collateral estoppel. 
Where “all of the facts necessary to show that an
action is barred by [collateral estoppel] are within the complaint or subject
to judicial notice, a trial court may properly sustain a general demurrer.” Shine
v. Williams-Sonoma, Inc. (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 1070, 1076-1077. 
“Collateral estoppel, or issue preclusion, ‘precludes
relitigation of issues argued and decided in prior proceedings.’” Gabriel v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 547, 556 (quoting, Mycogen
Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 896). “Collateral estoppel
precludes the relitigation of an issue only if (1) the issue is identical to an
issue decided in a prior proceeding; (2) the issue was actually litigated; (3)
the issue was necessarily decided; (4) the decision in the prior proceeding is
final and on the merits; and (5) the party against whom collateral estoppel is
asserted was a party to the prior proceeding or in privity with a party to the
prior proceeding.” Zevnik v. Superior Court (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 76,
82.
Here, all elements of collateral estoppel are present
based on this Court’s order granting summary judgment. There, the Court held
that Plaintiffs’ claims failed as a matter of law because “the undisputed facts
show that each of the claims have no merit[.]” That grant of summary judgment constitutes
(1) a final adjudication, (2) of identical issues, (3) that were actually
litigated, (4) necessarily decided, and (5) against Plaintiffs. Accordingly, Plaintiffs
are precluded from relitigating those issues against ASL. 
The Court sustains ASL’s Demurrer without leave to
amend and denies its Motion to Strike as moot.
CONCLUSION
ASL’s Demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. The
Motion to Strike is denied as moot. 


