  Case Number:  22PSCV01124    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Great  New World Equity LLC v. Zhou’s Investment & Management, Inc., dba The  Noodle  Plaintiff  Great New World Equity LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment, subject  to Defendant providing evidence of the existence of a triable issue of material  fact.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is an unlawful detainer action. On September 29, 2022, plaintiff  Great New World Equity LLC (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Zhou’s  Investment & Management, Inc., dba The Noodle (Defendant), alleging the  sole cause of action for unlawful detainer.  On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for summary judgment.  On March 27, 2024, Defendant opposed Plaintiff’s discovery motions. Defendant  has not opposed the motion for summary judgment as of the time this tentative  ruling was prepared, but the Court will still consider any opposition Defendant  may file before or may make orally at the hearing. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1351, subd. (b).)  LEGAL STANDARD – Summary Judgment  Motions for summary judgment may be made in  unlawful detainer actions upon five days’ notice, and are to otherwise be  decided according to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1170.7.) The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th  826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires  the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and  ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by  other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,  italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The  function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the  scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to  disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited  by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th  59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d  367, 381-382.)  “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is  always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no  triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)  128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A plaintiff moving for summary judgment or summary  adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to  a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action  entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff ...  has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant  ... to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the  cause of action or a defense thereto. The defendant … shall not rely upon the  allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of  material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing  that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the  cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “[A] plaintiff bears the burden of persuasion that ‘each  element of’ the ‘cause of action’ in question has been ‘proved,’ and hence that  ‘there is no defense’ thereto.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850,  citing Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(1).)”  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in  support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning  the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.  (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  DISCUSSION –  Motion for Summary Judgment  Summary of Material Facts  In December 2011, Plaintiff’s predecessor-in-interest entered into  a written commercial lease agreement (the Lease) for the subject property  located at 19755 E. Colima Road, Unit C, Rowland Heights, CA 91748 (the  Premises) for 240 months. (SSF 1.) The currently monthly rent is $13,996.08.  (SSF 3.) In 2015, Plaintiff acquired title to the Premises. (SSF 4.) In 2018,  Defendant executed a tenant estoppel certificate confirming that Plaintiff and  Defendant were not in default performing under the Lease, and there were no  disputes concerning the Lease, the Premises or any improvements. (SSF 5.)  In June 2021, Defendant submitted a letter to Plaintiff asking for  $90,190.97 for reimbursement in the form of offset rent regarding tenant  improvements dating back to 2012. (SSF 6.) Plaintiff rejected the request, and  Defendant stopped paying rent for several months before resuming payments in  October 2021. (SSF 7-8.) Defendant still failed to pay the outstanding balance  of unpaid rent from March through September 2022, and owes $90,190.97 as a  result. (SSF 11.)  On September 23, 2022, Plaintiff served a three-day notice to pay  rent or quit (the 3-Day Notice) for the $90,190.97 in past due rent. (SSF  12-13.) Defendant has not paid the past due rent. (SSF 14.) There is no written  contract between the parties that provides for Plaintiff agreeing to reimburse  Defendant for tenant improvement costs incurred in 2012, and the Lease does not  provide for tenant improvement allowance. (SSF 15, 17.) Defendant is still  occupying the Premises. (SSF 16.)  Analysis  “’The basic elements of unlawful detainer for nonpayment  of rent ... are (1) the tenant is in possession  of the premises; (2) that  possession is  without permission; (3) the tenant is in default for nonpayment  of rent; (4) the tenant has been properly served with a written three-day notice;  and (5) the default continues  after the three-day notice period has elapsed.’  [Citation.]” (KB Salt Lake III, LLC v. Fitness Int'l, LLC (2023) 95  Cal.App.5th 1032, 1045.)  Plaintiff contends the undisputed evidence shows that: (1)  Plaintiff owns and leases the Premises, (SSF 1, 4); (2) Plaintiff leased the Premises  to Defendant, (SSF 1); (3) Defendant was obligated under the Lease to pay  monthly rent, which is currently $13,996.08, (SSF 2, 3); (4) Plaintiff properly  gave Defendant three days’ written notice to pay the rent or vacate the Premises,  (SSF 12); (5) as of September 23, 2022, Defendant owed at least $90,190.97 as  stated in the three-day notice, (SSF 12); (6) Defendant did not pay, (SSF 14);  and (7) Defendant is still occupying the Premises, (SS 16).  Plaintiff contends Defendant has an independent covenant to pay  rent, and cannot use any purported setoff from tenant improvements as an  affirmative defense or justification for nonpayment of rent, and that the issue  of offset should be addressed in the related action. Plaintiff also contends  the Lease provides no contractual obligations for Plaintiff to reimburse  Defendant’s tenant improvement costs, which is affirmed by the 2018 tenant  estoppel certificate Defendant executed. Plaintiff further contends no verbal  agreement regarding reimbursement would be enforceable per the statute of  frauds. The Court finds Plaintiff  has established the absence of a defense to the unlawful detainer claim.  Plaintiff has provided evidence of the Lease, its ownership of the Premises,  Defendant’s failure to pay past due rent following receipt of the three-day  notice, and Defendant’s continued possession of the Premises. (SSF 1-4, 12, 14,  16; KB Salt Lake III, LLC, supra, 95 Cal.App.5th at p. 1045.) The law also clearly  states that the tenant cannot use an unrelated debt of the landlord to the  tenant to setoff past due rent. (Nork v. Pacific Coast Medical Enterprises,  Inc. (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 410, 415 [“A tenant may not  claim an earlier unrelated debt owed by the landlord as a setoff for past due  rent.”]) There also does not appear to be anything in the Lease that provides  Defendant with the right to be reimbursed for tenant improvements. (Compendium  of Evidence, Ex. 2.) Additionally, Defendant executed the 2018 tenant estoppel  certificate, which indicates that there are no disputes between the parties  concerning the Lease, the Premises, or any improvements thereon. (Id.,  Ex. 7.) The Court therefore finds  Plaintiff has met its moving burden. The burden now shifts to Defendant to  establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact. The Court will  consider any opposition Defendant may file before the hearing or may make  orally at the hearing before reaching its final decision herein. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1351, subd. (b).) Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for  summary judgment, subject to Defendant providing evidence of the existence of a  triable issue of material fact.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment, subject  to Defendant providing evidence of the existence of a triable issue of material  fact.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.CASE NAME:  Great  New World Equity LLC v. Zhou’s Investment & Management, Inc., dba The  Noodle 1.       Great New World Equity LLC’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form  Interrogatories (Set One); and2.       Great New World Equity LLC’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission  (Set One) Admitted. TENTATIVE  RULING If no verified responses were served prior to the hearing, the  Court will GRANT Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories  (Set One) and motion to deem Requests for Admission (Set One) admitted. The  truth of the matters specified in Requests for Admission (Set One) will be  deemed admitted and conclusively established as to Defendant. Defendant will  also be ordered to serve complete and verified responses, without objection, to  Form Interrogatories (Set One) within 5 days of the Court’s order. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.              The Court notes that the granting of  Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment will render these discovery motions  moot. BACKGROUND This is an unlawful detainer action. On September 29, 2022, plaintiff  Great New World Equity LLC (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Zhou’s  Investment & Management, Inc., dba The Noodle (Defendant), alleging the  sole cause of action for unlawful detainer. On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel responses to  Form Interrogatories (Set One) and motion to deem Requests for Admission (Set  One) admitted. On March 27, 2024, Defendant opposed these motions. Plaintiff  did not reply. LEGAL STANDARD – Discovery Motions             When a party fails to serve a timely response to  interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an  order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party  who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one  based on privilege or work product. (Id.,  § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances  make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id.,  § 2030.290, subd. (c).)             When a party fails to serve  a timely response to a request for admission, the party propounding the request  for admission may move for an order to deem the genuineness of any documents  and the truth of any matters specified in the requests admitted. (Code Civ.  Proc., §¿2033.280, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response  waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id.,  § 2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court shall make this order,  unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been  directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to  the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section  2033.220. It is mandatory that the court  impose a monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to  serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Id.,  § 2033.280, subd. (c).) DISCUSSION             Plaintiff served Form  Interrogatories (Set One) and Requests for Admission (Set One) on Defendant on  January 3, 2024. (Wu Decls., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff granted Defendant an extension  until February 23, 2024, to respond to this written discovery, but Defendant  failed to respond. (Id., ¶¶ 5-8.) Defendant acknowledges in its  opposition that it has not responded yet, but indicates that it will respond,  at least as to the Requests for Admission, by the hearing date. (Opp., 2:1-7.)The Court finds  Plaintiff’s motions to be well taken and will GRANT them unless Defendant has served  verified responses prior to the hearing. The Court will deem the truth of the  matters specified in Requests for Admission (Set One) admitted and conclusively  established as to Defendant. The Court will further order Defendant to provide complete  and verified responses, without objection, to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories  (Set One) within 5 days of the Court’s order.As for the requests for  monetary sanctions, the Court DENIES them. Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions  do not comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040, which requires the  persons, parties, or attorneys against whom sanctions are sought to be  identified in the notice of the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.)  Plaintiff’s notices do not identify the parties against whom the sanctions are  sought, nor do they even specify the amounts they seek. (Notices, pp 1-2.) In  fact, nowhere in the notices does Plaintiff even indicate that it is requesting  monetary sanctions. (Id.) Although Plaintiff addresses the foregoing at various  pages of their Memorandum of Points and Authorities (pp. 3:5-6, 6:10-12,  6:15-17), this is insufficient to provide Defendant with adequate notice of the  monetary sanctions Plaintiff seeks against Defendant. Again, all pertinent  information supporting Plaintiff’s monetary sanctions request must be included  in the notice of motion, not elsewhere in the moving papers. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2023.040.) Consequently, Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is  denied.Based on the foregoing, the Court will GRANT Plaintiff’s discovery  motions, but DENY the requests for monetary sanctions. CONCLUSION If no verified responses were served prior to the hearing, the  Court will GRANT Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories  (Set One) and motion to deem Requests for Admission (Set One) admitted. The  truth of the matters specified in Requests for Admission (Set One) will be  deemed admitted and conclusively established as to Defendant. Defendant will  also be ordered to serve complete and verified responses, without objection, to  Form Interrogatories (Set One) within 5 days of the Court’s order. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.               The Court notes that the granting of  Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment will render these discovery motions  moot.