 Case Number:  22STCV39928    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 



douglas a. bagby,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
JOSEPH DANIEL DAVIS, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV39928




Hearing Date:


October 17, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER CORRECTING
  AN ERRONEOUS FINDING IN THE ORDER OF MAY 31, 2024, AND REQUIRING THE COURT TO
  RULE ON PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANTS TO RESPOND TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST
  FOR PRODUCTION FILED MAY 7, 2024, OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, AN ORDER PERMITTING
  PLAINTIFF TWENTY DAYS AFTER A IDC TO FILE A MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT JOSEPH
  D. DAVIS TO FILE A FURTHER RESPONSE TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL RESPONSES SERVED
  APRIL 4, 2024
 



 
 
 
Background
Plaintiff
Douglas A. Bagby (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December 22, 2022 against
defendant Joseph Daniel Davis (“Joseph Davis”). Plaintiff filed the
operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on February 26, 2024 against
Defendants Joseph Davis and Hilary Davis (jointly, “Defendants”). The TAC
alleges four causes of action. 
On May 7, 2024,
Plaintiff moved for orders compelling Defendants to produce documents and for
sanctions. On May 31, 2024, the Court issued an Order denying the motions. The
Court’s May 31, 2024 Order provides, inter alia, that “Plaintiff’s
motions for orders compelling Joseph Davis and Hilary Davis to produce
documents are denied. The parties’ requests for sanctions are denied.” (May 31,
2024 Order at p. 6:11-12.) 
Plaintiff now moves for
(1) “[a]n Order correcting the Order of May 31, 2024,” (2) “[a]n Order
requiring the Court rule on the merits of Plaintiff’s motion filed May 7, 2024,
seeking to compel defendants to produce documents in response to Plaintiffs
Request For Production served August 31, 2023, and for sanctions,” and (3),
“[i]n the alternative…Plaintiff is requesting this Court to find Plaintiff’s
failure to file a motion to compel defendants to submit supplemental responses
and produce documents and pay sanctions within 45 days of April 4, 2024, was a
result of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect’ within the
meaning of C.C.P. section 473(b), and Plaintiff
requests an Order scheduling an IDC conference and permitting Plaintiff twenty
(20) days following the IDC conference to file a motion to compel defendant,
Joseph D. Davis, to produce documents sought in the Request For Production of
Documents served by Plaintiff on said defendant on August 31, 2023, and for
sanctions…” Defendants oppose. 
Discussion
As discussed, Plaintiff first seeks an order “correcting the Order of
May 31, 2024, in which the Court stated Defendants served their supplemental
responses on April 3, 2024, while, in fact, they did not serve those responses
until April 4, 2024, which was after the last day they were due…”  (Mot. at p. 2:6-8.) Plaintiff also seeks “[a]n
Order requiring the Court to rule on the merits of Plaintiff’s motion filed May
7, 2024, seeking to compel defendants to produce documents in response to
Plaintiff’s Request For Production served August 31, 2023, and for sanctions…”
(Mot. at p. 2:9-11.) 
The Court notes that the subject May 31, 2024 Order provides, inter
alia, as follows: 
 
“It appears
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set No. One to Defendants. In his declaration in
support of the motion pertaining to Joseph Davis, Plaintiff states, inter
alia, that he “make[s] this declaration in support of [his] motion to
compel Defendant, Joseph D. Davis…to produce what [he] contend[s] to be
properly discoverable documents sought in the Request For Production served
August 31, 2023…” (Bagby Decl., ¶ 1.) Similarly, in his declaration in support
of the motion pertaining to Hilary Davis, Plaintiff states, inter alia,
that he “make[s] this declaration in support of [his] motion to compel
Defendant, Hilary Davis to produce what [he] contend[s] to be properly
discoverable documents sought in the Request For Production served August 31,
2023…” (Bagby Decl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff asserts that good cause exists for the
production of the records requested.  
 
As an initial
matter, Defendants assert in their oppositions that the instant motions are
moot. Defendants indicate that on April 3, 2024, Defendants served Amended
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
(Niedbalski Decls., ¶¶ 7, Exs. 4.) Defendants’ counsel states that “Plaintiff
did not meet and confer on Defendant’s April 3, 2024 amended responses to the
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.” (Niedbalski Decls., ¶¶ 9.)
Defendants also note that “no informal discovery conference was held as to the
alleged deficiency of the April 3, 2024 responses.” (Joseph Davis Opp’n at p.
2:9-10; Hilary Davis Opp’n at p. 2:7-8.)  
 
As set forth
above, Plaintiff appears to acknowledge that Defendants served amended
responses to the discovery requests at issue. (See Bagby Decl., ¶ 19.;
Bagby Decl., ¶ 11, “I received amended responses on behalf of Defendants in
which they purport to amend and add to the objections they submitted on October
2, 2023…”) The Court notes that if Plaintiff contends that Defendants’ Amended
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One are
deficient, a further IDC on this issue will be necessary. As Defendants served
amended responses to the subject discovery requests, the Court agrees with
Defendants that Plaintiff’s instant motions are moot.” (May 31, 2024 Order at pp.
3:14-4:13.) 
In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants “did
not serve their Amended Responses until April 4, 2024.” (Bagby Decl., ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff contends that “[t]his Court has the power to correct the erroneous
finding in the Order of May 31, 2024, pursuant to C.C.P. section
128(a)(8),”[1] and that
“[s]ince the finding of this Court that defendants served their supplemental
responses by April 3, 2024, was erroneous, Plaintiff is requesting this Court
to set aside that erroneous finding and hear the merits of the motion filed May
7, 2024, with regard to defendant Joseph D. Davis.” (Mot. at p. 9:6-7;
9:10-12.)[2] 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff still appears to acknowledge that
Defendants served amended responses to the discovery requests at issue in
Plaintiff’s May 7, 2024 motions.
Plaintiff just asserts that the responses were served on April 4, 2024, not
April 3, 2024. The Court does not see how this changes the fact that
Plaintiff’s May 7, 2024 motions were moot. (See May 31, 2024 Order.) The
Court notes that an IDC will still be necessary if Plaintiff contends that the purported
April 4, 2024 amended responses are deficient. Pursuant to the Court’s power to
“amend and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and
justice” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(8)),
the Court requires a further meet and confer in the form of an IDC on such
discovery issues. In addition, the Court notes that a discussion regarding IDCs
appears in the Courtroom Information available in Department 50 and on the
Court’s website. At page three of the Case Management Conference Order in this
case filed on March 11, 2024, the parties are referred to the Courtroom Information
and ordered to comply with the requirements therein. 
Further, the Court notes that Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a) provides as follows: 
 
“When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.” 
Here, Plaintiff’s instant motion appears to request that the Court
reconsider the subject May 31, 2024 Order. However, Plaintiff’s motion is not
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1008. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008, subdivision (e), “[t]his section specifies the court’s
jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and
renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any
order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the
order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No
application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may
be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this section.”
(Emphasis added.) 
Here, Plaintiff has not shown that the instant motion was made “within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the [May 31,
2024] order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)
In addition, Defendants argue that “there are no new facts, circumstances or
change of law that would warrant reconsideration of this Court’s May 31, 2024 order...”
(Opp’n at p. 5:9-10.) Plaintiff does not appear to respond to this point in the
reply. 
            Plaintiff’s motion also provides
that “[i]n the alternative, if this Court does not find Plaintiff is entitled
to a hearing on his motion filed May 7, 2024, Plaintiff is requesting this
Court to find Plaintiff’s failure to file a motion to compel defendants to
submit supplemental responses and produce documents and pay sanctions within 45
days of April 4, 2024, was a result of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect’ within the meaning of C.C.P. section
473(b), and Plaintiff requests an Order scheduling an IDC conference and
permitting Plaintiff twenty (20) days following the IDC conference to file a
motion to compel defendant, Joseph D. Davis, to produce documents sought in the
Request For Production of Documents served by Plaintiff on said defendant on
August 31, 2023, and for sanctions as permitted by law.” (Mot. at p. 2:12-19.) 
            The Court
notes that Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides, inter
alia, that “[t]he court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party
or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.” Here, Plaintiff does not appear to identify
any “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him…through
his…mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b), emphasis added.)
Rather, as discussed, Plaintiff simply seeks an order that “Plaintiff’s failure
to file a motion to compel defendants to submit documents in response to their
amended responses served April 4, 2024, within 45 days was a result of ‘mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect’…” (Mot. at p. 9:15-17.) Thus, the
Court does not see how Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b) is applicable here. Plaintiff’s motion does not
contain any discussion or analysis regarding the application of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)
to the circumstances here.  
            Moreover, even if Plaintiff had
shown that Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) was applicable to the circumstances here, Plaintiff does
not appear to show how his asserted failure to file a timely motion to compel
was the result of his “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) In his supporting
declaration, Plaintiff states, “I interpreted the Order of May 31, 2024, as
giving priority to another IDC before I would be required to file another
motion to compel,” but at the same time, Plaintiff states that “the Order of
May 31…was not issued until after the 45 days to file a motion to compel
further responses to the amended responses had expired if the 45 days was to
commence on April 3, when the amended responses were not served, or April 4,
2024, the day they were actually served…” (Bagby Decl., ¶ 23, emphasis added.) 
            Lastly, as to Plaintiff’s request
that the Court schedule an IDC, the Court notes that Plaintiff must make a
reservation for an IDC using the Court’s online reservation system. Plaintiff
shall consult with opposing counsel regarding available dates for the IDC, and Plaintiff
must file Dept. 50’s one-page IDC form in the department seven days prior to any
IDC. The responding parties may file the same form in the department setting
forth a response three days prior to the IDC.¿   
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
denies Plaintiff’s motion in its entirety.  
 
 
 
 
Conclusion
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion is denied in its entirety.   
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  October 17, 2024                           ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


