  Case Number:  23CHCV02139    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  F51 
MAY 2, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Request for
Production of Documents, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV02139

 
Motion
filed: 12/1/23
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Lucia Elizabeth Lujan (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
American Honda Motor Company, Inc. (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order striking Defendant’s objections and
compelling
further responses, within 10 days, to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents (“RFPs”), Set One, Nos. 1–31.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The unopposed
motion is granted. Defendant to provide further code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s
first set of RFPs, Request Nos. 1–31, within 30 days. The Court imposes
sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $500.00.
 
Plaintiff is reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended
General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing
documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set
forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First
Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly bookmarking
declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply with these
requirements in the future may result in papers being rejected, matters being
placed off calendar, matters being continued so documents can be resubmitted in
compliance with these requirements, documents not being considered and/or the
imposition of sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff brings this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.) for a vehicle she purchased on or
around 1/25/22, which was manufactured and distributed by Defendant. (Compl. ¶¶
8–9.) Plaintiff alleges that “the Subject Vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff
with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed other
serious defects and nonconformities to warranty including, but not limited to,
transmission, engine, emission, and electrical system defects.” (Id. at
¶ 10.)
 
On 7/20/23, Plaintiff filed her complaint, alleging against
Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty; and (3) Violation of Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2. On 8/21/23,
Defendant filed its answer.
 
On 9/20/23, Plaintiff served her Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, on Defendant. (Decl. of Gregory Sogoyan, ¶ 15.) On 10/17/23,
Defendant served its responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 16.) On 11/27/23, the
parties entered into a Stipulated Protected Order regarding documents
designated as confidential.
 
On 12/1/23, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further
responses to her Requests for Production, Set One. No opposition has been filed
to date.
 
ANALYSIS
 
California law requires a responding party to respond to
each request for production of documents with either a statement of compliance,
a representation that the party lacks the ability to comply, or an objection to
the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210, subd. (a).) 
 
If the response includes an objection to the demand in
part, it must also include a statement of compliance or noncompliance as set
forth above. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240, subd. (a).) Additionally, the
response must (1) identify the particular
document that falls within the category of the
request to which the objection is being made, and (2) expressly set forth the
extent of, and specific ground for, the objection. (Id., subd. (b).) A propounding party may move
for an order compelling further response to a discovery request if it decides
that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete”; “(2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive”;
or “(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to compel additional responses to her
first set of RFPs. “Requests 1 through 14 seek
documents relating to Plaintiff’s own vehicle. … Requests 15 through 29 seek
documents reflecting Defendant’s written warranties and the policies and
procedures related to what is covered under said warranties, how coverage is
determined, training related to warranty coverage, etc. … Finally, Requests 30
and 31 seek documents related to Defendant’s knowledge of the same or similar
defects in other vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject
Vehicle.” (Pl.’s Mot., 5:5–18.) Plaintiff argues that the motion is
warranted because “Defendant has not produced any emails, memoranda,
data, or investigations that could help Plaintiff establish Defendant’s
knowledge of the same or similar defects in other vehicles of the same year,
make, and model.” (Sogoyan Decl. ¶ 17.)
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel further discovery responses must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that beginning on 10/20/23
and 11/17/23, he sent Defendant’s counsel two meet and confer letters regarding
raising the issues in the instant motion but received no response. (Sogoyan Decl., ¶¶ 18–19,
23.) The Court therefore finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet
and confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310,
subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.    
Defendant’s
Objections
 
Here, Plaintiff argues, in part, that Defendant’s
objections to her first set of RFPs are without merit. (Pl.’s Mot. 7:4–5; Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) Defendant objected to each request at issue on
the bases of, inter alia, relevance, undue burden, and trade secret privilege.
 
a.                  
Scope/Relevance 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s objections to the subject
RFPs on the basis that they seek irrelevant matter are meritless because “the
requested documents establish Defendant’s knowledge of the defects and its
ability (or inability) to repair the defects.” (Pl.’s Mot. 10:9–10.) “This evidence is relevant to establish Defendant’s
knowledge and inability to repair the defects, as well as its failure to
repurchase the Subject Vehicle despite Defendant’s inability to repair the
vehicle within a reasonable number of repair opportunities. The discovery
sought will support Plaintiff’s claims and request for civil penalties.” (Id.
at 11:13–17.)
 
Discovery is relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or
“appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here,
the discovery at issue “includes requests for information that can establish
the existence of defects in the Subject Vehicle, as well as Defendant’s
knowledge of the existence of similar or related defects.” (Id. at
10:1–3.) The Court finds that Plaintiff has provided sufficient facts to
establish the requisite good cause for production of the subject documents.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) In order to obtain civil penalties
under the Song-Beverly Act, a plaintiff must establish that the defendant’s
failure to comply was willful, which may be based on the defendant’s knowledge
of a certain defect. (Civ. Code § 1794, subd. (c).) Information regarding
vehicles other than Plaintiff’s is relevant to the subject matter of this
action as it could assist Plaintiff in proving Defendant’s willful violation of
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Documents responsive to these requests
may reasonably lead to the discovery of information as to the nature and
duration of the defects, Defendant’s knowledge of the defects, and Defendant’s
inability to repair the defects. While the cases relied on by Plaintiff (i.e., Donlen
v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138; Doppes v. Bentley Motors,
Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967) may not involve the exact circumstance
before this Court, they are sufficient to show that the requested information
could itself be admissible or lead to the discovery of admissible evidence in
this case.
 
The Court notes that Defendant has failed to oppose the instant motion. Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant’s relevance objections to the
subject RFPs are without merit.
 
b.                 
 Undue
Burden
 
Plaintiff further argues that Defendant’s objections to her
first set of RFPs on the basis that they are unduly burdensome and oppressive
are meritless without any additional showing of any such undue burden or
oppression. (Pl.’s Mot., 7:22–23.) The party
objecting to a discovery request on this basis bears the burden of supplying
evidence of “the quantum of work required.” (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 549.) 
 
“If
a party objects to the discovery of electronically stored information on the
grounds that it is from a source that is not reasonably accessible because of
undue burden or expense and that the responding party will not search the
source in the absence of an agreement with the demanding party or court order, the
responding party shall identify in its response the types or categories of
sources of electronically stored information that it asserts are not reasonably
accessible. By objecting and identifying information of a type or category
of source or sources that are not reasonably accessible, the responding party
preserves any objections it may have relating to that electronically stored
information.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210, subd. (d) [emphasis added].)
 
Here, the Court notes that Defendant has not supplied
evidence to show the “quantum of work required” to respond in full to
Plaintiffs’ first set of RFPs, nor has Defendant stated the categories of
sources of ESI that are not reasonably accessible. Accordingly, the Court finds
that Defendant’s objections to the requests to the extent that they are unduly
burdensome or oppressive are without adequate support and agrees with Plaintiff
that Defendant has waived any objections it may assert relating to ESI.
 
c.                  
Trade Secrets 
 
Defendant objected to the subject RFPs to “to the
extent it may call for information that is confidential, commercially
sensitive, proprietary, and/or trade secret.” (Ex. 4
to Sogoyan Decl.)
Evidence Code § 1060 provides that the owner of a trade secret has a
privilege to refuse to disclose the secret and to prevent others from
disclosing it, unless allowing the privilege will conceal fraud or result in
injustice. A party that is claiming the trade secret privilege has the burden
of proving the party's entitlement to that privilege. (Amgen Inc. v
California Correctional Health Care Servs. (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 716, 733.)
 
“‘Trade
secret’ means information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program,
device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) Derives independent economic
value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to
other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2)
Is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to
maintain its secrecy.” (Civ. Code § 3426.1, subd. (d).)
 
Here,
the Court notes that the parties have already stipulated to a protective order,
which would protect against the disclosure of any claimed private, trade secret
or confidential proprietary information. Moreover, the Court again notes that
Defendant has failed to oppose the instant motion.
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has not shown adequate cause
why the specific documents requested by Plaintiff are protected trade secrets.
Further, any claimed private, trade secret or confidential proprietary
information may be adequately protected by the terms of the Stipulated
Protective Order entered on 11/27/23.
 
C.   
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(h).) 
 
Here, in granting the instant motion, the Court finds it
reasonable to award Plaintiff sanctions against Defendant and in the amount of
$500.00.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed motion is granted. Defendant to provide
further code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s first set of RFPs, Request Nos.
1–31, within 30 days. The Court imposes sanctions against Defendant in the
amount of $500.00.