 Case Number:  23STCV30069    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




s&h packing & sales
   co., inc.

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
daniel horwath

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV30069




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   21, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  plaintiff’s
  petition to compel arbitration and stay action 
(2)  
  defendant’s
  special motion to strike complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff S&H Packing &
Sales Co., Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Daniel Horwath
(1)  
Petition
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Daniel Horwath          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff S&H Packing & Sales Co., Inc.
(2)  
Special
Motion to Strike Complaint
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with the petition to compel arbitration. 
Because the court has taken off calendar the special motion to strike
for the reasons set forth below, the court did not (1) consider the moving,
opposition, or reply papers filed in connection with that motion, and (2) rule
on the evidentiary objections filed in connection with that motion. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court denies plaintiff S&H
Packing & Sales Co., Inc.’s request for judicial notice because the matter
to be judicially noticed is not relevant to the court’s disposition of its
petition to compel arbitration.  (Malek
Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825 [“Any matter
to be judicially noticed must be relevant to a material issue”].) 
PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
Plaintiff and petitioner S&H
Packing & Sales Co., Inc.
(“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order (1) compelling defendant Daniel
Horwath (“Defendant”) to arbitrate the claims alleged in this action, and (2) staying
this action pending completion of arbitration.
As a threshold matter, the
court notes that Defendant asserts, in his opposition, that the court should
first rule on his pending special motion to strike Plaintiff’s Complaint
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, i.e., the anti-SLAPP statute.  The court, however, finds that it is
appropriate to rule on Plaintiff’s petition to compel arbitration first, in the
event that this controversy should be decided in arbitration, rather than in
court. 
1.    
Existence of Agreement to Arbitrate
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists[,]” unless the court
finds that the right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner or
that grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿1281.2.)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
“‘ “The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the
petition bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s
enforcement.” ’”¿ (Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292,
302.)¿ To determine the existence of an arbitration agreement, the court uses
“a three-step burden-shifting process.”¿ (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023)
87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)¿ “The arbitration proponent must first recite verbatim,
or provide a copy of, the alleged agreement.¿ [Citations.]¿ A movant can bear
this initial burden ‘by attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement
purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.’”¿ (Ibid. [internal
citations omitted].)¿ “If the movant bears its initial burden, the burden
shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a factual dispute as to
the agreement’s existence . . . .”¿ (Ibid.)¿ If the opposing party meets
its burden to “submit sufficient evidence to create a factual dispute” as to
the existence of the agreement, the burden shifts back to the arbitration
proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.¿ (Ibid.; Gamboa v. Northeast Community
Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165-166.)¿¿ 
First, the court finds that Plaintiff has met its initial
burden to show that there exists an arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and
Defendant.  (Iyere, supra,
87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.)
Plaintiff has submitted a copy of the “Global Agreement to Sell or
Liquidate Jointly Owned Properties and Entities and Settlement Agreement and
General Releases” (the “Settlement Agreement”), entered into by and between
Plaintiff, Defendant, and other non-parties to this action on July 14, 2017.  (Pet., Ex. A, Settlement Agreement, ¶¶ I,
VII.)  The Settlement Agreement includes
an arbitration provision stating the following: 
“All future disputes between Dan and Rosa, on the one hand, and Melanie,
Tim, Dona and Pat, on the other hand, shall be resolved by arbitration before
JAMS.  All future disputes between the
Brothers’ Collectively Owned Entities [i.e., including Plaintiff], on the one
hand, and Dan [i.e., Defendant], Rosa, Tim, Melanie, Pat, and Dona, on the
other hand, shall be resolved by arbitration before JAMS.  (Pet., Ex. A, Settlement Agreement, ¶ 9
[Arbitration provision] and pp. 1 [defining (1) Defendant to be “Dan,” and (2)
“Brothers’ Collectively Owned Entities” to include, inter alia, Plaintiff],
DH10 [showing signature of Defendant].)
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has shown that there exists an
arbitration agreement between it and Defendant. 

The court further finds that the arbitration provision in the
Settlement Agreement encompasses the claims alleged in this action because (1)
the arbitration provision is broad, applying to “[a]ll further disputes”
between Plaintiff, on the one hand, and Defendant, on the other hand, and (2)
this action, filed by Plaintiff and alleging two causes of action against
Defendant, is a “dispute[]” between them.  (Pet., Ex. A, Settlement Agreement, ¶ 9
[Arbitration provision]; Rice v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 186
[“‘[T]he decision as to whether a contractual arbitration clause covers a
particular dispute rests substantially on whether the clause in question is
“broad” or “narrow”’”].) 
Second, the court finds that Defendant has not met his burden to
identify a factual dispute as to the authenticity of the Settlement Agreement
or his signature thereon, since Defendant did not present evidence to argue
that (1) he did not sign the Settlement Agreement, or (2) the Settlement
Agreement is not authentic for any other reason.  (Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th
at p. 755.) 
The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has met its burden to show
that there exists an agreement to arbitrate this controversy. 
2.    
Waiver
As set forth above, the court shall, upon determining that an
agreement to arbitrate a controversy exists, order the parties to submit the
controversy to arbitration unless the court determines that “[t]he right to
compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (a); Quach
v. California Commerce Club, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 562, 583 [“under
California law, a party may, as a result of its litigation conduct, lose its
right to compel arbitration on various grounds”].)  Defendant contends that Plaintiff has waived
its right to compel him to arbitrate the controversy alleged in this action. 
“To establish waiver under generally applicable contract law, the
party opposing enforcement of a contractual agreement must prove by clear and
convincing evidence that the waiving party knew of the contractual right and
intentionally relinquished or abandoned it.” 
(Quach, supra, 16 Cal.5th at p. 584.)  The waiving party’s “intentional
relinquishment or abandonment of the right may be proved by evidence of words
expressing an intent to relinquish the right or of conduct that is so
inconsistent with an intent to enforce the contractual right as to lead a
reasonable factfinder to conclude that the party had abandoned it.”  (Ibid.) 
The parties do not appear to dispute that Plaintiff knew of its
contractual right to arbitrate its claims against Defendant.  However, the court finds that Defendant has
not presented evidence establishing that Plaintiff intended to waive its right
to arbitrate. 
The relevant procedural history between the parties is as
follows.  On January 21, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a demand for arbitration against Defendant arising from his alleged
interference with the sale of Plaintiff. 
(Pet., ¶ 11; Tomasulo Decl., Ex. L, Demand for Arbitration Form.)  Thereafter, on October 4, 2022, JAMS issued a
notice to all counsel in the arbitration that it had requested, but had not
received, Defendant’s payment of the initial arbitration deposit.  (Tomasulo Decl., Ex. M, p. 1 [“JAMS has requested,
but has not received, payment for the initial deposit from Respondent.  JAMS is unable to proceed with administration
of this case”].)  Counsel for Defendant told
Plaintiff’s counsel that payment of the deposit would be made.  (Tomasulo Decl., Ex. N, p. 1 [October 17,
2022 email stating, “As discussed, we will be submitting the payment and an
answering statement”].)  However, JAMS later
closed the arbitration on January 3, 2023 “for [Defendant’s] failure to
pay.”  (Tomasulo Decl., ¶ 18.)
First, Defendant did not cite authority establishing, and therefore
has not proven, that Plaintiff’s election not to pay Defendant’s arbitration
fees—for which Plaintiff was not responsible—constitutes “an intent to
relinquish [its] right” to arbitrate.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1284.2 [“Unless the arbitration agreement otherwise provides or
the parties to the arbitration otherwise agree, each party to the arbitration
shall pay his pro rata share of the expenses and fees of the neutral
arbitrator, together with other expenses of the arbitration incurred or
approved by the neutral arbitrator . . . .”]; Quach, supra, 16
Cal.5th at p. 584.) 
Second, the court notes, as Defendant has pointed out, that the
declaration of Plaintiff’s manager states the following: “When JAMS dismissed
the First Interference Arbitration [i.e., the arbitration proceedings initiated
on January 21, 2022] for [Defendant’s] failure to pay, [Plaintiff] was faced
with a choice: would it make a second attempt at litigating its interference
claims against [Defendant], a potentially long and costly proposition, or would
it try to resolve these claims through the dissolution process that was then
underway?  Ultimately, [Plaintiff]
thought the more prudent path was to pursue the latter.”  (Artukovich Decl., ¶ 5.)  However, Plaintiff’s manager further stated
that, as the “dissolution proceedings continued and the substantial damages
[Defendant] caused grew more evident, it became clear that there was no
resolution to be found through the dissolution process.  Accordingly, with the statute of limitations
set to run shortly, [Plaintiff] had no choice but to file this action—this time
seeking an order compelling [Defendant] to arbitrate.”  (Artukovich Decl., ¶ 6.)
The court finds that the statements made by Plaintiff’s manager do not
“express[] an intent to relinquish [Plaintiff’s] right” to arbitrate and
instead express, at most, the hope that the dissolution proceedings would
result in the resolution of its claims for damages.  (Artukovich Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; Quash, supra,
16 Cal.5th at p. 584.)  Moreover,
Defendant did not present evidence showing that Plaintiff actually asserted the
claims alleged in this action in the dissolution action, such that Defendant
did not present evidence to show that Plaintiff waived its right to compel
Defendant to arbitrate the claims it alleges in this action based on its
conduct in the dissolution action.
Third, the court notes, as raised by Defendant, that (1) Plaintiff’s
Complaint does not raise the issue of or request arbitration, and (2) Plaintiff
filed this action on December 8, 2023, but filed its petition to compel
Defendant to arbitration approximately nine-and-a-half months later, on
September 24, 2024.  The court, however,
finds that the elapsed period of time, standing alone, does not establish that
Plaintiff intended to waive its right to compel Defendant to arbitrate.  Further, Defendant did not show that, during
this time, Plaintiff engaged in discovery or other motion practice that would
otherwise support a finding of waiver.[1]  (Cf. Quach, supra, 16 Cal.5th
at pp. 586-587 [finding waiver of right to arbitration when defendant “propounded
discovery requests, suggesting it did not intend to seek arbitration[,]” did
not indicate its willingness to participate in arbitration in case management
documents, and “actively engaged in discovery, taking [the plaintiff’s
deposition” and corresponding about discovery disputes”].) 
Fourth, the court finds that Plaintiff’s election not to mention the
parties’ arbitration agreement in a separate case does not show that, and is
not relevant to determining whether, Plaintiff intended to relinquish or
abandon its right to compel Defendant to arbitrate the claims alleged in this
action.  (Opp., p. 7:6-8 [“Plaintiff also
never claimed it was entitled to arbitrate any claims between it and
[Defendant] after [Defendant] filed a fraudulent transfer suit against
Plaintiff and others on November 23, 2022 in LASC Case No. 22STCV37042].) 
Finally, the court notes that Defendant has asserted that Plaintiff’s
conduct prejudiced him.  (Opp., pp.
6:20-7:12.)  However, courts no longer
consider prejudice when determining whether a party has waived its right to
compel arbitration.  (Quach, supra,
16 Cal.5th at pp. 569 [“Because our state-law arbitration-specific prejudice
requirement is based upon the federal precedent that [Morgan v. Sundance,
Inc. (2022) 596 U.S. 411] overruled, we now abrogate it”], 585 [“neither
the effect of that conduct on the party seeking to avoid enforcement of the
contractual aright nor that party’s subjective evaluation of the waiting
party’s intent is relevant[;]” “To establish waiver, there is no requirement
that the party opposing enforcement of the contractual right demonstrate
prejudice or otherwise show harm resulting from the waiving party’s
conduct”].)  Even if prejudice were a relevant
consideration, the court finds that Defendant has not presented evidence
showing substantial prejudice that would be sufficient to support his
contention that Plaintiff has waived its right to arbitrate.  
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not met his burden to “prove
by clear and convincing evidence that [Plaintiff] knew of the contractual right
[to compel Defendant to arbitrate] and intentionally relinquished or abandoned
it.”  (Quach, supra, 16
Cal.5th at p. 584.)  The court therefore
finds that Defendant has not met his burden to show that the court should not
enforce the arbitration provision in the parties’ Settlement Agreement.[2]  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (a).) 
3.    
Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that (1) Plaintiff
has met its burden to prove the existence of an agreement between Plaintiff and
Defendant to arbitrate the controversy alleged in this action, and (2)
Defendant has not met his burden to establish a defense to the enforcement of
that agreement.  (Beco, supra,
86 Cal.App.5th at p. 302.)  
The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s petition to compel
arbitration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2,
subd. (a).)
SPECIAL
MOTION TO STRIKE COMPLAINT
Defendant filed the pending motion on February 13, 2024, moving the
court for an order striking the claims alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint
pursuant to the anti-SLAPP statute. 
As set forth above, the court has granted Plaintiff’s petition to
compel Defendant to arbitrate the claims alleged in this action and will
therefore order the parties to submit this action to binding arbitration.  
The court therefore takes off calendar Defendant’s special motion to
strike Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff S&H
Packing & Sales Co., Inc.’s petition to compel arbitration. 
            The court orders (1) plaintiff
S&H Packing & Sales Co., Inc. and defendant Daniel Horwath to arbitrate
the claims alleged in plaintiff S&H Packing & Sales Co., Inc.’s
Complaint, and (2) this action is stayed until arbitration is completed. 
            The court orders that the hearing on
defendant Daniel Horwath’s special motion to strike complaint is taken off
calendar. 
            The court orders that the Case
Management Conference scheduled for January 28, 2025 is vacated. 
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re completion of arbitration for hearing on August 26, 2025, at 8:30
a.m., in Department 53.  
            The court orders plaintiff S&H
Packing & Sales Co., Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 21, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


