 Case Number:  23STCV30517    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




clean product advocates llc

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
mk trading inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV30517




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   21, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to confirm proposition 65
  settlement and consent judgment
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Clean Product
Advocates LLC     
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to Confirm Proposition 65 Settlement and Consent Judgment 
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Clean Product Advocates LLC (“Plaintiff”) moves the court
for an order approving and entering the proposed “Stipulated Consent Judgment”
entered into by and between Plaintiff, on the one hand, and defendants MK
Trading, erroneously sued as MK Trading Inc., and Zion Market, erroneously sued
as Zion Market LLC (“Defendants”), on the other hand, pursuant to Health and
Safety Code section 25249.7.
“If there is a settlement of an action brought by a person in the
public interest under [section 25249.7] subdivision (d), the plaintiff shall
submit the settlement, other than a voluntary dismissal in which no
consideration is received from the defendant, to the court for approval upon
noticed motion, and the court may approve the settlement only if the court
makes all of the following findings: 
[¶]  (A)  The warning that is required by the settlement
complies with this chapter.  [¶]  (B) The award of attorney’s fees is
reasonable under California law. 
[¶]  (C) The penalty amount is
reasonable based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision
(b).”  (Health & Safety Code §
25249.7, subd. (f)(4).)  The moving
plaintiff “has the burden of producing evidence sufficient to sustain each
required finding.”  (Health & Safety Code,
§ 25249.7, subd. (f)(5).)  The plaintiff
also “shall serve the motion and all supporting papers on the Attorney General,
who may appear and participate in a proceeding without intervening in the
case.”  (Ibid.) 
First, the court finds that Plaintiff has submitted a proof of service
establishing service of (1) the pending motion and supporting documents on the
Office of the Attorney General 45 days before the hearing on this motion, and
(2) the notice of the continuance of the hearing on this motion on the Office
of the Attorney General.  (Mot., p. 28
[proof of service of moving and supporting papers]; Nov. 19, 2024 Proof of
Service of Notice, p. 3 [proof of service of notice of continuance of
hearing].)  The court therefore finds
that Plaintiff has complied with the service requirements. (Health & Safety
Code, § 25249.7, subd. (f)(5); 11 CCR § 3003, subd. (a).)  As of January 16, 2025, the Office of the
Attorney General did not object to or comment further on the parties’
Stipulated Consent Judgment, but the court does not construe the absence of
such an objection to be an endorsement or concurrence in the settlement.  (11 CCR § 3003, subd. (a).) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has shown that the “Option 1”
warning that is required by the Stipulated Consent Judgment complies with the
Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (the “Act”).  (Health & Safety Code, § 25249.7, subd.
(f)(4)(A).) 
“No person in the course of doing business shall knowingly and
intentionally expose any individual to a chemical known to the state to cause
cancer or reproductive toxicity without first giving clear and reasonable
warning to such individual, except as provided in Section 25249.10.” 
(Health & Safety Code, § 25249.6.)  A warning is clear and reasonable
within the meaning of the Act if (1) the name of one or more of the listed
chemicals is included in the text of the warning, and (2) the warning is
prominently displayed on a label, labeling, or sign, and displayed with such
conspicuousness as compared with other words, statements, designs, or devices
on the label, labelling, or sign, as to render the warning likely to be seen,
read, and understood by an ordinary individual under customary conditions of
purchase or use.  (27 CCR § 25601, subds. (a), (b), (c).)  
Pursuant to the Stipulated Consent Judgment, Defendants have agreed
that they shall be permanently enjoined from manufacturing for sale in
California, distributing into California, or directly selling in California,
any covered products that expose a person to a daily lead exposure level of
more than 0.5 micrograms of lead per day, unless it meets the warning
requirements provided in the judgment.  (Mot.,
Ex. A, Stipulated Consent Judgment, ¶ 3.1.) 
For products that require a warning, the Stipulated Consent Judgment
requires that Defendants use one of two proposed warnings, both of which “shall
be securely affixed to or printed upon the label of each Covered Product and” “must
be set off from other surrounding information and enclosed in a box.  In addition, for any Covered Product sold
over the internet, the Warning shall appear on the checkout page in full text
or through a clearly marked hyperlink using the word ‘WARNING’ in all capital
and bold letters when a California delivery address is indicated for any
purchase of any Covered Product.”  (Mot.,
Ex. A, Stipulated Consent Judgment, ¶ 3.2.)  
The “Option 1” proposed warning (1) states the name of the listed
chemicals for which the warning is being provided (i.e., lead), (2) is required
to be prominently displayed at the same size as the largest of any other health
or safety warnings also appearing on the website or label, and (3) is required
to be displayed with such conspicuousness as compared with other words,
statements, or designs on the label (or website, if applicable), as to render
the warning to likely be read and understood by an ordinary individual under
customary conditions of purchase or use of the product.  (Mot., Ex. A, Stipulated Consent Judgment, ¶
3.2 at pp. 4:15-17, 5:7-12, 5”16-19.)  Thus,
the court finds that Plaintiff has shown that “Option 1” of the proposed
warning complies with the Act.  (Health
& Safety Code, § 25249.7, subd. (f)(4)(A); 27 CCR § 25601, subds. (b),
(c).) 
The court, however, finds that the “Option 2” warning does not comply
with the Act because it does not require Defendants to state the name of the
listed chemicals in the product for which the warning is being provided as
required.  (Health & Safety Code, §
25249.7, subd. (f)(4)(A); 27 CCR 25601, subd. (b) [“Except as otherwise
specified in Section 25607 et seq., a warning meets the requirements of this
subarticle if the name of one or more of the listed chemicals in the consumer
product or affected area for which the warning is being provided is included in
the text of the warning”]; Mot., Ex. A, Stipulated Consent Judgment, p. 4:19-21
[“Option 2” Warning: “WARNING: [Cancer and] Reproductive Harm – www.P65Warnings.ca.gov/food”].)
 The court therefore denies Plaintiff’s
motion to approve Defendants’ use of the “Option 2” warning.  (Ibid.) 
Third, the court finds that the award of attorney’s fees is reasonable
under California law.  (Health & Safety Code, § 25249.7, subd.
(f)(4)(B).) 
“[T]he fee setting inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the
‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the
reasonable hourly rate. . . . .¿ The reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing
in the community for similar work.¿ The lodestar figure may then be adjusted,
based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee
at the fair market value for the legal services provided.”¿ (PLCM Group v.
Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095 [internal citations omitted]; Reck
v. FCA US LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 682, 691 [“To determine a reasonable
attorney fee award, the trial court applies the lodestar method”].) 
Defendants have agreed to pay reasonable costs and fees to Plaintiff
in the amount of $13,000.  (Ex. A,
Stipulated Consent Judgment, ¶ 4.3.)  Plaintiff has submitted the declaration of its
attorneys, in which they have attested to their education, experience, and
skill.  (Shabatian Decl., ¶¶ 14-15;
Silver Decl., ¶ 2.)  The court finds that
the hourly rates requested ($700 as to attorney Shabtian and $600 as to
attorney Silver) are reasonable in light of counsel’s education, experience,
and skill.  (Ibid.)  The court further finds that Plaintiff’s
attorneys have shown that they reasonably expended a total of 21 hours in
litigating this action.  (Shabatian
Decl., ¶ 16; Silver Decl., ¶ 3.)
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has established a lodestar amount
of $13,600 ((10 hours x Shabatian’s $700 hourly rate) + (11 hours x Silver’s
$600 hourly rate)), such that Plaintiff’s request for $11,955 in attorney’s
fees is reasonable.[1]  The court further finds that the declaration
of counsel is sufficient to support their request for $1,045 in legal
costs.  (Silver Decl., ¶ 4.) 
The court therefore finds that the award of attorney’s fees and costs
in the amount of $13,000 is reasonable under California law.
Third, the court finds that the $2,000 penalty amount is reasonable
based on the criteria set forth in Health and Safety Code section 25249.7,
subdivision (b)(2).
The court has considered, in particular, that (1) Plaintiff’s
investigation concluded that Defendants manufactured, imported, or distributed a
product containing lead, (2) Defendants’ denial of such allegations, (3)
Plaintiff’s counsel’s consideration of the factors provided in the Act and the
circumstances in this action when determining the amount of the penalty, and
(4) the arms-length negotiations between the parties that determined the amount
of penalties to be imposed against Defendants. 
(Shabatian Decl., ¶¶ 4, 8, 10.) 
The court has also considered that 75 percent of the penalty ($1,500)
will be paid to the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment for
deposit in the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Fund and the remaining
25 percent ($500) will be paid to Plaintiff. 
(Mot., Ex. A, Stipulated Consent Judgment, ¶ 4.2.)
            Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff
has met its burden to establish that the Stipulated Consent Judgment entered
into by and between it and Defendants, with the exception of the provisions
regarding “Option 2” of the proposed warnings, complies with the Act and is
reasonable.  (Health & Safety Code, § 25249.7, subds. (f)(4),
(f)(5).)  The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion in part. 
ORDER
            The court grants in part plaintiff
Clean Products Advocates LLC’s motion to confirm Proposition 65 settlement and
proposed consent judgment as follows. 
            The court will sign and file the
proposed “Stipulated Consent Judgment,” lodged with the court as Exhibit A to
plaintiff Clean Products Advocates LLC’s motion to confirm Proposition 65
settlement and proposed consent judgment, as modified by the court to exclude
the references to the “Option 2” warning.
            The court orders that (1) the trial
set on December 3, 2025, and the Final Status Conference set on November 21,
2025, are vacated.  
            The court orders plaintiff Clean
Products Advocates LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 21, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


