 Case Number:  22STCV04219    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  14 Shorter v IsraelCase Background   This a dispute over how to manage  inherited property and how to care for an elderly dependent.   Complaint   On August 25, 2022 Plaintiff filed her  Verified First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Partition, (2) Financial Elder  Abuse, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4) Undue Influence, (5) Accounting, (6) Defamation,  (7) Harassment, and (8) Declaratory Relief against Defendants Benayah Israel  aka William Shorter (“Israel”), Michael A. Shorter (“Michael”), Estate of John  Shorter (“Estate”), Carmencita Ferguson (“Ferguson”), All Persons Known or  Unknown, and DOES 1-50.    The second and third causes of action  are asserted against Defendant Ferguson, only. The fourth cause of action is  asserted against Defendants Israel and Ferguson, only. The sixth and seventh  causes of action are asserted against Defendant Israel, only.   On September 26, 2022, Defendant  Ferguson filed an unverified Answer.    On September 27, 2022, Defendant  Israel filed an unverified Answer.    On September 28, 2022, Defendant  Michael filed a verified Answer.   On March 24, 2023, this court entered  a written order striking the answer of Defendant Israel and entering his  default.               On November  3, 2023, Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed Defendants Estate and Ferguson, with  prejudice.   Cross-Complaint               On May 30,  2023, Defendant Michael filed his verified Cross-Complaint for Rent Skimming  against Plaintiff.               On October  24, 2023, this court sustained Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the  cross-complaint, with leave to amend.               On November  17, 2023, Defendant Michael filed his verified First Amended Cross-Complaint  for (1) Fraud, (2) Undue Influence, (3) Accounting, and (4) Declaratory Relief  against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant.               On January  3, 2024, this court sustained Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the  cross-complaint, with leave to amend.               On January  19, 2024, Defendant Michael filed his verified Second Amended Cross-Complaint  for (1) Constructive Fraud, (2) Accounting, and (3) Declaratory Relief against  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant.   Trial Date    No trial date is currently set.   Instant Pleading               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant  now demurs to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint, on the grounds that the court  has no jurisdiction to hear these claims, and that the Cross-Complaint fails to  state causes of action and is uncertain.    Decision               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s  Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) is GRANTED.               Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s  RJN is DENIED. The opposing party’s complaint is not a proper subject for  judicial notice.   The demurrer is SUSTAINED, without  leave to amend.   First Cause of Action: Constructive Fraud               Constructive  Fraud is not, perhaps, the most well-defined cause of action. The statute  authorizing it, Civil Code § 1573, unmodified since first passage in 1872,  provides as follows:   “CONSTRUCTIVE FRAUD. Constructive  fraud consists:   1. In any breach of duty which,  without an actually fraudulent intent, gains an advantage to the person in  fault, or any one claiming under him, by misleading another to his prejudice,  or to the prejudice of any one claiming under him; or, 2. In any such act or omission as  the law specially declares to be fraudulent, without respect to actual fraud.”   The elements of the claim have been reformulated by case law  as: “(1) a fiduciary relationship, (2) nondisclosure, (3) intent to deceive,  and (4) reliance and resulting injury.” Tindell v. Murphy (2018) 22  Cal.App.5th 1239, 1249-50. “Like an action for fraud, constructive  fraud must be pled with specificity.” Id. at 1250.               The  original version of the cross-complaint contained a single cause of action for  rent skimming. This court sustained that demurrer because the statute which  authorized the cause of action also limited the categories of people who could  bring such a suit. Cross-Complainant was not in one of those permitted  categories.    The First Amended Cross-Complaint  contained multiple causes of action, one of which was fraud. This court  sustained the demurrer to that cause of action on the grounds that  Cross-Complainant Michael had not alleged a fraud perpetrated against him.     In response, Cross-Complainant  Michael now brings a cause of action for constructive fraud, on the theory that  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant owed him a fiduciary duty because he is a part owner  of the real property at issue in this case. (Second Amended Cross-Complaint  ¶ 23). The law does not support that position.               Fiduciary duties are “technical, legal” creations, “recognized” and “imposed”  by case law or assumed by express agreement. See Oakland Raiders v.  National Football League (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 621, 631-632  (citing cases). Cross-Complainant Michael cites no case which holds that there  is a fiduciary duty between the co-owners of real property. Since there is no  fiduciary relationship between the two, Cross-Complainant Michael cannot state  a cause of action for constructive fraud.   Second Cause of Action: Accounting               “A cause of  action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between  the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance  is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. (Brea v.  McGlashan (1934) 3 C.A.2d  454, 460; 5 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2008) Pleading, § 819, p. 236.). An  action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to  recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation. (St. James Church of Christ Holiness v. Superior  Court (1955) 135 C.A.2d  352, 359). A plaintiff need not state facts that are peculiarly within the  knowledge of the opposing party. (Brea v. McGlashan, supra, 3 C.A.2d at p. 460).” Teselle  v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.               “The right  to an accounting is derivative and depends on the validity of a plaintiff's  underlying claims.” Duggal v. G.E. Capital Communications Services, Inc.  (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 81, 95.               This cause  of action was asserted in First Amended Cross-Complaint. The court sustained  the demurrer because Cross-Complainant Michael failed to plead any basis for an  accounting other than his status as beneficiary of his mother’s trust. The  court noted that actions for a trust accounting should be brought in the probate  courts.               The present  pleading suffers from precisely the same defects. There is no other viable  cause of action, and Cross-Complainant Michael’s rights to a trust accounting  (if any) must be enforced in the probate courts.   Third Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief               This cause  of action was also asserted in First Amended Cross-Complaint. The court  sustained the demurrer because Cross-Complainant Michael did not identify what  he wanted the court to declare, or how he fell within the statutory  requirements for such relief. That continues to be true here. There are no  allegations at all which follow the heading for this claim; the pleading moves  directly on to the prayer for relief.   Conclusion               Cross-Complainant  Michael has not and cannot properly alleged a claim for constructive fraud. It  has become clear that the wrongs Cross-Complainant Michael seeks to remedy  arise out of the alleged maladministration of his mother’s trust by the  trustee. While Cross-Complainant Michael’s concern for his mother is laudable,  it does not give him a right to file a civil suit on her behalf. These issues  should be pursued, if at all, before a probate court. There is no probability  that Cross-Complainant Michael will be able to state a claim against  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant which is cognizable in this court. Therefore, the  demurrer is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend.