 Case Number:  22STCV15221    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 6, 2022, Plaintiff Jasmin Daniella Campos (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles
(“County”), Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (“Department”), and Does
1-50 for general negligence and premises liability.  On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to include Defendants Charter Communications, Inc. as Doe 1 and
Southern California Gas Company as Doe 2. 
On
November 28, 2022, the City and Department filed an answer and the City filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-25 for indemnification,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
On
November 13, 2023, the City and Department (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion
for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication, to be heard
on March 6, 2024.  The Court continued
the hearing to May 16, 2024.  On February
21, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
Trial
is scheduled for July 10, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.
     Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Public entity liability for
dangerous condition of public property 
Government
Code section 835 provides: 
“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: 
“(a) A negligent or
wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope
of his employment created the dangerous condition; or 
“(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” 

(Gov. Code, § 835.) 
PLAINTIFF'S EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS:  Overruled:  1-2REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICEGranted 
DISCUSSION
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
October 29, 2021, Plaintiff was injured when her leg fell into an open hole in
front of 7707 Sunset Boulevard at or near Courtney Avenue in Los Angeles.  The City, County, Department,
and Doe defendants (1) own, operate, or control the accident location, (2)
negligently created the dangerous condition of
the sidewalk and/or had actual and/or constructive knowledge of the existence
of the dangerous condition, (3) knew or should have known
that an injury would result from the dangerous condition, and
(4) caused Plaintiff’s injuries and damages. 
 The dangerous condition of the sidewalk
created a foreseeable risk of injury which Plaintiff suffered.  By allowing a dangerous condition on the
streets, namely an open hole, Defendants breached their duty of care owed to
Plaintiff.  Defendants' breach of their duty of care proximately and actually
caused Plaintiffs' leg to fall in the open hole and caused Plaintiff to sustain severe bodily
injuries, medical bills, and general pain and suffering. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
On
October 29, 2021, around 1:00 a.m., Plaintiff was walking back to her car after
a late dinner at a restaurant on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles.  Plaintiff was walking towards the passenger
side door of the parked car, located adjacent to the parkway, when she stepped
on a utility box cover with her left foot, causing the cover to break and cave
in.  After Plaintiff’s left foot fell into the resulting hole in the utility box,
she twisted her ankle and fell onto her right side. 
The
utility box was located in a parkway between a street and a public sidewalk at
or near 7707 Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles. 
The area around the utility box was dark and contained tall grass and
vegetation, making it difficult to perceive the utility box.  Plaintiff suffered a torn ligament in her
left ankle, contusion on her shinbone, left leg pain and swelling. 
Dale
Williams (“Williams”) is a senior civil engineer who works for the City’s Bureau
of Engineering. He has submitted a declaration stating that the City does not
own, control, or maintain the utility box. 
Williams believes Southern California Gas Company is the “more likely
owner of the utility box” but “since the lid on the utility box is unmarked, or
at least there are no markings that are apparent, [Williams] cannot say for
certain.” 
Sam
Attal-Watts, a forensic engineer with Aperture, under the supervision of Mark
Burns, inspected the property on February 13, 2024, and took several
photographs and measurements of relevant areas. The area of the incident consisted of the following general public
components: a 6-9 foot wide concrete paved walkway that directed pedestrian
traffic flow east/west, an 8.5-foot wide vegetated and irrigated parkway, a
6-inch tall and 6-inch wide concrete cast-in-place curb and gutter, and various
at-grade utility boxes.   
The
utility pull box was set parallel approximately 3 feet to the southerly edge of
the concrete pavement. The utility pull box was manufactured from a
plastic-like material, was set in grade within the parkway, was 24 inches in
length parallel to the southerly edge of the walkway and was 12 inches in
length in relation to width. At the time of the inspection, the removable
plastic cover of the utility pull box was deteriorated, worn, and broken. 
The incident
occurred on the City’s property. The vegetated and planted parkway where the
utility box was located was within City limits. 
The
City has no inspection program in place to discharge its responsibility to find
and fix potentially dangerous parkway conditions. The City, instead, places the
onus on its residents to report defective conditions in need of repair.  The placement of utility boxes within
sidewalks and parkways is common practice and is a typical, foreseeable
condition. However, failure of the lid, which effectively constitutes a walking
surface, is unexpected and unforeseeable. 
The
area of the incident presented a hazardous condition to pedestrians.  The City maintained a plastic utility box in
a state of disrepair within a perceivable and expected pedestrian path of
travel for several years prior to and following the incident. The utility box
lid was situated clearly within the City’s public right of way within a parkway
that was within the City’s maintenance purview. The condition was readily
preventable with proper maintenance and upkeep by the City following years of
notice of the condition. 
C.   The motion for summary judgment or adjudication 
 1.    Plaintiff’s claim for dangerous condition of public
property 
Moving
Defendants argue the Court should grant summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication because they have presented evidence – Dale
Williams’ declaration – that the City did not own, control, or maintain the
utility box. 
Plaintiff
responds that the City owns and controls the parkway that surrounds the utility
box.  Plaintiff has presented evidence
that the parkway’s dangerous condition, including the deteriorated condition of
the utility box cover, contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries.  Moving Defendants have not filed a response
to Plaintiff’s separate statement of additional material facts, which contains facts
that support Plaintiff’s argument. 
Therefore, even assuming that Moving Defendants carried their initial
burden on summary judgment, shifting the burden to Plaintiff, Plaintiff has presented evidence that raises a
triable issue of fact.  Therefore, the
Court denies the motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication on the claim for a dangerous condition of public property. 
2.    Plaintiff’s negligence claim 
Moving
Defendants contend that the negligence claim is improperly pleaded because the common
law cannot support a negligence claim against a public entity. 
Plaintiff’s
complaint asserts that Plaintiff’s negligence claim arises under both common
law and Government Code section 815.2.  Government
Code section 815.2 provides that “[a] public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from
this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his
personal representative.”  (Gov. Code, §
815.2, subd. (a).) 
However,
“public entity liability for property defects is not governed by the general
rule of vicarious liability provided in [Government Code] section 815.2, but
rather by the provisions in sections 830 to 835.4 of the Government Code.”  (Longfellow v. County of San Luis Obispo
(1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 379, 383.)  
Therefore,
while Plaintiff may assert a statutory claim for dangerous condition of public
property, she has not alleged a separate legal basis for a negligence claim.  The Court grants the motion for summary
adjudication of the negligence claim. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment filed by Defendants City of Los
Angeles and Los Angeles Department of Water and Power. 
The
Court GRANTS in part the alternative motion for summary adjudication filed by Defendants City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles Department
of Water and Power. The Court summarily adjudicates Plaintiff Jasmin Daniella Campos’s claim for general negligence
in favor of Defendants City of Los
Angeles and Los Angeles Department of Water and Power.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the alternative motion for summary adjudication. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.