 Case Number:  21STCV17395    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 7, 2021, Plaintiff Deborah Russell (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Oscar Castillo (“Castillo”), Deming Antonio Ingles (“Ingles”), D
Exports LSR (“D Exports”), and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and general
negligence. 
On
December 16, 2021, Defendants Castillo, Ingles, and D Exports (“Defendants”)
filed an answer. 
On
April 16, 2024, Intervenor Infinity Insurance Company (“Intervenor”) filed a motion
for leave to intervene on Defendants' behalf and to file
an Answer-in-Intervention asserting denials and raising defenses to Plaintiff’s
complaint.  The motion was set to be
heard on May 16, 2024.  On May 3, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On May 9, 2024, Intervenor filed a reply. 
Trial
is scheduled for July 24, 2024. 
REQUESTS 
Intervenor
asks the Court to grant leave to intervene on Defendants' behalf. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 387 provides in part: 
“(c) A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to
intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application. The petition shall include
a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and
set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests. 
“(d) (1) The court shall, upon timely application,
permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the
following conditions is satisfied: 
“(A) A provision of law confers an unconditional right
to intervene. 
“(B) The person seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that
person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties. 
“(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a
nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest
in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both. 
“(e) If leave to intervene is granted by the court,
the intervenor shall do both of the following: 
“(1) Separately file the complaint in intervention,
answer in intervention, or both. 
“(2) Serve a copy of the order, or notice of the
court’s decision or order, granting leave to intervene and the pleadings in
intervention as follows: 
“(A) A party to the action or proceeding who has not
yet appeared shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant
to Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part
2. 
“(B) A party who has appeared in the action or
proceeding, whether represented by an attorney or not represented by an
attorney, shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant to
Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2,
or in the manner provided by Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title
14 of Part 2.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 387, subds. (c), (d), (e).)
DISCUSSION 
Intervenor
requests leave to intervene on Defendants' behalf and to file an Answer-in-Intervention
asserting denials and raising defenses to Plaintiff’s complaint.  According to Intervenor, Defendants do not
have the capacity to defend themselves in this litigation.  Despite diligent efforts, Intervenor has been
unable to establish and maintain any meaningful contact with Defendants.  As Defendants’ liability insurer, Intervenor may
be responsible for paying a portion of any final judgment entered against
Defendants.  Intervenor argues that it therefore
has a direct and immediate interest in the outcome of this case. 
In
response, Plaintiff argues the motion is untimely and reflects a strategy to “complicate
and delay the resolution” of the case.  Despite the
declaration from Intervenor’s counsel stating that Intervenor has made diligent
efforts to contact Defendants, Plaintiff contends that Intervenor has failed to
provide sufficient evidence of its efforts to contact or locate Defendants.  Plaintiff’s counsel located Defendants by hiring a private investigation firm.  Plaintiff
accuses Intervenor of bad faith and of trying to “manipulate the legal process
to delay a resolution favorable to [Plaintiff].” 
The
Court has considered the parties’ arguments and finds that Intervenor has satisfied
the requirements for intervention.  The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Intervenor Infinity
Insurance Company’s motion for leave to intervene.  Intervenor is ordered to file its Answer-In-Intervention
within 10 days of the Court’s ruling. 
Intervenor
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Intervenor
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.