 Case Number:  22STCV04853    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Velveth Milena Ibarra Orozco (“Orozco”) and Oscar
Canales Jule (“Jule”) filed this action against Defendants Samuel Fernando
Baliez and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
May 18, 2022, Defendant Samuel Vallez (erroneously sued
as Samuel Fernandez Baliez) (“Defendant”) filed an answer. 
On
January 23, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel Plaintiffs to appear for
independent medical examinations and for sanctions, to be heard on April 18,
2024.  On April 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
an opposition.  On April 11, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply. The Court continued the hearing to May 16, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 10, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to order Plaintiffs to attend independent medical examinations with
Sten Erik Kramer, M.D., on the first available date after the Court’s ruling, at
Kramer Orthopedics, 1401 Avocado Avenue, Suite 307, Newport Beach, CA 92660.
Defendant also requests monetary sanctions. 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 

Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides: 
“(a) In any
case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the
following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive. 
“(2) The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee. 
“(b) A
defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of court after
that defendant has been served or has appeared in the action, whichever occurs
first. 
“(c) A demand
under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if
any, of the physician who will perform the examination. 
“(d) A
physical examination demanded under subdivision (a) shall be scheduled for a
date that is at least 30 days after service of the demand. On motion of the
party demanding the examination, the court may shorten this time. 
“(e) The
defendant shall serve a copy of the demand under subdivision (a) on the
plaintiff and on all other parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.240 provides: 
“(a) If a
plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical examination under this article is
directed fails to serve a timely response to it, that plaintiff waives any
objection to the demand. The court, on motion, may relieve that plaintiff from
this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are
satisfied: 
“(1) The
plaintiff has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
with Section 2032.230. 
“(2) The
plaintiff’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The defendant may move for an order compelling response
and compliance with a demand for a physical examination. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel response and compliance with a demand for a physical
examination, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. 
“(d) If a
plaintiff then fails to obey the order compelling response and compliance, the
court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that sanction
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240.) 

DISCUSSION 
A.   Orozco’s independent medical examination 
On
December 15, 2023, Defendant noticed Orozco’s independent medical examination
for December 20, 2023 with Dr. Sten Erik Kramer in Newport Beach. Orozco did
not serve an objection to the notice or inform Defendant that she did not plan
to attend the examination. 
On
December 20, 2023, Orozco failed to appear for the independent medical examination.  Defendant’s counsel attempted to meet and
confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel about the examination and reimbursement of the
cancellation fees, but Plaintiffs’ counsel did not respond. 
B.   Jule’s independent medical examination 
On
August 23, 2023, Defendant noticed Jule’s independent medical examination for
October 11, 2023 with Dr. Sten Erik Kramer in Newport Beach. On September 26,
2023, Defendant served an amended notice scheduling Jule’s independent medical
examination for November 8, 2023. 
Because
Jule was not available on November 8, 2023, Defendant served a second amended
notice on December 15, 2023 scheduling Jule’s independent medical examination
for December 20, 2023.  Jule agreed to
this date and time.  Jule did not serve
an objection or inform Defendant that he did not plan to attend the examination. 
On
December 20, 2023, Jule failed to appear for the independent medical
examination. Defendant’s counsel
attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel about the examination and
reimbursement of the cancellation fees, but Plaintiffs’ counsel did not
respond. 
C.   Plaintiffs’ argument 
Plaintiffs
do not dispute the facts set forth above. 
Instead, they argue: 
·                        
They “did not
willfully or disobediently refuse to appear for their IMEs.”
·       “Defendant never asked for Plaintiffs’ availability to
attend the examinations.  Defendant
simply sent the IME notice without first checking with plaintiff to see if he
was available.”
·       Defendant waited until the eleventh hour to seek
Plaintiffs’ IMEs.
·       The day of the IMEs was rainy and Plaintiffs’
babysitter did not show up.
·       Plaintiffs did not want to bring the baby, who was
sick, to the appointment.
·       Plaintiffs’ counsel did not receive Defendants’ meet
and confer correspondence because counsel was on holiday. 
D.   Analysis 
1.    Motion to compel compliance with demand for physical
examination 
Defendant
moves for “an order compelling response and compliance with a demand for a
physical examination” under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.240, subdivision (b).  
Defendant
has shown that Plaintiffs failed to serve responses to Defendant’s demands for
a physical examination for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.240,
subdivision (a).  Therefore, Plaintiffs
waived any objection to the demands.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240, subd. (a).) 
Defendant has also shown that Plaintiffs failed to appear for the
examinations. 
Plaintiffs
provide no authority supporting their suggestion that, in addition, Defendant
must show (1) Plaintiffs’ failure to attend the examinations was willful or (2) Defendant
asked for Plaintiffs’ availability before scheduling the examinations. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
2.    Sanctions 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.240, subdivision (c), “[t]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel response and compliance with a demand for a physical
examination, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.240, subd. (c), emphasis added.) 
Defendant
argues that, based on Plaintiffs’ failure to appear for the scheduled physical
examinations, Plaintiffs should reimburse Defendant for the “no show” fee of
$2,000.00 per Plaintiff which Defendant incurred.  In addition, Defendant requests $1,700 in
attorney’s fees and $61.65 in filing fees. 
Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant has not shown that he gave notice of, or incurred, the “no show” fees.  However, the notices scheduling the independent
medical examinations stated: “Plaintiff is hereby notified that Dr. Kramer
requires 1 business day cancellation notice or Plaintiff shall incur a
cancellation fee or failure to show fee in the amount of $2,000.00.”  In addition, Defendant has provided copies of
invoices from Dr. Kramer, dated December 20, 2023, charging each Plaintiff a “no
show” fee of $2,500.00.  (Defendant is requesting $2,000.00 in reimbursement from each Plaintiff, the amount
mentioned in the IME notices.) 
Defendant’s
counsel submitted a declaration stating that he spent four hours preparing the
motion and one hour meeting and conferring, and anticipated spending one hour to
review Plaintiffs’ opposition, one and one-half hours to draft a reply brief,
and one hour to prepare for and appear at the hearing, at an hourly rate of
$200. 
The
Court awards $4,661.65 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney time, two “no
show” fees, and one filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Samuel Vallez (erroneously sued as Samuel Fernandez
Baliez) to compel Plaintiff Velveth
Milena Ibarra Orozco to attend an independent medical examination.  The Court orders Plaintiff Velveth Milena
Ibarra Orozco to attend an independent
medical examination with Sten Erik Kramer, M.D., on the first available date
after the Court’s ruling, at Kramer Orthopedics, 1401 Avocado Avenue, Suite
307, Newport Beach, CA 92660. 
          The Court GRANTS the motion of
Defendant Samuel Vallez (erroneously sued as Samuel Fernandez Baliez) to compel
Plaintiff Oscar Canales
Jule to attend an independent medical examination.  The Court orders Plaintiff Oscar Canales Jule
to attend an independent medical examination with Sten Erik Kramer, M.D., on
the first available date after the Court’s ruling, at Kramer Orthopedics, 1401
Avocado Avenue, Suite 307, Newport Beach, CA 92660. 
The
Court GRANTS the request for sanctions of Defendant Samuel Vallez (erroneously
sued as Samuel Fernandez Baliez).  The
Court orders Plaintiff Velveth Milena Ibarra Orozco, Plaintiff Oscar Canales
Jule, and their counsel, jointly and severally, to pay Defendant Samuel Vallez (erroneously sued as Samuel Fernandez
Baliez) $4,661.65 in sanctions by June 17, 2024. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.