 Case Number:  24STCV03241    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



NYEL BANGASH, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LA CANADA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendant.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV03241
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO VACATE DISMISSAL BASED ON
  EXCUSABLE NEGLECT AND/OR ATTORNEY AFFIDAVIT OF NEGLECT
 
Date: October 30, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
NYEL BANGASH (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
LA CANADA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving and
opposition papers.  No reply has been
filed.  Any reply was required to have been
filed and served at least five court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
            On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint
(“Complaint”) alleging a tort claim against Defendant.  
On April 16,
2024, the Court issued a minute order that scheduled a non-appearance case
review for June 4, 2024 regarding dismissal for Plaintiff’s failure to file proof
of service.  On June 4, 2024, the Court
issued another minute order noting that no proof of service was filed, continuing
the matter one more time, warning that the case will be dismissed if Plaintiff
does not file a declaration by June 12, 2024. 
Plaintiff did not thereafter file a proof of service, and after holding
the non-appearance case review on June 14, 2024, the Court dismissed the entire
action without prejudice.
 
On June 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Vacate Dismissal Based on Excusable Neglect
and/or Attorney Affidavit of Neglect (the “Motion”).  Defendant filed a late opposition on October
17, 2024.  The Court, in its discretion,
considers the late-filed opposition.  No
reply has been filed.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Defendant requests judicial notice of orders issued by the Court in this
case.  Although unnecessary since the
same are already part of the record of this case, the request is nonetheless
GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
             The court is empowered to relieve
a party or their legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against them through their mistake, inadvertence, surprise
or excusable neglect.  (CCP § 473, subd.
(b).)  Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.  (Id.)  The law favors a trial on the merits and
courts therefore liberally construe section 473.  (Bonzer v. City of Huntington Park (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1477.)  Doubts in
applying section 473 are
resolved in favor
of the party seeking relief from default.  (Id. at 1478.)
 
            In support of the Motion,
Plaintiff’s counsel declares that on March 3, 2024, he and his son were injured
in a fire at home, causing significant distress to him and disruption to his
work.  Additionally, he works out of a
home office, and the fire destroyed many of his files, caused him to relocate,
and disrupted the receipt of his mail. 
Plaintiff’s counsel further states that he nonetheless served the
Complaint on or about May 1, 2024, but that he neglected to file the proof of
service.  (Declaration of Saied Kashani,
¶¶ 2-3.)
 
            The Court notes that on May 29,
2024, Defendant’s counsel filed a declaration regarding an extension to file a
responsive pleading, specifically stating that “Plaintiff served Defendant LA
CANADA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT on Friday, April 26, 2024, with a Summons and
Complaint.”  (Declaration of Barbara
Rohr, ¶ 4.)  The Court finds that in
light of the aforementioned extenuating circumstances affecting Plaintiff’s
counsel, the fact that the Complaint was actually served, and the policy of
liberally construing CCP section 473 in favor of the party seeking relief,
Plaintiff’s failure to file a proof of service or a declaration explaining why
the case should not be dismissed constitutes a mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect.  
 
RULING
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the Motion and orders that the dismissal be vacated, and that
the Complaint be reinstated. A responsive pleading to the Complaint is due 30 (thirty)
days from the date of this Order.  The
Court will hold a case management conference on November 13, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
in this department.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 30th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



