  Case Number:  23STCV01162    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PORCH.COM, INC.,
  a Delaware corporation,
and MATTHEW EHRLICHMAN, an
individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
KANDELA, LLC, a California limited
  liability
company, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.    
                           





     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV01162
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION SEEKING LEAVE TO AMEND FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT AGAINST DEFENDANTS
 
Date: October 30, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff/Real
Party in Interest Scottsdale Indemnity Company (“Scottsdale”)
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:
Defendants Kandela, LLC (“Kandela”); Eli Gordon; David Fiedler; Noteh Berger;
Renee J. James; Joshua Lobel; Evan Schlessinger; Michael Sachse; WM Investment
Holdings, LLC; WMIH-I, LP; KAN Funding LLC; Edidin Partners, LLC; 1P Ventures,
LLC; Sharran Investments; The Entrust Group FBO Sharran Sirvatsaa IRA
7230011965; Srilo Ventures, LLC; Brian G. Johnson Defined Benefit Pension Plan;
Segil Living Trust, Dated August 10, 1984, Larraine Segil Trustee; MGB Mining
Defined Benefit Pension Plan; and Pescetarian Brothers, LLC (collectively,
“Defendants”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises from alleged fraudulent
transfers and/or voidable transfers of assets—namely, Porch.Com, Inc. common unregistered
stock – by Kandela in connection with Porch.Com, Inc.’s acquisition of certain
assets of Kandela pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement between Porch.Com,
Inc. and Kandela dated March 22, 2019.  Plaintiffs
Porch.Com, Inc. and Matthew Ehrlichman (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) initiated
the action on January 18, 2023.  On
October 4, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the currently operative First Amended
Complaint ((“FAC”) asserting the following causes of action: (1) actual intent fraudulent
conveyance/voidable transfer, (2) constructive fraudulent conveyance/voidable transfer,
(3) indemnification, and (4) breach of contract as to defendant members.
 
            On May 6, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’
ex parte application to rename Scottsdale as the real party in interest.
(5/6/2024 Minute Order.)
 
            On September 30, 2024, Scottsdale
filed the instant Motion Seeking Leave to Amend First Amended Complaint Against
Defendants (the “Motion”).  Defendants
filed an opposition on October 17, 2024. 
Scottsdale filed a reply on October 23, 2024.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Defendants request judicial notice of the following documents:
-               
A copy of the April 29, 2024 “Acknowledgment of
Assignment of Judgment” filed by Porch in Porch.com, et al. v. Kandela, LLC,
LASC Case No. 22STCP03332 (Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Daniel M. Hayes
[“Hayes Decl.”];
-               
A copy of the “Notice of Ex Parte Application and Ex
Parte Application to Substitute Real Party in Interest Porch.com, Inc. &
Matthew Ehrlichman with Assignee Scottsdale Indemnity Company” filed in this case
(Exhibit 2 to the Hayes Decl.);
-               
A copy of the certified reporter’s transcript of
proceedings for the May 6, 2024 hearing on the Ex Parte Application (Exhibit 3
to the Hayes Decl.); and
-               
A copy of the section 724.050 motion in Porch.com,
et al. v. Kandela, LLC, LASC Case No. 22STCP03332 (Exhibit 4 to the Hayes
Decl.).
 
Scottsdale requests judicial notice of the Opposition
to Motion for Satisfaction of
Judgment that Scottsdale filed on October 23, 2024 in Porch.com, et
al. v. Kandela, LLC, LASC, Case No. 22STCP03332 (Exhibit 1 to the
Declaration of Ernest Price).
 
            The Court takes judicial
notice of the existence of the documents, but not of the truth of assertions
within.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d); Herrera
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) 
 
DISCUSSION
Code
of Civil Procedure Section 473 permits the trial court in its discretion to
allow amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of justice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) Code
of Civil Procedure Section 576 provides that any judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
576.) There is a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
pleadings at any stage of the proceeding.  (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  An application to
amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion.  (Id.)  If the motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and
For Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  Where no prejudice is shown to the adverse
party, the liberal rule of allowance prevails.  (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 558, 564.)
 
Under
California Rules of Court rule 3.1324, a motion for leave to amend a pleading must
be accompanied by a declaration that sets forth: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made sooner.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)
 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).)
 
            Here, the Motion
is accompanied by the declaration of Scottdale’s counsel stating that an
Assignment of Claims was executed between Porch.com, Inc. on the one hand, and
its insurer, Scottsdale, on the other hand. 
(Declaration of Matthew Cullen, ¶ 3; Exhibit 1.)  In its Motion, Scottsdale asserts that due to
a recent assignment of rights, Scottsdale as insurer/subrogee steps into the
shoes of its insured Plaintiffs who could have asserted these claims for their
own benefit had Scottsdale not compensated them for their loss, and that as
such, Scottsdale now has the right for equitable subrogation and indemnity.  Scottsdale contend that these rights relate to
underlying pre-existing claims of expressed contractual indemnity and contract
breach.  Thus, Scottsdale seeks to amend
the FAC by including additional causes of action for (1) Equitable Subrogation
based on, in part, the pre-existing claim of contractual indemnity; and
similarly (2) Equitable Indemnity against all Defendants.  The Court finds sufficient justification for
allowing the proposed amendments to the FAC. 
 
            The Motion sets forth the proposed
changes to the previous pleading and also includes a copy of the proposed
amended pleading.  (Declaration of Ernest
Price, Exhibit. 17.)  Thus, the Court
finds Plaintiff has complied with Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).  
 
            Finally, the Court finds no evidence
that allowing the amendment would prejudice the Defendants, given that the trial
is six months away from this date.  As long as no prejudice to the opposing party
is shown, the liberal policy regarding amendment prevails, and it is an abuse
of discretion to refuse the amendment.  (Mesler
v. Bragg Mgmt. Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 297.)  
 
RULING
Accordingly, the Motion is GRANTED.  The Second Amended Complaint is to be separately
filed and served within 15 days from the date of this Order.
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion
will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 30th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



