 This is an action in which Plaintiff Hennig, Kramer, Ruiz & Singh, LLP, Defendant Wendy Seretan’s former attorney, claims that Defendant failed to compensate Plaintiff after Plaintiff was able to settle Defendant’s case.  On April 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative Complaint asserting claims for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) conversion, (4) quantum meruit, and (5) unjust enrichment. After losing a motion for judgment on the pleadings, Defendant now seeks summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication of all causes of action because Plaintiff withdrew as counsel before obtaining a recovery and refused to file a motion to enforce settlement that a subsequent attorney was hired to draft.The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) There are triable issues on all claims.  Indeed, Plaintiff contends that Defendant intentionally sought to compel Plaintiff to withdraw after negotiating a short-form settlement by frivolously refusing to negotiate a long-form settlement that would have precluded the need for a motion to enforce.  Plaintiff also contends that Defendant intentionally lied about her availability to the court. The Motion is denied.Moving party to give notice.