 Case Number:  22PSCV01755    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Joy Yin, et al. v. Nicholas Simmons, et al.

Plaintiff’s Second Motion for Leave to Amend

TENTATIVE RULING
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s second motion for leave to amend.

The Second Amended Complaint attached to the moving papers is deemed filed as of the date of this Order.

Plaintiff is ordered to serve defendants with a copy of the Second Amended Complaint and file the proofs of service with the Court.

Plaintiff is also ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.

BACKGROUND
On November 9, 2022, Plaintiffs Joy Yin and Ho Seong Lee (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against Defendants Nicholas Simmons (Nicholas), Cathy Simmons (Cathy), Praeger Metis, CPAs (Praeger), Genetrix George (Genetrix) (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 to 10, alleging causes of action for injury to real property, breach of contract, and negligence. On February 10, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC), alleging the same causes of action against Defendants. 

On June 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a second motion for leave to amend, after their prior motion for leave to amend had been denied without prejudice. (Order (5/25/23).) On September 18, 2023, Nicholas and Cathy (the Simmons Defendants) opposed the motion. Plaintiffs replied on 9/21/23.

PRELIMINARY ISSUES
The Simmons Defendants’ opposition is untimely, as it was filed on September 18, 2023, when the deadline for the opposition was September 15, 2023 based on the September 29, 2023 hearing date. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)  Nevertheless, the Court exercises its discretion to still consider the opposition. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.) The Court admonishes the Simmons Defendants to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.

LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)

“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court, a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)

Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)

DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs seek leave to file the proposed Second Amended Complaint (SAC), a copy of which is attached to the moving papers as Exhibit 3. Plaintiffs seek to add allegations addressing issues raised by the Simmons Defendants, and to add a cause of action for trespass against Nicholas and an additional breach of contract cause of action against Defendants Genetrix and Praeger. (Motion, Ex. 3.) Defendants oppose the motion, contending that Plaintiffs’ motion again fails to comply with the requirements of Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court by failing to specify the effect of the proposed amendments, why they are necessary and proper, and when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered. Defendants also contend the motion is untimely.

While the Court finds that the declaration of attorney J. Grant Kennedy is not the most artfully drafted pleading, given the policy of liberally granting leave to amend, the Court finds the declaration substantially complies with the requirements of Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court. The Court further finds that the motion is not untimely and that Plaintiffs fail to show how they are prejudiced by the delay in filing this motion.

Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a second amended complaint.

CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s second motion for leave to amend.

The Second Amended Complaint attached to the moving papers is deemed filed as of the date of this Order.

Plaintiff is ordered to serve defendants with a copy of the Second Amended Complaint and file the proofs of service with the Court.

Plaintiff is also ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.