 Case Number:  23STCV15264    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
13, 2023                            TRIAL
DATE:  September 3, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Drew Hunthausen v. Johnny Was, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV15264
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Johnny Was, LLC.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Drew
Hunthausen
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a
discrimination case involving website accessibility.  Plaintiff, Drew Hunthausen, is a blind
individual who requires screen reading software to read website content and
access the content.  Defendant, Johnny
Was, LLC, owns and operates clothing store locations in California, including a
store in Manhattan Beach, California. 
Defendant has a public website which provides access to Defendant’s
array of services, including a location locator, description of its products, and
amenities, among other things. Plaintiff claims the website is maintained in
such a way that there are numerous access barriers that prevent Plaintiff, and
other blind and visually-impaired individuals, from gaining equal access to the
website.  Plaintiff further claims that
this constitutes a violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. §§
12181, et seq. (“ADA”) and the Unruh Civil Rights Act, California Civil Code §§
51, et seq. (“Unruh”).  
 
            On June 29,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant for Violation of the Unruh
Act.  Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief,
statutory damages, attorney’s fees, and costs.
 
            On August
16, 2023, Defendant filed this Demurrer to the Complaint.   
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Defendant replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect
to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general
or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America v.
Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)   
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of two documents: (1) the “Guidance on Web
Accessibility and the ADA” which is published on the United States Department
of Justice’s official website, and (2) the Statement of Interest of the United
States of America in Vargas, et al. v. Quest Diagnostics Clinical Labs,
Inc., et al. (C.D. Cal. Sept. 20, 2021) Case No. 2:19-cv-08108-DMG-MRW,
Doc. 118 at pgs. 7-12, 14.
 
            In
its Reply, Defendant requests judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint filed in
Brooks v. See's Candies, Inc. (C.D. Cal, June 8, 2020) No.
2:20-CV01236-MCE-DB and the order dismissing Plaintiff’s complaint in that
matter.
 
            Because
the Court does not rely on these documents in the disposition of this demurrer,
the Court does not rule on the parties’ requests for judicial notice.
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            The Unruh Act provides that “[a]ll
persons within the jurisdiction of this state are free and equal, and no matter
what their sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, disability,
medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation,
citizenship, primary language, or immigration status are entitled to the full
and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in
all business establishments of every kind whatsoever.”  (Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (b); see Civ. Code, §
52.)  Moreover, a violation of the ADA
also qualifies as a violation of Unruh.  (Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (f).)  
            
            To state a cause of action for
violation of the Unruh Act, a plaintiff must show that: (1) defendant denied,
aided or incited a denial of or discriminated against plaintiff with respect to
full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services;
(2) the substantial motivating reason for defendant’s conduct was due to its
perception of an actionable characteristic; (3) the actionable characteristic
was a substantial motivating reason for defendant’s conduct; and (4) defendant
was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No. 3060.)  Importantly, “[a] plaintiff who establishes a
violation of the ADA . . . need not prove intentional discrimination in order
to obtain damages under section 52.”  (Munson
v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009) 46 Cal.4th 661, 665.) On the other hand, a
plaintiff establishing an Unruh violation that is not also an ADA violation
must nevertheless establish that the discrimination was intentional. (Harris
v. Capital Growth Investors XIV (1991) 52 Cal.3d 1142, 1172; see Long v.
Playboy Enterprises Intern., Inc. (2014) 565 Fed.Appx. 646, 647-648
[observing that the Munson Court’s holding did not disturb the
requirement that a non-ADA Unruh claim be based on intentional
discrimination].) 
 
            Additionally, the plaintiff must establish
bona fide intent to use the business’s services. (White v. Square (2019)
7 Cal.5th 1019, 1032; Thurston v. Omni Hotels Management Corp. (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 299, 309.)  
 
            Defendant argues Plaintiff’s Unruh Act
violation claim fails, in part, for three reasons: (1) the Complaint does not
allege a nexus between Defendant’s website and denial of access to Defendant’s
brick-and-mortar location; (2) that Defendant committed “willful and
affirmative” misconduct; (3) Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts
identifying the specific deficiencies on Defendant’s website; and (4) Plaintiff
lacks standing.  The Court addresses each
argument in turn.
 
      1.
Nexus 
 
            By its terms, the Unruh Act applies
only to “business establishments.” (Civ. Code, § 51.) Recent California cases
have clarified that this concept is broader than the concept of “places of
public accommodation” as used in the ADA.  Specifically, in California, a website, that
is, a business whose offerings are made entirely by way of an internet
connection and one’s own computer or device, may qualify as a business
establishment under Unruh.  (See White,
supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 1023 [analyzing issue of standing and
holding that “visiting a website with intent to use its services is, for
purposes of standing, equivalent to presenting oneself for services at a
brick-and-mortar store”]; id. at p 1027 [“The case before us involves a
plaintiff who neither paid a fee nor requested equal treatment before leaving
the business establishment – in this case, a website, not a brick-and-mortar
vendor”]; Thurston v. Midvale Corp. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th, 634-644
[observing in express dicta that “[e]xcluding websites just because they are
not built of brick-and-mortar runs counter to the purpose of the statute”].)  Published federal cases also indicate that an
online store where goods are sold can qualify as its own business establishment
under Unruh without any requirement of a nexus to physical store.  (See, e.g., National Fed’n of the Blind v.
Target Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 486 F.Supp.2d 1022, 1056.) 
 
            Here, the Complaint indicates that
Defendant owns and operates clothing store locations in California and provides
a public Website.  The Website provides
access to Defendant’s array of services, including a location locator for its
clothing store locations, descriptions of its products, amenities, and services.
 (Complaint, ¶¶ 9-10.)  At the pleading stage, and especially in light
of White, supra, this is sufficient to plead Defendant’s status
as a business establishment as defined in the Unruh Act.  
 
      2.
Intent
 
            If a claim is based on direct
violations of Unruh, the plaintiff must plead and prove that the violations
were intentional. (Long v. Playboy Enterprises Intern., Inc. (2014) 565
Fed.Appx. 646, 647-648.)  Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not pled facts to support the requisite intent.   The
Complaint alleges, in relevant part: 
 
Defendant’s actions constitute
intentional discrimination against Plaintiff on the basis of a disability in
violation of the Unruh Act because Defendant has constructed a Website that is
inaccessible to Plaintiff, knowingly maintains the Website in this inaccessible
form, and has failed to take adequate actions to correct these barriers even
after being notified of the discrimination that such barriers cause.  
 
(Complaint, ¶ 28.) 
 
            By alleging that Defendant did not correct
the barriers after being notified about the discriminatory nature of the
barriers, Plaintiff has pled knowledge of the access problem sufficiently for
the pleading stage.  This, in turn,
suffices for pleading Defendant’s intent.  The allegations are sufficient to place
Defendant on notice of Plaintiff’s theory of intent: that Defendant continued
to offer a non-compliant website even after learning about the existing
barriers.  (See Ruiz v. Musclewood
Inv. Props., LLC (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 15, 22 [in Disabled Persons Act
claim, knowledge of defects along with lack of action to rectify in response to
an attempt to obtain corrective action, may permit an inference of
intent].)  
 
            3. Deficiencies  
 
            Finally, Defendant argues that the Complaint
does not allege specific deficiencies on Defendant’s website which prevented
access.  Not so.  The Complaint
alleges that:
 
The Website’s barriers are
pervasive and include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) Missing
alternative text which presents a problem because an image without alternative
text results in an empty link. Alternative Text is invisible code embedded
beneath a graphical image on a website. Web accessibility requires that
Alternative Text be coded with each picture so that a screen reader can speak
the Alternative Text where a sighted user sees pictures. Alternative Text does
not change the visual presentation, but instead generates a text box that will
pop-up when the mouse moves over the picture. The lack of Alternative Text on
these graphics prevents screen readers from accurately vocalizing a description
of the graphics; (2) Empty or missing form labels which presents a problem
because, if a form control does not have a properly associated text label, the
function or purpose of that form control may not be presented to screen reader
users. Form labels provide visible descriptions and larger clickable targets
for form controls; and (3) Empty links, which present a problem because a link
contains no text. If a link contains no text, the function or purpose of the
link will not be presented to the user. This can introduce confusion for
keyboard and screen reader users.
 
 (Complaint,
¶ 22.) 
 
            Here, the Complaint provides
multiple examples of specific deficiencies located within Defendant’s websites
as well as the explanation as to why those deficiencies infringe on Plaintiff’s
right to accessibility. (See Complaint ¶¶ 21, 23.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged specific deficiencies within Defendant’s websites.  
 
            4. 
Standing
 
            Defendant argues the Complaint does
not sufficiently allege that Plaintiff has Article III[1]
standing to maintain his ADA claim under Unruh. 
Defendant’s argument is misplaced. 
Plaintiff is pursuing a violation of the Unruh Act, a California statute,
and has proceeded in state court.  Under
well-established precedent, Article III standing is required to invoke the
jurisdiction of a federal court.  “We
have recognized often that the constraints of Article III do not apply to state
courts, and accordingly the state courts are not bound by the limitations of a
case or controversy or other federal rules of justiciability even when they
address issues of federal law, as when they are called upon to interpret the
Constitution or . . . a federal statute.” 
(Asarco, Inc. v. Kadish (1989) 490 U.S. 605, 617.)  Simply put, there is no authority for the
proposition that a plaintiff must establish Article III standing to maintain an
Unruh claim in a California state court just because the Unruh claim is based
on a violation of federal law.  Article
III does not constrain this Court.  
 
            Moreover, Plaintiff sufficiently
alleges standing under Unruh.  “Standing
under the Unruh Civil Rights Act is broad.” (Osborne v. Yasmeh (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 1118, 1127.)  “[A] plaintiff
cannot sue for discrimination in the abstract, but must actually suffer the
discriminatory conduct.” (Angelucci v. Century Supper Club (2007)
41 Cal.4th 160, 175.)  “A person who
visits a business’s website with intent to use its services and encounters
terms or conditions that exclude the person from full and equal access to its
services has standing under the Unruh Civil Rights Act, with no further
requirement that the person enter into an agreement or transaction with the
business.”  (White, 7 Cal.5th at
pp. 1032–33.)  Here, the Complaint sufficiently
alleges Plaintiff’s intention to use Defendant’s services.   (See Complaint, ¶¶ 23, 24,)
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff must
allege having a bona fide intent to use Defendant’s services.  For this proposition, Defendant cites Thurston
v. Omni Hotels Management Corporation (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 299.  This case is unavailing.  Thurston explicitly states that, “[b]eyond
the pleading stage, if a plaintiff wants to prevail on an Unruh Civil
Rights Act claim, he or she must present sufficient evidence to overcome the
online defendant's argument that he or she did not actually possess a bona
fide intent to sign up for or use its services. [Citation.]”  (Thurston, 69 Cal.App.5th at p. 307,
emphasis added, citation omitted.)  This
matter is at the pleading stage.  As
such, Plaintiff is not required to allege bona fide intent.
 
            The Complaint states a claim for an
Unruh violation.  Because the demurrer is
overruled on this basis, at this time the Court need not and does not reach the
question whether the facts also support an ADA violation (and therefore a
subdivision (f) Unruh violation).
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant is ordered to file and serve its Answer within 10
days of this order. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   December 13,
2023                                    




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


