  Case Number:  21STCV22340    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE RULING
Cross-Complainant’s Motion
is DENIED.The hearing will be heard in  the Clara Shortridge Foltz Criminal Justice Center located at 210 W. Temple Street, Department 133, 15th Floor at 9:00 a.m. before the Honorable Serena Murillo.If the parties wish to submit, they may contact the JA in Department 31 ot the Stanley Mosk Courthouse.

Background
 
On June 15, 2021, Plaintiff
John Cadusale filed this wage and hour lawsuit. 
 
On July 28, 2022, Plaintiff
filed the first amended complaint (FAC) against Defendants Alameda Restaurant
LLC, Noypitz Bar & Grill LLC, Lauro Calonzo, and Wokcano Cerritos, LLC,
alleging seven causes of action for: (1) failure to provide meal breaks; (2)
failure to provide rest breaks; (3) failure to pay wages; (4) failure to pay
overtime; (5) failure to provide accurate itemized wage statements; (6)
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200-17208; and (7)
wrongful termination in violation of public policy.¿ 
 
The FAC alleges on that from
on or about January 2018, to on or about March 17, 2020, Plaintiff was employed
with Defendants as a waiter/server. Plaintiff’s bi-monthly compensation was
$1,000.00. Plaintiff would regularly work overtime over the course of his
employment, e.g., 15-hour days. Defendants, however, continuously failed to pay
Plaintiff’s proper wages and overtime earnings. Additionally, and throughout
various times of Plaintiff’s employment, Defendants would require Plaintiff to
fulfill his job duties during allotted meal and rest breaks.  
 
Plaintiff would complain to
Defendants and request proper payment and treatment from Defendants. In return,
Defendants would not concern themselves with Plaintiff’s legitimate complaints,
but instead continuously denied Plaintiff his lawfully earned wages as
promised. After Plaintiff complained to Defendants about their unlawful working
conditions, illegal financial activities, unpaid wages and overtime, and missed
meal and rest breaks, Defendants wrongfully terminated Plaintiff’s employment
on or about March 17, 2020.  
 
Plaintiff worked without
receiving accurate itemized wage statements that reflected regular and overtime
hours actually worked and meal and rest period premium payments.  
 
Defendant Calonzo was, during
the relevant time period, the owner, director, officer, managing agent and/or
President of Defendants Alameda Restaurant LLC and Noypitz Bar & Grill LLC,
and Calonzo was a joint employer, working as a joint enterprise with and/or the
alter ego of Defendants Alameda Restaurant LLC and Noypitz Bar & Grill LLC.
 
On November 15, 2023, Cross-Complainant
filed a Motion for Reconsideration of the November 6, 2023 Order. On December
1, 2023, Cross-Defendant filed an opposition. On December 5, 2023,
Cross-Complainant filed an amended motion. On December 8, 2023,
Cross-Complainant filed a reply. 
 
The motion is now before the
Court. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent part:¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
“(a) When an application for
an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in
part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by
the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written
notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make an application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.
The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was
made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and
what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.¿¿ 
 
[. . .]¿ 
¿ 
(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.”¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) contains
both discretionary and mandatory relief provisions. (See Pagnini v. Union
Bank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.) Mandatory relief is only
available based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault that results in default,
default judgment, or dismissal of the action. (Minick v. City of Petaluma
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25-26.)
 
The discretionary relief
provision of section 473 subdivision (b) states, in relevant part: 
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”


(Code
Civ. Proc., § 473.)
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (d) states: 
 
“The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its
own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so
as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either
party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.”
 
(Id.)
 
Discussion
Preliminary Issues
Cross-Defendant argues that the instant motion should
be denied due to Cross-Complainant’s failure to serve the motion to
Cross-Defendant’s counsel pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005(b).
There is no proof of service attached. Cross-Defendant is correct in claiming
that he was not properly served nor given notice. Notice is required for every
motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.) Notice must be given at least sixteen
days before the hearing date. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005(b).) “In case of service
by mail, the notice or other paper shall be deposited in a post office,
mailbox,  . . .  in a sealed envelope, with postage paid,
addressed to the person on whom it is to be served, at the office address as last
given by that person on any document filed in the cause and served on the party
making service by mail; otherwise at that party’s place of residence.” (Code
Civ. Proc. §1013(a).) The Court finds this to be sufficient grounds to deny the
motion.
The Court also notes that Cross-Complainant filed an
amended motion for reconsideration after Cross-Defendant filed an opposition to
the original motion. Although this amended motion was properly served, it is
untimely as it was served on November 27, 2023 and filed on December 5, 2023. 
Additionally, the Court finds Cross-Complainant’s
motion itself to be defective for failure to abide by California Rules of
Court, rule 2.108, which states, “the lines on each page must be one and
one-half spaced or double-spaced and numbered consecutively.” Here,
Cross-Complainant combines single-spaced and double-spaced formats which allows
for more briefing to be presented to the Court than permissible pursuant to
rule 2.108. 
Despite these procedural defects, the Court in its
discretion will consider Cross-Complainant’s originally filed motion.
Merits
Cross-Complainant moves for reconsideration of the
November 6, 2023. However, the Court notes that the hearing scheduled for
November 6, 2023 was taken off calendar based on the October 31, 2023 order,
dismissing Cross-Complainant’s cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant John
Cadusale. The Court held that the first amended cross-complaint was barred and
took November 6, 2023 hearing off calendar. The Court assumes that
Cross-Complainant seeks reconsideration of the October 31, 2023 order. 
Cross-Complainant argues that there are new or
different facts or circumstances and new and different law, statutes, rules,
and regulations which have not been considered and are grounds to set aside the
October 31, 2023 order. As to new or different facts or circumstances,
Cross-Complainant provides as follows:
·       Cross
Defendant orally committed to an Informal Arrangement to Dismiss its Motion to
Strike based on ANTI-SLAPP in exchange for Shelving this Cross Complaint with
an Off Calendar Restraint and Deletion of Yoosefian Law Firm Counsel as Cross
Defendants. Cross-Complainant was prejudiced in Cross-Defendant’s failure to vigorously
pursue its Opposition to the Anti Slapp Motion to Strike up to the deadline
date;
·       The
Signature of Cross Complainant by Defendant Calonzo should have, ultimately,
decided the question if the Cross-Complaint should be pursued as a self- represented
case and disqualified the suspiciously frivolous argument [ie. Same process
server, same pleading paper format] to charge Defendant Counsel with the Cross-Complaint.
The resulting confusion should have convinced this Court to have granted
sufficient extension of time to Oppose this Motion to Strike based on
Anti-SLAPP principles. 
·       Cross
Complaint causes of action pleaded MIXED issues of arguably protected ANTI
SLAPP and unprotected ANTI SLAP matters which should have caused this Court to
deny this Motion to Strike as to the unprotected matters;
·       The
Perverse, Wrongful, Negative, Improper, Inappropriate, Wrongful USE or MISUSE
of the Alleged Specific Complaint Activity seeking ANTI SLAPP protection should
have not been considered in its Public Participation PROTECTIVE feature MODE as
applied to this Cross Complaint’s challenges
·       Conduct
being allegedly protected in Plaintiff’s Anti SLAPP were NEVER the primary
elements in each of the Cross Complaint Causes of Action. A perverse, wrongful
or illegal version of the purported conduct pleaded in the WRONG CONTEXT is NOT
protected. A wrong characterization or misperceived or perverse nature of the
subject conduct in question cannot purportedly “supply the elements” of the
aforementioned causes of action of the subject cross complaint.
·       The
Facts Alleged in the Cross Complaint Causes of Action did not make use of the
original act or activity claimed in Plaintiff’s original complaint but rather pleaded
the Opposite, the Reverse, the Perverse, the Wrongful Aspect of what was
pleaded in the Original Complaint and DO NOT therefore supply the elements of
the Cross-Complaint’s Causes of action, as rendered by this court.
As to different law, statutes, rules, and regulations,
Cross-Complainant provides as follows:
·       No
Pre-Filing Meet and Confer with Cross-Complainant by Cross-Defendant or any of
his counsel or IN BEHALF of Cross-Defendant specifically with Cross-Complainant
as In Pro Per Party was complied with pursuant to CCP 435.5 Motion to Strike
·       Legal
Fallacy to bar or dismiss Cross-Complaint with prejudice for purportedly merely
arising under the Plaintiff’s original complaint activity or conduct pursuant
to ANTI SLAPP Motion to Strike when All Compulsory Cross Complaints or Cross
Complaints filed in California must arise from the original complaint pursuant
to CCP 428 (b) or they are subject to dismissal pursuant to a General Motion to
Strike
·       Cho
v. Chang, 219 Cal. App. 4th 521, 526-27, 161 Cal. Rptr. 3d 846, 850-51
(2013) Case Law that Saves Cases with Mixed Issues from being dismissed based
on Anti Slapp Motion to Strike for invoking allegedly protected from the
unprotected activity in the Cross Complaint Pleadings.
·       Wilson
v. Cable News Network, Inc., 7 Cal. 5th 871, 891-92, 249 Cal. Rptr. 3d 569,
583, 444 P.3d 706, 718 (2019) Should have caused this court to first allow
discovery to settle and thereby clarify the matter of pleading allegedly
protected from unprotected under an Anti-SLAPP scrutiny.
·       Cross
Complainant is entitled to attorney fees since the ANTI SLAPP motion to strike
undertaken by Cross Defendants was a frivolous perverse action done in bad
faith and delay instead of just filing a responsive pleading to the Cross
Complaint in the form of a demurrer or motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.
·       Crime/
Fraud Exception should apply to the use of Anti SLAPP to Propagate Fraud, False
Claims, Wrongful Use of the Statute, and Other Exceptions. No protection should
be afforded to propagate fraud or similar crime in the name of protecting a
purported right or activity in the name of a right of free speech or to redress
grievance.
The Court finds Cross-Complainant’s arguments to be
without merit. Cross-Complainant fails to properly identify new or different
facts or circumstances that were not considered in the October 31, 2023 ruling.
Further, the cases Cross-Complainant cites were not decided following the
Court’s order. Cross-Complainant fails to explain why he did not provide those
cases previously. 
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Complainant’s Motion
is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.  