 Case Number:  20STCV25912    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  68 D&D
Building Solutions, Inc., vs. AMW Construction, Inc., et al., 20STCV25912
Motion to Vacate
Default
Moving
Parties – Defendants AMW Construction, Inc., Anthony Whitson, Jr, and La Taun
Whitson
Moving Party’s Position
            Defendants AMW Construction, Inc.,
Anthony Whitson, Jr, and La Taun Whitson (Defendants) move to vacate default
pursuant to CCP § 473(b). (No default has yet been entered against Defendant
AMW Constructions, Inc.)  The defaults of
Anthony M. Whitson, Jr. and La Taun Whitson were entered on August 22, 2023.  They make this motion based on their
contention that they failed to respond to the complaint due to mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
            Defendants Anthony Whitson and La
Taun Whitson previously filed answers in pro per on June 28, 2023.  They sought fee waivers at that time for the
filing fee.  The waivers were denied on
June 29, 2023, and Defendants were notified that they had to pay their fees or
the answers would be stricken.  The
answers were voided on August 7, 2023.
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff D&D Building Solutions filed requests
for entry of default against Defendants. Due to the clerk’s rejection, default
was not entered against Defendant AMW Construction, and a subsequent attempt to
enter default was rejected on September 11, 2023. 
            Defendants retained counsel in
October 2023 after learning that AMW Construction had to be represented by an
attorney. Defendants filed this motion, along with a joint proposed answer
attached as Exhibit B to the motion, on November 6, 2023. No opposition has
been filed.
Analysis
            CCP Section 473(b) states as
follows:
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party…from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.
Further, the
law favors hearings on the merits, so any doubts as to the application of
section 473 should be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from
default. (See Shapiro v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.)
In this case,
Defendants filed their motion to vacate default within 6 months of Plaintiff’s
requests for entry of default. Defendants’ motion to set aside default was in
the proper form and was accompanied by the answer which is to serve as
Defendants’ responsive pleading to Plaintiff’s complaint. Because the clerk
rejected the requests for entry of default for Defendant AMW Construction, this
motion was not necessary as to it. As for Defendants Anthony Whitson and La
Taun Whitson, the Court finds that there was excusable neglect justifying the
vacation of the entry of default.
The Court GRANTS
Defendants’ motion to vacate default.
ORDER
1.      Defendants’
motion to vacate default is GRANTED.