  Case Number:  19SMCV02200    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  I The court will inquire further, but is inclined to DENY the
application.
The gist of the unopposed application is that expert
discovery remains ongoing and that the parties will be unable to have FSC
documents ready on time.  The case was
filed on December 24, 2019, meaning that it is over four years old. 
The FSC order was given to the parties on October 8,
2020—over three years ago.  At that time,
the court went through the FSC documents that would be needed and emphasized
that it would require a substantial amount of work to be able to comply with
the order so the parties were advised to begin the process of meeting and
conferring in plenty of time to allow a timely filing.
The court assumes that a timely demand was made for an
expert exchange.  The court also assumes
that a timely exchange was made.  If so,
the expert lists were exchanged on December 15, 2023, or perhaps December 18
depending on whether the parties moved forward or back given that the exchange
date likely occurred over the weekend. 
Seven experts were named (that is the total).  The cutoff for expert discovery is today,
January 22, 2024.  That’s not a lot of
time, but that is what the Code requires. 
Apparently due to scheduling concerns the parties have to date completed
only one deposition, although some others have been started and all but one
have at least been scheduled.  The
parties anticipate that the depositions will not be done before January 22,
2024, and in fact will not be done until after the first full week of February.
According to defendant, because of this, the parties have
been unable to do the work needed to prepare for the FSC.  Specifically, the parties apparently first
discussed the FSC on January 17, 2024—12 calendar days before the FSC.  They concluded that, in part due to the
ongoing expert work being done, they would not be able to comply with the order
the court gave three years earlier. 
Further, despite having already filed sixteen motions in
limine, defendant wants to file more based on the experts, although
defendant is not prepared to say what those motions might be.
Defendant, who brings the motion, asserts that plaintiff has
no objection to a continuance of 60 days.
The court does not understand how this situation came to
be.  The court has never been a fan of
the CCP’s expert timing; the court believes that the dates should be about
20-30 days earlier than set out in the Code. 
Of course, the parties could have stipulated to an earlier expert
exchange date to avoid being jammed up at the end, but they did not do so.  Even with the Code’s schedule, though, there
are 45 days to take the depositions. 
Further, the expert declarations require counsel to declare, under penalty
of perjury, that the expert is prepared to give a meaningful deposition
(presumably in the time frame required by law). 
The court assumes that the declarations were properly filed and that
counsel meant what they swore.  While 45
days is not an eternity, neither is it unduly short for 7 depositions.  While the court is aware that the depositions
would have occurred over the holidays, it is not as if that came as a surprise
to anyone.  Indeed, knowing that the 45
day period would be during the holidays, it would have been prudent for the
parties to meet and confer and discuss whether to do the expert exchange
earlier than required so as to give themselves breathing room.  But, alas, such was not to be.  The court certainly appreciates the parties’
efforts not to come running into court with scheduling problems, they also
needed to be more diligent.  The clock
was ticking and everyone knew it.  They
all needed to be willing to work over the holidays to get the work done.  And if they could not do so, then they needed
to bring this motion in December, not a week before the FSC and the day of the
expert discovery cut off.
The court also has little sympathy for the FSC problem.  The court specifically warned the parties
that much was required to comply with the court’s FSC order.  Indeed, even absent the court’s order the
rules themselves require a lot of work to prepare for an FSC.  The fact that the parties waited until one
week before the FSC papers were due to begin talking about the subject is
hardly diligence.  And the fact that
sixteen in limine motions are not enough for defendant is a hard one for
the court to view as justification. 
If it were the case that the court was going to otherwise be
in trial on February 5 anyway, the court would be inclined to grant the motion
on the theory that there is no reason to make people prepare for a trial that
the court will not hold.  But, as it
turns out, other than a 2 day trial that might or might not start that day, the
courtroom is available for trial.  The
court has about 950 cases on its docket. 
It cannot afford to be dark because parties did not get their work done
in time.  Further, this case is very
old.  The court might have felt
differently if the case had been filed in 2023, or maybe even 2022.  But it was filed in late 2019!  There has been enough time to do what needed
to be done.
In short, the court sees no good cause to continue the
trial.  The court strongly suggests that
the parties work with all deliberate speed to prepare the FSC materials so that
they are timely filed and the case will go forward.  If an expert cannot be deposed, the court
will deal with the problem when presented. 
The parties are, of course, free to stipulate to extend the discovery
cut-off for expert depositions, and the court will “SO ORDER” any stipulations
the parties reach in that regard that does not affect the FSC or trial dates.
That said, the court will hear (briefly) from the parties.