  Case Number:  21STCV32131    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Derrick Upchurch, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV32131




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
BC Design Development, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: May 14, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(5) Motions to Approve Good Faith
Settlement[1]
 
T/R:     THE APPLICATIONS
FOR GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT ARE GRANTED.
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No oppositions were filed.
 
Any party to an action in which it is
alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors upon giving notice in the manner provided in
CCP §1005(b).  (CCP § 877.6(a)(1).)  A determination by the court that the
settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.  (CCP § 877.6 (c).)  The party contesting the settlement bears the
burden of proving that the settlement is in bad faith.  (CCP § 877.6 (d).)  
 
A. Arturo Guillen Hernandez dba HDZ
Plumbing, HDZ Plumbing & Sewer, Inc., and American Contractor’s Indemnity
 
Defendants Arturo Guillen Hernandez dba
HDZ Plumbing, HDZ Plumbing & Sewer, Inc., and American Contractor’s
Indemnity apply for approval of good faith settlement with Plaintiffs in the
amount of $160,000.00. This action arises from construction defects on a
single-family home owned by Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs claim over $3.6 million in
damages. The parties reached a settlement after mediation and subsequent
negotiations. Defendants do not admit fault. There is no opposition to the
application. The Court finds that the settlement is in good faith.
 
Defendants Arturo Guillen Hernandez dba
HDZ Plumbing, HDZ Plumbing & Sewer, Inc., and American Contractor’s
Indemnity’s application for approval of good faith settlement is GRANTED.
 
B. Monty Ventsam, Inc. dba Ventsam
Window and Door
 
Defendant Monty Ventsam, Inc. dba
Ventsam Window and Door applies for approval of good faith settlement with
Plaintiffs in the amount of $20,000.00. The parties reached a settlement after
mediation and subsequent negotiations. Defendant does not admit fault. There is
no opposition to the application. The Court finds that the settlement is in
good faith.
 
Defendant Monty Ventsam, Inc. dba
Ventsam Window and Door’s application for approval of good faith settlement is
GRANTED.
 
C. Greg Kent Jolley dba Viking Electric
 
Defendant Greg Kent Jolley dba Viking
Electric applies for approval of good faith settlement with Plaintiffs in the
amount of $15,000.00. The parties reached a settlement after mediation and
subsequent negotiations. Defendant does not admit fault. There is no opposition
to the application. The Court finds that the settlement is in good faith.
 
Defendant Greg Kent Jolley dba Viking
Electric’s application for approval of good faith settlement is GRANTED.
 
D. Millenium Air, Inc.
 
Defendant Millenium Air, Inc. applies
for approval of good faith settlement with Plaintiffs in the amount of
$45,000.00. The parties reached a settlement after mediation and subsequent
negotiations. Defendant does not admit fault. There is no opposition to the
application. The Court finds that the settlement is in good faith.
 
Defendant Millenium Air, Inc.’s
application for approval of good faith settlement is GRANTED.
 
E. Jason Gullage dba Jason Gullage
Concrete Pumping Services
 
Defendant Jason Gullage dba Jason
Gullage Concrete Pumping Services applies for approval of good faith settlement
with Plaintiffs in the amount of $7,500.00. The parties reached a settlement during
mediation. Defendant does not admit fault. There is no opposition to the
application. The Court finds that the settlement is in good faith.
 
Defendant Jason Gullage dba Jason
Gullage Concrete Pumping Services’ application for approval of good faith
settlement is GRANTED.
 
 


