 Case Number:  23STCV16295    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge
Bruce G. Iwasaki

Department 58
 

Hearing Date:             November 19, 2024
Case
Name:                Pacific
Building Contractors v. European Parquet Inc.
Case
No.:                    23STCV16295
Matter:                        Motion for Leave to File
a Cross-Complaint
Moving
Party:             Defendant European
Parquet, Inc. 
Opposing
Party:          Plaintiff Pacific Building Contracts, Inc. 

Tentative Ruling:      The Motion
for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is granted. Defendant is ordered to file the
Cross-Complaint within 7 days. 

 
Background
 
            The
action arises from a dispute between a general contractor and its
subcontractor. On July 12, 2023, Plaintiff Pacific Building Contracts, Inc.
(Plaintiff), the general contractor, filed a Complaint against its flooring
subcontractor, Defendant European Parquet, Inc. (Defendant), for (1.) breach of
contract, (2.) breach of implied contract, (3.) negligence, (4.) implied
contractual indemnity, (5.) implied equitable indemnity, and (6.) unjust
enrichment. 
 
On October 18,
2023, Defendant European Parquet, Inc. filed an Answer.
 
            On
October 18, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion seeking leave to file a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff. Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
 
            The
motion for leave to file a Cross-Complaint is granted. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure
section 428.50 provides as follows: 
 
“(a) A party shall
file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) Any other
cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for
trial. 
(c) A party shall
obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the
time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest
of justice at any time during the course of the action.”
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
moves for leave to file a cross-complaint on the grounds that the proposed
Cross-Complaint is compulsory under Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30 and
the delay in seeking leave was in good faith. 
 
            The
Court must first determine the appropriate standard by which to assess the
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. This turns
on whether the proposed cross-complaint is deemed to be either a compulsory cross-complaint
or a permissive cross-complaint. 
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.30, subdivision (a), which defines compulsory
cross-complaints, states: “Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a party
against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his
answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not
thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause
of action not pleaded.” 
 
Under this statutory scheme, “[s]ubdivision
(a) addresses compulsory cross-complaints, those related to the subject matter
of the underlying complaint which exist at the time of service of the answer to
the complaint on the particular plaintiff.” (City of Hanford v. Superior
Court (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 580, 586–587; see also Code Civ. Proc. §
426.30, subd. (a).) “Related cause of action” is defined in Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.10(c) as “a cause of action which arises out of the
same transaction, occurrence or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” “[T]he
relatedness standard ‘requires “not an absolute identity of factual backgrounds
for the two claims, but only a logical relationship between them.” ’ ” (ZF
Micro Devices, Inc. v. TAT Capital Partners, Ltd. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 69,
82.)
 
            Here,
the proposed cross-complaint arises from the same underlying construction
project and the parties’ respective obligations and services provided therein.
(Compare Wiener Decl., Ex. D, ¶¶ 12-17 [Proposed Cross-Complaint] with
Compl., ¶¶ 5-14.) Moreover, Plaintiff does not dispute that the proposed Cross-Complaint is compulsory. Based on
the pleading “arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges
in his complaint” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c)), the proposed
Cross-Complaint is a compulsory cross-complaint.
 
            Next,
Defendant argues the delay in seeking leave to file this Cross-Complaint was made
in good faith. 
 
Under Section
426.50, a party who fails to plead a compulsory cross-complaint, “whether
through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause,” may apply
for leave to file the cross-complaint “at any time during the course of the
action.” The statute further provides that the court shall grant leave
to file a cross-complaint to assert a cause of action “if the party who failed
to plead the cause acted in good faith,” and that “[t]his subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”
 
The pertinent
inquiry is whether there is “substantial evidence that bad faith existed in the
circumstances surrounding [the] motion to file the cross-complaint.” (Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)
 
Here, Defendant
submits evidence that it was only after reviewing Plaintiff’s responses to discovery
that Defendant’s counsel realized it had a factual basis for the cross-claims
in the proposed Cross-Complaint. Specifically, Defendant served various written
discovery on Plaintiff, including Requests for Admission on December 7, 2023.
(Wiener Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) On January 5, 2024, Plaintiff served responses to Defendant’s
Requests for Admission, which contained various facts supporting Defendant’s
Cross-Complaint. (Wiener Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.) These responses demonstrated to
Defendant the disparity between the parties’ understanding of events and
convinced Defendant that cross-claims were necessary. (Weiner Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)
 
            Defendant
further represents that the delay was also the result of Defendant’s belief
that the parties’ then ongoing settlement negotiations would be successful. That
is, for months, the parties were engaged in settlement negotiations, which
Defendant believed would result in its dismissal form this case; however,
negotiations were ultimately unsuccessful. (Weiner Decl., ¶¶ 5-8.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant acted in bad faith because it would
have been aware of the crossclaims as early as January 5, 2024 and Defendant’s
purported insolvency was responsible the delays related to the settlement
negotiations. (Fax Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
While the evidence
before the Court does not show that Defendant acted as expediently as possible
in seeking leave to file the cross-complaint, there is no evidence that Defendant
acted in bad faith in its delay in seeking to file a cross-complaint.
 
            Plaintiff
also makes arguments challenging the legal viability of the cross-claims in the
Cross-Complaint; however, a motion for leave is generally not the appropriate
vehicle to substantively challenge a pleading. (See e.g., California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173
Cal.App.3d 274, 280-81 [disapproved on other grounds].) 
 
            Finally,
Plaintiff argues that it will be prejudiced by the filing of this Cross-Complaint.
Plaintiff argues the Cross-Complaint  will increase Plaintiff’s litigation costs and
prolong the case, as Plaintiff would need to investigate and defend against
claims that could have been raised at the outset of the litigation. Plaintiff
submits no evidence of prejudice. For example, there is no evidence that
material evidence has been lost with the passage of time or that Plaintiff will
incur substantial costs that would not have been incurred had the
cross-complaint been timely filed. Rather, Plaintiff’s claims of
increased litigation costs are merely the normal costs of the litigation process
and not prejudice from any delay.  
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants leave to Defendant to file the proposed Cross-Complaint. Defendant
is ordered to file and serve the Cross-Complaint within seven days.  