 Case Number:  23STCV01637    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  74 United Bridge Trucking Corp. v.
Tommy Wang, et al.
Defendants’ Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.
The court considered the moving
papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a business dispute,
            On
January 25, 2023, Plaintiff United Bridge Trucking Corp. (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants Tommy Wang, Pin Pin Kuo, Anna Zhang, C Lion, and
WA Transportation (Defendants).
            On
July 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC). The FAC alleges
the following causes of action: breach of fiduciary duty, constructive fraud,
fraudulent concealment, conspiracy, intentional misrepresentation, accounting
and constructive trust, partition and accounting, and dissolution.
            On
September 20, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to strike portions of the FAC.
LEGAL STANDARD
            A court may strike any “¿irrelevant,
false or improper matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of a pleading
“¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule,
or an order of the court.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 436¿.) “¿The grounds for a
motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿            
DISCUSSION 
            Defendants
first seek to strike paragraph 21 of the FAC and Exhibit 1 in its entirety. The
former refers to an unsigned settlement agreement, while the latter is the
agreement itself. In support, Defendants cite Evidence Code section 1152,
subdivision (a), and an unpublished case that is not binding on this court. But
Evidence Code section 1152, subdivision (a) only “prohibits the introduction
into evidence of an offer to compromise a claim for the purpose of proving
liability for that claim.” (Fletcher v. Western National Life Ins. Co. (1970)
10 Cal.App.3d 376, 396.) Here, Plaintiff relies on the unsigned settlement
agreement to demonstrate it has an ownership interest in Defendant WA
Transportation. (Opposition, p. 10; FAC, ¶¶ 19-24.) Plaintiff is not using the
agreement to prove Defendants’ liability for the claims in the FAC by virtue of
Defendants offer to compromise them. Thus, the court will not strike paragraph
21 or Exhibit 1.
            Next,
Defendants aim to strike paragraphs 50, 56, 62, 68, and 76, in addition to page
20, lines 13-14. To that end, Defendants contend the allegations in the FAC are
insufficient to support an award of punitive damages. Punitive damages require
a showing of malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) In
this context, fraud means, “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) The FAC
alleges in part that Defendants knowingly misrepresented that Plaintiff would
receive a 50% share interest in Defendant WA Transportation in exchange for
Plaintiff’s investments, materials, and services. (FAC, ¶ 71.) Moreover,
Defendant’s intended for their misrepresentation to cause Plaintiff’s financial
losses. (FAC, ¶ 72.) Given the foregoing, the court will not strike the
references to punitive damages.
            Last,
Defendants target paragraph 102 of the FAC, in addition to the following
portions of the prayer: page 20, line 15; page 22,
lines 4-5; and page 22, line 9. In those portions of the FAC, Plaintiff
requests attorney’s fees. As Defendants note, such fees are only recoverable if
a statute or agreement so provides. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.) Defendants
contend the FAC does not allege a basis for recovery of attorney’s fees.
Plaintiff in turn has provided no arguments to the contrary. Thus, the court
will grant Defendants’ motion to strike paragraph 102, page 20, line 15, page
22, lines 4-5, and page 22, line 9. But the court will also grant Plaintiff
leave to amend accordingly.
CONCLUSION
            Based
on the foregoing, the court grants Defendants’ motion to strike in part with
leave to amend. 
Defendants
are ordered to give notice.