 Case Number:  23AHCV00593    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  X Defendant's Motion for Terminating SanctionsThis
case arises out of Plaintiffs Jose Iniestra and Silvia Garcia’s motor vehicle
personal injury claim.  Defendant moves to impose a terminating
sanction dismissing Plaintiffs’ action against Defendant in its entirety.        
            
Defendant’s motion
for terminating sanctions is GRANTED.  The
Court orders this action dismissed pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subdivision (d)(3). 
 
Section 2023.030
of the Code of Civil Procedure provides:
 
To the extent
authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or any
other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected party,
person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose the
following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process:
***
(d) The court may impose a
terminating sanction by one of the following orders:
(1) An order striking out the
pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process.
(2) An order staying further
proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is obeyed.
(3) An order dismissing the
action, or any part of the action, of that party.
(4) An order rendering a
judgment by default against that party.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a)-(d).)
 
The imposition of
terminating sanctions is a drastic consequence, one that should not lightly be
imposed, or requested.  (Ruvalcaba v.
Government Employees Ins. Co. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1579, 1581.)  However, where lesser sanctions have been
ordered, such as an order compelling compliance with discovery requests, and
the party persists in disobeying, the party does so “at his own risk, knowing
that such a refusal provided the court with statutory authority to impose other
sanctions” such as dismissing the action. 
(Id., at p. 1583; Todd v. Thrifty Corp. (1995) 34
Cal.App.4th 986 [appropriate to dismiss action without resort to lesser
sanctions where plaintiff had failed to respond to discovery and further failed
to comply with the court’s order compelling the requested discovery].)
 
Plaintiff last
appeared on this matter at the January 2024 Case Management Conference.  On February 20, 2024, Defendant filed and
served motions to compel Plaintiffs’ responses to interrogatories, requests for
admission, and requests for production of documents.  (Sargsyan Decl., ¶ 6.)  On March 7, the Court ordered Plaintiffs to
provide responses and pay sanctions in the amount of $993.20 due on March 27,
2024.  (Sargsyan Decl., ¶ 7.)  To date, Plaintiffs have not served verified
responses to any discovery requests or paid monetary sanctions.  (Sargsyan Decl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiffs have not opposed any of the
discovery motions (or any motions, generally) by Defendant in this case.  No opposition has been filed to the instant
motion and there is no indication that making a lesser sanction order at this
juncture would lead to Plaintiffs’ compliance with the discovery process.  A terminating sanction is “appropriate to the
dereliction” and does not “exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.”  (Deyo
v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 793.)
 
The Court grants Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions.  
 
The Complaint filed
by Plaintiffs Jose Iniestra and Silvia Garcia is
dismissed without prejudice.  The Court declines
to award additional monetary sanctions considering the dismissal of this
action. 
 
Moving Party to provide notice.