  Case Number:  22AHCV00548    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  X Plaintiff's Motion for SanctionsThis
case arises out of Plaintiff Pref Pasadena Collection, LLC’s (“Plaintiff”)
claim that Defendant Pasadena Collection West Property Owner’s Association
(“Defendant”) failed to abide by the Declaration of Establishment of
Conditions, Covenants, and Restrictions (“CC&R”) for the Pasadena
Collection West.  Plaintiff filed the
complaint on August 5, 2022, alleging three causes of action for (1)
declaratory relief, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealings.Plaintiff moves for sanctions in the
amount of $5,320.00 plus $60.00 filing fee on the grounds that Defendant’s four
motions to quash are frivolous and intended to cause unnecessary delay.  Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions is DENIED.By filing a pleading
an attorney is certifying that all of the following conditions are met: (1) It
is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or
to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation; (2)
The claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein are warranted by
existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law; (3) The allegations
and other factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so
identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable
opportunity for further investigation or discovery; and (4) The denials of
factual contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so
identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or belief.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7 (b).)  If the court “determines that subdivision (b)
has been violated [in other words that at least one of the conditions has not
been met], the court may, subject to the conditions stated below, impose an
appropriate sanction upon the attorneys, law firms, or parties that have
violated subdivision (b) or are responsible for the violation.  In determining what sanctions, if any, should
be ordered, the court shall consider whether a party seeking sanctions has
exercised due diligence.”  (Id., at subd.
(c).)“Under [section]
128.7, a court may impose sanctions for filing a pleading if the court
concludes the pleading was filed for an improper purpose or was indisputably
without merit, either legally or factually. . . . A claim is factually
frivolous if it is ‘not well grounded in fact’ and it is legally frivolous if
it is ‘not warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.’ . . . In either case, to
obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party’s conduct in asserting
the claim was objectively unreasonable. . . . A claim is objectively
unreasonable if ‘any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and
completely without merit.’ . . . Section 128.7 ‘must not be construed so as to
conflict with the primary duty of an attorney to represent his or her client
zealously.  Forceful representation often
requires that an attorney attempt to read a case or an agreement in an
innovative though sensible way.  Our law
is constantly evolving, and effective representation sometimes compels
attorneys to take the lead in that evolution.’”  (Ponce v. Wells Fargo Bank (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 253, 260-261 ([internal quotations largely omitted].)While section 128.7
reads as though sanctions may be awarded if any of the four conditions are met,
that is not literally true.  If a claim
is legally warranted, it cannot be filed for an improper purpose.  “[A] nonfrivolous” complaint cannot be
presented for an improper purpose under section 128.7. . . (Ponce, supra,
21 Cal.App.5th at p. 265.)Plaintiff issued and
served four subpoenas for the production of business records.  (Nevin Decl., ¶¶ 20-25.)  Defendant filed four motions to quash.  Plaintiff urged Defendant to withdraw its
motions to quash.  (Nevin Decl., ¶ 28.)  Attorney Nevin’s June 4, 2024 letter provided
a “safe harbor” notice that Plaintiff intended to serve and then 21 days later
file a motion for sanctions. Defendant refused to withdraw the four motions.  (Nevin Decl., ¶ 31.)  Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer a
second time with Defendant, but Defendant refused.  (Nevin Decl., ¶ 30.)  Plaintiff argues Defendant was already
sanctioned for raising the same objections that were already overruled and
deemed meritless.  (Motion, p. 7.)  Plaintiff argues Defendant’s blanket
objections and motions to quash are taken without reasonable basis and without
grounds, so Plaintiff urges the Court to sanction Defendant for filing and then
not withdrawing the four motions to quash.  Also, Defendant has not responded to
Plaintiff’s repeated attempts to meet and confer.  Thus, Plaintiff requests the Court award
sanctions.  In opposition, Defendant essentially argues it is authorized
to move to quash subpoenas to protect deponents from unreasonable and
oppressive demands.Here, the motion should be denied.  It is arguable whether Plaintiff makes a
sufficient showing that Defendant’s four motions to quash are meritless, but
even if Defendant’s claims are meritless, Plaintiff fails to show the motions
to quash were brought solely for an improper purpose to harass Plaintiff.  For example, the opposition explains how its
motions were brought in good faith and that the Court has not made a blanket
ruling that Defendant has no basis to move to quash subpoenas.  Therefore, Plaintiff fails to establish the
requisite bad faith justifying sanctions.  The motion is DENIED.Defendant’s Opposition requests $5,865.00 in monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff, because of the attorneys’ fees incurred in opposing the
instant motion.  Defendant’s request for
monetary sanctions is also DENIED.Moving Party is to give notice.