 Case Number:  23PSCV03782    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  BMO
Bank N.A. v. A Plus Express, Inc., et al. 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Alternative Service or, in the Alternative, Extending Time to Serve
Defendants 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for alternative service, but
GRANTS Plaintiff’s alternative motion extending time to serve Defendants. The
Case Management Conference and Order to Show Cause re: Failure to File Proof of
Service are hereby advanced and continued to July 11, 2024. 
              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract action. On December 6, 2023, plaintiff
BMO Bank N.A. (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant A Plus Express,
Inc., Little Fat Trucking, Xing Wang, Yurong Lin, and Lian Yan (collectively, Defendants),
alleging causes of action for breach of contract (loan and security
agreements), breach of contract (guaranties), and replevin. 
On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for alternative
service, or in the alternative, extending time to serve Defendants. 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff seeks an order from the Court permitting Plaintiff to
serve Defendants by posting and mailing, due to difficulty Plaintiff has
experienced in locating Defendants. Alternatively, Plaintiff seeks a 30-day
extension to effectuate service. The Court finds that Plaintiff has conducted
extensive efforts in locating Defendants for service of process. (Fleming
Decl., ¶¶ 3-10, Ex. A.) However, posting and mailing tends to be reserved for
matters like unlawful detainer actions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.45, subd. (a).)
Since this is not an unlawful detainer action, such method of service is not
likely appropriate here. Given Plaintiff’s recent location of a potentially
viable address, the Court will instead permit Plaintiff a 30-day extension to
complete service on Defendants. Plaintiff should review Code of Civil Procedure
Sections 415.10, 415.20, 415.30, 415.50, 415.95, and 416.10 for methods of
service. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for
alternative service, but GRANTS Plaintiff’s alternative motion extending time
to serve Defendants. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for alternative service, but
GRANTS Plaintiff’s alternative motion extending time to serve Defendants. The
Case Management Conference and Order to Show Cause re: Failure to File Proof of
Service are hereby advanced and continued to July 11, 2024. 
              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.