  Case Number:  21PSCV01054    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Claire
He Yi v. Daniel W. Kennedy, et al. 
Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, or in
the alternative, summary adjudication. 
              Plaintiff Claire He Yi is ordered to
give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This action revolves around an investment dispute. On December 16,
2021, plaintiff Claire He Yi (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Daniel
W. Kennedy, IV (Daniel), Juliet Ru-Yi Chung (Juliet), Diana Yi Wei Cheng
(Diana), Rosemary F. Kennedy (Rosemary), Vanessa Yao Guo, Hongmei Jin, Kennedy
Capital Partners International, Inc. (Kennedy Capital), Gosdom Inc., Gosdom
Entertainment Inc., Gosdom Entertainment LLC, Gosdom Entertainments, LLC, Base
FX, Inc., Production Capital LLC, Production Capital Corp., Production Capital
Entertainment, Inc., Kevin W Robl, Will Yun Lee (collectively, Defendants), and
Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for fraud – intentional
misrepresentation, fraud- negligent misrepresentation, fraud – concealment, fraud
– false promise, common law conspiracy, breach of written contract (note), breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, promissory estoppel,
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud – constructive, conversion, account stated,
money had and money received, unfair business practices Business &
Professions Code § 17200 et seq., and unjust enrichment. 
On January 8, 2024, Defendants Kennedy Capital, Daniel, Juliet,
Diana, and Rosemary (collectively, Moving Parties) filed a motion for summary judgment,
or in the alternative, summary adjudication. On March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amended opposition. On
March 14, 2024, Moving Parties filed a reply. On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an objection to the reply. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,
italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The
function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the
scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to
disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited
by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
367, 381-382.) 
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not
separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense
to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also
Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) 
Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.” (Id.; see also Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
DISCUSSION             
Summary of Material Facts 
Defendant Daniel and Juliet created an entity, i.e., Kennedy
Capital, for investing in film production. (SSF 1-2.) Daniel and Juliet were
the managing members of Kennedy Capital. (SSF 3.) Plaintiff entered into a
private placement memorandum (PPM) with Kennedy Capital for investment in film
production. (SSF 6.) The PPM indicated it was limited to sophisticated
“accredited” investors, contained risk factors, and urged investors to conduct
their own due diligence. (SSF 7-8.) Plaintiff signed a subscription agreement
on October 1, 2019 and invested $200,000 with Kennedy Capital for financing
production of various films by Defendants Gosdom Inc., Gosdom Entertainment,
Inc., Gosdom Entertainment LLC, Gosdom Entertainments, LLC, Vanessa Guo, Base
FX and Production Capital (collectively Gosdom Defendants). (SSF 9-10.) This
investment was memorialized in a promissory note for $200,000, and Defendants
Juliet and Diana also invested into it. (SSF 11.) On October 1, 2019, Plaintiff
wired the $200,000 to Gosdom Inc. (SSF 12.) On December 18, 2019, Plaintiff
invested an additional $200,000, which was memorialized in a new promissory
note for $400,000, accounting for the initial $200,000 investment. (SSF 13-14.)
Plaintiff paid the additional $200,000 to Kennedy Capital by check, which was
then sent to the Gosdom Defendants. (SSF 15.) Defendants Daniel, Juliet, Diana,
and Rosemary did not receive money from Plaintiff. (SSF 16.) 
Analysis 
The Court notes significant issues with Moving
Parties’ motion that render it defective. First, the motion clumps multiple
causes of action together under one issue, such as issue numbers 2, 4, 5, and
6. (See Notice, pp. 3-4.) This is problematic because issues in a motion for summary
adjudication must address individual causes of action, claims for damages,
issues of duty, or affirmative defenses. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350,
subd. (d)(1), italics added [“(1) The
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in support of a motion must
separately identify: (A) Each
cause of action, claim for damages,
issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is
the subject of the motion…]; see also Id., subd. (b), italics added [“If
summary adjudication is sought, whether separately or as an alternative to the
motion for summary judgment, the specific cause of action, affirmative
defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically in
the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of
undisputed material facts.”]) 
Second, Moving Parties’ memorandum of points and authorities does
not track the issues set forth in the notice. In fact, the memorandum of points
and authorities makes arguments regarding matters not within the scope of the
issues presented here. For example, Moving Parties argue that: 
·        
Plaintiff cannot establish any cause of action against Moving
Parties because Moving Parties never received any money from Plaintiff;
·        
Plaintiff’s fraud and derivative conspiracy claims must be
dismissed because the alleged misrepresentations are not actionable under
California law;
·        
Plaintiff’s fraud claims must be dismissed because any alleged
misrepresentations were not known to be false or made with intent to deceive;
and
·        
No claims can be brought against Defendants Diana and Rosemary
because they have no relationship to Plaintiff’s investment. 
(Memorandum
of Points and Authorities, pp. 10-15.) 
None of the issues set forth in the notice mention these things.
The issues in the notice instead focus on alter ego liability, Moving Parties
themselves having purportedly been defrauded by third parties, and Defendants
Daniel and Juliet not being parties to the contract with Plaintiff. (See
Notice, pp. 3-4.) By clumping together multiple causes of action under one
issue and then arguing about matters outside the scope of those issues, it is
difficult, if not impossible for the Court to follow Moving Parties’ arguments
here. 
Third, Moving Parties make arguments that are not
supported by any material facts in the separate statement. For example, Moving
Parties contend they maintained all corporate formalities for purposes of
avoiding alter ego liability. (Memorandum of Points and Authorities,
9:10-10:3). However, their separate statement does not mention anything with
respect to maintaining corporate formalities. (See SSF 1-16.) Thus, Moving
Parties failed to establish the absence of a triable issue of material fact on
this issue. 
Fourth, Moving Parties make contradictory statements in their
motion. For example, they argue that Moving Parties, i.e., including Kennedy
Capital, never received any money from Plaintiff, citing to SSF 16 for support.
(Memorandum of Points and Authorities, 11:2.) This argument is contradicted by
SSF 16 itself, which only claims that Daniel, Juliet, Diana, and Rosemary did
not receive money from Plaintiff, and says nothing about Kennedy Capital. (SSF
16.) In fact, Moving Parties state in their separate statement in multiple
parts that Kennedy Capital did receive money from Plaintiff. (See SSF 10, 15.) 
Finally, it is unclear how the issue of Moving
Parties being defrauded by third parties, i.e., the Gosdom Defendants,
undermines Plaintiff’s claims against them. The issue here is Moving Parties’
actions vis-à-vis Plaintiff. It does not necessarily follow that Moving Parties
could not have defrauded Plaintiff just because they were purportedly defrauded
by third parties, i.e., the Gosdom Defendants. Moreover, there is no proffered
material fact on this issue, as nothing in the separate statement mentions the
Moving Parties having been so defrauded. (See SSF 1-16.) The most Moving
Parties provided here is that Daniel, Juliet, Diana, and Rosemary invested into
the production of films by the Gosdom Defendants, which by itself is inadequate
to establish the existence of any fraud, let alone fraud that undermines
Plaintiff’s claims against Moving Parties. (See SSF 11.) Even assuming Moving
Parties had been defrauded by the Gosdom Defendants, it does not necessarily
follow that Moving Parties could not themselves have also attempted to defraud
Plaintiff. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, or in
the alternative, summary adjudication. 
              Plaintiff Claire He Yi is ordered to
give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.