  Case Number:  22STCV30669    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiffs
Douglas Knight and Vicki Knight’s Ex Parte Application and Motion for Leave to
File Third Amended Complaint
Plaintiffs Douglas Knight and Vicki Knight
apply ex parte for leave to file a third amended complaint or, in the
alternative, to advance the hearing on their motion for leave to file a third
amended complaint.  The application is granted
as to advancing the hearing.  The
court hereby advances the hearing on their motion for leave to file a third
amended complaint from October 31, 2024, to this date.  
Plaintiffs Douglas Knight and Vicki Knight
move for leave to file a third amended complaint.  The motion is procedurally defective.  Such a motion must “[i]nclude a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a)(1).
Plaintiffs submitted three inconsistent
versions of the proposed third amended complaint.  On October 3, 2024, plaintiffs filed an ex
parte application stating they seek “only to add causes of action for Breach of
Contract and Common Count: Money Had and received.”  (App., p. 3.) 
On October 7, plaintiffs filed their noticed motion for leave to file a
third amended complaint which states they seek “only to add a cause of action
for breach of contract.”  (Motion, p.
2.)  Finally, on October 10, plaintiffs filed
a notice of errata stating they made an error with the proposed third amended
complaint “submitted with their ex parte application” on October 3.  The error concerns the claim for money had
and received.  By submitting multiple
versions of the proposed third amended complaint, plaintiffs deprived defendants
Robert Rose and Century Rooter and Jetting Service, Inc. of clear notice of
what the third amended complaint would allege.
The motion is also defective for another
reason.  California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(b) provides that a plaintiff moving for leave to amend must include a
declaration stating: “(1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) The reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.”    
The declaration of plaintiffs’ counsel
makes a conclusory statement that he “eliminated certain factual allegations”
and “ ‘cleaned up’ the complaint.”  (Green
Decl., ¶ 13.)  He does not state the
effect of those amendments or why they are necessary.  He gives no explanation of what allegations
he eliminated or why.  As defendants’
opposition argues, the proposed third amended complaint makes a substantial
change to the factual allegations regarding what percentage of the company
plaintiffs allegedly own.  (Prop. TAC, ¶¶
1, 2, 10, 11, 16, etc.)  This proposed
pleading eliminates allegations that Rose had an accountant inaccurately falsify
tax returns showing the Knights each owned only 8.75 percent of the
company.  (SAC, ¶ 17.)  If plaintiffs are conceding they do not own
49% of the company, the court will not permit them to do so surreptitiously by
“eliminating” or “cleaning up” certain allegations without explanation.  
Disposition
Plaintiffs Douglas Knight and Vicki Knight’s
motion for leave to file a third amended complaint is denied.