 Case Number:  24STCV14973    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Danny Chan’s Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint
            Defendant
Danny Chan demurs to the first amended complaint by plaintiffs SMC Specialty
Finance, LLC, Gary Raskin, and Alastair Burlingham.
1. Attempted Extortion
            Plaintiffs
do not allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for attempted
extortion.  A cause of action for
extortion seeks “recovery of money obtained by the wrongful threat of criminal
or civil prosecution.”  (Fuhrman v.
California Satellite Systems (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 408, 426 (Fuhrman) overruled on other grounds by Silberg
v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205.) 
“It is essentially a cause of action for moneys obtained by duress, a
form of fraud.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action for extortion requires that
the plaintiffs “actually paid the money demanded by the defendants.”  (Id. at p. 428.)
Plaintiffs
do not allege they paid the money defendants demanded.  They seek to hold defendants civilly liable
for attempting to commit extortion.  The Penal Code prohibits attempted
extortion.  (Pen. Code, § 523, subd. (a)
& § 524.)  But no binding authority permits
a direct civil action for attempted extortion. 
Plaintiffs cite various forms of non-binding authority.  The court does not find that authority
persuasive.  As Fuhrman put it, “The
fatal flaw in plaintiff’s action is that she apparently never paid the
money defendants demanded in their letters.” 
(Fuhrman, supra, 179 Cal.App.3d at p. 426.)  Plaintiffs’ cause of action for attempted
extortion has the same fatal flaw.    
            Plaintiffs
also argue they suffered damages resulting from the attempted extortion because
they had “to respond to Defendants’ threats and take precautionary measures to
protect themselves, their families, and their business, including SMC’s
expenditure of countless personnel hours in responding to Defendants’ threats
and intimidation.”  (FAC, ¶ 40.)  Plaintiffs provide no binding authority that such
damages can be recovered via a cause of action for attempted extortion.  
2. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress 
            Plaintiffs
allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  The
elements of this cause of action are: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by
the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1050 (Hughes).)  
Chan argues plaintiff has
not alleged sufficiently outrageous conduct. 
This cause of action requires “outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of
human decency.”  (Janken v. GM Hughes
Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 80.)  Generally, “[l]iability for intentional
infliction of emotional distress ‘ “does not extend to mere insults,
indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.” ’
”  (Hughes, supra, 46 Cal.4th at
p. 1051.)  But threats of harm or death
to the plaintiff or his family may be sufficient to support an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action.  (Kiseskey v. Carptenters’ Trust for So.
California (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222, 229-230 (Kiesekey); accord Hughes,
at p. 1051, citing Kiseskey.)
Plaintiffs allege, “[W]ithin
the past few months and while claiming to be ‘experienced’ and ‘deep-pocketed’
business-people who simply wanted to ‘negotiate’ an overdue debt, Defendants
instead threatened the lives and safety of the individual Plaintiffs,
threatened to make false and defamatory statements about Plaintiffs to third
parties with whom Plaintiffs have existing business relationships, and more broadly
threatened to ‘destroy’ Plaintiffs’ business and market reputation through
defamation and other tortious misconduct.  Defendants also threatened to assert false
criminal and regulatory claims about the individual Plaintiffs to various
governmental, regulatory and administrative agencies under the threat that
Plaintiffs would be subject to criminal and other sanctions if Defendants made
those false reports.  Defendants then
characterized these blatant and malicious threats as ‘warnings’, informed the
Plaintiffs that this is how they resolved ‘business disputes’, and stated that
they ‘know where [Plaintiffs] and [their] families live.’ ”  (FAC, ¶ 1.) 
Plaintiffs further allege defendants engaged in “a campaign of physical,
verbal, and written threats … to physically harm” plaintiffs.  (¶ 32.) 
 
In ruling on a demurrer,
the court must construe the complaint liberally “by drawing reasonable
inferences from the facts pleaded.”  (Rodas
v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.) 
Based on the allegations of ultimate facts in the complaint, the court
can make the inference that defendants made veiled threats of harm plaintiffs
and their families that were more than a triviality.  The court cannot conclude that, as a matter
of law, these allegations are not severe or outrageous enough to support a
claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Chan’s papers focus on
the allegations that specifically refer to him by name.  (FAC, ¶¶ 37-39.)  Based on the same allegations, Chan also
argues only plaintiff Burlingham, who directly received those communications,
could have any claim against him.  The
allegations cited above from paragraphs 1 and 32 (among others) use the plural
“defendants” and “plaintiffs.”  The first
amended complaint thus alleges all defendants took those actions against all
plaintiffs.  At this stage, the court
must accept those allegations as true.  Plaintiffs
adequately allege the ultimate facts for this cause of action against Chan. 
3. Unfair Competition
Plaintiffs
allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  The unfair competition law, Business and
Professions Code section 17200, prohibits “unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent”
acts, which are three separate varieties of violation.  (Drum v. San Fernando Valley Bar Assn. (2010)
182 Cal.App.4th 247, 253.)  The unlawful
prong of the unfair competition law “ ‘borrows’ violations from other laws by making
them independently actionable as unfair competitive practices.”  (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1143 (Korea
Supply).)  “Unlawful practices are
practices ‘forbidden by law, be it civil or criminal, federal, state, or
municipal, statutory, regulatory, or court-made.’ ”  (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb &
Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1133.) 

As discussed above, plaintiffs allege defendants attempted
to extort them with threats of harm.  That
is unlawful under Penal Code section 524, which provides, “Every person who
attempts, by means of any threat … to extort property or other consideration
from another is punishable by imprisonment … or by fine.”  Though the court concludes there is no cause
of action for attempted extortion, “[i]t is not necessary that the predicate law provide
for private civil enforcement.”  (Saunders
v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)  Plaintiffs thus allege sufficient facts to
constitute an unlawful business practice.
Chan argues
plaintiffs do not allege an economic injury.  For this cause of action, “standing is limited
to any ‘person who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property’
as a result of unfair competition.”  (Clayworth
v. Pfizer, Inc. (2010) 49 Cal.4th 758, 788.)  “There are innumerable ways in which economic
injury from unfair competition may be shown. 
A plaintiff may (1) surrender in a transaction more, or acquire in a
transaction less, than he or she otherwise would have; (2) have a present or
future property interest diminished; (3) be deprived of money or property
to which he or she has a cognizable claim; or (4) be required to enter into a
transaction, costing money or property, that would otherwise have been
unnecessary.”  (Kwikset Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 323.)
Plaintiffs allege they “suffered
monetary damages in having to respond to Defendants’ threats and take
precautionary measures to protect themselves, their families, and their
business, including SMC’s expenditure of countless personnel hours in
responding to Defendants’ threats and intimidation.”  (FAC, ¶ 40.) 
That is analogous to entering a transaction costing money that would
otherwise have been unnecessary.  On
demurrer, this allegation suffices to show an economic injury.
            Chan
also argues plaintiffs did not allege he “is in competition with Plaintiffs’
business.”  (Reply, p. 6.)  Despite its name, the unfair competition law
is not limited to business competitors.  “The statute has been found to prohibit
‘wrongful business conduct in whatever context such activity might occur.’
”  (Massachusetts Mutual Life Ins. Co.
v. Superior Court (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1288.)  The law “covers a wide
range of conduct” and “embraces anything that can properly be called a business
practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.”  (Korea Supply, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 1143, internal quotes and citations omitted.)  Plaintiffs allege defendants’ conduct is part
of a dispute over a loan from one business to another.  (FAC, ¶¶ 3, 24, 30-31.) 
Allegedly attempting to extort money from the lender constitutes a
business practice forbidden by law.  
Disposition
            Defendant Danny Chan’s demurrer to
plaintiffs’ first cause of action is sustained with 20 days’
leave to amend.  Chan’s demurrer to
plaintiffs’ second and third causes of action is overruled.