 Case Number:  23STCV09928    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Abnos Boghosian,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV09928




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Loretta Markarian, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February 28, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for New Trial;
Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the
Verdict
Moving Party: Defendants Loretta Markarian and
Alico Markarian
Responding Party: Plaintiff Abnos Boghosian
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR NEW TRIAL IS
CONDITIONALLY GRANTED AS TO DAMAGES UNLESS PLAINTIFF CONSENTS WITHIN 30 DAYS TO
A REDUCED DAMAGE AWARD OF $328,000.00.
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR JUDGMENT
NOTWITHSTANDING THE VERDICT IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
On May 3, 2023, Plaintiff Abnos Boghosian sued
Defendants Loretta Markarian and Alico Markarian, asserting causes of action
for elder abuse, conversion, and quiet title. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
wrongfully obtained Plaintiff’s real property.
On January 10, 2024, the jury
found for Plaintiff on the cause of action for financial elder abuse and
awarded him a total of $900,000 in economic damages, for loss of Plaintiff’s
personal property. (The jury awarded $500,000 as to Defendant Loretta, and
$400,000 as to Defendant Alico.[1]) The jury also found for
Plaintiff against Alico on the cause of action for isolation and awarded an
additional $25,000. 
The jury found for Defendant
Loretta on the cause of action for isolation, and for both Defendants on the
causes of action for fraud and conversion. The jury awarded Plaintiff no money
for loss of use of real property or for noneconomic damages. The jury found
that Defendants did not act with malice, oppression, or fraud; it did not award
punitive damages.
On
February 16, 2024, the Court issued its final statement of decision on the
equitable causes of action for quiet title and declaratory relief. The Court found for Plaintiff
on the cause of action for quiet title and ordered Plaintiff to pay Defendants
$178,215.98 for improvements and property taxes. The Court found for Defendants
on the declaratory relief cause of action.
ANALYSIS
 
A. Motion for New Trial
 
“The principal statutory authority for
new trial motions is CCP § 657. “The right to a new trial is purely
statutory, and a motion for a new trial can be granted only on one of the
grounds enumerated in the statute.” (Fomco, Inc. v. Joe Maggio, Inc. (1961)
55 Cal.2d 162, 166.)  The grounds
enumerated in CCP § 657 include:
 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party,
or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party was
prevented from having a fair trial.
 
2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors
have been induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding
on any question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the
determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any
one of the jurors.
 
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded
against.
 
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial.
 
5. Excessive or inadequate damages.
 
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law.
 
7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party
making the application.
 
(CCP § 657.)
 
Defendants move for new trial on the
grounds that there is insufficient evidence to support the jury’s damage award and
that the damage award is excessive. 
 
The Jury answered Special Verdict Question No. 18, which reads,
"Economic damages: loss of use of real property. Enter the amount below if
you find that Defendant [LORETTA and/or ALICO] is liable to Plaintiff Abnos
Boghosian for such damages and specify the legal theories support this element
of damages." The Jury found in favor of both Defendants with respect to
this element of damages.
 
The Jury answered Special Verdict Question No. 19, which reads,
"Economic damages: loss of Plaintiff's personal property. Enter the amount
below if you find that Defendant [LORETTA and/or ALICO] is liable to Plaintiff
Abnos Boghosian for such damages and specify the legal theory or all the legal
theories supporting this element of damagers." With respect to Question
No. 19, the Jury found for the Plaintiff and against both Defendants and
determined that Defendant LORETTA MARKARIAN must pay $500,000 in damages to the
Plaintiff and that Defendant ALICO MARKARIAN must pay $400,000 in damages for
the Plaintiff's loss of personal property.
 
Defendants argue there was no evidence
to support a $900,000.00 award for Plaintiff’s loss of personal property.
Defendants speculate that the jury was attempting to award Plaintiff the value
of the real property. Defendants assert this is improper because Plaintiff did
not pray for these damages. Defendants also argue that, because the Court
awarded ownership of the property to Plaintiff, a damage award for the
property’s value would be duplicative. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the
award represents lost rental income and the loss of a $28,000.00 personal
injury settlement. (The property is a multi-unit home.) Plaintiff calculates
lost rental income as between $187,000.00 and $275,000.00 based on Plaintiff’s
testimony of rental income before Defendants’ wrongful conduct occurred.
Defendants dispute this interpretation, arguing any rental income would have
been awarded under the “loss of use of real property,” rather than “loss of
personal property.”
 
Jury Instruction No. 35 provided the definition of “Loss of Use of Real
Property.” It states: “If you find that plaintiff Abnos Boghosian remains the
owner of the real property at 326 W. California Avenue, Glendale, California,
he would be entitled to damages for the loss of use of plaintiff Abnos Boghosian’s
real property. To recover damages for the loss of use, Abnos Boghosian must
prove the reasonable cost to rent similar property for the time when he could
not use his own property or the benefits obtained by Defendant Loretta
Markarian or Alico Markarian or both, because of such wrongful occupation. If
there is evidence of both, Abnos Boghosian is entitled to the greater of the
two amounts.” 
 
Put another way, Plaintiff would suffer loss of use if he was unable to
use his own property and was required to rent another property. This definition
does not include loss of rental income (that is, income Plaintiff would have
received for renting portions of the property to others). It is undisputed that
Plaintiff occupied the real property for the relevant period and was not
required to rent other property. The jury found Plaintiff did not incur damages
due to any loss of use of the property. 
 
Any loss of rental income properly would be awarded as loss of personal
property. This is what the jury found. But there is not sufficient evidence to
support a $900,000.00 award for loss of personal property. Applying all inferences
in favor of what the jury could have awarded consistent with the evidence, the
evidence supports at most $275,000.00 in rental income and $28,000.00 in a personal
injury settlement, for a total of $303,000.00. Defendant Loretta’s pro rata
share would be 55.5% of this amount, or $168,165.00, and Defendant Alico’s
would be 44.5%, or $134,835.00. The Court finds this amount reasonable; the
Court also finds that a new trial limited to the issue of damages would be
proper.
 
The Court leaves in place the $25,000 the jury awarded against Alico on the
cause of action for isolation.
 
To remedy the discrepancy in damages, the Court invokes CCP § 662.5, which provides, “In any civil
action where after trial by jury an order granting a new trial limited to the
issue of damages would be proper, the trial court may in its discretion... If
the ground for granting a new trial is excessive damages, issue a conditional
order granting the new trial unless the party in whose favor the verdict has
been rendered consents to the reduction of so much thereof as the court in its
independent judgment determines from the evidence to be fair and reasonable.” 
 
The Court CONDITIONALLY GRANTS the
motion for new trial unless Plaintiff consents within 30 days to the reduction
of damages from $900,000.00 to $328,000.00.
 
B. Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding
the Verdict
 
The trial court has limited discretion to
grant a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict; it may grant it only
when there is no substantial evidence to support the verdict. (Teitel v.
First Los Angeles Bank (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1593, 1603. Campbell v.
Cal-Gard Surety Services, Inc. (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 563, 570.)
Defendants move for judgment notwithstanding
the verdict on the same grounds as the motion for new trial. As the Court has
determined there was evidence of loss of personal property, this motion cannot
be granted.
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict.
 
 
 


