  Case Number:  23CHCP00073    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-9-24
Case #23CHCP00073,
Sherry Goldsmith vs. Valentine Goelz, et al.
Trial Date: 2-5-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Sherry Goldsmith
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Jan Stanley Mason
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant
Mason’s further responses to form interrogatories, numbers 2.6 and 2.11, as
well as sanctions
 
RULING:
Motion to compel further responses is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Between March 17,
2023 and March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Sherry Goldsmith (Plaintiff) propounded a
set of form interrogatories on Defendants Valentine Goelz, Mark Goelz, Jan
Mason, Roy & Val Tool Grinding, and Electropath (Defendants). Defendants
were afforded several extensions to serve their responses. (See Castellanos
Decl. ¶¶ 5-11.) By July 23, 2023, Defendants served their responses, and
Plaintiff found them to be deficient. (Id. at ¶ 12; Exh. 9.) On July 28,
2023, Plaintiff sent a meet and confer letter regarding the deficiencies in those
responses. (Id. at ¶ 13, Exh. 10.) 
The parties attempted to meet and confer further on the issue of
supplementing these responses, but at the time of filing the instant motions,
Defendants had not served their supplemental responses. (Id. at ¶¶
14-18, Exhs. 11-14.) Presently, Plaintiff only seeks further responses from
Defendant Jan Mason (Mason).
 
On January 2,
2024, Defendant Mason filed his opposition papers to the instant motion.
Thereafter, on January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply. 
 
On January 18,
2024, the Court directed the parties to meet and confer further on the issues
identified in the instant motion and to file a joint status report regarding a
possible resolution by April 18, 2024. 
 
By March 28,
2024, the hearing for the instant motion had been inadvertently taken off
calendar, and as a result, Plaintiff moved ex parte to reset the hearing as to
Defendant Mason only. The court granted the ex parte application on March 29,
2024.
 
On April 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed a status report regarding the instant motion, indicating
that Plaintiff had resolved her discovery issues with all defendants except for
Defendant Mason. Plaintiff further indicated that the motion against Defendant
Mason only concerns form interrogatories numbers 2.6 and 2.11.
 
On May 2, 2024,
Defendant Mason filed a supplemental opposition without leave of court. On May
3, 2024, Plaintiff objected to the supplemental opposition. On May 6, 2024,
Defendant Mason filed his response to Plaintiff’s objections.  
 
The following are
the interrogatories and their respective responses at issue:
 
Form
Interrogatory 2.6:
State: 
(a) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of your present employer or place of self-employment; and 
(b) the name, ADDRESS, dates of
employment, job title, and nature of work for each employer or self-employment
you have had from five years before the INCIDENT until today.
 
Response to
Form Interrogatory 2.6:
Responding Party objects to this
Interrogatory on the ground that it is vague and ambiguous as to the use of the
term “INCIDENT” given that the events giving rise to the Complaint occurred
over a period of time and involved numerous issues and facts and thus making
the use of the term “INCIDENT” improper. This particular Form Interrogatory is
more appropriately used in matters involving one distinct event, such as a car
accident. Responding Party also objects to this interrogatory as it seeks
information that is neither relevant nor reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Responding Party also objects to this
interrogatory to the extent it seeks information that is protected by the right
to privacy provided by any statute and/or under Article I of the Constitution
of the State of California. Responding Party further objects to this
interrogatory as it is oppressive, and intended to cause Responding Party
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, and/or under burden and expense (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 1030.090, subd. (b).) 
 
Subject to and without waiver of the
foregoing objections, the Preliminary Statement, and based upon Responding
Party’s “good faith” understanding of this Request, Responding Party - on
behalf of himself only -responds as follows: 
(a) Law Offices of Jan Stanley Mason,
1188 E. Colorado Blvd., Pasadena, CA 91106 
(b) Legal services-Since 1980
 
Form
Interrogatory 2.11:
At the time of the INCIDENT were you
acting as an agent or employee for any PERSON? If so, state: 
(a) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of that PERSON: and 
(b) a description of your duties.
 
Response to
Interrogatory 2.11:
Responding Party objects to this
Interrogatory on the ground that it is vague and ambiguous as to the use of the
term “INCIDENT” given that the events giving rise to the Complaint occurred
over a period of time and involved numerous issues and facts and thus making
the use of the term “INCIDENT” improper. This particular Form Interrogatory is
more appropriately used in matters involving one distinct event, such as a car
accident. 
 
Subject to and without waiver of the
foregoing objections, the Preliminary Statement, and based upon Responding
Party’s “good faith” understanding of this Request, Responding Party - on
behalf of himself only -responds as follows:
 
Yes 
(a) Valentine Goelz, 10131 Canoga Ave., Chatsworth,
CA, 818-341-9979 
(b) Legal Services
 
 
Plaintiff contends
that these responses are incomplete and include a meritless objection. Plaintiff
also seeks sanctions against Defendant Mason for costs and attorney fees
incurred in connection with this motion.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Procedural
Issue
 
As a
preliminary matter, the court declines to consider Defendant Mason’s
supplemental opposition that was filed without leave of court. California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1113(d) only contemplates the submission of moving, opposition
and reply papers. Defendant Mason has effectively submitted new arguments
within his supplemental opposition, and if this tactic is disallowed in reply
papers, then the same follows for supplemental oppositions. (See Jay v.
Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537-1538.)
 
Form
Interrogatories
 
To compel a
further response to interrogatories, the movant can show that: (1) the
responding party’s answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1)); (2) the responding party’s exercise of the
option to produce documents in response to an interrogatory was unwarranted or
the required specification of those documents was inadequate (CCP §
2030.300(a)(2)); and (3) the responding party’s objection to an interrogatory
is without merit or too general (CCP § 2030.300(a)(3); see, e.g., Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 550 (Williams) [defendant’s
argument that plaintiff was required to establish good cause or prove merits of
underlying claim before propounding interrogatories without merit]).
 
In this case, Plaintiff
contends that Defendant Mason’s responses to Plaintiff’s interrogatory numbers
2.6 and 2.11 are incomplete because the responses fail to fully respond to the
interrogatories in question and include a meritless objection. As to each
interrogatory, Defendant Mason objected on the basis that the term “Incident”
is vague. The term “Incident” is defined as the events that have given rise to
the complaint. Based on this definition, the court does not find the term to be
vague. Moreover, Defendant Mason has failed to substantiate his objection
within his opposition. (Coy v. Sup.Ct.
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
 
As to his
response to interrogatory no. 2.6, Defendant Mason provides the following: “(a)
Law Offices of Jan Stanley Mason, 1188 E. Colorado Blvd., Pasadena, CA 91106 [¶]
(b) Legal services — Since 1980.” This response is incomplete because it does
not include the phone number, “the name, ADDRESS, dates of employment, job
title, and nature of work for each employer or self-employment [Defendant] had
from five years before the INCIDENT until today.” Thus, further responses are
necessary for this interrogatory.
 
Next, as to
interrogatory no. 2.11, Defendant Mason responding in the affirmative,
identifying Defendant Valentine Goelz as his principal and stating that he
provided legal services. At first blush, this response appears to be complete.
This is further evidence by the fact that Plaintiff’s motion and separate
statement are devoid of any argument pertaining to this response by Defendant
Mason. Instead, Plaintiff focused on Defendants Valentine Goelz and Mark
Goelz’s response. Therefore, further responses are not warranted for this
interrogatory. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion is granted in part as to interrogatory no. 2.6 and denied in part as
to interrogatory no. 2.11.
 
Sanctions
 
Pursuant to CCP
§ 2030.300(d), “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”
 
Because
Plaintiff was not completely successful in her motion, the court determines
that Defendant Mason was justified in opposing the instant motion. (See CCP § 2030.300(d).)
Additionally, because Plaintiff’s request for sanctions had initial applied to
multiple defendants, it would be unjust to award sanctions in the amount
requested. (Ibid.) 
 
Accordingly,
the request for monetary sanctions is denied. 
 
ORDER
1.      Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant Mason to further responses is granted in part as to
interrogatory no. 2.6 only. The motion is denied as to the remainder
2.      Defendant
Mason is ordered to serve supplemental responses within thirty (30) days.
3.      Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied.