  Case Number:  22STCV38729    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LEOBARDO SEGURA-MEZA, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
AGOURA HILLS MARBLE AND GRANITE, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.





     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV38729
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRERS TO
  PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTIONS TO STRIKE
 
Date:  October 31, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendant
Francini, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES: Plaintiffs
            
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition, and
reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of alleged injuries caused by exposure to hazardous
materials. The currently operative first amended complaint (the “FAC”) alleges:
(1) negligence; (2) strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict liability –
design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties;
and (6) loss of consortium. 
In
relevant part, the FAC alleges: Plaintiff Leobardo Segura-Meza (“Segura-Meza”)
performed work fabricating and installing granite, marble, and artificial stone
counters from about 2012 to 2022.  (FAC ¶
73.)  During this employment period,
Segura-Meza was exposed to toxicologically significant amounts of silica and
metals that were present in products manufactured by Defendants.  (See FAC ¶¶ 72, 74.)  In March 2022, Segura-Meza was diagnosed with
silicosis and pulmonary fibrosis as a result of exposure to the toxins in
Defendants’ products.  (FAC ¶ 76.)  Although Defendants were aware of the high
concentrations of crystalline silica in their artificial stone products, the
health risks of exposure to their products, and that Segura-Meza and his
employers did not know of the products’ hazards or the necessary protective
measures to mitigate the risk of exposure, Defendants concealed information relating
to the necessary protective measures for preventing fabricators and installers
from getting silicosis.  (See FAC ¶¶
483-86.)
 
Defendants
each filed a demurrer to the fourth cause of action on the grounds that the FAC
fails to allege sufficient facts to state a fraudulent concealment claim and is
uncertain.  Defendants also each filed a
motion to strike punitive damages.  At
issue today is Defendant Francini, Inc.’s demurrer and motion to strike.  
 
MEET
AND CONFER
The meet and confer
requirement has been met for the Demurrer and Motion.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
            A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law.  (Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations and affords them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts. 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  With respect to
a demurrer, the complaint must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable
inferences from the facts pleaded.  (Rodas
v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.) 
A demurrer will be sustained without leave to amend if there exists no
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) 
 
Demurrers
for uncertainty are disfavored.  (Chen
v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.)  A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.  (Id.)
 
DEMURRERS
Fraudulent
Concealment
The elements of fraudulent
concealment are: (1) misrepresentation by nondisclosure; (2) knowledge of
falsity; (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  To plead fraud by omission, the plaintiff
must also plead that the defendant was under a duty to disclose the allegedly
omitted fact.  (Lopez v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 72, 596.)  There are four circumstances that impose a
duty on the defendant such that nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 310-11.)  The heightened
pleading for standard for fraud claims is relaxed if it appears from the nature
of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full
information, or if the facts lie more in the knowledge of opposing parties.  (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384-85; see also Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198-1200 (discussing
pleading standard for fraudulent concealment in toxic tort cases).)  The plaintiff need not plead specific
information that should be within the knowledge of the defendant.  (West
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
 
A
transaction giving rise to a duty to disclose, as would support a claim for
intentional concealment, must necessarily arise from direct dealings between
the plaintiff and defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large.  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312).  As a matter of common sense, such a
relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction
between the parties.  (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337.)  Thus, a duty to disclose may arise from the
relationship between seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee,
doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual
agreement.  (Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 831.) 
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiffs’ fraudulent concealment claim fails as to Francini
because it does not adequately allege, with specificity, that Francini
willfully misstated or concealed material information with the intent to
defraud Meza-Segura or that Meza-Segura relied upon any misrepresentation by
Francini.  While the specificity standard
for pleading fraud claims is relaxed in circumstances where the allegations
concern information that is in the defendant’s control, here, the FAC lacks
information that is within Plaintiffs’ control, such as the approximate
timeframe during which Meza-Segura used Defendants’ respective products.  The FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to
support a duty to disclose under the hazard communication standard or the
common law.  There are also no facts relating
to a transactional relationship that would support a duty to disclose nor facts
to support that Francini had exclusive knowledge that was concealed from
Plaintiff to establish a duty to disclose. 
 
Further,
Plaintiffs’ reliance on Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 1187 is misguided.  There, “the
amended complaint allege[d] defendants were ‘aware of the toxic nature of their
products’ and ‘owed a duty to disclose the toxic properties of their products
to [Carlos] because [they] alone had knowledge of material facts, to wit the
toxic properties of their products, which were not available to [Carlos].’ It
also allege[d] defendants owed a duty to disclose because they ‘made
representations regarding their products, but failed to disclose additional
facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, and/or which rendered the
disclosures made likely to mislead [Carlos].’” (Id.
at p. 1199-1200.) 
The facts here are distinguishable as the FAC fails to allege, with
specificity, what facts were known only to Francini and/or were actively
concealed from Plaintiff, and it also contains no specific facts showing that
Francini had any knowledge that Plaintiff was unaware of the alleged “toxic and
fibrogenic hazards of their stone products” and, therefore, intentionally
concealed those facts from him with the intent to deceive him.  Further, the FAC does not allege what
protective measures, if any, Plaintiff undertook to protect himself from “the
toxic and fibrogenic properties” of the stone products, nor what knowledge
Francini allegedly had that Plaintiff’s protective measures, if any, were
inadequate.  Francini correctly points
out that these issues were not addressed by the Court of Appeal in Jones.
 
The Court
therefore SUSTAINS the Demurrers with 20 days leave to amend.
 
MOTIONS TO STRIKE
Legal Standard
A motion
to strike either: (1) strikes any irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strikes any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.)
 
Punitive Damages
A
plaintiff may recover punitive damages in an action for breach of an obligation
not arising from contract when the plaintiff proves by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) 
 
The FAC
seeks punitive damages in connection with the fraudulent concealment
claim.  In light of the Court’s ruling on
the Demurrers regarding the sufficiency of the fraudulent concealment
allegations, the Court GRANTS the Motions with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Francini
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
        
 Dated this 31st day of
October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



