 Case Number:  23STCP1705    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TOHID NAEEM, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NIDAL A. BARAKAT, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendant.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCP01705
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND THE COMPLAINT
 
Date: 
  October 31, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: November 19, 2024
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Tohid Naeem  
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
No opposition papers were filed.     
 
BACKGROUND
            On
May 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for damages. The complaint consists
of one page and is handwritten. The complaint alleges a violation of a tenant
ordinance; however, the Court cannot ascertain the complete allegations of the
complaint as the handwriting is illegible. (Complaint at 1:16-20.) 
 
            On
October 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed what purports to be a motion for leave to
amend the complaint (the “Motion”). Plaintiff did not file a proof of service
as to the Motion. The Motion is procedurally deficient on several grounds. 
 
            The
Motion is deficient as it does not state the location of the hearing on the
Motion. The Motion also does not identify the hearing judge. California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1110(b)(1) provides that the first page of each paper must
specify immediately below the number of the case the date, time, and location,
if ascertainable, of any scheduled hearing and the name of the hearing judge if
ascertainable. Here, the Motion does not set forth the department in which the
hearing will occur or the name of the hearing judge in violation of California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1110(b). 
 
            Plaintiff
also failed to file a memorandum of points and authorities in support of the
Motion. The Motion consists of a defective notice of motion with two copies of
the proposed amended complaint attached thereto. California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1113(a) provides that a party filing a motion must serve and file a
supporting memorandum and the court may construe the absence of a memorandum as
an admission that the motion is not meritorious and cause for its denial. 
 
            California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b) requires that a motion to amend a
pleading before trial must include a separate declaration specifying: (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. The Motion was
not filed with a declaration and therefore Plaintiff has failed to comply with
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324.
 
            Additionally,
the Motion was not filed with a proof of service. Due process requires a party
to be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and be given adequate notice
of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail. (Fenn v. Sherriff (2003)
109 Cal.App.4th 1466, 1482.) Defendant was not served with the Motion.
Defendant should have been served with the Motion. Although Plaintiff is a pro
per litigant, pro per litigants are held to the same standards as
attorneys. (Kobayashi v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 536,
543.) 
 
            Due
to the numerous defects concerning the Motion, the Court DENIES the Motion
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
             
Moving Party is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 31st
day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



