  Case Number:  24STCV03544    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 13, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Anita Carrie Ross v. The Chrysalis
Center
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV03544            
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant The Chrysalis Center
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Anita
Carrie Ross
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a disability discrimination action that was filed on February 13,
2024. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant terminated her for taking time off from
work to recover from a work-related injury. 
 
Defendant moves to strike
allegations in the Complaint pertaining to punitive damages. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves to strike
allegations in the Complaint pertaining to punitive damages. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Robert Chan in
support of the motion states that he sent a meet-and-confer letter to
Plaintiff’s counsel on March 25, 2024, called Plaintiff’s counsel on March 29,
and sent followup emails that same day and again on April 3. (Declaration of
Robert Chan ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-5.) Attorney Chan states that, as of the date this
motion was filed, Plaintiff’s counsel had not responded. (Id. ¶ 6.) The
Court therefore finds that Defendant has satisfied its statutory obligations by
attempting to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel. 
 
Punitive Damages
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff
has not properly set forth facts supporting a claim for punitive damages.
Generally, punitive damages
may be awarded only when the trier of fact finds, by clear and convincing
evidence, that the defendant acted with malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) As nonintentional torts support punitive damages when
the defendant's conduct “involves conscious disregard of the rights or safety
of others,” our focus is on malice and oppression. (Gawara v. United States
Brass Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1341, 1361 [74 Cal. Rptr. 2d 663].) As
defined in the punitive damages statute, “[m]alice” encompasses “despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights and safety of others,” and “[o]ppression” means
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1),
(2).) The term “‘despicable,’” though not defined in the statute, is applicable
to “circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’” (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725 [34 Cal. Rptr. 2d
898, 882 P.2d 894], quoting 4 Oxford English Dict. (2d ed. 1989) p. 529.) 
 
Civil Code section
3294(a) provides:
 
In an action for the breach
of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”
 
Subdivision (b) defines liability for an employer
for the malicious, fraudulent, or oppressive conduct of its employees:
 
An employer shall not be
liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee
of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which
the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.
 
Civil Code section 3294(c) defines malice,
oppression and fraud:
 
(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
 
(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
 
(3) ‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Bold emphasis added.) The term “despicable,” is
generally construed to mean “circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or
‘contemptible.’” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 725.) 
 
To withstand a motion to
strike punitive damages allegations, the complaint must set forth facts
supporting a claim for punitive damages:
 
The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages. (Citation omitted.) Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.
 
(Grieves v. Superior Court (Fox) (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) 
 
            Defendant
contends that the Complaint offers only conclusory allegations of malice and therefore
does not meet the requirements to assert punitive damages. The Complaint
alleges a cause of action for retaliation on its face. (Complaint ¶¶ 41-53.)  As Plaintiff argues in opposition, even
conclusory allegations of malice are sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages when retaliation is alleged. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981)
117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) Defendant argues in reply that Perkins is
distinguishable because the complaint in that case offered more detailed
allegations of wrongful conduct. (Id. at 4-5.) However, nothing in the
language of Perkins imposes a requirement that the Complaint plead
“ample” facts, as Defendants argue. Further, even if such a requirement
existed, the Court finds the allegations are sufficient to meet that burden.
Plaintiff alleges that she suffered a work-related injury on November 2, 2022,
informed Defendant promptly, and was off work for the next three days.
(Complaint ¶ 18.) Plaintiff alleges that on November 9, 2023, she was unable to
work because of her injury, and promptly informed Defendants of that fact. (Id.)
On November 29, 2023, less than three weeks later, Plaintiff was terminated by
Defendant, who allegedly informed her that she was a liability. (Id.) Defendant
argues that these allegations are “misleading,” and that she remains a
Chrysalis employee whose temporary assignment with another employer ended. These
unsupported assertions are extrinsic to the Complaint and wholly inappropriate for
consideration on a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437 [defect must appear
on face of pleading or in matters subject to judicial notice].) Moreover, Defendant’s
assertion that the allegations are insufficiently specific is not well-taken
under the favorable construction of the pleadings that must be afforded the
non-moving party. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) Indeed, the close temporal
proximity between Plaintiff taking off of work on November 9, 2023, and her
termination on November 29 itself supports an inference of retaliatory animus. (See
Flait v. North American Watch Corp. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 467, 479.) The
Court is therefore not persuaded that the Complaint is deficient with respect
to its claims for punitive damages. 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 13, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 