  Case Number:  23AHCV01453    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARIBEL ARREOLA-GONZALEZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AHMC
   SAN GABRIEL VALLEY MEDICAL CENTER LP, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01453
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT LI CUI, M.D.’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY
   RESPONSES TO DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE)  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   16, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Defendant Li Cui, M.D. (“Defendant”)
moves to compel further responses to Demand for Production of Documents (Set
One) Nos. 1, 2, 5, 8, and 9 plaintiffs Maribel Arreola-Gonzalez, Saul Gonzalez
Arreola, and Eva Gonzalez Arreola (collectively, “Plaintiffs”). Defendant
argues that further responses are required because Plaintiffs’ responses are
not Code-compliant and included objections which were waived. Defendant also
claims that Plaintiffs have failed to produce any documents. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A party responding to inspection
demands must either state that it will comply with the demand, that it lacks
the ability to comply with the demand, or assert an objection. A party who
fails to serve a timely response waives any objectins, including those based on
privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Therefore,
a party who fails to serve a timely response has two options in responding and
may only provide a statement of compliance or a representation of the party’s
inability to comply with the inspection demand; the Code of Civil Procedure
sets forth specific requirements for both. 
First, a statement of compliance must
specify that the inspection will be allowed “either in whole or in part” and
that “all documents that are in the party’s possession, custody, or control of
that part and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)
Second, “a representation of inability
to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been
made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any
natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have
possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.230.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Demand No. 1 asks Plaintiffs to produce
“[a]ny and all written materials, bills, notes, memoranda or documents in
support of or which reflect special damages as prayed for in the complaint.”  
Plaintiffs responded that the demand
was “not stated with reasonable particularity” and was “uncertain, overbroad,
and compound.” Plaintiffs also agreed to produce “responsive records . . .
subject to and without waiving Plaintiff’s attorney-client and work product
privileges, including those relating to consulting experts.”  Plaintiffs do not dispute Defendant’s claim
that their responses were untimely. Therefore, they have impermissibly asserted
objections in their responses. Accordingly, a further response is required. 
Demand No. 2 requests “[a]ll documents
containing facts supporting or relating to the allegations of [the] complaint
regarding the negligence and/or other such wrongful conduct on the part of this
propounding defendant.” (Motion, Ex. C.) Plaintiffs’ response recite an
entirely different inspection demand which requests copies of insurance
policies and agree to produce medical and health insurance policies. This wholly
unresponsive statement is not Code-compliant. 
Demand No. 5 requests “[a]ll documents
evidencing the financial assistance [Plaintiffs] received from decedent prior
to his death.” Plaintiffs stated they would “produce responsive financial
records located after a diligent search subject to an appropriate protective
order.” Plaintiffs cannot qualify their production by only agreeing to produce
“financial records” and do not have a basis for requiring a protective order
prior to producing any documents. 
Demand Nos. 8 and 9 seek all documents
evidencing loss of earnings prior to the decedent’s death, loss of past or
future earnings, or loss of financial support.  Plaintiffs agree to produce responsive records
but impermissibly assert the attorney-client and work product privileges.
Therefore, a further response is required. 
The Court notes that Plaintiffs claim
in their opposition brief that documents have already been produced. Plaintiff’s
claim misses the point because the motion seeks further verified responses and
there is no evidence that further responses have been served; therefore, given
the inadequacy of Plaintiffs’ responses, the motion is not moot. 
Yet, despite the inadequacy of
Plaintiffs’ responses, Defendant should have filed three motions and paid three
filing fees because Defendant seeks orders compelling three plaintiffs to each
serve further responses. Therefore, Defendant’s motion is GRANTED on the
condition that two additional filing fees are paid. Plaintiffs’ verified further
responses are due no later than 20 days after Defendant files proof that the
two filing fees have been paid. 
Monetary sanctions are imposed on
Plaintiffs and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $585,
consisting of 2 hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $205 and $180 in
filing fees. Like further responses, sanctions are due no later than 20 days
after Defendant files proof that the additional filing fees have been paid. 
Dated
this 16th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 