  Case Number:  23STCV18064    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Deposition
 
Moving Party: Defendant LNP Everland, Inc.
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The Motion is GRANTED in part. 
 
Plaintiff shall make himself available to sit for a
deposition within 20 days of the issuance of this Order. 
 
The Request
for Sanctions is DENIED.  
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On July 31, 2023,
Plaintiff Sean McDowell filed his Complaint against Defendants LNP Everland
Inc., Emotional Health Association, Eui S. Chang, Hee Kyung Chang, The H
Realty, and Christina Kwon. Multiple causes of action are pleaded against
Defendants. 
 
        On
January 2, 2024, Defendants LNP Everland, Inc., Eui S. Chang, H Realty, and
Christina Kwon filed their Answer to the Complaint. 
 
        On
January 5, 2024, Defendant Emotional Health Association filed its Answer to the
Complaint. 
 
        On
February 1, 2024, Defendant LNP Everland, Inc. filed its Motion to Compel
Deposition. In support of its Motion, Defendant LNP Everland, Inc. filed
Declaration of Chad Biggins. 
 
        No
opposition or other response has been filed to the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)
 
II.       Discussion
 
A.      The
Deposition Request
 
Defendant LNP Everland, Inc. moves the Court
to compel Plaintiff to attend a deposition within ten days. (Motion, pp. 1,
24–25, 3:16–18, 5:27.) Among other things, Defense Counsel declares: (1)
Plaintiff’s deposition was noticed on January 8, 2024 for February 1, 2024; and
(2) that the deposition has not yet occurred. (Motion, Decl. Biggins, ¶¶ 4, 6.)
 
Plaintiff does not oppose or otherwise
respond to the Motion. 
 
The Court has not been presented with any
evidence that would indicate that Plaintiff has attended a deposition. Rather,
the evidence presented indicates that Plaintiff did not attend a noticed
deposition and did not serve a valid objection. 
 
The Court GRANTS in part the Motion. 
 
Plaintiff shall make himself available to sit for a
deposition within 20 days of the issuance of this Order. 
 
B.      The
Sanctions Request
 
        Defendant LNP Everland, Inc.
also requests a monetary sanction. (Motion, pp. 1:26–28, 3:16–18, 5:19–25.)
 
        The Court has considered the
circumstances and does not find that a monetary sanction is appropriate here. 
 
First, the Court denied Defendant LNP
Everland, Inc.’s anti-SLAPP motion on November 29, 2023. (Minute Order dated
November 29, 2023, p. 10.) The Court noted that the anti-SLAPP motion appeared
frivolous and awarded costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees against Moving
Defendants and Defense Counsel, jointly and severally. (Ibid.) Given the
litigation delay caused by Defendants and Defense Counsel, the subsequent wait
of a couple months to figure out the scheduling of Plaintiff’s deposition seems
reasonable and not sanctionable. 
 
Second, Defense Counsel’s language in the
Motion — which includes calling the action “frivolous” and accusing Plaintiff
of “using this case as a means of attempted extortion” — is not civil and
courteous. (Motion, p. 3:9–11.)
 
“Counsel should at all times be civil and courteous in communicating
with adversaries, whether in writing or orally.” (Los Angeles Super. Ct., Local
Rules, App. 3.A [Guidelines for Civility in Litigation], subd. (d)(1).”
 
“The timbre
of our time has become unfortunately aggressive and disrespectful. Language
addressed to opposing counsel and courts has lurched off the path of discourse
and into the ditch of abuse. This isn’t who we are.” (In re Mahoney¿(2021)¿65
Cal.App.5th 376.)
 
"We
close this discussion with a reminder to counsel — all counsel, regardless of
practice, regardless of age — that zealous advocacy does not equate with
‘attack dog’ or ‘scorched earth’; nor does it mean lack of civility. Zeal and
vigor in the representation of clients are commendable. So are civility,
courtesy, and cooperation. They are not mutually exclusive."¿¿(In re
Marriage of Davenport (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1507, 1537.)
 
Given
Defense Counsel’s apparent incivility and own role in causing the litigation
delay of which he complains, Defendant should not be awarded a monetary
sanction here. (Snoeck
v. ExakTime Innovations, Inc. (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 908, 911, holding that civility is an aspect
of an attorney’s skill and “a trial court may consider an attorney’s pervasive
incivility in determining the reasonableness of the requested fees.”) 
 
The Court
DENIES the Request for Sanctions. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion is GRANTED in part. 
 
Plaintiff shall make himself available to sit for a
deposition within 20 days of the issuance of this Order. 
 
The Request
for Sanctions is DENIED.  
 
 