 Case Number:  20STCV04851    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MAIKEL ZEHAVI, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  MAGALY TAPIA, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV04851 (C/W 20STCV12334)  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL PHYSICAL EXAMINATION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 8, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, Maikel Zehavi (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant, Magaly Tapia (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle collision. Trial is currently set for January 31, 2024. At this time, Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s physical examination with orthopedic surgeon Jonathan Falakassa, M.D. (“Dr. Falakassa”) at 6815 Noble Ave., Van Nuys, CA 91406 on December 21, 2023 at 3:20 p.m. Defendant additionally requests monetary sanctions.  Any opposition to the motion was due by November 27, 2023; none was filed.  II. Motion to Compel Physical Examination  CCP § 2032.220 states: In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied:  The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.  The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee. CCP § 2032.240 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, the defendant may move for an order compelling a response to the demand and compelling compliance with the request for an exam. CCP § 2032.310 further provides that the motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  Defendant originally noticed the demand for physical examination for July 27, 2023 with Dr. Falakassa. Plaintiff did not object to the examination, and Plaintiff did not appear on that date. Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to meet and confer efforts on August 4, 2023 regarding Plaintiff’s failure to appear. However, at the Final Status Conference (FSC) on August 23, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel represented he would work with Defendant to get the physical examination scheduled. Since the FSC, the parties met and conferred on proposed dates. However, Defendant avers Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to respond after Plaintiff’s last request for a late October date.  In this case, the evidence shows Defendant properly served Plaintiff with a notice to appear for Plaintiff’s physical exam, and Plaintiff failed to appear. There is also no evidence that any valid objection to the examination was served. As a personal injury plaintiff, Plaintiff is required to submit to a defense medical examination pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220. Plaintiff did not oppose the motion or otherwise provide any valid grounds for refusing to appear and for failing to meet and confer with defense counsel on moving forward with the medical examination. However, CCP § 2032.320(d) requires the moving party to specify the “diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” Defendant failed to set forth any of this information in the moving papers to sufficiently apprise Plaintiff of the examination. Because Defendant has not met their obligation in this regard, the motion and request for sanctions is DENIED without prejudice.   Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿ Dated this 7th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   