  Case Number:  22VECV01308    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Joyce Sindel,
 
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Fredda Johnson, et al.,
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   22VECV01308                 107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
(1) Compel Further Responses to Requests for
  Document Production; Request for Sanctions
(2) Compel Further Responses to Form and Special
  Interrogatories;
Request for Sanctions
 
                        



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:

(1) Deny; deny sanction;
(2) Grant in part, deny in
part; deny sanctions
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Joyce Sindel (“Plaintiff”) and defendants Fredda Johnson
(“Fredda”) and Scott Johnson (“Scott” and, together with Fredda, “Defendants”
and Defendants, together with Plaintiff, “Parties”) own adjacent neighboring
real properties. (Complaint pp. 1–2.) A large Shamel ash tree grows on
Defendants’ property near the border it shares with Plaintiff property and its
roots extend onto Plaintiff’s property. (Id. at p. 2.)
 
On September 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint alleging causes
of action for (1) nuisance, (2) negligence, (3) trespass, and (4) declaratory
relief.
 
On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed two motions to compel further: a
motion to compel further responses to two sets of requests for document
production (“Motion #1”) and a motion to compel further responses to form
interrogatories and to special interrogatories (“Motion #2” and, together with
Motion #1, the “Motions”). On May 7 and 8, 2024, Defendants opposed the Motions
and on May 13 and 14, 2024, Plaintiff replied to Defendants’ oppositions.
 
II.
PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 
A.   
Filing
Fees
 
In each of the Motions, Plaintiff filed a
single motion for what should have been four separate motions. Combining
discovery motions allows the moving party to avoid paying the requisite filing
fees. “But while it is mandatory for the court clerks to demand and receive
statutorily req.uired filing fees, it is not… a jurisdictional defect if the
precise fee is not collected.” (Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 457, 460.)¿¿ 
¿ 
Accordingly, Plaintiff is ordered to pay six
additional filing fees. 
 
B.   
Timeliness
 
All motions to compel further responses to written discovery
must be brought within 45 days of receiving the challenged responses, or as
otherwise agreed upon in writing.¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300, subd. (c),
2031.310, subd. (b)(1), 2033.290, subd. (c).)¿This deadline is jurisdictional,
and courts are without authority to grant untimely motions.¿ (Vidal Sassoon,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.) 
 
Each of the Motions attaches Defendants’ relevant responses
to each of Plaintiff’s discovery requests. Defendants served their responses to
the first set of requests for production of documents on November 6, 2023 and
their responses to the second set on December 8, 2023. Each of the Motions
attaches copies of an e-mail exchange between Parties’ attorneys in which they
agree to extend the deadline to file motions to compel further to January 2,
2024. (Motions Exh. C.) Each of the Motions also includes a declaration by
Plaintiff’s counsel (the “Halfen Declarations”) in which he states that Parties
extended the deadline to April 18, 2024. (Halfen Decl. ¶ 10.) However, the
Halfen Declarations do not attach a copy of the written agreement to such
deadline. We are therefore unable to confirm that the Motions were timely
brought.
 
C.   
The Meet and Confer Requirement
 
Motions to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
“meet and confer” declaration evidencing a “reasonable and good faith attempt
an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2030.300, subd. (b), 2031.310, subd. (b)(2), 2033.290,
subd. (b).)
 
The Halfen Declarations states that Plaintiff’s counsel and
Defendants’ counsel “discussed the outstanding discovery issues several times”
before the filing of the Motions. We are therefore satisfied that this
requirement has been met.
 
III.
LEGAL STANDARD
Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved
in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that
action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2017.010.) 
“Relevant evidence is defined in
Evidence Code section 210 as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove
or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of
the action.’ The test of relevance is whether the evidence tends logically,
naturally, and by reasonable inference to establish material facts. The trial
court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence but lacks
discretion to admit irrelevant evidence.” (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co.
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148, internal quotations and citations omitted; see
also Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 97 [“[I]n the context
of discovery, evidence is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in
evaluating its case, preparing for trial, or facilitating a¿settlement.”].) 
A court “retains the discretion to weigh the
burden of compliance against the likelihood of producing helpful information,
to avoid duplicative production, and to narrow demands if appropriate to
balance the reasonable concerns of both parties.” (Volkswagen of America,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1497.) “[Discovery]
statutes must be construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request
is clearly improper by virtue of well-established causes for denial.” (Greyhound
Corp. v. Superior Court In and For Merced County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355,
377.) But, “discovery, like all matters of procedure, has its ultimate and
necessary boundaries.” (Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court
for Los Angeles County (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19.) 
 
If the party on whom a request for production of documents is
propounded responds with inappropriate objections, incomplete compliance, or an
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive representation of inability to comply, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the
demand. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2031.310.) A motion to compel further is properly
brought to challenge “boilerplate” responses to requests for production. (Best
Products, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra at 1190.) The burden is on
the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and specific
facts showing good cause justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)  Once good cause is
established by the moving party, the burden then shifts to the responding party
to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172–74.) The moving party must file evidence, such
as a declaration showing good cause based on specific facts that the requested
matter is admissible evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of such evidence. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223–24.) Declarations are generally used to show
good cause by reference to specific facts regarding relevance.  (Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 1138, 1141.) However, a
bare showing of “good cause” is insufficient to compel production of materials
constituting attorney work product, some of which may be ordered disclosed only
if the moving party can demonstrate injustice or unfair prejudice. (Code Civ.
Proc. §¿2018.030.) 
 
A party on whom interrogatories are propounded
is required to refer to all sources of information that are under the party's
control. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.220(a)–(b).) A responding party’s duty also encompasses the requirement
that it make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information
sought by the interrogatory, except where that information is readily available
to the propounding party. (Regency Health Services, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 64 Cal. App.4th 1496, 1504; Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 782 [“If a party is unable to fully answer it should set forth
the efforts made to secure the information.”].) If an interrogatory cannot be
answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220, subd.
(b).)¿ 
 
If the responding party responds with
inappropriate objections or evasive or incomplete answers, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response. (Code Civ. Proc.
§¿2030.300.) Like with requests to produce documents, a motion to compel
further is properly brought to challenge “boilerplate” responses to special
interrogatories. (Best Products, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119
Cal.App.4th 1181, 1190; see also Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 285, 294.) The responding party bears the burden of justifying any
objection or insufficient answer to a special interrogatory. (Coy v.
Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–21 [“Defendants here had the
burden of showing facts from which the trial court might find that the
interrogatories were interposed for improper purposes. The statute does not
require any showing of good cause for the serving and filing of
interrogatories.”].) “Nevertheless, if interrogatories are reasonably subject
to objection as calling for the disclosure of matters so remote from the
subject matter of the action as disclosed by the issues framed by the pleadings
as to make their disclosure of little or no practical benefit to the party
seeking the disclosure or if to answer them would place a burden and expense
upon the parties to whom the interrogatories are propounded which should be
equitably borne by the propounder or if the interrogatories are so framed as to
require the disclosure of relevant as well as irrelevant matter, the trial
court in the exercise of its discretion may refuse to order such interrogatories
answered.” (Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court for Los
Angeles County, supra at 19.) 
 
IV.
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff justifies every contested
discovery request in Motion #1 with the exact same statement: “These documents
are relevant and discoverable. Plaintiff did not produce any responsive
documents. At a minimum, this information is designed to lead to admissible
evidence. The objections are erroneous.” No other, additional, or different
justification is provided for any discovery request.
 
A.    The
First Set of Requests for Production of Documents
 
Request No. 33
 
This request seeks “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in
Evidence Code Section 250, concerning or in any way referring to communications
you have had with any insurance company concerning you Shamel Ash tree since
the beginning of your residency.” 
 
While we note that communications with Defendants’ insurance
company concerning the Shamel ash tree may seek relevant responses, this
request seeks all writings a step removed from those communications and from
any insurance company. This request is overbroad and Plaintiff fails to meet
her burden of showing either relevance to the subject matter of this litigation or
specific facts showing good cause justifying such discovery. 
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 33 is denied.
 
B.    The
Second Set of Requests for Production of Documents
 
Request No. 47
 
This request seeks “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in
Evidence Code Section 250, concerning or in any way referring to your purchase
of [Defendants’ real property].” 
 
We agree with Defendants that this request is overbroad and not
calculated to lead to relevant evidence. Plaintiff fails to substantially
justify the relevance of this request or specific facts showing good cause
justifying such discovery. The subject of this litigation is the certain Shamel
ash tree, not Defendants’ entire property or the purchase thereof.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 47 is denied.
 
Request
No. 48
 
This
request seeks “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in Evidence Code Section
250, concerning or in any way referring to purchases of [Defendants’ real
property].” 
 
This request is not time-limited. We agree with Defendants that
this request is overbroad and not calculated to lead to relevant evidence.
Plaintiff fails to substantially justify the relevance of this request or specific facts
showing good cause justifying such discovery. The subject of this litigation is
the certain Shamel ash tree, not Defendants’ entire property or the purchase
thereof. We also agree with Defendants that this request infringes on the
privacy rights of third parties. (See Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 372 [Business
customers have some limited privacy interest in personal identifying
information that consists of their name, address and other contact
information.].)
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 48 is denied.
 
Request No. 49
 
This request seeks “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in
Evidence Code Section 250, concerning or in any way referring to title
transfers of [Defendants’ real property].” 
 
This request is not time-limited. We agree with Defendants that
this request is overbroad and not calculated to lead to relevant evidence. The subject of
this litigation is the certain Shamel ash tree, not Defendants’ entire property
or title thereof. Plaintiff fails to substantially justify the
relevance of this request or specific facts showing good cause justifying such discovery.
We also agree with Defendants that this request infringes on the privacy rights
of third parties. (See Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 372 [Business
customers have some limited privacy interest in personal identifying
information that consists of their name, address and other contact
information.].)
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 49 is denied.
 
Request No. 50
 
This request seeks “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in
Evidence Code Section 250, concerning or in any way referring to ownership of
[Defendants’ real property], since the beginning of your residency.”
 
We agree with Defendants that this request is overbroad and not
calculated to lead to relevant evidence. Plaintiff fails to substantially
justify the relevance of this request or specific facts showing good cause
justifying such discovery. We also agree with Defendants that this request
infringes on the privacy rights of third parties. (See Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v.
Superior Court (2007) 40
Cal.4th 360, 372 [Business customers have some limited privacy interest in
personal identifying information that consists of their name, address and other
contact information.].)
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 50 is denied.
 
Request No. 51
 
This request seeks “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in
Evidence Code Section 250, concerning or in any way referring to the dates of
your residency at [Defendants’ real property].”
 
We agree with Defendants that this request is grossly overbroad and
not calculated to lead to relevant evidence. The subject of this litigation is the
certain Shamel ash tree, not Defendants’ entire property or Defendants’
residence at the property. Plaintiff fails to substantially
justify the relevance of this request or specific facts showing good cause
justifying such discovery. 
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 51 is denied.
 
Request No. 52
 
This request seeks “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in
Evidence Code Section 250, concerning or in any way referring to communications
between you and all prior owners of [Defendants’ real property].”
 
This request is not time-limited. We agree with Defendants that
this request is grossly overbroad and not calculated to lead to relevant
evidence. The
subject of this litigation is the certain Shamel ash tree, not Defendants’
entire property or the purchase theerof. Prior owners of Defendants’ real
property are not relevant to this litigation. Plaintiff fails to
substantially justify the relevance of this request or specific facts
showing good cause justifying such discovery. 
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 52 is denied.
 
Request
No. 59
 
This
request seeks “[a]ll writings from arborists who have inspected the Shamel Ash
tree located at [Defendants’ real property] near the border with [Plaintiff’s
real property], during the last 10 years.”
 
This request is duplicative. Plaintiff has already sought and
apparently received satisfactory answers to its request for “[a]ll writings, as
that term is defined in Evidence Code Section 250, concerning or in any way
referring to the large Shamel Ash Tree, at [Defendants’ real property] (which
tree is located near border of the [Plaintiff’s real property] and [Defendants’
real property] owned by [Plaintiff]), since the beginning of your residency”
and “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in Evidence Code Section 250,
concerning or in any way referring to the large Shamel Ash Tree, at
[Defendants’ real property], which is the subject of this litigation” through
Requests Nos. 57 and 58. Any responsive documents to Request No. 59 would have
been included in Defendants’ responses to Requests Nos. 57 and 58 and are now
in Plaintiff’s possession.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 59 is denied.
 
Request
No. 60
 
This
request seeks “[a]ll reports from arborists who have inspected the Shamel Ash
tree located at [Defendants’ real property] near the border with [Plaintiff’s
real property], during the last 10 years.”
 
This request is duplicative. As we state above, Plaintiff has
already sought and apparently received satisfactory answers to its request for
“[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in Evidence Code Section 250,
concerning or in any way referring to the large Shamel Ash Tree, at
[Defendants’ real property] (which tree is located near border of the
[Plaintiff’s real property] and [Defendants’ real property] owned by
[Plaintiff]), since the beginning of your residency” and “[a]ll writings, as
that term is defined in Evidence Code Section 250, concerning or in any way
referring to the large Shamel Ash Tree, at [Defendants’ real property], which
is the subject of this litigation” through Requests Nos. 57 and 58. Any
responsive documents to Request No. 60 would have been included in Defendants’
responses to Requests Nos. 57 and 58 and are now in Plaintiff’s possession.
Additionally, as reports are a subcategory of writings, this request is duplicative
of Request No. 59.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 60 is denied.
 
Request
No. 74
 
This
request seeks “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in Evidence Code Section
250, concerning or in any way referring to communications you have had with any
of government entity concerning [Defendants’ real property], including but not
limited to the County of Los Angeles, during the last 10 years.”
 
This request is grossly overbroad and Plaintiff fails to meet her
burden of showing either relevance to the subject matter of this litigation,
which is the Shamel ash tree on Defendants’ property, or specific facts showing
good cause justifying such discovery. 
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 74 is denied.
 
Request
No. 75
 
This
request seeks “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in Evidence Code Section
250, concerning or in any way referring to communications you have had with any
insurance company concerning [Defendants’ real property], including but not
limited to the your current insurer, during the last 10 years.”
 
This request is grossly overbroad and Plaintiff fails to meet her
burden of showing either relevance to the subject matter of this litigation,
which is the Shamel ash tree on Defendants’ property, or specific facts showing
good cause justifying such discovery. Moreover, this request is
duplicative. This request is simply an even broader version of Requests Nos. 33
and 76, which we also find to be overbroad.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 75 is denied.
 
Request
No. 76
 
This
request seeks “[a]ll writings, as that term is defined in Evidence Code Section
250, concerning or in any way referring to communications you have had with any
insurance company concerning you Shamel Ash tree at [Defendants’ real property]
since the beginning of your residency.
 
This request is not reasonably time-limited and Plaintiff fails to
meet her burden of showing either relevance to the subject matter of this litigation or
specific facts showing good cause justifying such discovery.
Moreover, this request is nearly identical to Request No. 33, including the
same typo, “you Shamel Ash tree” instead of “your Shamel Ash tree,” except that
the Defendant’s address has been added. This request is therefore clearly
duplicative and unnecessary.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Request No. 76 is denied.
 
C.    The Form Interrogatories
 
Form Interrogatory No. 4.1
 
This interrogatory asks about insurance existing only “at the time
of the incident.” As “incident” is not a defined term and this is not a case
that arises from a clear single incident or even a number of incidents, we
agree with Defendants that this interrogatory is not applicable or sensical in
the instant litigation. Defendants are therefore unable to answer and have
adequately stated as much.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Form Interrogatory No. 4.1 is denied.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 12.4
 
This interrogatory asks about media concerning only “the
incident.” As stated above, since “incident” is not a defined term and this is
not a case that arises from a clear single incident or even a number of
incidents, we agree with Defendants that this interrogatory is not applicable
or sensical in the instant litigation. Defendants are therefore unable to answer
and have adequately stated as much.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.4 is denied.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 12.6
 
This interrogatory asks about reports concerning only “the
incident.” As stated above, since “incident” is not a defined term and this is
not a case that arises from a clear single incident or even a number of
incidents, we agree with Defendants that this interrogatory is not applicable
or sensical in the instant litigation. Defendants are therefore unable to answer
and have adequately stated as much.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.6 is denied.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 12.7
 
This interrogatory asks about inspections concerning only “the
scene of the incident.” As stated above, since “incident” is not a defined term
and this is not a case that arises from a clear single incident or even a
number of incidents, we agree with Defendants that this interrogatory is not
applicable or sensical in the instant litigation. Defendants are therefore
unable to answer and have adequately stated as much.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.7 is denied.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 15.1
 
Defendants’ supplemental responses to this form interrogatory
fully answer it, including by answering each subpart. Defendants adequately
identifies documents in response to subpart (d) of this interrogatory for
Plaintiff to identify the documents referenced. While Defendants fail to
identify California Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230 by name, this
omission does not warrant granting a motion to compel further merely to do so
when the response is substantively complete. 
 
The
motion to compel further response to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1 is denied.
 
D.    The Special Interrogatories
 
Special Interrogatory No. 35
 
This interrogatory reads, “[i]dentify, by name, address and
telephone numbers, all residents of [Defendants’ real property] during the last
ten years..”
 
“The disclosure of the names and addresses of potential
witnesses is a routine and essential part of pretrial discovery.” (People
v. Dixon (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 414, 443.) However, “[d]iscovery may be
prohibited where the information violates the right to privacy and is not
necessary to the prosecution of the matter.” (Puerto v. Superior Court
(2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1254.) Addresses are private. (Ibid.; Lori
v. Medical Board (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 462, 468; City of San Jose v.
Superior Court (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017, fn. 5.) There is a privacy
interest against disclosure of addresses and telephone numbers. (Planned
Parenthood Golden Gate v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 347,
367,  disapproved on other grounds by  Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557; Morales
v. Superior Court (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 283, 291; Board of Trustees v.
Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 529, disapproved on other grounds by  Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)
 
Plaintiff charges that “[r]esidents of the property may be
witnesses.” (Separate Statement p. 2.) However, residents of the property also
have a privacy interest in both their former and current addresses and contact
information, and this request is so broad and not tailored to the subject
matter of the litigation, which is the certain Shamel ash tree on Defendants’
property and not Defendants’ real property as a whole or Defendants’ home, that
it will certainly violate the privacy interest of individuals who are not
necessary to the prosecution of the matter.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Special Interrogatory No. 35 is denied.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 45
 
This interrogatory reads, “[i]dentify, by name, address and
telephone number, all arborists who have inspected the Shamel Ash tree located
at [Defendants’ real property] near the border with [Plaintiff’s real
property], during the last 10 years.”
 
As we state above, “[t]he disclosure of the names and addresses of
potential witnesses is a routine and essential part of pretrial
discovery.” (People v. Dixon, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th 414 at 443.)
Defendants argue that this interrogatory is duplicative but do not clarify of
which other discovery request it is duplicative. They further argue that it
violates the privacy rights of third parties, but those privacy rights may be
weighed against the relevancy to this case and in this case, we find that the
privacy rights being violated are weak compared to the likely relevancy of the
responses. Defendants also argue that “[t]he Interrogatory seeks premature
disclosure of expert opinion and information potentially protected under
attorney client privilege and the work product doctrine.” To the extent that it
does so, those responses remain protected by Defendants’ objection and need not
be disclosed.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Special Interrogatory No. 45 is granted.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 46
 
This interrogatory reads, “[i]dentify, by date, title and number
of pages, all writings you have received from all arborists who have inspected
the Shamel Ash tree located at [Defendants’ real property] near the border with
[Plaintiff’s real property], during the last 10 years.”
 
This is relevant to the subject matter of the litigation, the
certain Shamel ash tree that the interrogatory references. Defendants make the
same objections to this interrogatory that they make to Special Interrogatory
No. 45, and our responses to those objections are the same. Defendants
additionally object that “[t]his Interrogatory seeks proprietary information
and information not calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” However, this interrogatory does not seek the contents of any
writing, only the date, title, and number of pages. To the extent that the
titles of any writings contain privileged information, however, we agree with
Defendants that they are not discoverable and need not be produced.
 
The
motion to compel further response to Special Interrogatory No. 46 is granted.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 47
 
This interrogatory reads, “[i]dentify, by date, title and number
of pages, all reports you have received from arborists who have inspected the
Shamel Ash tree located at [Defendants’ real property] near the border with
[Plaintiff’s real property], during the last 10 years.”
 
This request is duplicative. Reports are a subcategory of
writings. Any response to this interrogatory would or will necessarily have
been included in Defendants’ response or ordered further response to Special
Interrogatory No. 46. 
 
The
motion to compel further response to Special Interrogatory No. 47 is denied.
 
E.    Sanctions
 
Unless
it would be unjust to do so under the circumstances, the court must impose
monetary sanctions against parties and/or attorneys that unsuccessfully make or
oppose motions to compel further responses without substantial justification.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h), 2033.290, subd.
(d).)
 
Motion #1 seeks monetary sanctions against Defendants and
Defendants’ counsel in the amount of $2,450.00. Motion #2 seeks monetary
sanctions against Defendants and Defendants’ counsel in the amount of
$2,800.00.
 
Because
we deny Motion #1 entirely, Plaintiff was not the successful party. Rather,
Plaintiff unsuccessfully made Motion #1, and pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (h), is the party against whom
monetary sanctions are mandatory. However, Defendants do not seek sanctions in
their opposition to Motion #1, and this court may not impose unsought monetary
sanctions. Therefore, no sanctions shall issue for Motion #1.
 
Because we grant Motion #2 in part and deny Motion #2 in part,
neither party may be described as the successful or unsuccessful party under California Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300,
subdivision (d). Therefore, neither party is entitled to monetary sanctions for
making or opposing Motion #2 and none shall issue. 
 
Dated:  May 21,
2024                                                          _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                        Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court