 Case Number:  23STCV25796    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  55 
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendants’ Demurrer
with Motion to Strike
 
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
                                                                                                                                        
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Bondit LLC filed
this action against Logan Wood and Vertex Funding, LLC (“Defendants”) based on Defendants’ alleged conduct in
connection with a series of loans that Plaintiff made to several third parties
(“Judgment Debtors”). As alleged in the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”),
Defendants acted as authorized representatives of Judgment Debtors in negotiations
with Plaintiff over loans that Plaintiff ultimately made to Judgment Debtors.
After Judgment Debtors failed to pay back the loans, Plaintiff filed a lawsuit
against Judgment Debtors and ultimately obtained a judgment against Judgment
Debtors. Plaintiff has now sued Defendants for their role in negotiating the
loans. Plaintiff alleges it made the loans after receiving false information
about Judgment Debtors’ assets and ability to pay back the loans. The claims in
the SAC are: (1) fraud – intentional misrepresentation; (2) fraud – concealment;
(3) negligent misrepresentation; (4) violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200; and (5) violation of Penal Code section 496. 
The Court previously sustained a demurrer to the first,
third, and fifth causes of action with leave to amend and overruled the
demurrer as to the first and fourth causes of action. 
Defendants demur to all the SAC claims and filed a motion to
strike the requests for punitive damages and attorney’s fees. Plaintiff opposes
the demurrer and motion to strike. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento
(1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. As such, courts
assume the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. Ibid. However, it does not accept as true deductions,
contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. Stonehouse Homes LLC v. City of
Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 538. 
Further, the court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a). The court
may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading
has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. Id. § 436. The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id. §
437. 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”);
Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to
amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under
any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment.”). The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.
 
ANALYSIS
As
an initial matter, Plaintiff
argues that it is improper for Defendants to demur to the second and fourth
causes of action on the same ground that had previously been overruled.
However, courts have held that “‘[t]he interests of all parties are advanced by
avoiding a trial and reversal for defect in pleadings. The objecting party is
acting properly in raising the point at his first opportunity, by general
demurrer. If the demurrer is erroneously overruled, he is acting properly in
raising the point again, at his next opportunity. If the trial judge made the
former ruling himself, he is not bound by it. And, if the demurrer was
overruled by a different judge, the trial judge is equally free to reexamine
the sufficiency of the pleading.” Pacific States Enterprises, Inc. v. City
of Coachella (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420, fn. 3 (quoting Ion
Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 877. Therefore, the
Court will consider the demurrer to all causes of action on the merits 
 
Defendants argue that all claims in the SAC fail because
Defendants, as agents of Judgement Debtors, are immune from liability for the
conduct of Judgment Debtors. Civil Code section 2343 provides that “an agent is
responsible to third persons as a principle for his acts in the course of his
agency … when his acts are wrongful in nature.” “Generally, an agent is not
held liable for the fraud of a principal, unless the agent knows of or
participates in the fraudulent act.” Mars v. Wedbush Morgan Sec., Inc.
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 1608, 1616. “An agent or employee is always liable for
his own torts, whether his employer is liable or not. In other words, when the
agent commits a tort, such as … fraud …, then … the agent [is] subject to
liability in a civil suit for such wrongful conduct. [I]f a tortious act has
been committed by an agent acting under authority of his principal, the fact
that the principal thus becomes liable does not, of course, exonerate the agent
from liability.” Fleet v. Bank of America N.A. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th
1403, 1411 (citations omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). Therefore, Defendants
do not have categorical immunity as agents but instead may be found liable if
they engaged in wrongdoing.
A. Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation
Defendants again argue that Plaintiff has not sufficiently
pleaded the knowledge element of the fraud claim, i.e., that Defendants knew
their representations were false when they made them or made the
representations recklessly without regard for their truth. 
“To establish a claim for deceit based on intentional
misrepresentation, the plaintiff must prove seven essential elements: (1) the
defendant represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2)
that representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation
was false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation
recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that
the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied
on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff’s
reliance on the defendant’s representation was a substantial factor in causing
that harm to the plaintiff.” Manderville v. PCG&S Group, Inc. (2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 1486, 1498. 
“Fraud must be specifically pleaded; a general pleading of
the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient. Every element of the cause of
action must be alleged in full, factually and specifically.” Tindell v.
Murphy (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1249; see also Wilhelm v. Pray,
Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331 (affirming
demurrer where the complaint failed to plead with specificity a factual basis
for how a defendant attorney knew the representations she communicated on
behalf of her client were false). Moreover, it “‘is not sufficient to allege
fraud or its elements upon information and belief, unless the facts upon which
the belief is founded are stated in the pleading.’” Carney v. Simmonds
(1957) 49 Cal.2d 84, 100 (quoting Dowling v. Spring Valley Water Co.
(1917), 174 Cal. 218, 221.
While the SAC includes greater details regarding the content
of Defendants’ representations and when they were made, Plaintiff again fails
to allege a factual basis for the Defendants’ knowledge of falsity. Plaintiff alleges,
on information and belief, that Defendants knew their representation about the
accuracy of Judgment Debtors’ income statements and ability to receive certain
royalty statements were untrue. However, there are no specific factual
allegations in the SAC to infer and support this belief. The allegations Plaintiff
points to in its opposition are simply examples of statements Defendants made
that proved to be false but which do not show Defendants’ knowledge of falsity.
SAC ¶¶ 19, 20, 25, 26, and 28.
Plaintiff argues that “Defendants’ unqualified affirmative
statements implied knowledge of the receivable.”  SAC ¶ 28. However, Plaintiff fails to allege
that Defendants represented that they had conducted an independent review of
all relevant financial documents or were otherwise making a personal guarantee
of the accuracy of the information. On the contrary, Plaintiff alleges that it
relied on Defendants’ representations “as agents of the Judgment Debtors.” SAC
¶ 114. As agents of disclosed principals, Defendants’ statements were on behalf
of the Judgment Debtors and impliedly based on information provided by the
Judgment Debtors. These allegations are insufficient to support an inference
that Defendants had additional knowledge that these representations were inaccurate.
Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the intentional
misrepresentation claim with leave to amend.
B. Fraud – Concealment 
Next Defendants argue that Plaintiff
fails to properly allege a fraudulent concealment claim. 
 
“The required elements for fraudulent
concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a
defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant
intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing
the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as
he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of
the fact.” Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594,
606.
 
Just as Plaintiff failed to plead that Defendants had
knowledge of the falsity of the statements, Plaintiff likewise fails to specifically
plead facts supporting the allegation that Defendants had knowledge of the Katrina
Ponce Enrile, et al. v. Jovan Dawkins, et al. action and the stipulated
judgment or that Judgment Debtors had assigned all rights to payment from the
Universal Music Group catalog indefinitely. Once again, it is insufficient for
Plaintiff to assert “upon information and belief that Defendants knew or had
constructive knowledge” of these facts. While Plaintiff alleges that the
financial documents were provided and prepared by Defendants, Plaintiff does
not allege that Judgment Debtors provided Defendants with the missing financial
documents, or otherwise informed Defendants of the relevant information. Accordingly,
the demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
C. Negligent Misrepresentation
The elements of a negligent misrepresentation are “(1) the
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another’s
reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance on the
misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage. Tindell v. Murphy (2018) 22
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1252. (quoting Apollo Capital Fund LLC v. Roth Capital
Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.)  “Negligent misrepresentation does not require
knowledge of falsity, unlike a cause of action for fraud.” Ibid. 
Whether negligent misrepresentation claims are subject to
the same heightened pleading requirements as fraud claims is not entirely
clear. “California courts have never decided whether the tort of negligent
misrepresentation, alleged in the complaint here, must also be pled with
specificity. But such a requirement is implied in the reasoning of two
decisions (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General
Foods Corp., supra, 35 Cal.3d at p. 216; B.L.M. v. Sabo &
Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 823, 835-837) and was
asserted expressly in Justice Mosk’s dissenting opinion in Garcia
v. Superior Court (1990) 50 Cal.3d 728, 748.” Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184. Citing the potential for
false claims, the court held that the heightened pleading standard applies to
negligent misrepresentation actions in the context of shareholder action, but “express[ed]
no view on whether this pleading requirement would apply in other actions for
negligent misrepresentation. However, in Hamilton v. Greenwich Investors
XXVI, LLC (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1602, 1614, the Court of Appeal treated
fraud and negligent misrepresentation alike in applying the heightened pleading
requirement. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants provided it with an account
summary of royalties that identified over $4 million in “Payable Royalties Due”
from Inception through the period ended June 30, 2018.” SAC ¶ 27. Plaintiff
argues that Defendants had no reasonable basis for believing that $4.2 million
in “Payable Royalties Due” was actually due to Judgment Debtors, or any of
them, in the summer of 2020 based solely on a summary with an ending date of
June 2018.” SAC ¶ 107. However, Plaintiff fails to allege facts showing that Defendants
relied solely on this summary in making the representations. 
Moreover, assuming, for the sake of argument, that
Defendants solely relied on the contents of the summary they provided to
Plaintiff, Plaintiff likewise relied on that summary and Defendants’
explanation of it in making the loan. SAC ¶ 27. “Reliance is ‘justifiable’ only
when ‘circumstances were such to make it reasonable for plaintiff to accept
defendant’s statements without an independent inquiry or investigation.’” Philipson
& Simon v. Gulsvig (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 347, 363 (citation omitted).
Therefore, to the extent that Defendants lacked a reasonable basis for
believing that the $4.2 million was actually due to the Judgment Debtors based
on the outdated summary, Plaintiff was also not justified in relying on it. To
the extent that Plaintiff’s reliance was reasonable based on the assumption
that Defendants had access to additional information, Plaintiff has not alleged
facts challenging that assumption. 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s allegation that “Defendants had no
reasonable basis for believing that the asset lists that they provided to
Plaintiff were accurate…” is conclusory and not entitled to a presumption of
truth. SAC ¶ 111.
Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff fails to allege
sufficient facts showing that Defendants lacked reasonable ground to believe
that the information they provided was accurate. 
 
D. Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200
Because the Business and Professions Code section 17200
violations were predicated on the fraud and negligent misrepresentation
claims, the Court likewise sustains the demurrer to the fourth cause of action
with leave to amend.
 
E. Violation of Penal Code section 496
The elements required to show a violation of California
Penal Code § 496 in the civil context are: “(i) property was stolen or obtained
in a manner constituting theft, (ii) the defendant knew the property was so
stolen or obtained, and (iii) the defendant received or had possession of the
stolen property.” Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126. “Theft”
includes obtaining property by false pretenses. Siry Inv. v. Farkhondehpour
(2022) 13 Cal.5th. 333, 361-362. The elements of false pretenses are “(1) That
the defendant made a false pretense or representation; (2) that he did so with
intent to defraud the owner of his property; and (3) that the owner was in fact
defrauded in that he parted with his property -- both possession and title --
in reliance upon the false representations.” Callan v. Superior Court of San
Mateo County (1962) 204 Cal.App.2d 652, 669. 
Because this is a statutory claim and because it is premised
on fraud, this claim must be pleaded with particularity. Covenant Care, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790 (noting “the general rule
that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity”). For the
same reasons given above, the Court finds that Plaintiff fails to plead
Defendants’ intent to defraud with the required particularity. Accordingly, the
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action. 
Given that the Court is sustaining the demurrer with leave
to amend, the motion to strike is moot. 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
Plaintiff has 30 days leave to amend from the date of notice of this order. 

