 Case Number:  23STCV30182    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV30182




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier,
  LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Jane Doe



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA,
LLC, Oswaldo Gonzalez, and Does 1 to 51 based on injuries from an alleged motor
vehicle accident that occurred on December 14, 2021. 
 
Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC
(“Defendants”) now move to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claim and to
dismiss or stay the action pending completion of arbitration. 
 
The hearing for this motion was originally scheduled for June 28,
2024. 
 
On June 27, 2024, the Court granted in part Plaintiff’s ex parte
application and continued the hearing for the motion to August 14, 2024. (Min.
Order, 6/27/24.) 
 
On August 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion.
Defendants filed a reply on August 7, 2024. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA) governs a motion to compel arbitration when an agreement
provides its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA. (Victrola
89, LLC v. Jamon Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346.) 
 
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a
dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to
arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or
controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(9 U.S.C., § 4;¿Chiron Corp. v. Ortho
Diagnostics Systems, Inc.¿(9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.) If the
finding is affirmative on both counts, the FAA requires the Court to enforce
the arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms. (Simula, Inc.
v. Autoliv, Inc.¿(9th Cir. 1999) 175 F.3d 716, 719–720.) ¿
 
“If a court
of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
The Court
takes judicial notice of the existence of the cases listed in Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice, but not the contents of the orders. (Evid. Code §
452(d).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants move
to compel arbitration on the grounds that Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate by
agreeing to its Terms of Service. Defendants assert they are aware of
Plaintiff’s legal name and address and used that information to identify her
account information. (Gaddis Decl. ¶ 8, fn.1.) The agreement reads in pertinent
part:
 
“Except as
expressly provided below in Section 2(b), you and Uber agree that any dispute,
claim or controversy in any way arising out of or relating to (i) these Terms
and prior versions of these Terms, or the existence, breach, termination,
enforcement, interpretation, scope, waiver, or validity thereof, (ii) your
access to or use of the Services at any time, (iii) incidents or accidents
resulting in personal injury that you allege occurred in connection with your
use of the Services, whether the dispute, claim or controversy occurred or
accrued before or after the date you agreed to the Terms, or (iv) your
relationship with Uber, will be settled by binding arbitration between you and
Uber, and not in a court of law. This Agreement survives after your
relationship with Uber ends. You acknowledge and agree that you and Uber are
each waiving the right to a trial by jury or to bring or to participate as a
plaintiff or class member in any class, purported class, collective,
coordinated, consolidated, or representative proceeding. This Arbitration
Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall include any claims brought by or
against any third-parties, including but not limited to your spouses, heirs,
third-party beneficiaries and assigns, where their underlying claims are in
relation to your use of the Services. To the extent that any third-party
beneficiary to this agreement brings claims against the Parties; those claims
shall also be subject to this Arbitration Agreement.”
 
…
 
“Notwithstanding
any choice of law or other provision in the Terms, the parties agree and
acknowledge that this Arbitration Agreement evidences a transaction involving
interstate commerce and that the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. 5 1 et seq.
(“FAA”), will govern its interpretation and enforcement and proceedings
pursuant thereto.”
 
(Gaddis Decl., Exh. H, April
14, 2021 Agreement (“Agreement”) at 2(a), (c).)
 
First,
the FAA governs the agreement according to the explicit terms. (Id., Agreement
at 2(c).) Defendants present evidence that Plaintiff first
registered for an Uber account on August 29, 2015 and accepted Uber’s Terms of
Use, which included an arbitration agreement. (Gaddis Decl. ¶ 8.) Uber’s Data
Science Manager also determined that on June 14, 2021, Plaintiff was presented
with an in-app blocking pop-up screen notifying Plaintiff of the April 14, 2021
updated terms. She then clicked the checkbox and tapped the “confirm” button. (Id.
¶ 15.) 
 
Second, the agreement provides that all disputes and claims
between Uber and Plaintiff involving any accidents resulting in personal injury
will be resolved by binding arbitration. Therefore, because Defendants maintain
that Plaintiff was using its services when the accident occurred, Defendants have
met their burden that the agreement covers the present controversy. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff does not oppose compelling
arbitration as to Uber only. Instead, Plaintiff requests that the order
compelling arbitration also toll the statute of limitations for the claims
against Uber pending commencement of the arbitration. Additionally, Plaintiff
requests that arbitration be commenced no later than ninety (90) days following
entry of the order, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, and that any stay
or dismissal only apply to the claims against Uber, and not against co-defendant
Oswaldo Gonzalez.  
 
In reply, Defendants clarify that their motion is only seeking to
compel arbitration and stay proceeding against Uber, and not against Defendant
Oswaldo Gonzalez. 
 
However, Plaintiff presents no authority to warrant tolling the
statute of limitations, given that the case is already filed, or authority for
the Court to order the arbitration to be commenced within 90 days. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration and stay all
judicial proceedings as they relate only to Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc.,
Rasier, LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC, pending the completion of arbitration is
GRANTED.
 
The Court sets the matter for an
Order to Show Cause Re Dismissal due to Completion of Arbitration Proceedings
for February 10, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street
Courthouse.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 