 Case Number:  23STCV21493    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV21493




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Attendance at Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Renee Martinez 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Lakeview Terrace Skilled Nursing Facility LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff
Renee Martinez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint for negligence against Defendant
Lakeview Terrace Skilled Nursing Facility LLC (“Defendant”).
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s deposition of its Person
Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”). Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant’s
counsel has filed a declaration in response.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by
taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A properly served deposition notice is effective
to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce documents for inspection and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).) 
 
“If the deponent named is not a natural person, the
deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on
which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and
produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents,
employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to
those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to
the deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.) 
 
The party served with a deposition notice waives any error
or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at least
three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).) In addition to serving this written
objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the
deposition and quashing the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410,
subd. (c).) 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party . . .
without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . .
described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an
order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . .
of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)If a motion
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the sanction unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Christine Reyes, Plaintiff’s counsel, provides
facts that she has met and conferred with Defendant’s counsel in attempting to
schedule the deposition. (See Reyes Decl. ¶ 8-9.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
On May 7, 2024, Plaintiff served a third deposition notice of
Defendant’s PMK, set for June 11, 2024. (Reyes Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1, 2.) On June
6, 2024, Defendant’s counsel stated they were unable to confirm the deposition
with Defendant. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. 5.) On June 6, 2024, Defendant served an
objection, stating the deposition was unilaterally set and Defendant was
unavailable. (Id. ¶ 7, Exh. 8.) On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff requested
alternative dates, but none were provided. Since then, no alternative dates have
been provided. 
 
In the declaration in response, Defendant’s counsel summarizes that
after speaking with the administrator of the Lakeview Terrace Skilled Nursing
Facility, Hana Feller, she was informed that the facility ceased operations in
March 2023. (Kiseskey Decl. ¶ 2.) Based on discussions with Hana Feller,
Defendant’s counsel determined Elliot Zemel, the former principal for
Defendant, was the likely PMK. (Id. ¶ 8.) Feller stated she would inform
Zemel, but since June 5, 2024, Defendant’s counsel has had no communication
with Feller or Zemel. As a result, counsel has filed a motion to be relieved,
citing an irreconcilable breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. (Id.
¶ 11.) 
 
Based on the evidence presented, no person most qualified appeared for
the mutually agreed upon June 11 deposition. Accordingly, the objection that the
deposition was unilaterally set appears to be without merit.[1] (Kiseskey
Decl. ¶ 5 [“We mutually continued the deposition to June 11, 2024.”].) The
Court therefore grants the motion to compel.
 
The Court finds that sanctions are warranted for Defendant’s failure
to appear, but not as to counsel, who did not advise Defendant to fail to
appear according to the declaration of counsel. However, the amount requested
is excessive given the nature of the motion, lack of reply brief, and ability
of counsel to appear remotely for the hearing. Accordingly, the Court orders
monetary sanctions in the amount of $411.65 (1 hour of attorney time at $350
plus the filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Attendance at Deposition is GRANTED. Defendant shall produce a
person most qualified for deposition within 60 days. Responsive documents shall
be produced at least 3 days prior to the deposition.
 
Defendant shall pay $411.65 to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


