 Case Number:  23STCV19204    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV19204




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File Amended Answer




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Nadia Rafat Khan and Hamid
  Hussain Khan




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 11, 2023, Plaintiff Kristopher Copeland filed a complaint
against Defendants Nadia Rafat Khan and Hamid Hussain Khan based on an alleged
motor vehicle accident. 
 
On October 4, 2023, Nadia Rafat Khan filed an answer. On October 9,
2023, Hamid Hussain Khan filed an answer. At the time, Defendants were
represented by different counsel. Then, on November 15, 2023, Hamid Hussain
Khan filed a substitution of attorney form substituting Gene S. Stone as new
counsel. 
 
Defendants Nadia Rafat Khan and Hamid Hussain Khan (“Defendants”) are
now represented by the same counsel and move to amend their answers to include
an affirmative defense of settlement. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Amendment
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for
the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
“The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the
action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).)  Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)  However, if the party seeking the amendment
has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge
has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations
omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial.
“If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other
side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the
time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) 
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial,
along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased
burden of discovery, etc.  . . .  But the fact that the amendment involves a
change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
“Even if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the
amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on
such terms as may be proper.’”  (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.)  For example, the court may cause the party
seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for
trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel,
42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).) 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
 
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
 
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and
 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the declaration in support describes the basis
for the request to amend is to assert a settlement defense that was purportedly
signed by Plaintiff in August 2023. (Stone Decl. ¶ 7.) The omission was
discovered in October 2023. (Id. ¶ 11.) While the declaration does not
describe why this motion was not filed sooner, it attaches a copy of the
proposed first amended answer and asserts the only change is the addition of
the twenty-first affirmative defense of settlement. (Id. ¶ 16, Exh. F.) 
 
Upon reviewing the original answers and the proposed answer, the Court
finds that the proposed answer asserts the affirmative defense of the
settlement agreement. Given the liberal policy of allowing amendments, and
seeing no opposition, or evidence that Plaintiff would be prejudiced, the
motion is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants Nadia Rafat Khan and Hamid Hussain Khan’s motion
for Leave to File Amended Answer is GRANTED. Defendants shall file and serve
the amended answer within 10 days.
 
Defendants to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 