  Case Number:  21STCV32955    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV32955




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Determination of Good Faith of Settlement




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Defendants Erika Rodriguez and Abel
  Rodriguez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Park Mobile III, LP dba Parklane Mobile Estates and Cal-AM Properties, Inc. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Cross-Defendants Erika Rodriguez and Abel Rodriguez
(“Cross-Defendants”) move for a determination that the settlement entered
between them and Plaintiffs Ayden Moreno, Christy Moreno, David Moreno, and
Isaac Moreno (“Plaintiffs”), was made in good faith. Defendants Park Mobile
III, LP dba Parklane Mobile Estates and Cal-AM Properties, Inc. (“Defendants”) oppose.
The hearing was continued so that Cross-Defendants could file a reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a] determination by
the court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor .
. . for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6 (c).) Any party to an action may move for an order
determining whether a settlement between the plaintiff and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
Section 877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements
made under its aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the .
. . statute’s dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs
among the parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes
by way of settlement.) (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter, Tech-Bilt).) In
Tech-Bilt, the court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement is made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 498-501.) Not every factor will apply in every case.
(Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Shell Oil Co.) (2015) 242
Cal.4th 894, 909.) 
 
“ ‘A determination as to the good faith of a settlement, within the
meaning of section 877.6, necessarily requires the trial court to examine and
weigh a number of relevant factors, [fn. omitted] one of the most important of
which is the settling party's proportionate liability.’ [citation.] If ‘there
is no substantial evidence to support a critical assumption as to the nature
and extent of a settling defendant's liability, then a determination of good
faith based upon such assumption is an abuse of discretion.’” (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1350.)
 
“All affidavits relied upon as probative must state evidentiary facts;
they must show facts and circumstances from which the ultimate fact sought to
be proved may be deduced by the court. [citation.] Affidavits or declarations
setting forth only conclusions, opinions or ultimate facts are to be held
insufficient; even an expert's opinion cannot rise to the dignity of
substantial evidence if it is unsubstantiated by facts. [citation.]” (Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834.)
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in
relation to [the above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [Section 877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
 
JUDICAL
NOTICE
 
The Court grants Defendants’ requests for judicial notice of the
filings in this case. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) 

 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, Defendants argue in opposition that the Court
previously denied a motion for determination of good faith settlement regarding
the subject settlement on August 11, 2023. Defendants assert there have been no
new facts or law since the motion was denied and contend that Cross-Defendants
did not file a petition for a writ of mandate, or moved for reconsideration.
They also argue that Cross-Defendants have failed to address the deficiencies
discussed in the Court’s denial. 
 
At the original hearing on this matter, the Court continued the motion
to allow Cross-Defendants to file a reply. (Min. Order, 7/30/24.) On August 7,
2024, Cross-Defendants filed a reply which fails to set forth a basis for
bringing this motion a second time. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 limits a party’s ability to file
repetitive motions. (Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1104.)
“This section specifies the court's jurisdiction with regard to applications
for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies
to all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(e).) The burden under
Section 1008 for a motion to renew “is comparable to that of a party seeking a
new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be
such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior
Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13; Even Zohar Construction &
Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833
[finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of having to not
only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also to “show
diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new or different
information earlier…”].)
 
Nevertheless, even if Cross-Defendants set forth new facts or
circumstances to warrant a motion for reconsideration or renewal, they do not
provide evidence addressing the deficiencies identified in the previous order
denying this motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion for determination of good faith settlement is DENIED.
 
Moving party shall give notice and file a proof of service of such.