 Case Number:  BC705765    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


BC705765




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside and Vacate Dismissal 




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant Susannah C. Bernard




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff
Ernesto Figueroa filed this action arising out of a dog bite on May 19, 2018
against Defendants Robert Harang, Robin Harang, Susana Bernard, and Does
1-20.  
 
On
June 14, 2021, Cross Complainant Susannah Bernard aka Susana Bernard (“Cross
Complainant”) filed a First Amended Verified Cross Complaint (FACC) against
Cross Defendants Ronald Harang, Robin Harang, Shawdae Harang, Assad Ali, Yvette
Geater, and Roes 1-20.
 
On
February 6, 2024, at an OSC re: dismissal for failure to enter default
judgments on the complaint and cross-complaint, the Court ordered the amended
cross complaint dismissed without prejudice. (Min. Order, 2/6/24.) 
 
On
June 5, 2024, Cross-Complainant filed the instant motion under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473(b) setting aside and vacating the dismissal on February 6, 2024. 
 
The
hearing for this motion was originally scheduled for July 29, 2024. The proof
of service of the motion, filed June 5, 2024, stated that Robin Harang, Assad
Ibn Ali, Robert Harang, and Shawdae Harang were mailed notice on July 5, 2024. 
 
At
the original hearing, the Court continued this motion to August 14, 2024, and
directed counsel for defendant/cross-complainant to file a declaration
regarding the facts that indicate the motion was properly served by July 31,
2024. (Min. Order, 7/29/24.) 
 
On
July 30, 2024, counsel for Cross-Complainant filed a declaration, declaring
under penalty of perjury the following: “On June 05, 2024, I prepared and filed
Proof of Service of Cross-defendant's Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Dismissal
of Amended Cross-complaint on the following Cross-defendants: Robin Harang, aka
Robin Parent; Assad Ibn Ali; Robert Harang, aka Ronald Harang Sr; and Shawdae
Harang.” (Anyanwu Decl. ¶ 3.) Counsel further declares: “The notice was sent to
the above cross-defendants by U.S. mail at 3138 W. 59 Place, Los Angeles,
California which is their last known address. . . . I did not receive any
return mail indicating that the mails were not delivered to the addressees or
was undeliverable.” (Id. ¶ 4.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”
(Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            As
an initial matter, this motion is timely because it was filed within six months
after the cross complaint was dismissed. 
 
            The
Declaration of Chima A. Anyanwu, Cross-complainant’s counsel (“Counsel”),
states that on January 30, 2024, a default package with proposed default
judgment was filed. However, “[o]n February 6, 2024, I failed to attend a
scheduled Order to show Cause, regarding failure to enter Default judgment
against Cross Defendants. My failure to attend the February 6, 2024 hearing was
due to my mistake, surprise, inadvertence, and or excusable neglect. There was
a heavy rain fall on February 5, 2024 through the early morning hours of
February 6, 2024. Due to water leakage from a section of the ceiling of my
bedroom area, a section of the ceiling fell inside the bedrooms area in the
early morning hour. Suddenly, I was left with an unexpected emergency of moving
debris from the fallen ceiling, covering the roof and subsequently looking for
roofers. Consequently, I missed attendance of the February 6, 2024 hearing.
Hence, the Court dismissed Defendant's Amended Cross-complaint due to my
failure to attend the hearing.” (Anyanwu Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.) 
 
            Counsel
also contends they have attended all hearings set by the Court prior to
February 6, 2024. (Anyanwu Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
            Therefore,
based on the declaration, the Court finds that Counsel’s absence at the OSC was
through surprise, at having to handle the issue with the ceiling.          
             
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Cross-Complainant’s motion to set aside the
dismissal.
 
The Court sets an Order to Show Cause Re:
dismissal for failure to enter default judgment on the cross-complaint
for September 25, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street
Courthouse. Any default judgment package is to be submitted at least five court
days prior to the next hearing date.
 
Cross-Complainant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 