  Case Number:  23CHCV02523    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49¿ 




Date:
  9/10/24




Case
  Name: Julian Manasseh v. Shaheer Kazi, Parvez Memon, and Does 1 to 20 




Case No.
  23CHCV02523



 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F49
 

SEPTEMBER 10,
2024
 

MOTION TO JOIN UNDERINSURED MOTORIST
CLAIM WITH PENDING SUPERIOR COURT ACTION

Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23CHCV02523

 
Motion
filed: 1/25/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff/Petitioner Julian Manasseh 
RESPONDING PARTY: Respondent American Family Connect
Property and Casualty
NOTICE: OK.¿¿¿ 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Plaintiff/Petitioner’s Request to join Respondent American
Family Connect Property and Casualty as a Defendant, and to consolidate an
Underinsured Motorist Claim with the current personal injury case. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This personal injury case arises from an alleged motor
vehicle collision on September 13, 2021.
 
On August 21, 2023, Plaintiff/Petitioner Julian Manasseh (“Petitioner”
or “Manasseh”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Shaheer Kazi, Parvez Memon
(collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 to 20, alleging the following causes
of action: (1) Motor Vehicle Liability, and (2) General Negligence.
Subsequently, Defendants filed their Answer to the Complaint on May 23, 2024.
 
On January 25, 2024, Petitioner filed the instant Motion to
Join Underinsured Motorist Claim with Pending Superior Court Action, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 (the “Motion”). Subsequently,
Petitioner filed a Reply to the Opposition on August 26, 2024, and Respondent
American Family Connect Property and Casualty (“Respondent”) filed its amended
Opposition on August 27, 2024. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
subdivision (d) gives a court a number of case management tools when a party to
an arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, which arises from the same transactions or
series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of fact or law.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2,
subd. (c) and (d).)
 
Under the above-detailed circumstances, a court “(1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order intervention or
joinder of all parties in a single action or special proceeding; (2) may order
intervention or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order
arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the
pending court action or special proceeding pending the outcome of the
arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the outcome of the
court action or special proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subd.
(d).) 
 
A.   
Motion to
Join Underinsured Motorist Claim
 
Petitioner seeks to join Respondent as a Defendant and
consolidate an Underinsured Motorist (“UIM”) Claim between the insured Petitioner
and the insurer Respondent with the present case.
 
Petitioner presents that the UIM Claim stems from a
separate vehicle collision involving a non-party underinsured driver, Jovani
Duncan, which occurred on November 4, 2019. (Mot. at p. 3.) The UIM Claim is
subject to a contractual arbitration according to the insurance policy (Mot. at
p. 4, Calendo Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
Here, Petitioner contends that the two accidents – the UIM
Claim and the present personal injury case – involve common issues, as the
subsequent September 13, 2021 accident caused aggravation of prior injuries
claimed in the UIM Claim. (Mot. at p. 7.) Therefore, Petitioner argues that consolidation
is proper under Code of Civil Code section 1281.2, citing Mercury Ins. Group
v. Superior Court (1998) 19 Cal.4th 332, (Mot. at p. 4), and Prudential
Property & Casualty Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th
275(Prudential) (Reply, at p. 2.)
 
The Court observes that the purpose of the contractual
arbitration law, as outlined in Code of Civil Procedure section 1280 et seq.,
is to “promote contractual arbitration, in accordance with a ‘strong policy’ in
favor thereof [Citation Omitted]” (Mercury, supra, 19 Cal.4th at
p. 343.) The contractual arbitration law, in Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, generally mandates a trial court to compel the arbitration, however,
the court may decline to do so under certain situations, such as when there
is an issue of law or fact common to the arbitration and a pending action or
proceeding with a third party and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings
thereon. (Code Civ. Proc., 1281.2 subd. (c).) Therefore, a finding of
“common issue of law or fact” is essential in this case to authorize the Court
to order intervention or joinder.
 
The Court
distinguishes Mercury, in which the Supreme Court of California upheld
the trial court’s joinder of a UIM arbitration proceeding with a related
personal injury action arising from a single motor vehicle accident. (Mercury,
supra, 19 Cal.4th at pp. 337-338.) The critical distinction in Mercury
was that both the UIM claim and the personal injury lawsuit stemmed from the
same accident, which justified the joinder based on the common issue of law or
fact “arising out of the same transaction.” (Id. at pp. 345-346.) 
 
In
contrast, Petitioner here seeks to join a UIM Claim with a separate accident.
These involve two entirely unrelated accidents, occurring at defendant times,
involving different parties, and under distinct circumstances. 
 
Petitioner
argues that joinder does not require both proceedings to arise out of the same
occurrence. (Reply, at p. 2.) To support this argument, Petitioner cites Prudential,
claiming that the court there considered a matter wherein the plaintiffs were
involved in two separate collisions. (Ibid.)  
 
 However, Petitioner’s argument is unpersuasive.
The Prudential found that, based on the specific facts of that case, the
two accidents – occurring within a period of about four weeks – caused
indivisible injuries to the plaintiff’s lower back, which substantially hindered
her career as a professional jazz dancer. (Prudential, supra, 36 Cal.App.4th at
p. 278.) The plaintiff “was unable to tell which accident caused how much
injury,” creating the potential for inconsistent rulings regarding the
comparative fault of the two drivers. (Ibid.)
 
By contrast,
the facts here are distinguishable. Petitioner’s first vehicle collision
occurred on November 4, 2019, and the second on September 13, 2021 – a span of
over 22 months. Based on the alleged facts, the Court finds that Petitioner
sustained separate injuries from two distinct accidents. These injuries are
factually and legally independent, and do not support the conclusion that the
accidents “[arose from] the same transaction or related transactions,” even
though Petitioner claims that the second accident aggravated prior injuries.
(Rosenberg Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
Furthermore,
Petitioner has failed to establish that separate proceedings could result in
conflicting rulings. Petitioner was diagnosed and treated following the first
accident, and any alleged aggravation from the second accident can be
established through factual evidence. This situation is distinguishable from cases
where Petitioner was unable to reasonably ascertain the extent of the injuries
before the subsequent accident occurred.
 
Petitioner’s
additional arguments regarding prejudice fail to address or override the
fundamental issue of whether the accidents arise from
“the same transactions or series of related transactions.” As such, these
arguments are unpersuasive.
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the Motion to Join
Underinsured Motorist Claim.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Motion to
Join Underinsured Motorist Claim with Pending Superior Court Action, filed by Plaintiff/Petitioner
Julian Manasseh, is DENIED.
 
Petitioner to provide notice of this order.
 