 Case Number:  23SMCV02555    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May 13, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02555




MOTION


Demurrer to Amended Answer to Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Elisa Perlman




OPPOSING PARTY


Cross-Defendant Andrea L. Valero



 
MOTION
 
The case and consolidated case no. 23SMCV03059 arise from a neighbor dispute
between Defendant and Cross-Complainant Elisa Perlman (“Perlman”), and her
downstairs neighbors, Andrea and Gelly Valero. 
Cross-Defendant Andrea Valero (“Valero”) was also the sole member of the
board of directors for the Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Malibu Road Homeowners
Association (“HOA”) that governs the property during most of the events giving
rise to the litigation.  The Valeros and
the HOA brought two separate lawsuits against Perlman stemming from the same
factual dispute concerning water leaks in the Valeros’ unit, allegedly caused
by Perlman.
 
Perlman filed a Cross-Complaint in this action against the HOA and
Valero, alleging nineteen causes of action for breach of the CC&Rs; breach
of other governing documents; violations of Civil Code sections 5210; 4950;
4910; 4920; 4765; 5600; 4923; 4930; 5605; 4925; 4935; 5610; 5615; and 4040; two
causes of action for breach of fiduciary duties; and declaratory relief.
 
On February 8, 2024, Valero answered Perlman’s Cross-Complaint, and on
March 1, Valero filed a first amended answer. 

 
Perlman now demurs to Valero’s first amended answer on the grounds
that the affirmative defenses fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense and are uncertain, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.20.   
 
Valero opposes the motion and Perlman replies.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
DEMURRER TO ANSWER – GENERAL STANDARDS
 
A plaintiff may demur to an
answer if: “(a) The answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense.  [¶]  (b) The answer is
uncertain. As used in this subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and
unintelligible.  [¶]  (c) Where the
answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer whether the
contract is written or oral.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.)  “Code of
Civil Procedure section 431.30, subdivision (b) provides that an answer to the
complaint shall contain, in addition to a “general or specific denial” of the
complaint's allegations, a statement of any new matter constituting a defense.
It has long been held that if the onus of proof is thrown upon the defendant,
the matter to be proved by him is new matter.” 
(Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 239
[cleaned up].)  
 
As “[t]o the allegations of
new matter, [n]umerous defenses were purportedly raised by defendants’
allegations of affirmative defense.  Most
of these allegations fail to state a defense even when liberally construed in
defendants’ favor. Some are simply immaterial. 
For example, defendants allege as a conclusion that plaintiff's claim is
barred by laches, an equitable defense that has no application to the
plaintiff's legal claim.  All of the
allegations are proffered in the form of terse legal conclusions, rather than
as facts averred as carefully and with as much detail as the facts which
constitute the cause of action and are alleged in the complaint. The only
affirmative defenses that are mentioned in the summary judgment proceedings,
fraud in the inducement and failure of consideration, are not well pled,
consisting of legal conclusions, and would not have survived a demurrer.”  (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384 [cleaned up]; see also Quantification
Settlement Agreement Cases (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 758, 813 [“affirmative
defenses cannot be pled as mere legal conclusions but must instead be alleged
with as much factual detail as the allegations of a complaint”]; Department
of Finance v. City of Merced (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 286, 294, fn. 6
[boilerplate affirmative defenses without factual support are deficient].)  

 
2.     HEIGHTENED
PLEADING STANDARDS FOR EQUITABLE DEFENSES
 
Perlman
argues that Valero’s sixth affirmative defense (estoppel/waiver), seventh
affirmative defense (laches), and seventeenth affirmative defense (unclean
hands) fail to satisfy the heightened pleading standard for equitable defenses.  (See Sofranek v. County of Merced (2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1250-1251 [“The elements of estoppel must be especially
pleaded […] with sufficient accuracy to disclose facts relied upon”] (hereafter
Sofranek); Meyer Koulish Co. v. Cannon (1963) 213 Cal.App.2d 419,
432 [“Waiver is an affirmative defense that must be pleaded with specificity
and separately stated”].)
 
The
elements of estoppel are “(1) the party to be estopped must be apprised of the
facts; (2) he must intend that his conduct be acted on, or must so act that the
party asserting estoppel had a right to believe it was so intended; (3) the
party asserting estoppel must be ignorant of the true state of facts; and (4)
he must rely upon the conduct to his injury.” 
(Sofranek, supra, 146 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1250-1251.)  Here, the sixth affirmative defense alleges,
“Cross-Complainant was appropriately apprised of all relevant facts and
developments in the underlying proceeding, knew of the facts and circumstances
that give rise to the Cross-Complaint, and engaged in conduct that is contrary
to her efforts to now obtain relief in this action.”  
 
Because the sixth affirmative defense does not address Valero’s
ignorance of “all relevant facts and developments in the underlying
proceeding;” Perlman’s intent that her conduct be acted upon; or Valero’s
reliance, and because the sixth affirmative defense combines waiver and
estoppel, instead of separately stating the affirmative defense of waiver, the
Court sustains Perlman’s demurrer to the sixth affirmative defense.
 
However, Perlman does not provide any case law that the affirmative
defenses of laches or unclean hands require heightened pleading
requirements.  Valero’s seventh cause of
action for laches alleges, “Cross-Complainant knew or should have known of the
facts that give rise to her claim well over a year prior to filing this action,
and unduly delayed in seeking relief.”  
 
Similarly, Valero’s seventeenth affirmative defense for unclean hands
alleges, “Cross-Complainant, and/or her agents, were appropriately apprised of
all relevant facts and developments in the underlying proceeding, and remained
actively involved in the decision-making process regarding the manner in which
the underlying litigation proceed. This answering Cross-Defendant alleges that
Cross-Complainant’s conduct in this regard contributed and/or caused all, or a
proportion of, the damages that Cross-Complainant now claims, to the extent
Cross-Complainant has any damages, which this answering Cross-Defendant
denies.”
 
These allegations provide sufficient factual detail, absent a
heightened pleading standard.
 
3.     MERE
DENIALS
 
Perlman
next argues that Valero’s first (failure to state a cause of action),
eighteenth (breach of obligations), nineteenth (no breach of duty), and
twenty-first (failure to use reasonable diligence) affirmative defenses are
mere denials of Perlman’s operative causes of action, as opposed to affirmative
defenses that introduce “new matter.”  In
support, Perlman cites State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 721, 725 (hereafter State Farm).  In State Farm, the appellate court held
that the trial court erred in excluding evidence at trial that the insurer
followed the advice of counsel on the grounds that advice of counsel was not
alleged in the answer.  Specifically, the
Court held that following the advice of counsel addresses an essential element
of the plaintiff’s causes of action for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, fraud, and bad faith, and therefore does not constitute
a “new matter” not put in issue by the plaintiff which must be raised by way of
the answer.
 
Thus,
State Farm stands for the proposition that a defendant may introduce
evidence of defenses at trial that were not raised in the answer, if they were
raised by the operative cause of action, such that they do not constitute “new
matter.”
 
However,
the fact that Valero has included allegations in the answer affirmative
defenses that are arguably not “new matter” does not necessarily mean they are
demurrable.  Perlman has not cited any
case law standing for the proposition that affirmative defenses that address
allegations already made in the operative complaint (or cross-complaint) such
that they are not “new matter” are somehow not “a defense” under Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.20.  
 
Therefore,
the fact that some of Valero’s affirmative defenses may or may not constitute
“new matter” is not a basis for a demurrer.
 
4.     NEGLIGENCE
DEFENSES
 
Perlman next argues that the second, fourth, and eighth affirmative
defenses (contributory negligence, assumption of the risk, and comparative
negligence, respectively) sound in negligence and are therefore inapplicable,
as the Cross-Complaint does not allege any causes of action for
negligence.  
 
“Contributory negligence is conduct on the part of the plaintiff which
falls below the standard to which he could conform for his own protection, and
which is a legally contributing cause co-operating with the negligence of the
defendant in bringing about the plaintiff's harm.”  (Gyerman v. United States Lines Co.
(1972) 7 Cal.3d 488, 500.)  As such, to
allege comparative or contributory negligence as an affirmative defense,
negligence must generally be alleged as to the defendant or cross-defendant.
 
Here, the Cross-Complaint alleges two causes of action for breach of
governing documents; fourteen causes of action for violating various sections
of the Civil Code; two causes of action for breach of fiduciary duties; and a
cause of action for declaratory relief. 
Because none of the causes of action in the Cross-Complaint allege
Valero’s negligence, the affirmative defenses for contributory negligence and
comparative negligence appear generally inapplicable and irrelevant here.
 
However, Civil Code section 5985 provides:
 
(a)   In an
action maintained by an association pursuant to subdivision (b), (c), or (d) of
Section 5980, the amount of damages recovered by the association shall be
reduced by the amount of damages allocated to the association or its managing
agents in direct proportion to their percentage of fault based upon principles
of comparative fault. The comparative fault of the association or its managing
agents may be raised by way of defense, but shall not be the basis for a
cross-action or separate action against the association or its managing agents
for contribution or implied indemnity, where the only damage was sustained by
the association or its members. It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting
this subdivision to require that comparative fault be pleaded as an affirmative
defense, rather than a separate cause of action, where the only damage was
sustained by the association or its members.
 
(b)   In an
action involving damages described in subdivision (b), (c), or (d) of Section
5980, the defendant or cross-defendant may allege and prove the comparative
fault of the association or its managing agents as a setoff to the liability of
the defendant or cross-defendant even if the association is not a party to the
litigation or is no longer a party whether by reason of settlement, dismissal,
or otherwise.
 
Thus, a defendant or cross-defendant could allege as an affirmative
defense the contributory or comparative fault of the homeowners association or
its managing agent (like Valero, as the sole member of the HOA’s board of
directors) to reduce their liability.  However,
the second and eighth affirmative defenses allege the contributory/comparative
negligence of Perlman, a homeowner, not of the HOA or of its managing agent,
Valero.  Valero does not provide any legal
basis for a sole member of the HOA’s board of directors to allege as an
affirmative defense the comparative or contributory fault of a homeowner as exculpation
for breaching the CC&Rs, breaching her fiduciary duty, or violating
California’s Civil Code.
 
Moreover, the affirmative defense of assumption of the risk makes no
sense in the context of the causes of action alleged.  Perlman could not assume the risk that Valero
would breach the governing documents, violate the Civil Code, or breach her
fiduciary duties.  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer to the second, fourth, and
eighth affirmative defenses.
 
5.     INAPPLICABLE
DEFENSES
 
Perlman
next contends that Valero’s sixteenth (violation of CC&Rs) and twenty-second
(no punitive damages) affirmative defenses are inapplicable and irrelevant.  
 
With
regard to the sixteenth affirmative defense, the Court agrees.  Whether Perlman also violated the CC&Rs or
acted in bad faith has no bearing on Valero’s alleged liability for breaching
the governing documents, violating the Civil Code, or breaching her fiduciary
duty.  In other words, Valero is not
absolved of her duty to abide by the CC&Rs and other governing documents,
comply with statutory law, or act in accordance with her fiduciary duties just
because Perlman may also have violated the CC&Rs or acted in bad
faith.  A homeowner’s breach of the
CC&Rs or bad faith does not absolve the HOA or its managing agent of their
legal duties and obligations or otherwise give Valero carte blanche to violate
statutes or abandon her fiduciary duties. 
Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer to the sixteenth affirmative
defense.
 
With
regard to the twenty-second affirmative defense, on January 18, 2024, the Court
granted Valero’s motion to strike and struck the punitive damages allegations
from Perlman’s cross-complaint.  (Minute
Order, Jan. 18, 2024.)  Valero’s answer
and amended answer, which were subsequently filed, nonetheless assert the
affirmative defense that Perlman is precluded for recovering punitive damages
because Valero did not act with malice, oppression, or fraud, pursuant to
California Civil Code section 3294.  
 
The
Court agrees.  Because punitive damages
are no longer at issue, the Court sustains Perlman’s demurrer to the
twenty-second affirmative defense.  
 
6.     STANDING
 
Perlman
also argues that Valero’s fifth affirmative defense for standing is improper
because Valero alleges no facts in support of that affirmative defense.  Civil Code section 5975, subdivision (a)
provides that CC&Rs may be enforced by a homeowner, like Perlman.  Similarly, Civil Code section 4955 provides
that “A member of an association may bring a civil action for declaratory or
equitable relief for a violation of this article” and Civil Code section 5235
provides “A member may bring an action to enforce that member’s right to
inspect and copy the association records.” 

 
In
opposition, Valero does not identify any reasons why Perlman would not have
standing to raise the causes of action alleged. 
Rather, Valero indicates she pleaded alternative grounds for relief “to
ensure that no waiver occurs” and “As discovery is proceeding, Valero is
still evaluating the cause of Perlman’s alleged damages, if any. There is no
bar to pleading alternative theories in an answer[.]”  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains Perlman’s demurrer to the fifth
affirmative defense.
 
7.     RESERVATION
OF RIGHTS
 
Valero’s
twenty-fourth affirmative defense indicates that Valero may, through the course
of discovery, become aware of additional affirmative defenses, and reserves the
right to assert them.  Perlman argues
that should additional affirmative defenses come to light through the discovery
process, Valero will be required to move for leave to amend the answer, and the
purported reservation of rights does not circumvent this requirement.
 
Valero
responds that she agrees that a noticed motion would still be required in such
a scenario, but included the reservation of rights as an affirmative defense
“to simply apprise Perlman, due to the lack of knowledge and information at the
time of answering, that Valero, if discovery so indicates, would not be waiving
its [sic] right to later seek leave to amend to add necessary affirmative
defenses.”  (Opposition at p. 5.)
 
The
Court agrees with the parties that in such a situation, a noticed motion would
be required.  As such, while a statement
reserving the right to amend the answer to assert additional affirmative
defenses may be appropriate to include in the answer to put Perlman on notice
that there is no waiver of such a right, it is not in itself an affirmative
defense.
 
Therefore,
the Court sustains Perlman’s demurrer to the twenty-fourth affirmative defense.
 
8.     INSUFFICIENT
FACTUAL DETAIL
 
Perlman
also argues that all twenty-three affirmative defenses fail to plead sufficient
factual detail.  Specifically, Perlman asks:
 
(1)  
How did the acts and omissions of third parties bar
Ms. Perlman from seeking relief?  What
third parties? (AA, ¶ 2.)
 
(2)  
What conduct estops Ms. Perlman from seeking relief?
(AA, ¶ 6.)
 
(3)  
How did Ms. Perlman unfairly delay prosecuting this
case?  Why does laches apply?  (AA, ¶ 7.)
 
(4)  
What bad thing did Ms. Perlman do?  When? 
Why are her hands unclean?  (AA, ¶
17.)
 
(5)  
How could Ms. Perlman have prevented or minimized
her damages? (AA, ¶ 20.)
 
(Demurrer at p.
15.)
 
            “A demurrer shall distinctly specify
the grounds upon which any of the objections to the complaint, cross-complaint,
or answer are taken. Unless it does so, it may be disregarded.”  (Code. Civ. Proc., § 430.60.)  Because Perlman does not specify any other
affirmative defenses that fail to plead sufficient factual detail, the Court disregards
Perlman’s general demurrer for insufficient factual detail as to all other
affirmative defenses not specifically identified.
 
            The Court has already sustained
Perlman’s demurrer to the second and sixth affirmative defenses, and therefore,
need not separately evaluate them here.
 
            Further, the Court has already
analyzed the seventh and seventeenth causes of action, and determined that the
allegations are sufficient to state an affirmative defense.
 
            With regard to the twentieth
affirmative defense for failure to mitigate damages, the amended answer alleges
“Cross-Defendant is informed and believes and upon such information and
belief alleges that Cross-Complainant could have made reasonable efforts or
expenditures, without undue risk or hardship, to avoid alleged damages.
Cross-Complainant is not entitled to recover damages for harm she could have so
avoided.”  
 
            The Court agrees with Perlman.  The Cross-Complaint alleges that Valero abused
her discretion as the sole Board member “by asserting total control over Ms.
Perlman’s deck repairs that only benefited her own interests.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 1, 21.)  The Cross-Complaint further alleges “As a
direct and proximate cause of the HOA’s breaches, Ms. Perlman suffered damages,
including incurring unnecessary and excessive repair costs, and lost rental
income due to the intentional delays caused by the HOA” (Cross-Complaint ¶ 159)
and that Perlman paid the invoice sent by Valero’s property manager for
$3,470.52 for repairs and materials related to the purported water damage in
Valero’s unit (Cross-Complaint ¶ 18.)  Within
the context of the Cross-Complaint, it is unclear how Perlman could possibly
have mitigated her damages.
 
            Moreover, Valero does not address mitigation
at all in opposition to the demurrer, and has therefore abandoned the
issue.  (Herzberg v. County of Plumas (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20 [noting
a plaintiff’s failure to oppose a demurrer to a cause of action or portion
thereof constitutes an abandonment of the issue or claim].)  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains Perlman’s demurrer to
the twentieth affirmative defense.  
 
9.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Valero has failed to meet this burden, as she does not
specify what additional facts could be added to correct the deficiencies
identified.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Perlman’s demurrer to the second,
fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth, sixteenth, twenty-second, and twenty-fourth
affirmative defenses without leave to amend, but overrules
Perlman’s demurrer to the first, seventeenth, eighteenth, nineteenth, and
twenty-first affirmative defenses.  The
Court also overrules Perlman’s demurrer to all other affirmative defenses, on
the grounds that Perlman did not specify the specific grounds upon which her
objections to the remaining affirmative defenses are taken.  
 
Perlman shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  May 13, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court