  Case Number:  23GDCV01569    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 11/6/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV01569
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: OSHEIN KHACHIKIAN, an individual, v. LA CCS, INC., a California
corporation; A. ERLICH ARCHITECT, a California corporation; DOES 1-10 inclusive
2
MOTIONS-COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff,
Oshein Khachikian, filed the instant action on 07/25/2023. The first cause of
action for breach of contract is alleged against Defendant, LA CCS, Inc. The
second cause of action for negligence is alleged against both Defendants, LA
CCS, Inc., and A. Erlich Architect.
MOTION 1 – Res ID 4687
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant
A. ERLICH ARCHITECT (hereinafter “AEA”) will seek an Order from this Court
compelling further responses of Plaintiff OSHEIN KHACHIKIAN (hereinafter
“Plaintiff”) to AEA’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.
AEA further moves this Court for an Order sanctioning
Plaintiff and his counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of
$1,170.00.
This Motion is made pursuant to California Code. Civ.
Proc. section 2031.310, and will be based upon this Notice of Motion, the
attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the attached Declaration of
Zachary Law, the Separate Statement, the entire court file in this action, and
upon such oral and documentary evidence as may be presented at the hearing of
the Motion.”
(Def. Mot. p. 1-2.)
Preliminary Procedural Analysis
Moving Party: Defendant, A. Erlich Architect
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Oshein Khachikian
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION
Under
CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section specifically provides that
“[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery
or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery “may be obtained of
the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable
matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition
and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible
thing, or land or other property.”
 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that:
“(1)   A statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete.
  (2)   A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
  (3)   An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  
 
(CCP
§ 2031.310(a).)
 
Under
CCP § 2031.310(b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”  
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
45-Day Requirement
Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to
the demand. (CCP § 2031.310(c).) 
Here, the instant motion is timely. Movant’s counsel explains
that Plaintiff’s counsel granted an extension to file this motion until
September 30, 2024, and this motion was filed on September 30, 2024.
Meet and Confer
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).)
Here, Defendant’s counsel met and conferred. (See Law
Decl. ¶ 5.)
TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 1 – Res ID 4687
Defendant,
A. Erlich Architect (AEA) moves to compel further responses from Plaintiff
Oshein Khachikian to AEA’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
The Separate Statement is confusing, as it is unclear
which RFPs Defendant seeks to compel further responses to. 
Plaintiff’s Opposition points out this confusion by
explaining that Defendant’s motion actually pertains to RFPs 4, 6, and 20
despite the misnumbering in Defendant’s Separate Statement.
Plaintiff’s Opposition also argues that this motion
should  be denied because Plaintiff
provided supplemental responses after the filing of the motion, but before the
instant hearing.
Plaintiff’s Opposition states that Plaintiff was
forced to spend at least double the amount of time preparing supplemental
responses to the requests trying to determine what RFPs Defendant was seeking
supplemental responses to. 
In Reply, although Defendant does not explicitly state
so, Defendant appears to concede that this motion is moot as to compelling
further responses based on Plaintiff providing supplemental responses.
Defendant appears to concede this as moot with respect to compelling further
responses because Defendant argues that Plaintiff should still be required to
pay monetary sanctions despite amending responses because Defendant had to
bring this motion to invoke Plaintiff to amend discovery responses.
Here, the Court DENIES this motion as moot with
respect to compelling further responses; however, the Court does not find this
motion moot as to sanctions. 
Sanctions
Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §2031.310(h).)
“The court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a).) 
Defendant moves for sanctions against Plaintiff and
his counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $1,170.00.
Defendant argues it had to file this motion because
Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to Defendant’s counsel’s multiple attempts
to meet and confer. 
Defendant’s counsel calculates its sanctions request
as follows: (1) Hourly rate of $195; (2) three hours preparing all the moving
papers; and (3) another three hours for the reply and appearing at the hearing.
(See Law Decl. ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff argues that sanctions are not warranted
because Defendant had possession, custody, and control all along of the very
same documented communications related to the architectural drawings and
engineering calculations that Defendant is requesting from Plaintiff. 
In Reply, Defendant argues that without asking for
documents relevant to the issues at hand, Defendant was unable to know if the
information and documents it had was the whole universe of information. 
Here, the Court will hear argument. It appears as if
Defendant should be awarded sanctions because Defendant was forced to file this
motion. As Defendant explained, it was forced to file this motion because
Plaintiff failed to meet and confer despite several attempts by Defendant to
meet and confer with Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s Opposition did not address the fact
that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer, and instead focused on the fact that it
took Plaintiff longer than it should have to figure out what responses needed
supplemental responses due to Defendant’s misnumbering of RFPs in the separate
statement. Defendant requested three (3) hours of time for the reply and
appearing at the hearing, but the Court notes that this may appear to be
excessive considering the fact that the Reply is only three (3) pages. The
Reply essentially conceded that the motion was moot as to compelling further
responses, but not moot as to sanctions.
TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 2 
Defendant, A. Erlich Architect (AEA), moves to compel
further responses from Plaintiff, Oshein Khachikian, to Form Interrogatories,
Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, propounded by AEA. Defendant
also seeks sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel of record, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $1,170.00.
Generally speaking, the Court notes that the preliminary
procedural analysis, procedural analysis, and the analysis explained in
Tentative Ruling Motion 1 is the same as it is here for Motion 2.
Or to phrase it differently, Defendant sought to
compel further responses, and Plaintiff provided supplemental responses. 
Therefore, this motion is DENIED as moot as to
compelling further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special
Interrogatories, Set One. However, this motion is not moot as to sanctions.
However, the Court needs Defendant to address the
following issues explained below at the hearing.
First, the instant motion did not contain a CRS
#/reservation ID on eCourt. In fact, in Defendant’s motion, it used the same
exact reservation ID as it used for the motion to compel further regarding
RFPs. This is improper.
Second, not only did Defendant not have its own
reservation ID for this motion, but this motion improperly combined two motions
into one motion. Defendant combined compelling further response to SROGs and
FROGs in the instant motion, which is improper.
A motion must be
brought separately as to each discovery method at issue. The instant motion
should have been filed as two separate motions and two filing fees paid.  Instead, Defendant filed only one motion to
compel further responses to two different discovery instruments: form
interrogatories and special interrogatories. “[P]ayment of filing fees is both
mandatory and jurisdictional.”  (Hu
vs. Silgan Containers Corp. (1999) 70 Cal. App. 4th 1261, 1269.)

Therefore, it appears
that Defendant still has to pay two filing fees for the instant two motions
because Defendant didn’t get a Res ID for this motion, and because this motion
should have been two motions, not one.
Sanctions
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP
§2030.300(d).)
 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act
in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a).)
Defendant moves for sanctions against Plaintiff and
his counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $1,170.00.
Defendant argues it had to file this motion because
Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to Defendant’s counsel’s multiple attempts
to meet and confer. 
Defendant’s counsel calculates its sanctions request
as follows: (1) Hourly rate of $195; (2) three hours preparing all the moving
papers; and (3) another three hours for the reply and appearing at the hearing.
(See Law Decl. ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff’s counsel argues that sanctions aren’t
warranted because none of the information Defendant seeks is new information. 
In Reply, Defendant argues that sanctions are
warranted for Plaintiff failing to meet and confer.
The Court will hear argument. Defendant appears to be
entitled to sanctions. Plaintiff’s argument in Opposition doesn’t make sense.
Plaintiff argues sanctions aren’t warranted because Defendant was aware of
issues with respect to permitting and the plans drawn up and provided by
Defendant to the Plaintiff. 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s arguments makes zero
sense to the Court. The Court has no idea what Plaintiff is talking about, nor
does Plaintiff attempt to give context to whatever Plaintiff is trying to say. 
Ultimately, the Court fails to understand how
Plaintiff’s argument is relevant to how Defendant is entitled to code-compliant
discovery responses. 
Further, Plaintiff ignores that Plaintiff did not meet
and confer even though Defendant attempted on several occasions to meet and
confer with Plaintiff. 
However, the Court does note that Defendant should be
prepared to discuss its sanctions request because Defendant’s motion was
improperly combined into one motion when it should have been two. Therefore, if
the Court is to grant sanctions, it notes how this motion does not separate its
sanctions request with respect to how much time Defendant took on each
individual motion because Defendant combined everything into one motion here
and sought sanctions based on the combination of the two motions.
 