 Case Number:  BC574630    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



alvin tate, an incompetent adult, by and through his
  Guardian Ad Litem CLARENCE TATE,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
fca us llc, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


BC574630




Hearing Date:


March 22, 2024




 
  Hearing Time:   10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
PETITION FOR
  APPROVAL OF COMPROMISE OF CLAIM OR ACTION OR DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF
  JUDGMENT FOR MINOR OR PERSON WITH A DISABILITY



            
Background
Plaintiff Alvin Tate, an incompetent
adult, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Clarence Tate (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action on March 5, 2015 against, among other defendants, Defendant FCA US
LLC (“FCA”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) strict product
liability and (2) negligence product liability. 
A settlement was reached in this matter with FCA. Duane P.
Booth is the Guardian ad Litem of Claimant Alvin Lawford Tate (“Claimant”).[1] Duane
P. Booth as Petitioner (“Petitioner”) now petitions for the
Court’s approval of the settlement on behalf of Claimant.  
 
 
            Discussion
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 372, subdivision (a)(3), “[t]he guardian or conservator of the estate or guardian ad
litem so appearing for any minor, person who lacks legal capacity to make
decisions, or person for whom a conservator has been appointed shall have
power, with the approval of the court in which the action or proceeding is
pending, to compromise the same, to agree to the order or judgment to be
entered therein for or against the ward or conservatee, and to satisfy any
judgment or order in favor of the ward or conservatee or release or discharge any
claim of the ward or conservatee pursuant to that compromise…” 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule
7.950, “[a] petition for court approval of a
compromise of, or a covenant not to sue or enforce judgment, on a minor’s
disputed claim; a compromise or settlement of a pending action or proceeding to
which a minor or person with a disability is a party; or the disposition of the
proceeds of a judgment for a minor or person with a disability under Probate Code sections 3500 and 3600-3613 or Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must be verified
by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all information that
has any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise, covenant,
settlement, or disposition. Except as provided in rule 7.950.5, the petition must be submitted on a
completed Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for
Minor or Person With a Disability (form MC-350).” 
Here, the Petition is
prepared on form MC-350 and is verified by Petitioner. However, the
Court notes a number of defects with the Petition. 
First, it does not appear that any proof of service was filed with the
Petition.
Second, Petitioner has not submitted a proposed order on Form MC-351.
Third, Item 9 of the Petition
is not checked.
Fourth, the Petition
indicates that $15,000.00 in “Guardian Ad Litem Attorney Fees” to Payee Duane
P. Booth should be paid out of Claimant’s share of the proceeds of the
settlement. (See Petition, Item 13(b).) Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 7.955,
subdivision (c), “[a] petition requesting court approval and allowance of an
attorney’s fee under (a) must include a declaration from the attorney that
addresses the factors listed in (b) that are applicable to the matter before
the court.” It does not appear that any such declaration was provided. 
Fifth, Item 15 of the Petition is blank.  
Sixth, Item 18(a)(3)(e) of the
Petition appears to be checked. However, the amount “to be transferred
to the trustee of a special needs trust” is not specified. In addition, Item 18(a)(3)(e) states, “[t]he terms of
the proposed special needs trust and the property to be transferred are
specified in Attachment 18a(3)(e).” However, no Attachment 18a(3)(e) has been
provided. 
Seventh, Item 19 of the Petition, which concerns “Statutory
liens for special needs trust,” is checked. Item 19 states “Petitioner requests
an order for payment of funds to a special needs trust (explain how statutory liens
under Probate Code section 3604, if any, will be
satisfied)…” However, the Petition does not explain how “statutory liens under Probate Code section 3604, if any, will be satisfied.”
Rather, the Petition states “[c]urrently negotiating with Department of Health
Services.” (See Petition, Item 19.) 
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability is denied without prejudice. 
Petitioner is to give notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  March 22, 2024                              ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


