  Case Number:  21STCV28284    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 



ARMANDO VAZQUEZ-RAMOS, as Successor Trustee of the LOURDES
  R. VAZQUEZ FAMILY LIVING TRUST of 2004, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
ANTONIO RAMOS VAZQUEZ,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV28284




Hearing Date:


March 22, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
DEFENDANT
  FERNANDO VAZQUEZ’ MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF
  BUSINESS RECORDS




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
 
Background 
Plaintiff Armando
Vazquez-Ramos, as Successor Trustee of the Lourdes R. Vazquez Family Living
Trust of 2004 (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on July 30, 2021 against, inter
alia, Defendant Fernando Ramos Vazquez. 
Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on December 5, 2023. The FAC alleges
causes of action for (1) quiet title to real property and for injunctive
relief, 
(2) constructive trust, (3) accounting,
(4) tort of deceit, and (5) cancellations of instruments. 
On February 6, 2024,
Antonio Ramos Vazquez, in his individual capacity and as co-trustee of
the Vazquez Brothers Living Trust of 2006; and Fernando Ramos Vazquez, in his individual
capacity and as co-trustee of the Vazquez Brothers Living Trust of 2006, filed
a Cross-Complaint against Armando
Vazquez-Ramos in his individual capacity and as co-trustee of the
Vazquez Brothers Living Trust of 2006. The Cross-Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) reformation of deeds and (2) declaratory relief. 
In his declaration in
support of the instant motion, Fernando Vazquez states that on or about
September 1, 2022, Armando Vazquez-Ramos served Fernando Vazquez “with a Notice
to Consumer regarding a Deposition Subpoena for Business Records for [Fernando
Vazquez’s] personal tax returns from 2017 to the present.” (Fernando Vazquez
Decl., ¶ 5.) Fernando Vazquez states that “[t]his Deposition Subpoena was
served upon Joe Dieringer of JMD Services. Attached hereto as Exhibit A is a
true and correct copy of the Subpoena and Notice to Consumer.” (Fernando
Vazquez Decl., ¶ 5.) 
On January 9,
2024, the parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference in this
action. The Court’s January 9, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia,
“[i]n open court, the Informal Discovery Conference is held. The parties
fulfilled their Informal Discovery Conference obligation. Plaintiff will
consider withdrawing the subpoena and if so, Defendant will withdraw the Motion
to Quash.” The docket for this action does not appear to show that the instant
motion to quash has since been withdrawn. 

Fernando Vazquez now
moves “for an order quashing the Deposition Subpoena for Production of
Business Records served by Plaintiff ARMANDO VAZQUEZ-RAMOS…dated September 1,
2022 served on witness Joe Dieringer of JMD Services for the production of
FERNANDO’s personal tax returns.” The motion is unopposed. 
Discussion 
In the notice of motion, Fernando Vazquez states that “[t]his Motion is based upon Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 45(d)(3) and upon the
grounds that ARMANDO’s subpoena asks for production of personal tax returns in
violation of FERNANDO’s taxpayer privilege.” (Mot. at p. 2:14-17.) 
The Deposition Subpoena
for Production of Business Records to Joe Dieringer (herein, the “Subpoena”) is
attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Fernando Vazquez. (Fernando Vazquez
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) As an initial matter, the Court notes that the Subpoena
indicates, inter alia, that the records to be produced are “Continued on
Attachment 3.” (Ibid.) However, it does not appear that Attachment 3 to
the Subpoena was provided. Thus, the Court is unable to determine what requested
records are to be produced pursuant to the Subpoena.

In addition, Fernando Vazquez states that the motion
is “based upon Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
45 (d)(3).” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:15.) Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure, rule 45, subdivision (d)(3)(A) provides that
“[o]n timely motion, the court for the district where compliance is required
must quash or modify a subpoena that: (i) fails to allow a reasonable time to comply; (ii) requires a person to comply beyond the
geographical limits specified in Rule 45(c); (iii) requires disclosure of privileged or other
protected matter, if no exception or waiver applies; or (iv) subjects a person to undue burden.” 
The Court does not see
why Fernando Vazquez relies on Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, rule 45. Pursuant to Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, rule 1, “[t]hese rules govern the procedure in all civil actions and
proceedings in the United States district courts, except as stated in Rule 81…” The instant action was not filed in a United
States district court. 
In
light of the foregoing, the Court does not find that Fernando Vazquez has demonstrated
grounds to quash the Subpoena. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Fernando Vazquez’s motion to quash is denied without prejudice. 
Fernando Vazquez is ordered to provide
notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  March 22, 2024                              ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court