 Case Number:  23STCV03919    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki

Department 58
 

Hearing Date:             January
4, 2024
Case Name:                Johnson
v. Help/Systems, LLC
Case No.:                    23STCV03919
Motion:                       Motion
to Strike
Moving Party:             Defendant
Help/Systems, LLC
Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Curtis Johnson

Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion to Strike is denied.

             
            In this employment
case, Plaintiff Curtis Johnson (Plaintiff) sues Defendant Help/Systems, LLC (Defendant)
for PAGA violations arising under the Labor Code. 
   
            Defendant moves to strike Paragraph 6
of the Complaint, lines 12-13, and issue an order reducing the PAGA period by
245 days. Plaintiff opposes the motion.
 
            The motion to strike is denied. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
“Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters include allegations not essential
to the claim, allegations neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by
the allegations of the complaint.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant requests that this Court strike lines 12- 13 of Paragraph 6
of Plaintiff’s Complaint and issue an order reducing the PAGA period by 245
days pursuant to Rule of Court 3.110, subdivision (b), and Government Code
section 68608, subdivision (b).            
 
            Rule 3.110(b) of the
California Rules of Court provides: “The complaint must be served on all named
defendants and proofs of service on those defendants must be filed with the
court within 60 days after the filing of the complaint.” Under Rule 3.110(f),
"[i]f a party fails to serve and file pleadings as required under this
rule, and has not obtained an order extending time to serve its pleadings, the
court may issue an order to show cause why sanctions shall not be imposed."

 
            Further, Government
Code section 68608, subdivision (b) recognizes that: “Judges shall have all the
powers to impose sanctions authorized by law, including the power to dismiss
actions or strike pleadings, if it appears that less severe sanctions would not
be effective after taking into account the effect of previous sanctions or
previous lack of compliance in the case. Judges are encouraged to impose
sanctions to achieve the purposes of this article.”
 
            Here, Defendant argues
that a reduction in the PAGA period is warranted as result of Plaintiff’s
failure to timely serve the Complaint. 
 
            The Complaint alleges
that, on July 11, 2022, Plaintiff sent a PAGA Notice to the Labor and Workforce
Development Agency (LWDA). (Brackett Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B [Complaint ¶ 8].) On the
same day, Plaintiff also filed his Class Action Complaint against Defendant in
the Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 22STCV21858. (Brackett Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
On July 18, 2022, Plaintiff mailed his PAGA letter to Defendant's
address of record listed on the California Secretary of State
website. (Brackett Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. D.) Defendant claims it was in the process
of changing it address of record at this time and did not receive actual notice
of this letter. 
 
            On February 22, 2023,
Plaintiff filed this PAGA action (although Plaintiff was able to serve his PAGA
Complaint as early as September 14, 2022 – 65 days after filing the LWDA letter
on July 11, 2022). (Brackett Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
            Based on the Proof of Service
filed, Plaintiff purportedly personally served Defendant with the Complaint on
March 8, 2023. (Brackett Decl., ¶ 6.) However, Defendant contends that this
Proof of Service contained an address for service of process that was for a
separate and inactive entity. (Brackett Decl., ¶ 6.) That is, Plaintiff’s service
was improper. 
 
            On August 3, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent a Notice of Acknowledgement and Receipt to counsel for
Defendant. (Brackett Decl., ¶ 9.) Defendant returned the Notice of
Acknowledgement and Receipt on August 23, 2023. (Brackett Decl., ¶ 9.)
Accordingly, service of this Complaint was not complete until August 23, 2023 –
six months after the filing of the Complaint and more than one year after
Plaintiff allegedly filed the PAGA letter with the LWDA. (Brackett Decl., ¶¶ 3,
10.)
 
            Here, Defendant
acknowledges the severity of requesting dismissal for the failure to comply
with Rule 3.110(b) and, instead, requests a lesser sanction of reducing the PAGA
period by 245 days to account for the delay in serving Defendant with the
Complaint. 
 
            In arguing this
sanction is justified, Defendant argues it has been prejudiced by the delay. According
to Defendant, Plaintiff’s delay has resulted in an increased scope of Plaintiff’s
claims and an increase in the resulting liability to Defendant. 
 
            Defendant’s prejudice
argument is not well taken. Defendant presents no evidence that the delay has
caused harm to Defendant’s ability to mount a defense and prepare its case;
that is, there is no argument that any evidence has been lost. Rather, the
delay – according to the allegations – has caused more harm to Plaintiff and
other similarly situated parties – in the form of injuries resulting from
Defendant’s allegedly unlawful Labor Code practices. In essence, Defendant
argues they have been harmed because they were allowed to continue their
unlawful conduct. 
 
            This argument is not
well taken, especially in light of the service of the PAGA Notice letter. Plaintiff
appears to have properly provided notice of the PAGA claim by sending the
required written notice to Defendant by certified mail to the two addresses of
record, including the address of record listed as 11095 Viking Drive, Suite
100, Eden Prairie, MN 55344, which is Defendant’s current principal address. (Gomez
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Ex. B-C.) That Defendant claims it did not receive this letter
because it was in the process of changing its address is of no fault of
Plaintiff. 
 
            Further, Plaintiff
attempted to properly serve Defendant on March 8, 2024 using the same address
that successfully served the Class Action case. (Gomez Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. G.) Plaintiff
had no reason believe that Defendant was not served until service issues were
raised by Defendant in July 2023. (Gomez Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.) 
 
            Defendant has not identified
any conduct that warrants sanctioning. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The Motion to Strike
is denied.
 