

Hearing
Date:             January 4, 2024
Case
Name:                Garcia v. Public
Health Foundation Enterprises, Inc. 
Case
No.:                    23STCV22633
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Public Health Foundation Enterprises, Inc. dba Heluna Health

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Mariela Garcia

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending resolution of arbitration.


 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Mariela Garcia (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on September
19, 2023, alleging FEHA
claims for wrongful termination, disability discrimination, failure to provide
reasonable accommodations, failure to engage in the interactive process, and hostile
work environment, as well as wrongful termination in violation of public
policy, and unfair competition against her former employer, Defendant
Public Health Foundation
Enterprises, Inc. dba Heluna Health (Defendant).
 
            On
November 30, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the
parties’ arbitration agreement. In opposition, Plaintiff argues the arbitration
agreement is unenforceable based on unconscionability. Defendant filed a reply.

 
            The motion to compel arbitration
is granted. The matter is stayed pending the outcome of arbitration. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay the matter while the
arbitration is pending.
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement:
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel arbitration based on an arbitration agreement between the
parties. In support of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendant
submits evidence that Plaintiff began
working for Defendant in September 2010. (Seifert Decl., ¶ 8.) In 2012, Plaintiff
began working as a WIC Nutrition
Assistant. (Seifert Decl., ¶ 8.)
 
On
Plaintiff’s first day of work, Plaintiff was provided a copy of Defendant Heluna Health’s then effective
Employee Handbook. (Seifert Decl., ¶ 9.) Thereafter, existing WIC employees –
like Plaintiff – received an updated Employee Handbook approximately every
other year, distributed through Heluna Health’s WICNet intranet system.
(Seifert Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
Relevant to this motion, in May
2019, Defendant Heluna Health updated its Employee Handbook. (Seifert Decl. ¶ 10).
This updated Employee Handbook contained a mandatory Arbitration Provision
which expressly required that any disputes between Plaintiff and Heluna Health
(and its employees) were to be settled by binding arbitration. The 2019
Employee Handbook also included a cover page which advised employees, both in
English and Spanish, that “this Handbook contains an arbitration requirement
for both you and the employer that waives your and the employer’s right to
trial by jury.” (Seifert Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. A.)
 
On May 14, 2019, Plaintiff
electronically signed an Acknowledgment of Receipt form for the 2019 Employee
Handbooks, confirming her receipt and acceptance of the Handbook. (Guzman
Decl., ¶¶ 16-17, Ex. A; Seifert Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. B.)
 
In addition to the arbitration
provision in the 2019 Employee Handbook, the Acknowledgment of Receipt form,
signed by Plaintiff, provided in relevant part that: “This is to acknowledge
that I received a copy of the 2019 Heluna Health Employee Handbook. This
Handbook sets forth the terms and conditions of my employment as well as
rights, duties, responsibilities and obligations of my employment with Heluna
Health. I further understand and agree that I am bound by the provisions
of the Handbook, particularly the provision relating to the mandatory, binding
arbitration of any employment related dispute. I understand that by agreeing to
arbitration, I am waiving the right to a trial by jury of the matters covered
by the “Arbitration” provisions of the Handbook.” (Seifert Decl., ¶ 11,
Ex. B [Emphasis in original].)
 
            Plaintiff
does not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement or otherwise deny
signing the Acknowledgment
of Receipt form. Thus, there is no factual dispute as to the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. 
 
Enforceability of the Arbitration Agreement:
 
            Plaintiff argues
that the Arbitration Agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. 
 
            If a court
finds as a matter of law that a contract or any clause of a contract is
unconscionable, the court may refuse to enforce the contract or clause, or it
may limit the application of any unconscionable clause so as to avoid any
unconscionable result. (Civ. Code § 1670.5, subd. (a).) “An agreement to
arbitrate, like any other contract, is subject to revocation if the agreement
is unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 83 [citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98].)
 
            “The
general principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine ‘ “has both a procedural and a substantive element.”
’ [Citation.] ‘The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.’ [Citation.] [¶] Both procedural and substantive unconscionability
must be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they need not be present
in the same degree.’ [Citation.] Instead, they are evaluated on ‘ “sliding
scale.” ’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to’ conclude that
the term is unenforceable. [Citation.] Conversely, the more deceptive or
coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the less substantive unfairness is
required. [Citations.] A contract's substantive fairness ‘must be considered in
light of any procedural unconscionability’ in its making. [Citation.] ‘The
ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.’ ” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
125–126.) “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the party
asserting it.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)
 
            Plaintiff first
argues the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the Agreement was a
condition of employment and offered on a take-it-or leave it basis. That is, Plaintiff had no ability to
negotiate the terms of the Agreement, and Defendant made no effort to provide
an explanation of its terms to Plaintiff. (Garcia Dec., ¶¶ 5, 7.) In sum, Plaintiff
could either sign the Agreement or find another job.
 
            Plaintiff
next argues that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable. Plaintiff identifies
three grounds that she contends renders the agreement one-sided and unfair.
 
            First,
Plaintiff argue that the Agreement fails to allow for third party discovery. In
support of this argument, Plaintiff cites Aixtron, Inc. v. Veeco Instruments
Inc. (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 360; Plaintiff argues that Aixtron held
that, under the
FAA and the CAA, an arbitrator has no freestanding power to order nonparty or
third party discovery, nor do arbitrators have implicit powers to order
document discovery from nonparties or third parties prior to a hearing. (Id.
at 22.)
 
            As a preliminary
matter, the court in Aixtron did not make any findings with
respect to whether this fact served as a basis for finding substantive unconscionability.
More importantly, the facts here are distinguishable. Specifically, the Arbitration
Agreement states:
 
“The parties shall be entitled to
conduct all discovery to which they would have been entitled to had the
parties’ controversy been filed in a California Superior Court and the
arbitrator shall have the power to limit such discovery pursuant to motions and
protective orders under the same rules and limitations as if the arbitrator
were a California Superior Court judge.” (Seifert Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. A at p. 66.)
 
Thus, unlike
in Aixtron, the Arbitration Agreement grants the arbitrator broad powers to
issue third party discovery in the same manner that discovery would be
conducted in California Superior Court.
 
            Plaintiff
next argues the
Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it lacks
bilaterality and requires the employee to arbitrate but allows the employer to
sue in court. In making this argument, Plaintiff does not cite to any language
in the Arbitration Agreement to support this claim. 
 
            In
reviewing the language of he Arbitration Agreement, the Agreement requires both
parties to submit “[a]ny controversy, dispute, or claim between you and Heluna
Health . . . [to] binding arbitration . . . .” The Arbitration Agreement concludes
with the following: “Even if Heluna Health does not sign for its receipt or
acknowledgement of this policy, Heluna Health, like the employee, agrees to be
bound by this policy and agrees to arbitrate all disputes with its employees or
former employees.” (Seifert Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. A at p. 66.)  Plaintiff’s argument that the arbitration
obligation is one-sided is mistaken.
 
            Finally, Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because the
terms of the agreement do not give Plaintiff sufficient notice for which claims
must be arbitrated. In making this argument, Plaintiff selectively cites from
the Arbitration, ignoring the pertinent language. 
 
            The
Arbitration Agreement requires both parties to submit any and all claims to
arbitration with the exceptions of PAGA and Workers’ Compensation claims.
Specifically, the Arbitration Agreement states:
 
“Any controversy, dispute or
claim between you and Heluna Health, or its officers, agents or other
employees, with the exception of any claim made pursuant to the California
Private Attorney General Act, shall be settled by binding arbitration, at the
request of either party,… Arbitration shall be the exclusive method for
resolving any dispute or claim covered by this Section of the Handbook .
. . . 
 
The claims which are to be
arbitrated under this policy include, but are not limited to, claims for breach
of trade secret law, claims regarding breaches of confidentiality, violation of
non-disclosure/nonsolicitation provisions, embezzlement/conversion, employee
theft, claims for wages and other compensation, claims for breach of contract
(express or implied), claims for violation of public policy, wrongful
termination, tort claims, claims for unlawful discrimination, harassment and/or
retaliation (including, but not limited to, race, religious creed, color,
national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, gender
identity or expression, medical condition, marital status, age, pregnancy, sex
or sexual orientation) to the extent allowed by law, and claims for violation
of any federal, state, or other government law, statute, regulation, or
ordinance, except for claims for workers' compensation, unemployment insurance
benefits and petitions or charges that could be brought before the National Labor
Relations Board….” (Seifert Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. A at p. 66
[emphasis in original].)
 
Based on the foregoing language, the
Arbitration Agreement is sufficiently clear as to the types of claims subject
to the arbitration. 
 
Thus, Plaintiff has not demonstrated
any substantive unconscionability. Therefore, even if the Agreement contains
some degree of procedural unconscionability, the absence of substantive unconscionability
is fatal Plaintiff’s unconscionability argument. Defendant has met its burden
of demonstrating the existence of a valid, enforceable Arbitration Agreement. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. The motion to compel arbitration is
granted as to Plaintiff’s claims; the matter will be stayed pending the outcome
of arbitration.  At the hearing the Court
will set the date for a post-arbitration status conference.
 