 Case Number:  23NWCV00407    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  C Yadhira Esmeralda Carbajal, et
al. vs The Maria De La Luz Gonzalez Living Trust, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV00407
Hearing Date: July 9, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#2 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendants’ Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
First, Second, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Cause of
Action and SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to Third Cause of Action.   
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED in part
and DENIED in part as set forth below.  
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background

On September 1, 2016, Plaintiffs rented a one bedroom, one bathroom
unit in the backyard of Defendants residence located at 12113 Ramsey Drive,
Whittier, 90605.  Plaintiffs allege the
unit was uninhabitable.  
On July 27, 2023, Plaintiffs Yadhira Esmeralda Carbajal,
Agustin Gamez, Agustin Carbajal, Jr., and Karen Carbajal (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants The Maria
de la Luz Gonzalez Living Trust, Juan Gonzalez, and Lucero Vargas (collectively
“Defendants”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Harassment; (2) Retaliatory
Eviction; (3) Constructive Eviction and Willful Interruption of Services; (4)
Violation Bus. and Prof. Code § 17200; (5) Statutory Breach of Habitability;
(6) Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (7) Negligent
Maintenance of Premises; (8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (9)
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (10) Nuisance. 
Defendants generally demur to each cause of action in the FAC.

Defendants also move to strike language in the Third,
Fourth, Sixth, Eleventh, Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Thirty-Fourth causes of
action, as well as the Demand for Relief. 
Meet and Confer  
CCP
§430.41(a) states that, before filing a demurrer, the moving party must engage
in a specified meet and confer process with the party who filed the pleading at
issue for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached as to
the filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer/motion to strike. “[T]he demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading
that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement
can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.
If an amended complaint…is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer
again with the party who filed the amended pleading before a demurrer to the
amended pleading.” (emphasis added.) (CCP §430.41(a).) 
 
Although
no such declaration accompanies the demurrer, the Court exercises its
discrection to consider the briefs on the merits. 
 
DEMURRER
 
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a complaint has been filed may
object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground
that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an entire complaint, or to any
causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Analysis 
First Cause of Action: Harassment 
Tenant
Harassment shall be defined as a landlord's knowing and willful course of
conduct directed at a specific tenant or tenants that causes detriment and
harm, and that serves no lawful purpose. . . .” (LAMC §¿45.33.) A “landlord” is
defined as “any owner, lessor, sublessor, manager, and/or person, including any
firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity, having any legal or equitable
right of ownership or possession or the right to lease or receive rent for the
use and occupancy of a rental unit, and whether acting as principal or through
an agent or representative or successor of any of the foregoing.” (LAMC
§¿45.32.)
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that the landlord “threatened to evict the Carbajals… without
reason, on six different occasions” (FAC ¶ 45) and “threatened to call the
police” shortly after they requested basic repairs (FAC ¶ 48).  Further, Plaintiffs allege that “from
August 4, 2017, to June 22, 2022, the Carbajals made thirteen repair requests
to Defendants. However, the Defendants failed to act on a single request.” (FAC
¶ 36.) Also, “[d]uring a rainstorm in October 2018, a leak in the Dwelling
Unit’s ceiling caused water from the outdoors to run down the walls. See Ex. A.
The Carbajals had no other choice but to use buckets to catch the rainwater and
prevent the unit from flooding. The electricity also completely went out during
the rain. Despite their best efforts, the rainwater ruined many of the
Carbajals’ personal belongings, including their clothing, mattress,
refrigerator, and stove.” (FAC ¶ 42.) 
Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that the landlord
knowingly and willfully directed conduct at Plaintiffs that caused detriment
and harm without lawful purpose.  
Accordingly, demurrer as to the first cause of action is
OVERRULED.   
Second Cause of Action: Retaliatory Eviction 
Civ
Code, section 1942.5(a) provides that a lessor may not cause a lessee to quit
voluntarily, increase rent, decrease any services, or recover possession of a
dwelling within 180 days after a lessee makes a complaint to an appropriate
agency as to tenantability of a dwelling. “[T]enants who are the victims of retaliatory
conduct by their landlords have complementary rights of action both in the
common law and under the statutory scheme adopted by the Legislature.”¿ (Rich
v. Schwab (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 803, 811.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that on “June 30, 2022, the
Carbajals made a complaint to the Los Angeles Department of Public Health
(“LADPH”)”, and on July 11, 2022 LADPH “sent Defendants a Courtesy Notice to
Abate, describing the violations identified in the Dwelling Unit.” (FAC ¶¶
60-61.)  On July 28, 2022, in an “attempt
to terrorize and retaliate against the Carbajals, all four participants
delivered an illegal three-day notice to pay or quit demanding the Carbajals
pay rent for May 2022 and June 2022.” (FAC ¶ 62.) Based thereon, the Court
determines that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged a cause of action for
retaliatory eviction.  
While Plaintiffs admit to the stoppage of rental payments
on May 1, 2022, Plaintiffs contend they were permitted to do so under
California law. (FAC ¶ 58.) Courts have held that if the premises were indeed
uninhabitable a tenant may be justified in the refusal to pay the full amount
of the rent. (See Green v. Superior Court, (1974) 10 Cal. 3d 616,
628-29.) Given the allegations that Defendants refused to make any repairs to
the dwelling, including repairs involving leaks in the
ceiling, electricity, cockroach and rat infestations, a broken air conditioner,
lack of heating in the unit, and damage to their front door, Plaintiffs sufficiently
allege they were justified in withholding rent payments. (See FAC ¶¶ 57, 59.) 
Accordingly, the Demurrer as to the Second Cause of Action
is OVERRULED. 
Third Cause of Action: Constructive Eviction
and Willful Interruption of Services 
A
constructive eviction results from an
interference with or disturbance of the tenant’s possession by the act of the
landlord or someone acting under the landlord’s authority, whereby the whole or
a substantial part of the premises is rendered unfit for occupancy for the
purpose for which they were demised, or the tenant is deprived of the
beneficial enjoyment of the premises provided the tenant vacates or abandons
the premises within a reasonable time.  (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Company (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, review denied
(Apr. 30, 2014).) 
Failing to repair residential premises and not keeping them
in a condition suitable for purpose for which they were leased constitutes a
constructive eviction. (Stoiber v. HoneyChuck (1980) 101 Cal. App. 3d
903, 912.)
Here, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants willfully caused
the interruption of heat and air conditioning for the unit by failing to
provide them throughout the lease, with the intention of terminating the
Carbajals’ occupancy. Likewise, Defendants willfully caused the interruption of
electricity for the unit by failing to repair it since October 2018, with the
intention of terminating the Carbajals’ occupancy. Therefore, the unit's
heating, air conditioning, and electricity services were interrupted throughout
the Carbajal’s occupancy of the unit.” (FAC ¶ 99.) 
Despite these interruptions, Plaintiffs remained in the
property from 2017-2022. It follows that Plaintiffs did not vacate or abandon
the premises within a reasonable time. 
Accordingly, the demurrer as to the Third Cause of Action
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.   
Fourth Cause of Action: Violation Bus. and
Prof. Code § 17200
To successfully plead a UCL claim for unfair business practices, a
plaintiff must allege facts justifying relief in the form of protecting the
public from unfair business practices or deceptive advertising. (Day v.
AT&T Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 325, 331-332.) A plaintiff must plead
and prove that the defendant engaged in a business practice that was either
unlawful (i.e., is forbidden by law) or unfair (i.e., harm to victim outweighs
any benefit) or fraudulent (i.e., is likely to deceive members of the
public).¿(Albillo v. Intermodal Container Services, Inc. (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 190, 206.)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants’ conduct was
fraudulent, deceptive, and misleading because they knowingly misrepresented to
the Carbajals that the Unit they were about to rent was in a fit condition for
human habitation. (FAC ¶¶ 106-108.) As to the unlawful prong, Plaintiffs allege
“[t]he uninhabitable and untenantable conditions at the property resulted from
Defendants’ failure to maintain and repair the premises as required by numerous
residential building, health and safety laws, statutes, and ordinances. The
uninhabitable and untenantable conditions at the property further resulted from
Defendants’ failure to maintain and repair the premises as required by Cal.
Civ. Code §§ 1941, 1941.1, and 1942.4.” (FAC ¶¶ 109-10.) As to the unfair
prong, Plaintiffs allege “[i]n light of the property’s deplorable health and
safety conditions, Defendants’ decision to lease the property to the Carbajals
and collect revenues in the form of rental payments constitutes an unfair and
unlawful business practice.” (FAC ¶ 111.) 
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged
a violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200 et seq. 
Accordingly, the Demurrer as to the Fourth Cause of Action
is OVERRULED. 
Fifth Cause of Action: Statutory and Tortious
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability
The
elements of a cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability “are the existence of a
material defective condition affecting the premises' habitability, notice to
the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant's
discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct
the deficiency, and resulting damages.” (Peviani v. Arbors at California
Oaks Property Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874, 891 review denied (July
14, 2021), see also Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297 [applying Civ. C. §1942.4, and holding “there
is a statutory cause of action available to the residential tenant where the
premises are untenantable and other circumstances exist.”].)  A violation of a statutory housing standard
that affects health and safety is a strong indication of a materially defective
condition. (Ibid.)¿¿¿
As noted above, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants refused
to repair the dwelling including repairs involving leaks in the ceiling,
electricity, cockroach and rat infestations, a broken air conditioner, lack of
heating in the unit, and damage to their front door. (FAC, ¶ 57, 59.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants willfully caused the interruption of electricity
for the unit by failing to repair it since October 2018. (FAC, ¶ 99.)
Plaintiffs allege “between August 4, 2017, to June 22, 2022, the Carbajals made
thirteen repair requests to Defendants.” (FAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs also allege “[t]he
Carbajals have been damaged by Defendants’ conduct in an amount equal to the
rents due and paid by her during his tenancy in the amount stated in the prayer
for relief.” (FAC, ¶ 128.) 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a cause
of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability.  
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is
OVERRULED. 
Sixth Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress
The elements of an intentional infliction of emotional distress
cause of action are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2)
intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress; (3) severe emotional suffering; and (4) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast
Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy the element of extreme and outrageous
conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221
Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Trerice v. Blue Cross of California
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)¿¿ 
 
Plaintiffs argue
that a claim
for intentional infliction of emotional distress may be based upon allegations
of leaking sewage, cockroach infestation, broken walls, defective wiring, and
lack of plumbing. (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903,
912.) In Stoiber, the plaintiff alleged that the defendant landlord’s
failure to remedy the defects was “knowing, intentional and willful,” and
caused her extreme emotional distress. (Id. at 913.) As in Stoiber,
Plaintiffs allege a series of defects including vermin/rodent infestation and
chronic mold. Plaintiffs also allege they complained of these issues to
Defendants who told the Carbajals that if they did not like the condition of
the Unit, they should leave. (FAC, ¶ 39.) 
 
In addition, Plaintiffs
allege Defendants failed to remedy the defects in the unit for five years. (FAC
¶ 5.) Defendants told Plaintiffs to leave if they did not like the conditions. (FAC
¶ 39.) Plaintiffs allege they suffered “illness, physical injury, mental
stress, emotional distress, shame, anxiety, depression, helplessness,
sleeplessness, frustration, discomfort, annoyance, fear, and loss in the value
of their leasehold.” (FAC ¶ 147) Based thereon, the Court determines that
Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged a cause of action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer
to the Eighth Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
 
Ninth Cause of Action: Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress
“Whether
plaintiffs can recover damages for NIED is dependent upon traditional tort
analysis and the elements of duty, breach of duty, causation and damages must
exist to support the cause of action.”¿ (Klein v. Children’s Hospital
Medical Center (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 889, 894.) 
Here, Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants owed a duty to them because they were the landlords of
the property (FAC, ¶ 10.), Defendants breached that duty by “knowingly
ignoring and refusing to abate a dangerous and unhealthy nuisance at the
Dwelling Unit” (FAC,¶ 150), Defendants were the cause of the distress (FAC, ¶
152), and they suffered damages as discussed above (FAC, ¶ 147).  Based thereon, the Court finds Plaintiffs
have sufficiently alleged a cause of action of Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress.   
Accordingly, the demurrer as to the Ninth Cause of Action
is OVERRULED. 
Tenth Cause of Action: Nuisance
To state a cause of action for private nuisance, a party must
first allege a non-trespassory interference with the private use and enjoyment
of property. (CC § 3479 – 3481; San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. Sup. Ct.
(1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938.) Plaintiffs must therefore allege injury
specific to the use and enjoyment of his land. (See Monks v. City of Rancho
Palos Verdes (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 263, 302.)
 
For the reasons stated above,
the Court determines that Plaintiffs sufficiently allege materially defective
conditions that substantially interfered with Plaintiffs use and enjoyment of
the Unit. (FAC ¶¶ 37– 59, 65.)
 
Accordingly, the demurrer
to the tenth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Legal Standard 
Upon motion, or at any time in its own discretion, a court
may grant a motion to strike any of the following material: (1) irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) all or any part of
any pleading not drawn in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule,
or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §436.) These provisions also
authorize “the striking of a pleading due to improprieties in its form or in
the procedures pursuant to which it was filed.” (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi,
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528, emphasis in original.)
Analysis
Paragraph Three
Paragraph Three of the FAC alleges “what at first appeared
to be the American dream, turned out to be a nightmare."  Defendant contends this description of the
family’s journey to the United States is prejudicial.  The Court agrees.   
Accordingly, the motion to strike language in Paragraph
Three is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend. 

Paragraph Four
Paragraph four of the FAC alleges Defendants were
"blinded by greed" and they "took advantage of the Carbajals.” 
The Court finds this language is relevant to motive and not
unduly prejudicial.  
Accordingly, the motion to strike language in Paragraph
Four is DENIED. 
Paragraphs Six, Eleven, Thirteen, Fourteen,
Fifteen, and Thirty-Four
Defendants contend that language accusing Defendants of
“escalating… threats” in Paragraph Six, "unsafe and "unhealthy
conditions" in the rental unit in Paragraph Eleven, "the building has
not been habitable or tenantable and therefore has a lesser rental value than
what Defendants demanded” in Paragraph Thirteen, "placing the Carabajals
in harm's way by forcing them to live in unhabitable and deplorable conditions”
in Paragraph Fourteen, "pattern of unlawful threats” in Paragraph Fifteen,
and “superficial habitable unit a (concealing the defects) and failed to
inform" the Plaintiffs that the unit they were offering was unlawful, as
alleged in Paragraph Thirty Four, should be stricken because there is no
evidence to support them and/or they are conclusions which lie within the sole
province of the trier of fact.   
The Court is satisfied that any absence of supporting facts
in the above-referenced language is not fatal to the FAC at this stage of the
proceedings. A plaintiff is only required to plead ultimate, not evidentiary
facts. (C.W. Johnson & Sons, Inc. v. Carpenter (2020 53 Cal.App.5th
165, 169.) To survive a demurrer, a complaint need only allege facts that state
a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged. (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union H.S.
Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.  Moreover, the Court finds that the probative
value of the above-referenced language is not substantially outweighed by the
danger of undue prejudice. 
Accordingly, the motion to strike language in Paragraph
Six, Eleven, Thirteen, Fourteen, Fifteen, and Thirty-Four is DENIED.  
Demand For Relief 
Defendants contend that the demand for relief is irrelevant
because Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action.  
The Court finds that Plaintiffs are entitled to a demand
for relief because the demurrer was overruled as to all causes of action but
one.   
Accordingly, the motion to strike the demand for relief is
DENIED. 
 