 Case Number:  22NWCV00987    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  C WOOLSEY v. SECURITY PAVING COMPANY, INC. 
CASE
NO.: 22NWCV00987
HEARING:
07/09/24
 
#6 
    
I.       
Defendant RECYCLED BASE MATERIALS, INC.’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. The alternative Motion for
Summary Adjudication is MOOT.  
 
   
II.       
Defendant SECURITY PAVING COMPANY, INC.’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. The alternative Motion for
Summary Adjudication is MOOT. 
 
 
III.       
Defendant SULLY-MILLER CONTRACTING COMPANY’S
Unopposed Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. The alternative Motion
for Summary Adjudication is MOOT. 
Prevailing Parties to give notice.
 
This
personal injury action was filed on October 12, 2022 by Plaintiffs DAVID
WOOLSEY, individually and as Successor in Interest to the Estate of MATTHEW
WOOLSEY; and SUZANNE WOOLSEY, individually and as Successor in Interest to the
Estate of MATTHEW WOOLSEY (collectively “Plaintiffs”).  
 
The
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed on September 6, 2023. The
FAC alleges the following relevant facts: “On or about April 13, 2022,
Decedent, who was 23 years old at the time, was working for defendant RECYCLED BASE
MATERIALS, INC. utilizing the SUBJECT PRODUCT that was owned and operated by
defendant SECURITY PAVING COMPANY, INC. at a worksite owned and operated by defendant
BLUE DIAMOND MATERIALS, BLUE DIAMOND INGLEWOOD ASPHALT CORPORATION, and/or
SULLY-MILLER CONTRACTING COMPANY located at 5625 Southern Ave., South Gate, CA
90280.” (FAC ¶15.) “While at the worksite, Decedent was working with the
SUBJECT PRODUCT and his right arm was caught and pulled into the machine.
Decedent attempted to pull his arm out of SUBJECT PRODUCT but was unsuccessful.
His arm was finally able to be removed when the SUBJECT PRODUCT was turned
off.” (FAC ¶16.) “On or about April 19, 2022, Decedent passed away as a result
of injuries he sustained that were caused by the SUBJECT PRODUCT.” (FAC ¶17.) 
 
The FAC asserts the following
causes of action: 
(1)  Negligence;

(2)  Negligence
– Premises Liability; 
(3)  Strict
Products Liability; 
(4)  Negligent
Products Liability; 
(5)  Breach
of Warranty; 
(6)  Negligence;

(7)  Negligence;

(8)  Wrongful
Death; and 
(9)  Survival
Action 
Defendants RECYCLED BASE MATERIALS, INC (“RBM”) and
SECURITY PAVING COMPANY, INC. (“Security”) (collectively “Defendants”)
separately (but identically) move for summary judgment or, alternatively,
summary adjudication of the first, sixth, eighth, and ninth causes of action. 
Defendant SULLY-MILLER CONTRACTING COMPANY (“Sully-Miller”)
moves for summary judgment or, alternatively summary adjudication as to the
second; eighth; and ninth causes of action. 
Defendants RBM and
SECURITY’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication 
 
“[A] motion for summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing no triable material fact
exists. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
If the moving party meets this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a converse prima facie showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists. (Ibid.)  
 
Defendants argue that
the Decedent was dually employed by Security and RBM
and Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the Workers Compensation Exclusivity Act. 
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that there are factual issues regarding dual employment which
preclude summary judgment/adjudication. 
 
Generally, under the
workers’ compensation doctrine, when an injured employee is entitled to recover
workers’ compensation benefits, those benefits constitute the employee’s
exclusive remedy against the employer and his or her employees. (Cal. Lab. Code
§§3600, 3601, 3602.) The workers’ compensation exclusivity provisions generally
preclude a civil action against an employer for physical or emotional injury
resulting from wrongful conduct in the workplace. (Livitsanos v. Sup. Ct.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 744, 754.)  Typically,
injuries caused by employer negligence or without employer fault are subject to
the WCA. (Fermino v. Fedco, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 701, 714.) 
 
Workers’ compensation
law recognizes that there may be cases of “special/dual employment”.  “Where an employer sends an employee to do
work for another person, and both have the right to exercise certain powers of control
over the employee, that employee may be held to have two employers—his original
or “general” employer and a second, the “special” employer.’ [Citation.]” (Montague
v. AMN Healthcare, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1515, 1520.) The possibility
of dual employment is well recognized. (Kowalski v. Shell Oil Co. (1979)
23 Cal.3d 168, 174.) “If general and special employment exists, ‘the injured
workman can look to both employers for [workers’] compensation benefits…. Thus
where there is dual employment the workman is barred from maintaining an action
for damages against either employer.” (Id. at 175.) 
 
The primary consideration in determining whether a special
employment relationship exists is whether the special employer has “the right
to control and direct the activities of the alleged employee or the manner and
method in which the work is performed, whether exercised or not….” (Kowalski,
supra, 23 Cal.3d at 175.) Other factors to consider when determining
whether a special employment relationship exists include: (1) whether the
borrowing employer’s control over the employee and the work he is performing
extends beyond mere suggestion of details or cooperation; (2) whether the
employee is performing the special employer’s work; (3) whether there was an
agreement, understanding, or meeting of the minds between the original and
special employer; (4) whether the employee acquiesced in the new work
situation; (5) whether the original employer terminated his relationship with
the employee; (6) whether the special employer furnished the tools and place
for performance; (7) whether the new employment was over a considerable length
of time; (8) whether the borrowing employer had the right to fire the employee;
and (9) whether the borrowing employer had the obligation to pay the employee.
(Riley v. Southwest Marine, Inc. (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 1242, 1250.) 
 
Generally, the question
of whether an employment relationship exists is reserved for the trier of fact.
(Marsh v. Tilley Street Co. (1980) 26 Cal.3d 486, 493.) 
 
Security and RBM
proffer the following evidence: 
·       
Security
and RBM both have Workers Compensation Insurance Coverage as required by law
and are covered under the same policy and share the same business address. (SS
No. 8.) 
·       
RBM
and Security are affiliated entities. (SS No. 9.) 
·       
On
April 21, 2021, Decedent completed and signed new hire paperwork, including,
but not limited to: the cell phone safety policy; direct deposit authorization
for Security; employee safety orientation, safety compliance, and procedures;
meal and rest break policies, equal opportunity notice; authorization for his
DMV record; voluntary self-identification documents; and emergency contact
sheet. (SS No. 13.) 
·       
On
the direct deposit authorization form, which was on Security letterhead, it
expressly states: “I (employee) Matthew Woolsey hereby authorize my employer
Security Paving, inc. to make deposits and debits.” (SS No. 14.) 
·       
Every
single document contained in the new hire paperwork was on Security letterhead.
(SS No. 15.) 
·       
In
April 2022, the Decedent was sent to the jobsite where Plant 6 was going to
begin a rock crushing job. (SS No. 18.)
·       
The
mobile plant was owned by Security Paving, Inc., along with the shovels and
tools. (SS No. 20.)
·       
The
crew that was operating and working on the mobile plant included Nate Mesco, Timothy
Reitz, Paul Bouman and Matthew Woolsey. (SS No. 22.)
·       
Nathan
Mesco was the foreman and supervisor of the four-person crew. (SS No. 23.)
·       
As
foreman, Nathan Mesco directed and authorized Matthew's job tasks. (SS No. 24.)
·       
Nathan
Mesco, Paul Bouman and Timothy Reitz were employed by Security Paving. (SS No.
27.)
·       
Decedent
was generally employed by Recycled Base Materials. His paystubs had RBM on them.
(SS No. 28.)
 
Based thereon, RBM and
Security have made a prima facie showing that they dually employed Decedent and
that Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the Workers Compensation Exclusivity Act.  The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to raise
a triable issue of material fact.  
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiffs rely on the following admissible evidence:
·       
Security
did not pay Decedent. (PSS Nos. 30-37.)
·       
Security
could not terminate Decedent’s employment with RBM. (PSS No. 38.)
·       
Matthew
was a skilled worker. (PSS Nos. 33, 39, 42.)
·       
Security
neither supervised nor controlled Decedent’s work
o  
Per
the MLA, when the Union dispatches a member to work for a company, the employee
works under that company's direction and that company is responsible for
supervising the employee's work. (PSS No. 26.)

o  
At
the Jobsite, Decedent had specific tasks and duties which he performed
independently and without direct oversight. (PSS No. 71.)
o  
Security's
Jobsite foreman did not directly oversee every task and duty that Matthew
performed. (PSS No. 72.)
o  
During
a given day, the four crew members switch roles. (PSS No. 73.)
o  
When
Security contracts out Plant 6, it does not fully control the details of the
crew's work activities. (PSS No. 74.)
o  
Security
just specifies the daily production results. Each crew member controls how they
perform their job to achieve the most production each day. (PSS No. 75.)
o  
At
one point during the morning, Mr. Mesco went to the screen because he had not
seen Matthew for a while. (PSS No. 85.)
o  
It
took at least 20 minutes for the crew to discover that Matthew was pinned by
the tail pulley. (PSS No. 95.)
·       
Rock
crushing is not Security’s primary business. (PSS Nos. 14-18, 50.)
·       
Decedent
could not consent to dual employment. (PSS Nos. 27, 37)
·       
RBM
and Security did not (and could not) agree to prohibited brokering. (PSS Nos.
22-28, 134-38.)
 
Plaintiffs concede that Decedent was an employee of RBM at
the time of the subject incident. (Opp., p. 7.) Therefore, the Court determines
that the Workman’s Compensation Exclusivity Act applies to RBM.  
RBM’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  Its Motion for Summary Adjudication is MOOT.
As to Security, the focus is on whether there are disputed
facts regarding Security’s control over Decedent since that is the “primary
consideration in determining whether a special employment relationship exists”.
(Kowalski, supra, 23 Cal.3d at 175.)   Per the
MLA, when the Union dispatches a member to work for a company, the employee
works under that company's direction and that company is responsible for
supervising the employee's work. (PSS No. 26.) 
However, as Kowalski makes clear, a “contract cannot affect the
true relationship of the parties to it. Nor can it place an employee in a
different position from that which he actually held." (Kowalski, supra,
23 Cal.3d at 176.) Thus, the terms of the MLA do not raise a triable issue of
material fact regarding Security’s control over Decedent at the work site.  
Plaintiffs offer nothing to rebut Security and RBM’s
evidence that Nathan Mesco was the foreman and supervisor of the four-person
crew (SS No. 23); that Nathan Mesco directed and authorized Decedent's job
tasks (SS No. 24); and that Nathan Mesco, Paul Bouman and Timothy Reitz were
employed by Security Paving (SS No. 27). 
Nathan Mesco’s role as Decedent’s supervisor is not contradicted by
evidence that Decedent performed specific tasks independently (PSS No. 72) or
that he was not supervised at all times (PSS No. 72). Plaintiffs do not argue
that Decedent worked without supervision of any kind.  Surely, he was supervised at the work site by
someone.  Of critical importance here, Plaintiffs
offer no evidence that Decedent was actually supervised by an employee of
RBM.  
Plaintiffs argue that RBM was Decedent’s only employer, and
that he was not employed by Security. (Response to SS Nos. 13-18.)  However, the evidence submitted by Plaintiffs merely
shows Decedent was employed by RBM, not that he was only employed by
RBM.  Thus, the evidence submitted by
Plaintiffs is not inconsistent with Decedent’s dual employment by RBM and
Security.  
Plaintiffs have not met their burden of raising a triable
issue of material fact regarding Decedent’s dual employment by RBM and
Security.  
Accordingly, Security’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  The
Motion for Summary Adjudication is MOOT. 


RBM and Security’s Identical Evidentiary Objections: 
 
1.     
Overruled
2.     
Overruled
3.     
Overruled
4.     
Overruled

5.     
Sustained
6.     
Overruled

7.     
Overruled

8.     
Overruled

9.     
Overruled

10. 
Overruled
11. 
Overruled
12. 
Overruled
13. 
Overruled
14. 
Overruled
15. 
Overruled
16. 
Overruled
17. 
Overruled
18. 
Overruled
19. 
Overruled
20. 
Overruled
21. 
Overruled
22. 
Overruled
 
 
Defendant SULLY-MILLER
CONTRACTING COMPANY Unopposed Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication 
 
Plaintiffs allege that
on April 13, 2022, the Decedent was working for RBM, while utilizing a mobile
concrete/asphalt crushing plant that was owned and operated by Security, which
was located on a piece of property owned by Sully-Miller. (FAC ¶15.) Plaintiffs
allege that the Decedent was fatally injured after his arm was caught and
pulled into a machine. FAC ¶¶16 and 17.) 
 
Defendant Sully-Miller
argues that Plaintiffs are precluded from suing Sully-Miller for the Subject
Incident under the Privette Doctrine. Specifically, Sully-Miller contends that
RBM was an independent contractor, and its employees were not employees or agents
of Sully-Miller. 
 
As of July 3, 2024, no
Opposition(s) have been filed/lodged with this Court.  
 
A hirer of a contractor owes no
duty of care to the contractor’s injured employee because the employee has an
alternative remedy through the workers’ compensation system. (Privette v. Superior
Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 696-702.) “[W]hen the person injured by
negligently performed contracted work is one of the contractor’s own employees,
the injury is already compensable under the workers’ compensation scheme and
therefore the doctrine of peculiar risk should provide no tort remedy, for
those same injuries, against the person who hired the independent contractor.”
(Madden v. Summit View, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1267.) It is “unfair
to subject the hirer to civil liability while the actor primarily responsible
for the injury was subject only to the limited liability imposed by workers’
compensation law. (Browne v. Turner Construction Co. (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 1334, 1342.) Generally, an injured employee of an independent
contractor cannot sue the landowner who hired the contractor. (Seabright
Ins. Co. v. U.S. Airways, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 590, 594.) The remedy for
injuries to the contractor’s employees is worker’s compensation. (Id. at
598.) 
 
A hirer of a contractor owes no
duty of care to the contractor’s injured employee because the employee has an
alternative remedy through the workers’ compensation system. (Privette v.
Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 696-702.) “[W]hen the person injured
by negligently performed contracted work is one of the contractor’s own
employees, the injury is already compensable under the workers’ compensation
scheme and therefore the doctrine of peculiar risk should provide no tort
remedy, for those same injuries, against the person who hired the independent
contractor.” (Madden v. Summit View, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1267.)
It is “unfair to subject the hirer to civil liability while the actor primarily
responsible for the injury was subject only to the limited liability imposed by
workers’ compensation law. (Browne v. Turner Construction Co. (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 1334, 1342.) Generally, an injured employee of an independent
contractor cannot sue the landowner who hired the contractor. (Seabright
Ins. Co. v. U.S. Airways, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 590, 594.) The remedy for
injuries to the contractor’s employees is worker’s compensation. (Id. at
598.) 
 
An employer may be
liable for injuries suffered by an independent contractor’s employees because
of unsafe conditions at the worksite which the employer controlled. (See McKown
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 219, 225-226 [claim that
employer of independent contractor requested use of unsafe equipment held
sufficient to show employer contributed to injuries suffered by contractor’s
employees].); (but see Hooker v. Dept. of Transp. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198,
214-215 [claim that employer of independent contractor permitted construction
vehicles to pass by crane operator creating unsafe condition was not sufficient
to show employer contributed to the contractor’s employees’ injuries.].) The
principal employer is liable only insofar as its exercise of retained control
affirmatively contributed to the independent contractor's employee's injuries:
“Such an assertion of control occurs, for example, when the principal employer
directs that the contracted work be done by use of a certain mode or otherwise
interferes with the means and methods by which the work is to be
accomplished.”  (Hooker v. Department
of Transp., supra, 27 Cal.4th at 215.) [internal quotes omitted]; (Millard
v. Biosources, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1348 [no evidence to show
general contractor controlled “means and methods” of subcontractor's employee's
work.].)  
 
“When the employer
directs that work be done by use of a particular mode or otherwise interferes
with the means and methods of accomplishing the work, an affirmative
contribution occurs. When the hirer does not fully delegate the task of
providing a safe working environment but in some manner actively participates
in how the job is done, the hirer may be held liable to the employee if its
participation affirmatively contributed to the employee's injury. [¶] By
contrast, passively permitting an unsafe condition to occur rather than
directing it to occur does not constitute affirmative contribution. The failure
to institute specific safety measures is not actionable unless there is some
evidence that the hirer or the contractor had agreed to implement these measures.
Thus, the failure to exercise retained control does not constitute an
affirmative contribution to an injury. Such affirmative contribution must be
based on a negligent exercise of control. In order for a worker to recover on a
retained control theory, the hirer must engage in some active
participation.”  (Tverberg v. Fillner
Constr., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1439, 1446.) [internal citations
omitted.]
 
The following facts are
undisputed: 
 
·       
On April 20, 2022, Sully-Miller
entered into an agreement with RBM for the work performed at 5625 South Gate,
California 90280. (SS No. 1.) 
·       
The 2022 Agreement was for RBM to
crush concrete and asphalt into base material at Sully-Miller’s place of
business. (SS No. 3.) 
·       
Pursuant to the 2022 Agreement, RBM
was an independent contractor of Sully-Miller. (SS No. 4.) 
·       
Pursuant to the 2022 Agreement,
Sully-Miller did not exercise or have any control or supervision over RBM, its
operations, or its employees. (SS No. 5.) 
·       
Pursuant to the 2022 Agreement, all
personnel hired by RBM are considered employees, agents, or subcontractors of
RBM and RBM is solely responsible for all persons it employed. (SS No. 6.) 
·       
At the time of the Subject Incident,
Decedent was employed by RBM. (SS No. 10.) 
·       
None of Sully-Miller’s employees
were involved with the Subject Incident, and Sully-Miller received no citations
from OSHA. (SS No. 11.) 
·       
Sully-Miller does not perform any
quality control or safety testing with respect to the mobile crushing plant
that was involved in the Incident. (SS No. 24.) 
·       
The safety personnel employed by
Sully Miller do not have any safety oversight on the mobile crushing plant
utilized by RBM and Security. (SS No. 25.) 
·       
Sully-Miller was responsible for its
employees and did not retain control of the safety of employees of Security or
RBM. (SS No. 26.) 
·       
Sully-Miller does not monitor the
work performed by RBM or its subcontractors or employees. (SS No. 28.) 
·       
Sully-Miller did not supervise,
direct or instruct any employees of Security or RBM as to how they were to
perform their work or how they were to use and/or operate the mobile crushing
plant on the date of the Subject Incident. (SS No. 29.) 
·       
Sully-Miller does not determine
whether RBM or Security’s employees are given certain training. (SS No. 30.) 
·       
Sully-Miller did not provide
employees of RBM or Security with any equipment to perform the crushing work.
Any equipment needed to perform the work was provided by RBM or Security. (SS
No. 34.) 
 
Sully-Miller
has carried its burden to demonstrate that it cannot be held liable for
negligence under the Privette Doctrine. As such, the burden shifts to
Plaintiffs to raise triable issues as to Sully-Miller’s liability. 

 
As indicated above, Plaintiffs
do not oppose this Motion. Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to raise any
triable issues of fact as to Sully-Miller’s liability. 
 
Accordingly, Sully-Miller’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 