  Case Number:  21NWCV00400    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  C The Windmill Co. Inc. vs. Fayek
Sedrak, et al.
Case No.: 21NWCV00400
Hearing Date: July 9, 2024 
#1 
Tentative Ruling 
I.            
Defendant O&C Hillside’s Motion for
Sanctions is MOOT. 
II.           
Defendant Sedrak’s Motin for Sanctions is DENIED.

Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
On June 21, 2021, Plaintiff, The Windmill Co., Inc.,
(“Plaintiff”) filed an action against Defendants Fayez Sedrak (“Sedrak”) and
O&C Hillside Resources Management Co. (“O&C Hillside”), alleging Breach
of Contract, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and
Declaratory Relief. In a First Amended Complaint filed on February 6, 2023
(“FAC”) Plaintiff alleged that on January 3, 2020, Plaintiff entered into a
Sale of Business agreement with O&C Hillside to purchase the business known
as ARCO AM PM 6545 located at 13550 Beach Blvd, La Mirada, CA, for
$1,590,000.00. The parties opened an Escrow at Ace Escrow where they each
signed mutual escrow instructions and Plaintiff deposited $30,000 into Escrow.
(Id., ¶¶ 8-9; Benge Decl. in support of MSJ, Exhibit 1.) Escrow was to close in
90 days. (Benge Decl. in support of MSJ, Exhibit 2.) 
The original escrow for the purchase of the Arco AM/PM was
signed on January 3, 2020. The original purchase price was $1,590,000.00.
(Benge Decl. in support of MSJ ¶¶ 3-4; Exhibits 1-2.) However, during the first
escrow period several problems arose, including the necessity by Tesoro (the
franchisor) to elect not to exercise their right of first refusal, the
Landlord’s unwillingness to sign the assignment and assumption of ground lease,
and problems with a Hydrogen facility. (Sedrak Decl. in Support of MSJ ¶¶ 9,
14, 24; Benge Decl. in support of MSJ ¶¶ 10, 17.) During this period, Plaintiff
obtained a loan approval note dated October 1, 2020, for $1,110,000.00.
(Mashney Decl. in Opposition of MSJ, Exhibit 9.) For those reasons an amended
escrow agreement was signed on January 21, 2021. Those instructions stated that
escrow was to close within ninety days. (Benge Decl. in Support of MSJ, Exhibit
3.) The amended agreement called for a promissory note for $150,000.00 with an
interest rate of 0% per annum for eight years. In addition, the Escrow
Amendment changed the purchase price to $1,940,000.00. (Benge Decl. in Support
of MSJ, Exhibit 3.) 
During this time, Plaintiff did not deposit funds into
escrow as required by the amended escrow agreement or obtain a loan. However,
on March 22, 2021, Defendant Sedrak emailed an Ace Escrow account for an agent
named “Debbie” to cancel escrow. (Mashney Decl. in Opposition of MSJ, Ex. 16.)
This cancellation occurred 30 days prior to the close of 90-day window. On May
25, 2021, Plaintiff sent a demand for specific performance as to all
Defendants, which went unanswered. (Mashney Decl. in Opposition of MSJ, Exhibit
17.) On June 21, 2021, Plaintiff, the Windmill Co., Inc., filed an action
against Fayez Sedrak and O&C Hillside Resources Management Co., alleging
Breach of Contract, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing,
and Declaratory Relief. (See Complaint.) On August 1, 2021, Defendants emailed
a Notice of Default and Second Demand and Notice to Perform Escrow, which gave
only five days to deposit the funds. (Mashney Decl. in Opposition of MSJ,
Exhibit 18.) On August 4, 2021, Plaintiff sent the second demand for specific
performance. (Mashney Decl. in Opposition of MSJ, Exhibit 20.) 
On October 7, 2021, Plaintiff obtained a second loan
approval note for $1,940,000.00. (Mashney Decl. in Opposition of MSJ, Exhibit
21.) Plaintiff claims that Defendant O&C Hillside did not sign a 4506T form
that Defendant claims is necessary for the loan to be processed.
On January 8, 2024, Defendants filed the two instant
Motions for Sanctions based on CCP § 128.5 and 128.7. 
Discussion 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, subdivision (a),
provides that “[a] trial court may order a party, the party’s attorney, or
both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” 
Frivolous refers to an action that is “totally and complete
without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (b)(2).) Whether an action is frivolous is governed
by an objective standard; “a suit indisputably has no merit only where any
reasonable attorney would agree that the action is totally and completely
without merit.” (Finnie v. Town of Tiburon (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1, 12,
quotation marks omitted.) There must also be a showing of subjective bad faith
on the part of the attorney or party to be sanctioned. (Campbell v. Cal-Gard
Surety Services, Inc. (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 563, 574 (Campbell).) 
Section 128.7 states that “[b]y presenting to the court,
whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading,
petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or
unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge,
information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the
circumstances, all of the following conditions are met: (1) It is not being
presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary
delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation; (2) The claims, defenses,
and other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a
nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing
law or the establishment of new law; (3) The allegations and other factual
contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are
likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery; and (4) The denials of factual contentions are
warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably
based on a lack of information or belief.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 128.7,
subds. (b)(1)-(4).) 
Defendant O&C Hillside 
Defendant O&C Hillside concedes that “the Court’s
finding of the presence of a material issue of fact precludes sanctions under
sections 128.5 and 128.7. As a result, the Motion for Sanctions filed by
O&C Hillside has become moot.” (Reply in Support of Sanctions, filed on May
15, 2024, p. 1:22-24.) 
Accordingly, the Motion for Sanctions filed by Defendant
O&C Hillside is MOOT. 
Defendant Sedrak
Sedrak contends that Plaintiff and its
Counsel have knowingly maintained an action which does not exist against
Sedrak, and which has no basis in fact or law. 
The Court disagrees. 
In Opposition to Sedrak’s motion for
summary judgment, Plaintiff presented evidence from Sedrak’s deposition that he
is “everything” at O&C Hillside, he holds all corporate titles, and makes
all the major decisions. (1/29/24 Order Granting Sedrak’s Motion for Summary
Judgment.)  The Court ruled in favor of
Sedrak because Plaintiff failed to produce evidence of fraudulent behavior, commingling
of funds, or any other conduct that establishes alter ego liability.  However, failure to produce evidence does not
mean such evidence does not exist.  At
the hearing, Plaintiff requested a continuance because O&C Hillside had not
provided financial documents that could establish commingling.  The Court denied the request because it was
untimely, not because evidence of commingling did not exist.  Under these circumstances, the Court cannot
determine that Plaintiff maintained its lawsuit against Sedrak in bad
faith.    
 
Sedrak contends that a reasonable investigation would have
revealed the absence of any cause of action for violation of the Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing and the non-existence of a Declaratory Relief
claim. Sedrak further maintains that the Breach of Contract claim is
objectively frivolous because Plaintiff had no loan commitment, signed an
escrow on January 21, 2021, waiving all prior claims of any default, and it
failed to perform the Escrow Contract within 90 days as provided for in the
Escrow. 
As to the second cause of action for Violation of the Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, the Court finds that this cause of action was not
alleged in bad faith because Plaintiff presented evidence in Opposition to the
Motion for Summary Judgment that, among other things, Sedrak emailed Ace Escrow
to cancel escrow 30 days prior to the end of the 90-day escrow period closing.
(Opposition to MSJ, Mashney Decl., Ex. 16.)  The Court found that Plaintiff had raised a
triable issue of material fact as to whether this prevented Plaintiff from satisfying
its obligations. (1/29/24 Order denying O&C Hillside’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
of the second cause of action.)  
As to the third cause of action for Declaratory Relief, the
Court denied the motion for summary adjudication, reasoning that it had denied
relief as to the breach of contract cause of action and if, after a trial, the
court decides to uphold the agreement and order specific performance, there
will be a future relationship between the parties. Since an actual controversy
has been established, declaratory relief would be required to preserve the
rights and obligations of both parties. 
(1/29/24 Order denying O&C Hillside’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication of the first and third causes of action.)  
Accordingly, Defendant Sedrak’s Motion for Sanctions under
CCP §§ 128.5 and 128.7 is DENIED.  