 Case Number:  24NWCV00981    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  C Cerritos
Retail Centercal, LLC vs. Wokcano Cerritos, LLC, Case No. 24NWCV00981
 
This is an
unlawful detainer action. Defendant moves ex parte to advance the hearing on
the motion to set aside, which is currently set for August 7, 2024. 
 
Default
judgment was entered on June 14, 2024.  
 
Defendant was
served a five-day notice to vacate on July 2, 2024. 
 
Defendant filed
the instant motion on Monday, July 8, 2024.
 
Defendant
argues that it did not receive actual notice of the May 29, 2024 ex parte
hearing and was unaware that it had to answer within five days. 
 
On May 29,
2024, the Court issued the following order:
 
“[T]he Court
conferred with Plaintiff’s Counsel, Nahal Zarnighian. There was no appearance
by Defendant. The Court stated that it had reviewed Defendant’s motion to set
aside default and was inclined to grant the motion under CCP § 473, subd. (b).
Defendant appears to argue that it relied upon a tentative ruling posted by the
Court which granted Defendant an opportunity to file a Supplemental Reply by
May 14, 2024. Defendant denies having received notice of the Court’s final
order requiring Defendant to Answer within 5 days. Given the Court’s
inclination with respect to Defendant’s motion to set aside default, and in an
effort to expedite these proceedings, Plaintiff’s Counsel had no opposition to
the Court advancing Defendant’s motion to be heard today. Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s ex parte application to shorten time for hearing on Defendant’s
motion to set aside default is GRANTED. Defendant’s motion to set aside default
is ADVANCED to today’s date and GRANTED. The demurrer filed on May 20, 2024 is
STRICKEN because it was filed when Defendant was still in default. The hearing
on Defendant’s demurrer is ADVANCED to today’s date and taken OFF-CALENDAR.
Defendant is ORDERED to file and serve an answer or other responsive pleading
within 5 days.  Clerk to give notice. The Court orders the default entered
on 05/16/2024 as to Wokcano Cerritos, LLC, a California limited liability
company vacated. Certificate of Mailing is attached.” (5/29/24 Minute Order.)
 
In the instant
ex parte application, Defendant claims it did not receive actual notice of the
May 29, 2024 ex parte hearing and was unaware it had to answer within 5
days.  However, the minute order reflects that the Clerk provided notice
of the Court’s ruling to the parties.  Moreover, the argument Defendant
makes here is the same one it made in its previous motion to set aside
default.  The Court granted the previous ex parte application.  With
respect to the instant motion, the Court determines that Defendant’s claim of
ignorance is not supported by the record and is made solely for the purpose of
delay.
 
Accordingly,
the ex parte application is DENIED.
 
Clerk to give
notice.