  Case Number:  22SMCV02568    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 15, 2024, continued to November 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02568




MOTION


Motion to Be Admitted Pro Hac Vice




MOVING PARTY


Richard C. Ebeling, Esq., counsel for Plaintiff 27715 PCH
  LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
 
MOTION
 
Seth E. Darmstadter (“Counsel”) has filed a motion to appear as
counsel pro hac vice for Plaintiff Adam Bold (“Plaintiff”).  The motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            California Rules of Court rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of the
application fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of
California, and is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional,
or other activities in the State of California. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40.)
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office
addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
            In support of the application,
Plaintiff has provided the Declaration of Seth E. Darmstadter, which provides
all this information.  Further, Plaintiff
has provided the declaration of Morris Sarafian, local counsel, providing proof
that the application fee was paid.
 
            However, the proof of service does
not indicate that the State Bar was served by mail at its San Francisco
office.  This is insufficient to demonstrate compliance with California
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(c).  Rule
9.40(c)(1) provides:  “A person desiring
to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court
a verified application together with proof of service by mail in
accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the
application and of the notice of hearing of the application on
all parties who have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California
at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be given at the
time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the
court has prescribed a shorter period.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1), emphasis added.)  
 
            The
Court continued the hearing to enable Counsel to effectuate proper service on
the State Bar by mail at its San Francisco office.  Subsequently, Counsel filed a Supplemental
Declaration of Morris Sarafian, demonstrating that on October 22, 2024, service
of the application and updated hearing date were served by certified mail on
the State Bar at its San Francisco office. 
Therefore, the motion is both procedurally and substantively proper. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
Therefore, finding Counsel has satisfied all requirements, the Court
grants Counsel’s motion to appear pro hac vice in this matter.  Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s
ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
DATED: November 19, 2024                                                 ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 