..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21SMUD00229
Plaintiff's Name: Zhang
Defendant's Name: West Idaho, LLC
People-Names: Mohseni, West Idaho's security guard
Company-Names: West Idaho, LLC
Places: Apartment, Leasing office
Dates: March 5, 2021, June 12, 2024, August 5, 2024
Events: Noise complaint, Security guard investigation, Locks changed, Property taken
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: West Idaho seeks summary judgment on Zhang's cross-complaint
Facts: Security guard investigated noise complaint, Zhang claims emotional distress, West Idaho changed locks, Zhang claims forcible detainer and conversion
Disputes: Whether West Idaho's conduct was extreme and outrageous, whether West Idaho breached duty of care, whether West Idaho committed forcible detainer and conversion
Acts: West Idaho moving for summary judgment, Zhang opposing motion
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code
Case Citations: Johnson v. Superior Court, 580 Folsom Assocs. v. Prometheus Dev. Co., Wilson v. Hynek, So v. Shin, Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc., Hughes v. Pair, Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric Medical Clinic, Inc., Bogard v. Employers Causalty Co., Peterson v. Superior Court, Mora v. Baker Commodities, Inc., California Code of Civil Procedure ยง 1160
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure ยง 437c, California Civil Code ยง1714(a)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff (Zhang), Defendant (West Idaho, LLC), Security guard (Mohseni)
Significant Statements:
* "A party is entitled to bring a motion for summary judgment where there are no triable issues of fact and moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law."
* "The scope of the defendant's initial burden is defined by the pleadings."
* "Deciding whether conduct is 'outrageous' is usually a question of fact."
* "A landlord owes a tenant a duty of reasonable care in providing and maintaining the rented premises in a safe condition."
* "It is not necessary that there be a manual taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter has applied the property to his own use."
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The tentative ruling is in favor of West Idaho, LLC, and grants its motion for summary judgment on Zhang's cross-complaint. The court finds that West Idaho has met its initial burden in showing that there are no triable issues of fact and that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Specifically, the court finds that West Idaho's conduct was not extreme and outrageous, that it did not breach its duty of care to Zhang, and that it did not commit forcible detainer or conversion. The court notes that Zhang has not presented any evidence to dispute these findings and has not raised any questions of material fact.
