 Case Number:  22SMCV01816    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Purner, et al. v. Greystone
Properties, LLC, et al., Case No. 22SMCV01816
Hearing Date:
August 5, 2024
Plaintiffs’ Motion
for Leave to Amend the Complaint – UNOPPOSED 
 
In this habitability
action arising from bed bug infestation, plaintiff tenants seek for leave to
file a first amended complaint, adding three new causes for actions. 
 
Leave to amend is permitted under Code of Civil Procedure sections
473(a) and 576. The policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the
same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to
amend can be justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of
great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . ..
[citation].  A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must comply with California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a declaration to set forth what
allegations are to be added and where, and what new evidence was discovered
warranting amendment and why the amendment was not made earlier. The motion
must include (1) a proposed and numbered amendment, (2) specifications by
reference to pages and lines the allegations that would be deleted and added,
and (3) a declaration specifying the effect, necessity and propriety of the
amendments, date of discovery and reasons for delay. Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a), (b).
 
The motion
complies with CRC rule 3.1324. Plaintiffs’ counsel states the deposition of
Josh Wolf on May 14, 2024, revealed additional facts and violations of
Plaintiffs’ rights by the defendant. Bartlett Decl. ¶ 3. Plaintiffs specify the
effect, necessity, and propriety of the amendment because they state the
proposed FAC seeks to “clean up” allegations and errors in the Complaint while
adding three new causes of action: 1) violation of the Tenant Anti-Harassment
Ordinance; 2) negligence; and 3) breach of contract based on an illegal
contract. Id. ¶¶ 5-6. 
 
Plaintiffs specify
where the edits would be made by providing a blue-lined copy of the proposed
FAC showing the changes between the proposed FAC and the complaint. Id.
¶ 7; Exh. B. Finally, Bartlett states the amendment was not made earlier
because plaintiffs were unable to get an agreement with defendants to file a
joint stipulation. Id. ¶¶ 4, 9. Defendants would not be prejudiced as
they have not taken any depositions of the plaintiffs and do not file an
opposition. Id. ¶ 3. GRANTED. 