  Case Number:  22NWCV00320    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  C THE PACIFIC SOUTHWEST
DISTRICT OF LUTHERAN CHURCH-MISSOURI SYNOD v. JENSEN
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00320
HEARING:  12/12/24
JUDGE:
RAUL A. SAHAGUN
 
#8
 
    
I.       
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
PEACE LUTHERAN CHURCH, INCORPORATED, OF SOUTH GATE, CALIFORNIA’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED.  The
alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
 
   
II.       
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
PACIFIC SOUTHWEST DISTRICT OF THE LUTHERAN CHURCH – MISSOURI SYNOD’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is MOOT. The alternative Motion for Summary
Adjudication is MOOT.  The Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
  III.       
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
PEACE LUTHERAN CHURCH, INCORPORATED, OF SOUTH GATE, CALIFORNIA’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff THE PACIFIC SOUTHWEST DISTRICT OF THE LUTHERAN CHURCH
-MISSOURI SYNOD’s Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED. 
 
Prevailing
Party(s) to give notice. 
 
As
an initial matter, the following documents, filed without leave of Court, are
STRICKEN: 
 
·       
Response
to PSWD’s Reply to PLC’s Opposition to PSWD’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
filed on December 9, 2024. 
 
·       
Reply
to PSWD’s Evidentiary Objections to PLCs Evidence in Support of its Opposition
to Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication filed on December 9, 2024. 
 
·       
Objection
to Peace Lutheran Church’s Response to Plaintiff’s Reply to its MSA. 
 
The
Court will only review and rely on documents timely filed per Code. 
 
BACKGROUND

 
This
action for quiet title was filed by Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant PACIFIC SOUTHWEST
DISTRICT OF THE LUTHERAN CHURCH-MISSOURI SYNOD (“Plaintiff” or “PSWD”) against
Defendants IRENE JENSEN; CHASTITY CARVEL; CAROL L. OLSON; KIDS FORUM PRESCHOOL
AND DAYCARE; JANET TORRES; HECTOR TORRES; ASAMBLEA APOSTOLICA; PEACE COMMUNITY
CHURCH OF SOUTHGATE AND WEDDING CHAPEL; PEACE LUTHERAN CHURCH, INCORPORATED, OF
SOUTHGATE (“Defendant” or “PLC”); and Does 1-50 on April 26, 2022. Plaintiff’s
action seeks to determine ownership of the church where PLC’s congregation
gathers. PSWD contends that it now owns the Subject Property pursuant to PLC’s
constitution because PLC’s congregation no longer exists. 
 
On
August 5, 2024, the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. The
FAC alleges the following relevant facts: “This action seeks to quiet title to
the property located at 4513 Tweedy Blvd., 4523 Tweedy Blvd., the adjoining
wall between them….” (FAC ¶11.) PSWD contends that it now owns the Subject
Property pursuant to PLC’s constitution because PLC’s congregation no longer
exists. “Pursuant to C7.01 of the 1994 Constitution of Peace South Gate, all
funds, property, and title thereto shall pass to Plaintiff when Peace South
Gate ceases to exist. [¶] The congregation of Peace South Gate has ceased to
exist within the meaning of C6.04 of the January 23, 1994 Constitution of Peace
South Gate. [¶] By reason of the non-existence of defendant Peace South Gate’s
congregation, Plaintiff is the sole owner of property located at 4513 Tweedy
Blvd., 4523 Tweedy Blvd., the adjoining wall between them….” (FAC¶¶25-27.)”
“[D]efendants… claim an illegal and inequitable right in the subject real
property, which claims are adverse to Plaintiff’s title and are a cloud of
Plaintiff’s title.” (FAC ¶28.) 
 
The
FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Quiet
Title; 
(2)
Accounting;

(3)
Common
Count – Money Had and Received; 
(4)
Trespass;

(5)
Conspiracy;

(6)
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty; 
(7)
Declaratory
Relief; 
(8)
Imposition
of Constructive Trust; and 
(9)
Ejectment
 
On
May 8, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant PLC filed a Cross-Complaint. PLC
alleges that “[a]t no given time has the Peace Lutheran Church; nor its
congregants; provided any notice to the Pacific District, that Peace Lutheran
Church has ceased to exist as an active congregation. And… Peace Lutheran
Church has never filed for legal dissolution. The PLC congregation remains as
an active, viable congregation in the community, and; in good standing with the
state of California, as a duly registered nonprofit religious corporation.” (XC
¶16.) “It is the property of Peace Lutheran Church, which the Plaintiff seeks
to improperly; and fraudulently; take from PLC, through the District’s quiet
title action.” (XC ¶17.) 
 
The
XC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Declaratory
and Injunctive Relief; 
(2)
Unfair
Business Practices; 
(3)
Breach
of Contract; 
(4)
Unjust
Enrichment; 
(5)
Constructive
Trust; 
(6)
Fraud;

(7)
Fraud
in the Inducement; 
(8)
Negligent
Misrepresentation; 
(9)
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty; 
(10) 
Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
moves for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication as to the
following of Plaintiff’s causes of action: (1) Quiet Title; (2) Accounting; (3)
Common Count – Money Had and Received; (4) Trespass; (5) Conspiracy; (6) Breach
of Fiduciary Duty; (7) Declaratory Relief; (8) Imposition of Constructive
Trust; and (9) Ejectment.
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
PSWD moves for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication of the
following issues: (1) PSWD’s right to own and possess the subject property
(implicated by PSWD’s first, seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of action; and PLC’s
first cause of action in its Cross-Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive
Relief; and (2) PLC lacks standing to defend against PSWD’s FAC or to maintain its
own Cross-Complaint
 
I.            
Plaintiff PSWD’s Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication 
 
A.  
Jurisdiction 
 
In support of the Motion, PSWD argues that this Court has
jurisdiction and authority to resolve the dispute over church property. 
 
PLC does not dispute this argument in Opposition. 
 
“[S]ecular courts called on to resolve church property disputes
should proceed as follows: State courts must not decide questions of religious
doctrine; those are for the church to resolve. Accordingly, if resolution of a
property dispute involves a point of doctrine, the court must defer to the
position of the highest ecclesiastical authority that has decided the point.
But to the extent the court can resolve a property dispute without reference to
church doctrine, it should apply neutral principles of law. The court should
consider sources such as the deeds to the property in dispute, the local
church’s articles of incorporation, the general church’s constitution, canons,
and rules, and relevant statutes, including statutes specifically concerning
religious property.” (In re Episcopal Church Cases (2009) 45 Cal.4th
467, 485.) 
 
Here, the Court need not review or apply religious doctrine in
order to resolve the parties’ dispute over the Subject Property. Therefore,
this Court has authority and jurisdiction to resolve this issue. 
 
B.  
Standing 
 
PSWD argues that PLC lacks standing to defend against this action,
and to maintain its Cross-Complaint because “the congregation that used to
control PLC has ceased to exist. In the absence of a congregation, PLC’s
self-described surviving member moved into the church premises, appointed
herself pastor and reverend, and began “playing church.” (Motion 19:7-9.) 
 
Given the number of disputed facts (discussed below) regarding
whether PLC maintains a congregation, the Court finds that PLC has presented
triable issues of material fact as to whether it has standing to defend itself
and maintain it’s Cross-Complaint. 
Summary adjudication of this issue is DENIED. 
 
C.  
PSWD’s First, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Causes of Action for
Quiet Title; Declaratory Relief; Imposition of Constructive Trust; and Ejectment
and PLC’s First Cause of Action for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief
 
An
action for quiet title must include: (1) a description of the property that is
the subject of the action, including both the legal description and its street
address or common designation if the subject property is real property; (2) the
plaintiff’s title as to which determination is sought and basis of the title;
(3) the adverse claims to the plaintiff’s title against which a determination
is sought; (4) the date of which the determination is sought; and (5) a prayer
for the determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.
(CCP §761.020.)  The seventh, eight, and
ninth causes of action are derivative of the first cause of action. 
 
In
this action, it is undisputed that PSWD is not the holder of legal title over
the Subject Property. Rather, PLC, is and has been the holder of legal title
over the Subject Property since 1945 (prior to joining PSWD in 1994). (PSWD SS
Nos. 4-6.) 
 
However,
PSWD argues that it is entitled to summary judgment/adjudication because PSWD
became the equitable holder of title to the Subject Property when PLC’s
congregation ceased to exist in 2015, and PLC is bound by the terms of its 1994
Constitution. 
 
The
Supreme Court indicated that parties can avert church property disputes by
making appropriate provisions in deeds, corporate charters, and denomination
constitutions. (Jones v. Wolf (1979) 443 U.S. 595, 606.) “[T]he civil
courts will be bound to give effect to the result indicated by the parties,
provided it is embodied in some legally cognizable form.” (Id.) Here,
CLW’s 1994 Constitution states:  “C7.01.
If this congregation ceases to exist, all property and funds remaining after
payment of the debts of the Congregation shall along with the title to the
undisposed property, shall pass to the Pacific Southwest District, Lutheran
Church-Missouri Synod.” (PSWD SS No. 10.) Under Jones v. Wolf this Court
has the authority to give effect to the parties’ intentions. Thus, the issue is
whether PLC’s congregation ceases to exist. 
 
PSWD
proffers the following evidence in support of its Motion to prove that PLC’s
congregation no longer exists: 
 
·       
On
January 23, 1994, PLC adopted it’s operative constitution. (PSWD SS. No. 5.) 
·       
On
January 26, 1994, the Pacific Southwest District Boad of Directors accepted
Peace Lutheran Church of South Gate into membership of the Lutheran Church -
Missouri Synod. (PSWD SS No. 7.) 
·       
Local
churches such as Peace Lutheran Church agree to abide by the requirements
imposed by the Lutheran Church – Missouri Synod’s Constitution and Bylaws as a
condition of membership. (PSWD SS No. 8.) 
·       
Membership
entitles PLC to be included in the PCMS’s group tax exemption which PLC has
utilized since 1994. (PSWD SS No. 9.) 
·       
PLC’s
1994 Constitution includes the following language: “C7.01: If this congregation
ceases to exist, all property and funds remaining after payment of the debts of
the Congregation shall along with the title to the undisclosed property, shall
pass to the Pacific Southwest District, Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod.” (PSWD
SS No. 10.) 
·       
Pastor
Dennis Garrels served PLC as its pastor from 2006 through December of 2015.
(PSWD SS No. 20.) 
·       
Pastor
Garrels retired in December 2015, and his retirement is not reflected in any of
PLC’s record. (PSWD SS No. 21.) 
·       
Between
2015 and the beginning of this litigation, PLC has not made any attempt to call
a pastor as required. (PSWD No. 22.) 
·       
Defendant
Irene Jensen passed away on January 15, 2023. (PSWD SS No. 23.) 
·       
PLC
has no meeting minutes from the period between December of 2015 and February
20, 2022. (PSWD SS No. 31; and 32-46.) 
·       
Heriberto
Alarcon denies that he has ever been a Lutheran or a pastor or member of PLC.
(PSWD SS No. 48.) Heriberto Alaron belongs to a bible study group that used to
rent space from PLC. (PSWD SS No. 50.) 
·       
Irma
Alarcon denies that she has ever been a Lutheran or member of PLC. (PSWD SS No.
49.) 
·       
PLC
has been unable to produce a membership roll. (PSWD SS No. 56.) 
·       
PLC
has no records identifying its employees from at least 2016 to present, and no
records of church attendance from at least 2017 to present. (PSWD SS Nos.
57-58.) 
·       
PLC
gave no financial support to PSWD between December 2015 and the initiation of
this litigation. After the litigation began, PLC sent checks for previous
years’ convention assessments. (PSWD SS No. 60.) 
·       
PLC
gave no reports to the Synod of its membership or other statistical information
between December 2015 and present. (PSWD SS No. 61.) 
·       
In
PLC’s responses to discovery, PLC has failed to identify who received
communion, when, and who administered it from 2017 to present. (PSWD SS. No.
73.) 
 
In
Opposition, PLC argues that summary judgment/adjudication must be denied
because PSWD and PLC are in a congregational relationship, but PSWD has no
ecclesiastical authority over PLC. (PLC AMF No. 15.) Moreover, PLC proffers its
own evidence to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether PLC’s
congregation continues to exist: 
 
·       
PLC
livestream’s Pastor Eli’s services over the internet. (PLC AMF No. 19.) 
·       
Heriberto
Alarcon is a bilingual Pastor. Pastor Eddie was presented to CEO President Jon
Niederbrach as the Spanish Pastor of PLC in 2019. (PLC AMF No. 25.) 
·       
Pastor
Eddie was appointed as pastor at a meeting on February 20, 2020. (PLC AMF No.
28.) 
·       
Chastity
Carvel, Secretary for the corporation of PLC declares, under penalty of perjury
that “PLC has not filed any legal dissolution, and PLC has not dissolved…. The
PLC congregation has not ceased to exist.” (Carvel Decl., ¶¶7-8.) Carvel
declares that, according to the Church records of PLC,  there are currently 6 congregational members
of Peace Lutheran Church: Marylin Milner; Stacie Carranza; Chastity Carvel;
Michael Carvel; Patricia Ramirez; and James Makaokalani. (Carvel Decl., ¶10.)
Carvel further states that there is no requirement as to a minimum amount of
members. (Carvel Decl. ¶18.) 
·       
PSWD’s
President Dr. Gibson, testified that it is not uncommon for a church to go
without a pastor, sometimes for two to three years. (Opp. Ev. Ex. I.) 
 
The Court finds that PLC raises a number of disputed issues
regarding whether PLC’s congregation ceased to exist in 2015. Summary Judgment
and Adjudication of the claims for Quiet Title, and derivative claims for
Declaratory Relief, Ejectment, and Injunctive Relief is DENIED. 
 
In a hierarchically organized church, the
general church can create a trust for itself in property owned by a member
local church simply by issuing a rule declaring that such trust exists, if the
governing instruments of that superior religious body so provide. (In re
Episcopal Church Cases (2009) 45 Cal.4th 467, 491-492.) “No assets of a
religious corporation are or shall be deemed to be impressed with any trust,
express or implied, statutory or at common law unless one of the following
applies: (1) Unless, and only to the extent that, the assets were received by
the corporation with an express commitment by resolution of its board of
directors to so hold those assets in trust. (2) Unless, and only to the extent
that, the articles or bylaws of the corporation, or the governing instruments
of a superior religious body or general church of which the corporation is a
member, so expressly provide. (3) Unless, and only to the extent that, the
donor expressly imposed a trust, in writing, at the time of the gift or
donation.” (Cal. Corp. Code §9142(c).) It is
undisputed that PLC became a member of PSWD in 1994. However, as argued in
Opposition, no evidence has been submitted to show that PLC’s constitution,
articles, or bylaws contain any express provisions creating a trust of any kind
in favor of PSWD. Cal. Corp. Code §9142 does not state that the assets of a
religious corporation may be held in a constructive trust. 
 
Therefore,
Summary Judgment and Adjudication as to the claim for the Imposition of a
Constructive Trust is DENIED. 

 
PSWD’s Motion for Summary Judgment and Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
D.  
Plaintiff PSWD’s Evidentiary Objections: 
 
1.   
Overruled 
2.   
Sustained
3.   
Sustained 
 
II.           
Defendant PLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication 
 
A.  
Statute
of Limitations
 
PLC
argues that PSWD’s claims are time-barred. 
 
“The
Legislature has not established a specific statute of limitations for actions
to quiet title. Therefore, courts refer to the underlying theory of relief to
determine the applicable period of limitations. An inquiry into the underlying
theory requires the court to identify the nature (i.e., the ‘gravamen’) of the
cause of action. [Internal Citations Omitted.]” (Salazar v. Thomas
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 467, 476.) “Generally the mostly likely time limits for
a quiet title action are the five-year limitations period for adverse
possession, the four-year limitations period for the cancellation of an
instrument, or the three-year limitations period for claims based on fraud and
mistake.” (Id. at 476-477.) 
 
Since
PSWD is not in possession of the Subject Property, the statute of limitations
can run against PSWD’s claim for quiet title. (Id at 477.) 
 
PSWD’s
claim for quiet tile does not allege an underlying theory of relief. However,
since PLC (and not PSWD) is undisputedly in possession of the Subject
Property—the statute of limitations of 5 years in connection with a theory of
adverse possession is inapplicable. 
 
PSWD
alleges: “Plaintiff seeks a judicial determination of title to the property as
of the date of Pastor Dennis E. Garrels disability/retirement from the church,
which Plaintiff is informed and believes occurred on December 5, 2015. In the
alternative, if the exact date of Pastor Garrels’ disability/retirement from
the church does not become known, Plaintiff seeks judicial determination of
title to the property as of November 1, 2017.” (FAC ¶37.) This action was filed
on April 26, 2022—which is 4 years, 5 months, and 26 days beyond November 1,
2017. Therefore, based on PSWD’s own allegations—PSWD’s claim for quiet title,
as alleged, is barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
Moreover,
as argued in Reply, the statutes of limitations of claims for trespass,
conspiracy, money had and received, breach of fiduciary duty, ejectment, and
accounting do not exceed two, three, or four years.  (see CCP §§338(b); 338(d); 339(1); 339(3);
343.) 
 
If
the Court determines at the hearing on a Motion for Summary Judgment that the
complaint is defective, the proper remedy is to allow Plaintiff to amend the
complaint. (Hobson v. Raychem Corp. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 614, 625.)
Parties moving for summary judgment need not address claims that are
unintelligible or state no recognizable legal claim. The summary judgment
process is thereby necessarily transmuted into a test of the pleadings and the
summary judgment motion into a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Leek
v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 412.) Defendant’s argument,
therefore, is essentially a motion for judgment on the pleadings. If “it
appears from the materials submitted in opposition to the motion that the
plaintiff could state a cause of action, the trial court should give the
plaintiff an opportunity to amend the complaint before entry of judgment.” (Bostrom
v. County of San Bernardino (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1654, 1663.) Therefore,
the Court treats the instant motion for summary judgment/adjudication as a
motion for judgment on the pleadings.
 
In
Opposition, PSWD states that “[w]hile Plaintiff requested a judicial
determination of title of the Subject Property on [November 1, 2017], Plaintiff
was unaware of the status of PLC at that time. [FAC ¶27.] Plaintiff attempted
to learn the status of PLC and its congregation through multiple meetings,
calls and letters with the purported leadership of the church. [] It was not
until December 20, 2021, when representatives of PLC ejected representatives of
Plaintiff from the property during a scheduled meeting, that it was confirmed
there was no congregation at PLC and that the people in possession of the
premises were hostile to Plaintiff.” (Opp. 12:25-13:4.) 
 
PLC’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to PSWD’s first through ninth causes of
action is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend. The Court declines to
substantively address any issues beyond the statute of limitations. 
 
B.  
Request
for Judicial Notice 
 
PLC’s
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents
listed that have been filed with this Court, but not as to any hearsay
statements contained therein. 
 
C.  
PSWD”s
Evidentiary Objections 
 
1.   
Overruled

2.   
Overruled
3.   
Sustained

 
D.  
PLC’s
Evidentiary Objections 
 
1.   
Overruled

2.   
Overruled

3.   
Sustained

 
III.         
Defendant PLC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff PSWD’s Responses
to Request for Production (set one)
 
PLC’s
Motion is DENIED.. “A party filing a motion… must serve and file a supporting
memorandum. The court may construe the absence of a memorandum as an admission
that the motion… is not meritorious and cause for tis denial.” (CRC Rule
3.1113(a).) The Moving Papers filed on June 12, 2024 consist solely of a Notice
of Motion. As of December 9, 2024, no memorandum of points and authorities is
on file with the Court