 Case Number:  23STCV06981    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Lillian B. Scott,
  et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCV06981




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Norm Reeves, Inc.,
  et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July 3,
2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Motion for
Appointment of Arbitrator
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Lillian
B. Scott and Patricia Y. Mogart
Responding Party: Defendant Norm
Reeves, Inc. d/b/a Norm Reeves Honda Superstore;
                                   Defendant American
Honda Finance Corporation (via Joinder)           
 
T/R:     THE MOTION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
            The Court considers the moving
papers, opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law and consumer fraud action. Plaintiffs Lillian B.
Scott and Patricia Y. Mogart sued defendants Norm Reeves, Inc., American Honda
Motor Co., Inc., Hudson Insurance Company, and American Honda Finance
Corporation on March 29, 2023. They filed their operative first amended
complaint on May 15, 2023, asserting causes of action for violations of the
Consumer Legal Remedies Act, violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act, several iterations of fraud, and unfair business practices.
 
On February 27, 2024, the Court granted Reeves’ and Honda Finance’s
motions to compel arbitration of Plaintiffs’ claims against them, and ordered
the entire action stayed pending the completion of that proceeding. 
 
EVIDENTIARY MATTERS
 
            Plaintiffs’ objections
to two of Defendants’ statements in support of the opposition are sustained.
The statements are improper argument.
 
ANALYSIS
 
While
some arbitration agreements provide a method of appointing an arbitrator, “[i]n
the absence of an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or for any
reason cannot be followed . . . the court, on petition of a party to the
arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.6.)
The arbitration agreement here states:
 
You [Plaintiffs] may choose the American Arbitration
Association, 1633 Broadway, 10th Floor, New York, New York 10019 (www.adr.org),
or any other organization to conduct the arbitration subject to our
[Defendants’] approval.
 
Plaintiffs refuse to arbitrate before the American Arbitration
Association (AAA). They claim they did not agree to arbitrate before AAA
because the Agreement allows them to “choose” between multiple options. Plaintiffs
contend the Court must appoint an arbitrator because the Agreement contains no
method of appointment.
 
This argument is unpersuasive. Plaintiffs agreed they may choose AAA. They
also agreed that any other choice is conditioned on Defendants’ approval. In
other words, they agreed they will arbitrate before AAA unless Defendants agree
otherwise. Defendants do not agree; under these circumstances, Plaintiffs
agreed to arbitrate before AAA.
 
Plaintiffs raised this issue in opposition to Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration. The Court ruled:
 
Plaintiffs assert the Court should order that the
arbitration be administered by JAMS rather than AAA. The agreement provides for
AAA as arbitrator but allows for a different arbitrator with ‘approval’ from
Defendants. The Court will not order the action to JAMS; Defendants have not
agreed to JAMS.
 
(02-27-2024 Minute
Order, p. 4.)
 
The agreed-upon method to
appoint an arbitrator has not failed; Plaintiffs simply have refused to
participate in it. If Defendants will not agree to an arbitrator other than
AAA, then the arbitration must proceed before AAA, and an arbitrator must be selected
according to the rules AAA prescribes. 


 