  Case Number:  19STCV24054    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  61 Bronson
2231 LLC’s Motion for Leave to Intervene is GRANTED. 
 
I.                  
MOTION TO
INTERVENE
 
The
court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the
action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied:
 
(A)
A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.
 
(B)
The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person's ability
to protect that interest, unless that person's interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (d)(1).)
 
The above provisions describe the circumstances where leave
to intervene is mandatory. Discretionary intervention, however, is appropriate
“(1) where the proposed intervenor has a direct interest, (2) intervention will
not enlarge the issues in the litigation, and (3) the reasons for the
intervention outweigh any opposition by the present parties.” (Lindelli v. Town of San Anselmo (2006)
139 Cal.App.4th 1499, 1504.)
Bronson 2231 LLC (Bronson) seeks leave to intervene in this
case as the title owner to one of the properties at issue, located at 2231
Bronson Avenue in Los Angeles (the Bronson property). Plaintiff Cedric Price’s
(Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleges that Defendant Jarrell Davis
(Davis) used Plaintiff’s personal information to transfer the Bronson property
to a trust of which Plaintiff is purportedly (but falsely) listed as the
trustee, and for which said trust was made the borrower for a $670,000.00 loan,
which Plaintiff had nothing to do with. (FAC ¶¶ 16–17.) Bronson here claims
title to the Bronson property by virtue of a grant deed from Toorak Capital
Partners recorded on April 6, 2022, following a foreclosure sale on the
property by which Toorak took title. (Chan Decl. ¶¶ 3, 9–10.) Bronson thus
contends it is a bona fide owner of the property, and its interest in the
property would be injured if Plaintiff succeeds in cancelling the instrument by
which the property was sold at a trustee’s sale. (Motion at p. 5.) 
 
Bronson contends its intervention will not enlarge the
issues in this case, as it seeks to quiet title to the Bronson property based
on the same facts as presented by Plaintiff and Defendant, and will raise no
claims other than to quiet title to the property and obtain a declaration of
same. (Motion at p. 6.)
 
The present motion is persuasive. Bronson has an interest
related to the property at issue in this litigation, and disposition of the
action declaring a deed of trust on the Bronson property void, as Plaintiff
desires, would risk impairing or impeding Bronson’s interest in the property.
No opposition to the motion has been filed.
 
The motion is therefore GRANTED.
 