Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: [insert case number]
Plaintiff's Name: Tom Burgett
Defendant's Name: [insert defendant's name]
People-Names: Tom Burgett
Company-Names: None
Places: None
Dates: None
Events: Request for leave to file a second amended complaint
Money: None
Intentions: To allow amendment of the complaint
Facts: The plaintiff seeks to file a second amended complaint with additional allegations
Disputes: None
Acts: Request for leave to amend
Agreements: None
Laws: California Civil Procedure Code sections 473 and 576, Nestle v. Santa Monica, Morgan v. Superior Court, Mesler v. Bragg Management Co., Hirsa v. Superior Court, Higgins v. Del Faro, Sexton v. Superior Court
Statutes: California Civil Procedure Code sections 473 and 576
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
  - "The Court may, in the furtherance of justice, and upon any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading."
  - "There is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments."
  - "Requests for leave to amend generally will be granted unless the party seeking to amend has been dilatory in bringing the proposed amendment before the Court, and the delay in seeking leave to amend will cause prejudice to the opposing party if leave to amend is granted."
```

And here is the English-text summary:

In this tentative ruling, the Judge is considering a motion from Plaintiff Tom Burgett to file a second amended complaint, adding allegations related to a second termination. The Judge has reviewed the law and the facts of the case and has decided to grant the motion, allowing the plaintiff to file the amended complaint within 10 days. The decision is based on the strong policy in California courts to favorably allow amendments to pleadings, unless the party seeking to amend has been dilatory in bringing the proposed amendment before the Court and the delay will cause prejudice to the opposing party. Since the motion is unopposed and there is no apparent prejudice, the Judge has granted the motion.