 Case Number:  23VECV00155    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  T GRIGORIAN V ILOULIAN 23VECV00155
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Ora Iloulian’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant Ora
Iloulian’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to any hearsay or
facts in dispute.
Introduction 
Defendant Ora Iloulian
(Defendant) moved for summary judgment (MSJ) against Plaintiff Anait
Grigorian’s (Plaintiff) Complaint. 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleged a single cause of action (COA) for premise
liability.  
Defendant further requested
judicial notice (RJN) of the pleadings filed in this action.  It is noted that Defendant’s RJN incorrectly
identified Plaintiff’s “Unverified First Amended Complaint” but attached the
Complaint, which is the operative pleading. 
The Court presumed the RJN had a typographical error and the RJN was to
the operative pleading – the Complaint.  
Discussion 
Defendant argued that there is no
triable issue of material fact as to the element of duty.  Defendant asserted that the alleged dangerous
condition was minor and trivial.  “The decision
whether the defect is dangerous as a matter of law does not rest solely on the
size of the crack in the walkway, since a tape measure alone cannot be used to
determine whether the defect was trivial.1 A court should decide whether a
defect may be dangerous only after considering all of the circumstances
surrounding the accident that might make the defect more dangerous than its
size alone would suggest. (Fielder v. City of Glendale, supra, 71 Cal.App.3d at
p. 734, 139 Cal.Rptr. 876.) Aside from the size of the defect, the court should
consider whether the walkway had any broken pieces or jagged edges and other
conditions of the walkway surrounding the defect, such as whether there was
debris, grease or water concealing the defect, as well as whether the accident
occurred at night in an unlighted area or some other condition obstructed a
pedestrian's view of the defect.” 
(Caloroso v. Hathaway (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 922, 925 and 927 (Caloroso)
[reviewing facts showing a crack with an elevation of zero to 0.4 inches, with
slabs that were jagged and depressed].) 
“Many decisions have held that sidewalk defects greater than this were
trivial as a matter of law. (See cases cited in Barrett v. City of Claremont
(1953) 41 Cal.2d 70, 74, 256 P.2d 977 [elevations ranging from three-fourths
inch to one and one-half inches found minor].”  (Id.) 
Defendant provided that the size of the crack was .81 inches
(Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts (DSSF) 8) and it was light out, sunny,
and dry (DSSF 9).  Plaintiff provided
that the declaration of their expert, Philip Rosescu, to show that the crack
“had an irregular shape, including a jagged edge and significant horizontal gap
between the concrete slabs. … Additionally, the nearby planter had overgrown
foliage that extended into the walkway… .” 
(Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed Facts (PSSDF) 8;  See Rosescu Decl., pg. 4, par. 7.)  Further, evidence of some overgrown foliage
being present at or near the time of the incident was also attested to by Jacob
Iloulian.  (Bonholtzer Decl., Exh. A:
Jacob Iloulian Deposition at pg. 88-89 and 98-99.) Plaintiff did not dispute
that it was light out, sunny, and dry. 
Defendant’s evidence presented sufficient facts to meet their burden to
argue that the defect was trivial, however, Plaintiff’s additional facts
provided more information as to the defect and its surrounding area.  Plaintiff’s evidence showed that the Court
cannot determine as a matter of law that the defect was not dangerous due to
the horizontal gap between the slabs and the overgrown foliage intruding upon
the relevant area.  A triable issue of
fact exists on whether the defect was trivial or not.  Defendant’s argument that no dangerous
condition existed is unpersuasive.
Defendant then argued that there
is no triable issue of fact as to the element of duty because there was no
notice of the dangerous condition.  For
liability to attach due to a dangerous condition, the owner must have either
actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition.  (Ortega v. K-Mart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th
1200, 1206.)  “Typically, to charge an
individual with constructive notice, he must have, “actual notice of facts or
circumstances which are sufficient to put a prudent person on inquiry as to the
existence of the fact with respect to which he is charged with constructive
notice.” (Internal citation omitted.) Therefore, a landowner cannot be charged
with constructive notice without a showing of some overt feature surrounding
the dangerous condition, which would notify the landowner of its existence.
(Internal citation omitted.)”  (Jones v.
Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1209.) 
Defendant provided evidence showing that Plaintiff never complained
about the defect prior to the incident and that there were no prior similar
incidents five years prior to the incident. 
(DSSF 5-7.)  Without facts showing
prior complaints or prior similar incidents, evidence is presented to show a
lack of actual knowledge and constructive knowledge.  
To dispute the facts as to lack
of knowledge, Plaintiff submitted the deposition testimony of Jacob Iloulian
(Jacob ) – Defendant’s son, who is an attorney. 
Jacob attested to being given general instructions to rent out the
house.  (Bonholtzer Decl., par. 2, Exh.
A: Jacob’s deposition testimony, pg. 38:14-16.) 
Jacob testified to having knowledge of the raised concrete and the
overgrown foliage during the move-in inspection.    (PSSDF 5-7; Plaintiff’s Separate Statement
of Additional Facts (PSSAF) 1:  Bonholtzer
Decl., par. 2, Exh. A: Jacob’s deposition testimony, pg. 60:23-61:24 and
88:25-89:4.)  Jacob’s knowledge of the
raised concrete would be imputed to Defendant because Defendant tasked Jacob
with renting out the house, which provides facts to support the contention that
Jacob acted as Defendant’s agent.  At
issue is whether Plaintiff submitted sufficient facts to put a prudent person
on inquiry as to the existence of a dangerous condition.  Plaintiff’s reliance upon the raised concrete
of .81 inches and overgrown foliage, in and of itself, does not provide facts
to place Defendant on inquiry notice, especially because facts are presented to
show that no one had tripped on that portion of the concrete in the prior five
years.  Facts were also presented that
Plaintiff traversed the area 15-20 times prior to the incident without
tripping/falling.  (DSSF 11.)  Plaintiff failed to present facts to show
that a triable issue of fact exists as to constructive knowledge.  Defendant’s argument as to lack of knowledge
is persuasive and grounds to grant the MSJ are properly presented.
Defendant lastly argued that
there is no triable issue of material fact as to causation.  The issue is moot due to the above review on
knowledge, or lack thereof.  However, to
be thorough, the Court noted that Plaintiff raised a triable issue of fact as
to causation by citing to Plaintiff’s testimony showing that she had knowledge
of what caused her to trip and fall. 
(PSSDF 15-17 and PSSAF 5.) 
Defendant’s causation argument is not persuasive.  Because triable issues of fact exists as to
causation, the Court did not grant the MSJ on the causation argument.
Defendant’s MSJ is GRANTED as to
the duty element.  There are no triable
issues of fact as to Defendant’s actual and constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLerk to give notice