 Case Number:  23STCP00106    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION TO ADMIT DECLARATION
 
Date:               4/25/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           National
Association of Royalty Owners-California et al. v. City of Los Angeles et al. (23STCP00106)
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
At the hearing on the Motion to Admit the Declaration of
Wayman T Gore, filed by Petitioners National Association of Royalty
Owners-California, Inc., Mekusukey Oil Company, LLC, NJB Wolf Family LLC, and
The Termo Company’s (collectively, “NARO”), the parties should be prepared to
address and discuss the following:
 

Western States Petroleum
     Assn. v. Superior Court (1995) 9 Cal.4th 559 held that extra-record
     evidence is generally not admissible in a traditional mandamus action
     challenging a quasi-legislative administrative decision on the ground that
     the agency has not proceeded in a manner required by law.  To what extent does that holding apply
     to enacting a City ordinance?

 

At least one court has opined
     that “[t]he enactment of a zoning ordinance is a quasi-legislative
     decision.” (Corona-Norco Unified School Dist. v. City of Corona
     (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 985, 992.) To what extent do the parties agree with
     that statement?  Does it matter for
     purposes of applying the holding in Western States whether a City’s
     passage of a particular ordinance is deemed or labeled legislative or
     quasi-legislative?

 

To the extent a
     prohibition against a court’s consideration of extra-record evidence is
     guided by the principle that “[t]he propriety or impropriety of a
     particular legislative decision is a matter for the Legislature . . . ;
     such matters are not appropriate for the judiciary” (Western States,
     9 Cal.4th at 572), does the consideration of any particular extra-record
     evidence depend on whether or to what extent the issue before the Court on
     which such evidence may bear was considered by the Legislature?

 

If the answer to the
     preceding question is yes, to what extent, if any, was the issue (and
     related evidence) before the Los Angeles City Council concerning whether and/or
     what activities affected by the Oil and Gas Drilling Ordinance may
     constitute methods or practices in the oil and gas production industry?  Relatedly, what opportunity, if any, was
     there to raise such issue (and present evidence) before the Los Angeles
     City Council?
