 Case Number:  23STCP03519    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
FIX THE CITY, INC.  


 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCP03519




vs.
 
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondents.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON DEMURRER TO VERIFIED FIRST
  AMENDED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



            Respondents City of Los Angeles and City
of Los Angeles City Council demur to the Verified First Amended Petition for
Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory
and Injunctive Relief (“FAP”).

 
I.       Factual Allegations
 
            On July 5, 2023, respondent City of
Los Angeles City Council enacted Los Angeles Administrative Code (“LACC”) § 8.33,
which empowers the Mayor to declare the existence of a local housing and/or
homelessness emergency. (FAP Ex. 11; LAAC § 8.33(a).)[1]
Upon such declaration, the Mayor is empowered to “[p]romulgate, issue and
enforce rules, regulations, orders and directives which the Mayor considers
necessary to address the emergency,” “[c]ommandeer property deemed necessary to
meet interim and temporary housing needs and bind the City for the fair value thereof,”
“[r]equire emergency service of any City officer or employee and requisition
necessary personnel or material of any City department or agency,” “[o]rder any
action relative to the procurement of construction contracts, service provider
contracts, supplies, and equipment for homelessness facilities to safeguard
life, health or property caused by the emergency,” and “[s]uspend competitive
bidding restrictions enumerated in Charter Section 371(e)(6) and Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 10.15 and 10.17 for contracts entered into by City
departments and offices in response to the emergency and mitigation efforts
related to the emergency.” (LAAC § 8.33(d).)
 
On
July 7, 2023, pursuant to LAAC § 8.33, Karen Bass, Mayor of respondent City of
Los Angeles, declared a local housing and homelessness emergency. (FAP Ex. 12.)

 
          Petitioner Fix the City, Inc.’s “mission is to promote public safety, support
adequate infrastructure, and to hold City government accountable, especially
with
regard to land use issues.”
(FAP ¶ 12.) Petitioner contends that the Mayor’s declaration is ineffective and
void because it was not ratified in accordance with the timing requirements for
ratification set forth in the California Emergency Services Act (“CESA”),
specifically Government Code § 8630. (FAP ¶ 61.) Petitioner also alleges
that the declaration is void because, as purportedly required by LAAC § 8.33,
there was no resolution ratifying the existence of a local housing and/or
homelessness and the declaration was not renewed within 90 days of its issuance.
(FAP ¶¶ 62-67.) Petitioner thus seeks a writ of mandate directing respondents
to “void the 8.33 Declaration [of local
housing and homelessness emergency] and vacate all
contracts, approvals, and building entitlements based thereon.” (FAP ¶ 67;
Prayer for Relief ¶ 1.) 
 
II.      Procedural History 
 
          On September 25, 2023, petitioner filed a Verified Petition for Writ of
Mandamus, Petition for Writ of Prohibition, and Complaint for Declaratory and
Injunctive Relief. On October 16, 2023, pursuant to petitioner’s request,
respondent Karen Bass, Mayor of the City of Los Angeles was dismissed without
prejudice. 
 
            On January 2, 2024, petitioner filed the operative Verified
First Amended Petition for Writ of Mandamus and Complaint for Declaratory and
Injunctive Relief. On February 16, 2024, respondents filed the instant demurrer
to the First Amended Petition. On March 15, 2024, petitioner filed an
opposition. On March 21, 2024, respondents filed a reply.
 
III.     Analysis
 
A.          
Evidentiary Matters
 
Respondents’ requests to take judicial notice of
Exhibits A through E are GRANTED, pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(b) (regulations
and legislative enactments). Respondents’ requests to take judicial notice of
Exhibits F through M and O are GRANTED, pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(c)
(official legislative acts). (See Julian Volunteer Fire Co. Assn. v.
Julian-Cuyamaca Fire Protection Dist. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 583, 599 [allowing
for judicial notice of records reflecting city’s official acts, including
resolutions, minutes, and agendas].) Respondents’ request to take judicial
notice of Exhibit N is GRANTED. (United Teachers of Los Angeles v. Los
Angeles Unified School Dist. (2012) 54 Cal.4th 504, 528 [judicial notice of
legislative history].) 
 
            Petitioner’s
request to take judicial notice of Exhibit 1 is GRANTED. (Linda Vista
Village San Diego Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Tecolote Investors, LLC (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 166, 186 [judicial notice of city attorney opinion].)
Petitioner’s request to take judicial notice of Exhibit 2 is GRANTED, pursuant
to Evidence Code § 452(c). 
 
B.          
First Cause of Action – Petition for Writ of
Mandamus
 
1.           
Standing
 
As a preliminary matter, petitioner sufficiently
alleges standing. “[W]here the question is one of public right and the object
of the mandamus is to procure the enforcement of a public duty, the relator
need not show that he has any legal or special interest in the result, since it
is sufficient that he is interested as a citizen in having the laws executed and
the duty in question enforced.” (Common Cause v. Board of Supervisors
(1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 439, internal citations omitted.) Petitioner seeks to
enforce laws governing land use, as implicated by
LAAC § 8.33. 
 
2.           
Whether Government Code Section 8630 Preempts LAAC §
8.33
 
Petitioner contends that LAAC § 8.33 is preempted by
CESA, specifically Government Code § 8630’s provision that a declaration of
local emergency shall not remain in effect for a period in excess of seven days
unless it has been ratified by the governing body.  (FAP ¶ 61.)  If that is the case, as alleged by
petitioner, the declaration issued by Mayor Bass pursuant to LAAC § 8.33
is “ineffective and void” because it was not ratified within seven days in
accordance with section 8630.  (FAP ¶ 61.)
 
“[A] court asked to resolve a putative conflict
between a state statute and a charter city measure initially must satisfy
itself that the case presents an actual conflict between the two.” (California
Fed. Savings & Loan Assn. v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1, 16
[Cal Fed Savings].) Thus, in determining whether LAAC § 8.33 is
preempted by CESA, the Court must first determine whether there is even a
conflict between the two. Government Code § 8630 states, in full (emphasis
added): 
 
(a) A local emergency may be proclaimed only by the
governing body of a city, county, or city and county, or by an
official designated by ordinance adopted by that governing body.
 
(b) Whenever a local emergency is proclaimed by an
official designated by ordinance, the local emergency shall not remain in
effect for a period in excess of seven days unless it has been ratified by the
governing body.
 
(c) The governing body shall review the need for
continuing the local emergency at least once every 60 days until the governing
body terminates the local emergency.
 
(d) The governing body shall proclaim the
termination of the local emergency at the earliest possible date that
conditions warrant.
 
Los Angeles is a charter city. (FAP ¶ 16; RJN Ex. A
[Los Angeles City Charter [“Charter”], art. I, § 100, et seq.].) This
accordingly begs the question whether reference to a “city” in Government Code
§ 8630 means that the statute also applies to charter cities. If Government
Code § 8630 governs charter cities, which would include respondent Los Angeles,
the Court must then determine whether LAAC § 8.33 is preempted by
Government Code § 8630 using the four-step inquiry set forth in Cal Fed Savings to determine whether the
statute reflects a statewide concern (for which preemption applies) or a
municipal affair (for which preemption does not). But, if Government Code § 8630 does not govern charter cities, then no
actual conflict is presented, and no analysis of whether the statute implicates
a “municipal affair” or a “statewide concern” is required.  (Cal Fed Savings, 54 Cal.3d at 16.) 
 
            “[T]he
Supreme Court and Courts of Appeal have often demanded a clearer indication
than the use of a general term, be it ‘a political subdivision’ or ‘a city,’
before concluding a statute is intended to apply to charter cities.” (City
of Redondo Beach v. Padilla (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 902, 913 [Padilla].)
“City” is not defined in the CESA. (See Gov. Code §§ 8555-8562.) By
contrast, as recounted by the Court of Appeal in Padilla, the laws at
issue in other cases in which the courts found such state laws applicable to
charter cities expressly referred to charter cities or defined “city” to
include charter cities or “any city.”[2] (Padilla,
46 Cal.App.5th at 913 [citing cases].) The Padilla Court noted that “city,”
without more, is a term with “inherent ambiguity.” (Id. at 917.) 
 
            In Padilla,
the Court of Appeal affirmed a writ of mandate barring the Secretary of State
from enforcing the California Voter Participation Rights Act against a charter
city. (Padilla, 46 Cal.App.5th at 906.) The VPRA provided that a
“political subdivision,” defined to include a “city,” shall not hold an
election other than on the same date as a statewide election if holding an
election on a different date resulted in a significant decrease in voter
turnout, as defined in the statute. (Id. at 906-07.) Based on the
legislative history of the VPRA and the authority conferred on charter cities by
the California Constitution to set the timing of their elections, the Court of
Appeal declined to infer an intent by the Legislature to apply the VPRA to
charter cities. (Id. at 914-18.)
 
            Similarly,
the Court here declines to find that the CESA evidences a clear intention to
apply to charter cities. The procedures for enacting municipal ordinances are a
municipal affair. (Traders Sports, Inc. v. City of San Leandro (2001) 93
Cal.App.4th 37, 47; Adler v. City Council of City of Culver City (1960)
184 Cal.App.2d 763, 776 [“mode and manner of passing ordinances is a municipal
affair”].) With respect to that municipal affair, LAAC § 8.33(e) sets forth
how and when a declaration of a local housing and/or homelessness emergency is
ratified, rescinded, and renewed. Given that LAAC § 8.33(e) contains its own
procedures for declaring an emergency, this Court must demand a “clearer
indication” that the State meant to supplant those procedures with its own when
using the inherently ambiguous term “city” without any additional definition,
explanation, or modifier.  In fact, the
Legislature demonstrated it could send a clearer indication of when a provision
of CESA should apply to charter cities in Government Code § 8635, which explicitly
empowers charter cities to amend their charters for the preservation and
continuation of its government in a state of war emergency.  (See Gov. Code § 8635.) That the
Legislature did not explicitly do so with respect to the procedures set forth
in Government Code § 8630 provides a more clearly indication it did not intend
for those provisions to apply to charter cities.  (Gikas v. Zolin (1993) 6 Cal.4th 841,
852 [“Expressio unius est exclusion alterius.  The expression of some things in a statute
necessarily means the exclusion of other things not expressed”].)
 
Further, insofar as the text of CESA is not itself
sufficient to convey the Legislature’s intent, on February 7, 2022, in Senate
Bill 933, the Legislature sought to amend the CESA to add Section 8662.6 to the
Government Code, which would have stated: “The Legislature finds and declares
that safeguarding the liberties of the residents of this state during a state
of emergency or local emergency is a matter of statewide concern and is not a municipal
affair as that term is used in Section 5 of Article XI of the California
Constitution. Therefore, this article applies to all 33 cities, including
charter cities.” (Resp. RJN Ex. 5.) If CESA already included charter cities and
the Legislature believed it to be so, this provision of Senate Bill 933 would
have been unnecessary. Petitioner’s argument that Senate Bill 933 failed is
beside the point. It is the fact that Senate Bill 933 was proposed at all which
demonstrates a general reference to “city” in CESA does not include charter
cities, and this Court certainly may consider the import of that fact when
interpreting CESA’s reach as to charter cities. (See Padilla, 46
Cal.App.5th at 915-16, discussing Ector v. City of Torrance (1973) 10
Cal.3d 129, 134.)
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Courts finds that Government Code § 8630 does not
apply to charter cities, including respondent City of Los Angeles. Accordingly,
the question of whether the Mayor’s declaration was timely ratified and renewed
is governed by LAAC § 8.33.
 
3.           
Whether 8.33 Declaration Was Timely Ratified and
Renewed Pursuant to LAAC § 8.33
 
It is undisputed that Mayor Bass issued a
Declaration of Local Housing and Homelessness Emergency on July 7, 2023. (FAP ¶
61 & Ex. 12.) Petitioner alleges the declaration was rendered void because
the City Council was not initially presented with a resolution to ratify it per
the provisions of LAAC § 8.33(e). (FAP ¶ 62.) Petitioner further alleges
that, under LAAC § 8.33(e), the declaration expired on October 5, 2023 (i.e.,
90 days from the date of the declaration) because the City Council did not
renew it by majority vote by that date. (FAP ¶ 64.)  LAAC § 8.33(e) states: 
 
Whenever the Mayor declares a local housing and/or
homelessness emergency, the Chief Legislative Analyst’s Office shall prepare,
with the assistance of the City Attorney, a resolution ratifying the existence
of a local housing and/or homelessness emergency. Such resolution shall be
submitted by the Mayor to the City Clerk for presentation to the City Council.
Within 30 days from the date of the original declaration by the Mayor, the City
Council may consider the resolution and rescind it by majority vote. Thereafter,
the declaration shall expire unless the City Council renews it by a majority
vote every 90 calendar days.
 
Under LAAC § 8.33(e), once the Mayor declared the
emergency on July 7, 2023, the City Council had 30 days, i.e., until August
6, 2023, to consider a resolution ratifying the existence of the emergency and rescind
it by majority vote. After the expiration of the 30 days, the declaration
expires unless the City Council renews it within 90 days thereafter, i.e.,
by November 4, 2023. The City Council timely renewed the declaration on October
31, 2023 and again on January 23, 2024. (FAP ¶ 65; Resp. RJN Exs. M, O.)
 
            Petitioner
alleges that a resolution to ratify the existence of the emergency was never
presented to the City Council. (FAP ¶ 62.) Respondents do not appear to dispute
this allegation (Reply at 10:1-2), and, in any event, the Court takes that
allegation to be true on demurrer. However, the fact that a resolution was not
prepared for, presented to, and thereafter voted on by the City Council
pursuant to one provision of LAAC § 8.33(e) does not invalidate the separate
provision of LAAC § 8.33(e) that allows for the City Council to renew the
declaration to avoid expiration in the 90-day period thereafter.  The former provision gives the City Council
the option to rescind the declaration of emergency within the first 30 days.  It operates independently of the latter
provision that otherwise provides for expiration or renewal of the
declaration.  It is hard to see logically
how the Mayor’s declaration should be deemed void simply because the City
Council did not exercise its option to rescind it within the first 30 days.  Indeed, it is highly illogical to conclude
that not voting to rescind the declaration should result in the declaration being
deemed invalid or void; rather, the opposition must be true—that not voting to
rescind means the declaration remains in effect.[3] 
 
             As for petitioner’s contention that the
declaration expired 90 days after the Mayor issued her declaration, that
argument misreads expiration and renewal provision of LAAC § 8.33(e).  Immediately following the provision that allows
the City Council 30 days from date of the declaration to rescind it, LAAC §
8.33(e) states “[t]herafter, the declaration shall expire” in 90 days unless
renewed by the City Council. 
“Thereafter” logically refers to after the 30 days referenced in the
preceding sentence.  It does not, as
argued by petitioner, awkwardly refer to when the Mayor makes the emergency
declaration, which is raised three sentences earlier in LAAC § 8.33(e) and
separated by the 30 days for rescission provision.  Thus, in accordance with the plain language of
LAAC § 8.33(e), the 90-days expiration period began after the 30-day period for
rescission.[4]  The City Council has twice timely renewed the
declaration in accordance with the provisions of LAAC § 8.33(e).
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court finds that petitioner has failed to set forth
a basis upon which a writ of mandate would issue.  Accordingly, the demurrer to the first cause
of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
C.          
Second Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
A general demurrer to a cause of action for
declaratory relief must be overruled so long as an actual controversy is
alleged; the pleader need not establish any entitlement to a favorable
judgment. (Ludgate Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 592, 606.)
 
Petitioner alleges that LAAC § 8.33 violates the
CESA. (FAP ¶¶ 70-72.) For the reasons stated above, the CESA does not apply to
charter cities such as respondent City of Los Angeles.
 
Petitioner also alleges that LAAC § 8.33 violates
Article 1, Section 19 of the California Constitution and the Eminent Domain
Law, Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1230.010, et seq., “by granting the
Mayor the power to commandeer property and to set the value of the taking.” (FAP
¶ 73.)  What LAAC § 8.33(d)(ii) actually
states is that the Mayor may “[c]ommandeer property deemed necessary to meet
interim and temporary housing needs and bind the City for the fair value thereof.”  Article I, section 19(a) of the California
Constitution allows for eminent domain and the payment of just compensation
therefor.  LAAC § 8.33(d)(ii) does not
authorize the Mayor to “set the value of the taking,” but instead is fully
consistent with our Constitution by allowing the Mayor to seize property by
binding the City to pay “fair value,” i.e., just compensation for any
such property seized. 
 
Petitioner also alleges that LAAC § 8.33 violates
Public Contract Code § 20162 because it empowers the Mayor to suspend
competitive bidding and allow sole-source contracting. (FAP ¶ 74.) However, “state
general law bidding procedures do not bind chartered cities where the subject
matter of the bid constitutes a municipal affair.” (R & A Vending
Services, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 1188, 1191.) “[T]he
manner in which a city is empowered to form a contract is generally a ‘municipal
affair’ which can be controlled by the terms of its charter.” (First Street
Plaza Partners v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 650, 661.) “[I]f
a city charter specifies the manner in which that city may enter into a
contract, the terms of the charter control over otherwise applicable state law.”
(Ibid.) Charter section 371(a) governs the formation of contracts and competitive
bidding. (Resp. Ex. C.) Accordingly, the terms of the Charter control over
state law. Petitioner does not sufficiently allege how LAAC § 8.33 violates
Public Contract Code § 20162.
 
Petitioner also alleges that LAAC § 8.33 violates
LAAC § 8.22 because LAAC § 8.33 allows for a “local emergency” to be
declared for chronic conditions instead of for occurrences, as purportedly
required under LAAC § 8.22. (FAP ¶ 75.) LAAC § 8.22
defines “local emergency” to mean “any occurrence which by reason of its
magnitude is or is likely to become beyond the control of the normal services,
personnel, equipment and facilities of the regularly constituted branches and
departments of the City government.” LAAC § 8.33(a) defines “Local Housing
and/or Homelessness Emergency” as “a local emergency due to the existence of a
critical shortage of local affordable housing and/or an emergency on
homelessness as further defined in this section.” Whether the “local emergency”
in “Local Housing and/or Homelessness Emergency,” as declared by Mayor Bass, is
an “occurrence” or “is or is likely to become beyond the control of the normal
services, personnel, equipment and facilities of the regularly constituted
branches and departments of the City government,” under LAAC § 8.22 is a
question of fact that cannot be resolved on demurrer. “[P]arties may seek
declaratory relief with respect to the interpretation and application of local
ordinances.” (Action Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica
(2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1250.) With respect to the definition of “local
emergency,” as used in the definition of “Local Housing and/or Homelessness
Emergency” in LAAC § 8.33, petitioner has alleged an actual controversy that
survives demurrer. 
 
Because a demurrer can only be sustained as to the
whole of a cause of action, the demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.  (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont Gen. Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119 [“A
demurrer must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained”].)
 
 
IV.     Conclusion
 
             The demurrer is SUSTAINED IN PART. Before
allowing leave to amend, the Court will hear from petitioner as to how the
petition can be amended to address the defects set forth above.


