  Case Number:  21STCV20318    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff/Cross-Defendant Erin Hughes’ Motion for Reconsideration of the March 27, 2024 Order Granting Holly Seeler’s Request for Monetary Sanctions Against Erin Hughes in the Amount of $1560 is DENIED.Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Erin Hughes to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff/Cross-Defendant Erin Hughes (“Hughes”) moves the Court to reconsider its March 27, 2024 order awarding sanctions against Hughes in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant Holly Seeler (“Seeler”) in connection with the Court’s order granting Seeler’s Motion for Protective Order re Cross-Complainants’ Deposition. Hughes does not take issue with the Court’s order insofar as its granted the motion on its merits; rather, Hughes argues here that her behavior is affected by severe psychological impairment of post-traumatic stress disorder such that monetary sanctions should not have been awarded.Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a), allows a Court to reconsider a prior order as follows:When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.Seeler moved for a protective order due to Hughes’ behavior during the attempt to take Seeler’s deposition remotely on November 2, 2023, which included refusing to answer questions and personally insulting Seeler’s counsel, causing Seeler’s counsel to suspend the deposition, and similar behavior had occurred in a prior deposition with another attorney. After Seeler’s counsel suspended the deposition, Hughes’ counsel noticed the resumption of Hughes’ deposition, and Seeler sought a protective order to require Hughes to appear for deposition with a court-appointed discovery referee present and paid for by Hughes alone. The Court reviewed the subject deposition transcript and found the discourse from Hughes to Seeler’s counsel to be disappointing, as Hughes had lobbed unnecessary personal attacks at counsel while failing to respond to basic biographical questions. Nonetheless, the Court did not order the services of a discovery referee, instead ordering Hughes and her counsel to discontinue the personal attacks and meaningfully participate in future deposition sessions while stating there was good cause to allow opposing counsel opportunity to continue questioning Hughes, as she refused to answer basic questions in an obstructive manner.In connection with the motion, Seeler moved the Court for an award of monetary sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (h), against Hughes and her counsel of record. The Court found that sanctions were proper against Hughes only, on the ground that she had engaged in inappropriate conduct, but the Court reduced the award to $1,560. Hughes now argues that newly discovered facts reveal that Hughes has an impairment in important areas of functioning, as well as predisposing factors, medical and mental health treatment history, and limitations in major life activities, as recognized in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) resulting from traumatic experiences, manifesting in panic attacks, mood disturbances, and debilitating migraines. (Mot., Burgina Decl. ¶¶ 1-2.) Hughes’ therapist states that Hughes’ symptoms have instifieid over the past five months, and she experienced heightened anxiety and panic related to her legal deposition. (Mot., Burgina Decl. ¶ 4.) The deposition had caused her to have an inability to control her emotions and highlighted the severity of her mental health challenges, and her therapist opines that Hughes was experiencing significant psychological distress exacerbated by the deposition. (Mot., Burgina Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Hughes also states that she had a session with her therapist the day before the deposition where she complained of an increase in frequency of her panic attacks as she was undergoing depositions, and during the deposition her therapist informed her she was having a panic attack, a debilitating migraine, and inability to control her emotions. (Mot., Hughes Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)Notably, “[the burden under [Code of Civil Procedure] section 1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.) First, Hughes opposed the prior motion with representations that she suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder and panic attacks that were triggered by extensive depositions, such that these facts were already considered by the Court and determined to not constitute sufficient justification for her conduct during the deposition. Insofar as Hughes now presents evidence that she was experiencing migraines or shortness of breath, i.e., a panic attack as determined by her therapist, during the November 2, 2023 deposition, the Court cannot conclude that Hughes could not have obtained this evidence before her opposition to motion was filed or before the motion was heard. Hughes’ counsel made no representations to the Court about the new facts included here or a need to obtain information to respond to the request for sanctions. In the present motion, Hughes provides only a conclusory statement that the “full facts and diagnosis regarding the psychological condition of Ms. Hughes were not known by her and Ms. Burgina’s finding of April 7, 2024 was unavailable at the time of the hearing on the motion for protective order” (Mot., p. 7, ll. 14-17), but Hughes or her counsel presumably could have obtained this information before that date if they had asked Hughes’ therapist for her opinion before the hearing because the letter contains information that was known to Hughes or her therapist as early as the date of the deposition or shortly thereafter. Put simply, the Court cannot conclude that Hughes could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or presented these facts in opposition to Seeler’s earlier motion. For that reason, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Erin Hughes’ Motion for Reconsideration of the March 27, 2024 Order Granting Holly Seeler’s Request for Monetary Sanctions Against Erin Hughes in the Amount of $1560 is DENIED.