 Case Number:  22SMCV00510    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for three motions and a CMC.  There is a fee motion, a demurrer, and a
motion to consolidate.
The court turns first to the fee motion.  It is brought by Mr. Shiri, who was sued
personally.  He prevailed on demurrer and
now seeks fees pursuant to the provision in the contract that provides for fees
arising out of the contract.  He claims
that the contract was made for his benefit (in part) and that he can therefore
enforce the fee provision.  He also notes
that plaintiff would have sought fees from him. 
Plaintiff opposes.  Plaintiff
asserts that Shiri was sued only in tort; he was not sued for breach of
contract.  In point of fact, as Shiri
points out, he was initially sued for breach of contract, although that was
dropped in the amended complaint.  The
court believes that the contractual language is broad enough to support fees
here given that the tort is interference with the contract.  That is closely enough related to the
contract to come within the fee provision, and the court does tend to agree
that plaintiff (who did seek fees in the prayer) would have sought them against
all defendants, which tends to trigger 1717. 
The court also notes that the complaint alleged that Shiri was the
entity’s alter ego and that he stood to gain personally under the contract
(which was allegedly what motivated him). 
That is enough.
That said, though, the amount of fees sought is very
substantial.  Shiri claims that his
counsel spent 173 hours defending Shiri in this matter—114 hours on law and
motion and 59 hours on discovery (presumably all by outside counsel).  However, the billing records were not
provided.  The court believes that Shiri
may be entitled to fees that relate to him uniquely, but that fees for defending
the action generally are not recoverable. 
There has been no attempt made to dis-aggregate the hours in any fashion
like that.  The court also does not know
whether those hours were in fact billed and, if they were, whether they were in
fact paid (and by whom).  The court also
wonders whether the entire fee issue is best resolved when the case is resolved
so that the court will have a better idea as to what fees were incurred for
what purpose.  Further, the original
Barton declaration was conclusory and supports nothing.  The supplemental one was better, but for the
reasons just stated, still not adequate, and it was filed late—January 17.  That is too late for plaintiff to oppose.
In any event, for now the showing is not sufficient and the
motion is therefore CONTINUED FOR 25 COURT DAYS.  Shiri may file supplemental papers 16 court
days in advance of the hearing. 
Opposition and reply papers will be filed 9 and 5 court days before the
hearing, respectively.  The hearing will
be held at 9:00 am.  The parties should
be aware that there is a good chance that the court will defer this motion to
the resolution of the remainder of the case.
The court turns next to the motion to consolidate brought by
Pacific Grove.  The court is inclined to
GRANT the motion and consolidate the cases for all purposes.  While the cases are not quite in the same
position procedurally, the court can deal with that issue.  It appears to the court that the questions of
fact are sufficiently similar that it makes sense to have a single trier of
fact resolve them all, thereby increasing judicial efficiency and eliminating
the potential for inconsistent verdicts. 
The court will set an overall TSC date to set a trial that will apply to
the consolidated action.  That date will
be 10 court days from today, February 7, at 8:30.
The court is inclined to OVERRULE the demurrer.  The long and short of it is that the demurrer
appears only to be to a part of a cause of action, which is not proper.  Further, even if the court were to ignore
that, the court is not sure that the failure to mediate means that even a part
of the cause of action would fail.  It
appears from the contract that the failure to mediate before suing (where
mediation is required) goes to whether fees are recoverable, not whether the
case is thrown out of court.  The
demurring party has 20 days to answer.
