 Case Number:  23SMCV02051    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  I The court notes that this is a PAGA case only in that the
named plaintiff seeks no independent recovery. 
The court bases that conclusion on the complaint’s text, which refers to
him as a “REPRESENTATIVE PLAINTIFF.” 
Further, paragraph 8 of the complaint states that “This is only a [PAGA]
Complaint, pursuant to California Labor Code section 2699 et seq., on behalf of
[plaintiff] and all other persons similarly situation . . .”  Finally, the prayer seeks only PAGA relief;
no individual relief is sought.
The court’s understanding of the law is that an employer can
enter into an arbitration agreement with an employee to arbitrate any
individual employment-related claims the employee might have, but the employer
cannot require that PAGA claims be arbitrated. 
Generally, where a plaintiff brings both individual claims and a PAGA
claim, the individual claims are arbitrated and the PAGA matter is stayed.  If the plaintiff prevails, then the PAGA
claim can go forward.  If the plaintiff
loses, then the PAGA claim will fail because the plaintiff will have failed to
establish standing because the plaintiff will have been held in the arbitration
not to be an aggrieved party.  That much
was decided by our Supreme Court in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104.  What the court
does not know is whether an individual plaintiff, who claims to have suffered
the wrongs alleged in the PAGA action, can elect to sue only for PAGA and not
individually, and thereby avoid arbitration. 
While the court is aware that, for standing purposes, he will have to
establish that he was a victim of the alleged improper practices, that is only
for standing purposes and not for a recovery. 
Under those circumstances, it is not clear to the court that an
individual arbitration will lie.
No one seems to have briefed this issue.  The court will allow further briefing
(simultaneous) and continue the hearing. 
The court will discuss the schedule and new hearing date with the
parties.
On a different note, the court is concerned with the clause
that states that defendant will pay the arbitration costs and fees for cases
where less than $300,000 is at issue, but not for larger cases.  That could be substantively unconscionable,
but the court would be more inclined to strike that clause if this case has
less than $300,000 at issue as it relates to the individual plaintiff
only.  The court also notes JAMS Employment
Arbitration Rule 31(c), which states that in an employment-related arbitration
“based on a clause or agreement that is required as a condition of employment,
the only fee that an Employee may be required to pay is the initial JAMS Case
Management Fee.”  While JAMS does not
preclude an employee from contributing to other fees, the rule would seem to
state that the employee can go forward without contributing to anything other
than the initial fee.  If the court’s
understanding is correct, then the court would not see this clause as
unconscionable even if the amount in controversy exceeds $300,000—at least
without a showing that the JAMS initial administration fee is in excess of fees
charged by the Superior Court.
 