  Case Number:  22CHCV01032    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/8/23                                                                        
TRIAL DATE: 5/6/24
Case #22CHCV01032
 
8 DISCOVERY
MOTIONS
 
Motions filed on 7/14/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Danny’s Crane, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY # 1: Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza Gutierrez
RESPONDING PARTY # 2: Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
 
(1) An order compelling Plaintiff Yessica
Cardoza Gutierrez to provide responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Form
Interrogatories, Set 1.  Additionally,
Defendant requests sanctions against Yessica and/or her counsel of record,
including Albert Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of
$2,935.00;

 
(2) An order compelling Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez to provide
responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Form Interrogatories, Set 1.  Additionally, Defendant requests sanctions
against Joseph and/or his counsel of record, including Albert Elmassian and
Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $2,935.00;

 
(3) An order
compelling Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza Gutierrez to provide responses to
Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Special Interrogatories, Set 1.  Additionally, Defendant requests sanctions
against Yessica and/or her counsel of record, including Albert Elmassian and
Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $2,935.00;
 
(4) An order compelling Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez to provide
responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Special Interrogatories, Set
1.  Additionally, Defendant requests
sanctions against Joseph and/or his counsel of record, including Albert
Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $2,935.00;
 
(5) An order compelling Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza Gutierrez to
provide responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Requests for Production,
Set 1.  Additionally, Defendant requests
sanctions against Yessica and/or her counsel of record, including Albert
Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $2,935.00;

 
(6) An order compelling Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez to provide
responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Requests for Production, Set
1.  Additionally, Defendant requests
sanctions against Joseph and/or his counsel of record, including Albert
Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $2,935.00; 
 
(7) An order
compelling Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza Gutierrez to provide responses to
Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Requests for Admissions, Set 1.  Additionally, Defendant requests sanctions
against Yessica and/or her counsel of record, including Albert Elmassian and
Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $2,935.00; and
 
(8) An order
compelling Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez to provide responses to Defendant Danny’s
Crane Inc.’s Requests for Admissions, Set 1. 
Additionally, Defendant requests sanctions against Joseph and/or his
counsel of record, including Albert Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C.,
in the amount of $2,935.00.

 
RULING: The motions to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories are granted as set forth
below.  The motions to compel responses
to Requests for Production and Requests for Admissions are denied without
prejudice.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiffs Yessica Cardoza
Gutierrez (Yessica) and Joseph Gutierrez’s 
(Joseph) (collectively, Plaintiffs) claim that they were injured as a
result of a car accident involving a vehicle owned by Defendant Danny’s Crane
(Defendant).
 
On 5/9/23, Defendant served written discovery on both
Plaintiffs making responses due on or before 6/12/23.  (Kurtz Decls.).  On 6/15/23, Defendant’s counsel contacted
Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the failure to serve responses, among other
things.  Id.  While Plaintiffs’ counsel indicated he would
get back to Defendant’s counsel regarding the overdue responses, he never
did.  Id.  On 6/30/23, Defendant’s counsel sent another
meet and confer letter regarding the overdue responses to which Plaintiffs’
counsel failed to respond.  Id.  On 7/10/23, Defendant’s counsel sent another
email regarding the overdue responses.  Id.  On 7/13/23, Plaintiffs’ counsel responded by
requesting an extension to respond.  Id.  By that time, Defendant’s counsel had already
incurred essentially all of its fees associated with drafting the 8 discovery
motions.  Id.  The motions indicate that if Plaintiffs’
counsel agrees to pay such fees, the motions will be withdrawn after payment.
 
On 7/14/23, Defendant filed and served on Plaintiffs the
following 8 discovery motions:
 
(1) An order compelling Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza
Gutierrez to provide responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Form
Interrogatories, Set 1.  Additionally,
Defendant requests sanctions against Yessica and/or her counsel of record,
including Albert Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of
$2,935.00;
 
(2) An order compelling Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez to
provide responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Form Interrogatories, Set
1.  Additionally, Defendant requests
sanctions against Joseph and/or his counsel of record, including Albert
Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $2,935.00;
 
(3) An order compelling Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza
Gutierrez to provide responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Special
Interrogatories, Set 1.  Additionally,
Defendant requests sanctions against Yessica and/or her counsel of record,
including Albert Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of
$2,935.00;
 
(4) An order compelling Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez to
provide responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Special Interrogatories,
Set 1.  Additionally, Defendant requests
sanctions against Joseph and/or his counsel of record, including Albert
Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $2,935.00;
 
(5) An order compelling Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza
Gutierrez to provide responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Requests for
Production, Set 1.  Additionally,
Defendant requests sanctions against Yessica and/or her counsel of record,
including Albert Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of
$2,935.00;
 
(6) An order compelling Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez to
provide responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Requests for Production,
Set 1.  Additionally, Defendant requests
sanctions against Joseph and/or his counsel of record, including Albert
Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $2,935.00; 
 
(7) An order compelling Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza
Gutierrez to provide responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Requests for
Admissions, Set 1.  Additionally,
Defendant requests sanctions against Yessica and/or her counsel
of record, including Albert Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the
amount of $2,935.00; and
 
(8) An order compelling Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez to
provide responses to Defendant Danny’s Crane Inc.’s Requests for Admissions,
Set 1.  Additionally, Defendant requests
sanctions against Joseph and/or his counsel of record, including Albert
Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $2,935.00.
 
The motions were originally scheduled for separate
hearing dates beginning on 11/29/23 and ending on 12/8/23.  At the 8/8/23 Case Management Conference, the
Court advanced the hearing dates for the motions not originally scheduled for
12/8/23 and continued them to 12/8/23.  (See
8/8/23 Nunc Pro Tunc Minute Order).  The
Court specifically ordered that the “[b]riefing scheduled is governed by the
original hearing dates as to each motion.” 
(Id., p.2).  Despite the
foregoing, on 12/5/23, Yessica filed and served late oppositions to the motions
addressed to her.  The filing and service
of the oppositions on 12/5/23 is late even as to the 12/8/23 hearing date as
oppositions are due at least 9 court days before the hearing date plus two
court days for electronic service.  CCP
1005(b); CCP 1010.6(a)(3)(B).  The late
filing and service of the oppositions did not provide Defendant with sufficient
time to reply to same.   
 
ANALYSIS
 
Due to Plaintiffs’ failure to provide timely responses to
the subject Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories, Defendant is
entitled to orders compelling each Plaintiff to provide responses without
objections.  CCP 2023.290(a), (b).  Due to Plaintiffs’ failure to comply with
their discovery obligations, Defendant is also entitled to an award of
sanctions in relation to the motions to compel responses regarding Form and
Special Interrogatories.  CCP
2023.010(d), 2023.030(a), 2030.290(c).  
  
While Defendant would be entitled to the same relief due
to Plaintiffs’ failure to serve responses to Requests for Production, Defendant
failed to cite the applicable statute to support such relief.  Rather, Defendant, again, relies on CCP
2030.290 which applies to interrogatories. 
(See Motion to Compel Re Requests for
Production – Yessica, p.5:1, p.5:7-8; Motion to Re Requests for Production -
Joseph, p.4:28, p.5:6-7).  CCP
2031.300 applies to motions to compel responses to requests for
production.  
 
Similarly, Defendant fails to cite the proper authority
with regard to the motions concerning Requests for Admissions.  Again, Defendant improperly cites CCP
2030.290.  (See Motion to Compel
Re Requests for Admissions – Yessica, p.5:1, p.5:7-8; Motion to Re Requests for
Admissions - Joseph, p.4:28, p.5:6-7).  Further,
there is no statute which provides for an order compelling initial responses to
Requests for Admissions.  Rather, CCP
2033.280, which was not cited by Defendant, provides authority for the Court to
deem matters admitted, if no responses are served.  
 
The late oppositions to the motions addressed to Yessica
indicate that she has already served verified responses to the discovery and,
therefore, claim that imposing sanctions would not be justified.  The oppositions do not attach copies of the
discovery responses nor do they indicate when such responses were served.  If responses were only recently served, the
oppositions fail to explain the five-month delay from the time Plaintiffs’
counsel realized they had not received the discovery because the emails in
which they were sent were flagged as “spam” and the filing of the oppositions.  (See Elmassian Decls.).  Similarly, if the responses were only
recently served, the oppositions claim that Defendant has no issue with same is
somewhat disingenuous as Defendant would not have had sufficient time to
determine if the responses are sufficient. 
(See Oppositions, p.3:15-16). 
The oppositions also fail to explain why they were filed and served late
which caused the Court to have to review the matters twice.
 
No oppositions/responses to the motions addressed to
Joseph have been filed.  However, in
Yessica’s oppositions, the attorney declarations claim that “[t]he motions were
hastily prepared as they even requested verified responses from Joseph
Gutierrez who is three years old.”  (See
Elmassian Decls.).  If Joseph is in fact
only three years old, Plaintiffs’ counsel should have known minors must appear in
court actions either by a guardian or conservator of the estate or by a
guardian ad litem appointed by the court. 
See CCP 372(a)(1).  The
court file does not indicate that Joseph is appearing in this action through a
proper representative.      
 
CONCLUSION
 
4 MOTIONS RE FORM & SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 
The motions to compel Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza Gutierrez
and Jospeh Gutierrez to provide responses to Form Interrogatories, Set 1, and
Special Interrogatories, Set 1, are granted. 
Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza Gutierrez and Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez are
each ordered to provide responses, without objections, to the subject Form
Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories within 30 days.  
 
With regard to the Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories motions,  sanctions are imposed on Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza
Gutierrez and her counsel of record, including Albert Elmassian and Mendez
& Sanchez, A.P.C., in the amount of $995.00 (2.5 hours to prepare the
motions, .5 hour to meet and confer, .5 hours to appear multiplied by $250/hour
+$120 ($60 for each motion) filing fees). 

 
With regard to the Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories motions, sanctions are imposed on Plaintiff Joseph Gutierrez’s counsel
of record, including Albert Elmassian and Mendez & Sanchez, A.P.C. (since
Joseph is a minor and counsel has failed to have a properly represent his
interest), in the amount of $995.00 (2.5 hours to prepare the motions, .5 hour
to meet and confer, .5 hours to appear multiplied by $250/hour +$120 ($60 for
each motion) filing fees).  Sanctions are
payable within 30 days.  
 
2 MOTIONS RE REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
 
The motions to compel Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza Gutierrez
and Joseph Gutierrez to provide responses to Requests for Production, Set 1,
are denied without prejudice to Defendant filing properly supported motions for
such relief.
 
2 MOTIONS RE REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS 
 
The motions to compel Plaintiff Yessica Cardoza Gutierrez
and Joseph Gutierrez to provide responses to Requests for Admissions, Set 1,
are denied without prejudice to Defendant making proper motions to deem matters
admitted. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 