  Case Number:  23STCV06568    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki     

Department 58

Hearing Date:              March 13, 2024
Case Name:                 Alvarado-Ortiz v. Architectural Surfaces, Inc.
Case No.:                    23STCV06568
Matter:                        Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party:             Category 2 Defendants Parsoda
USA, Inc. dba Pacifica Wholesale Tile and Stone; Lilly Industries, Inc. dba The
Slab Studio; and Architectural Surfaces Group, LLC

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Oscar Alvarado Ortiz
.


Tentative Ruling:        The Demurrer by Category Two
Defendants to the fourth cause of action is overruled. Defendant Marbolis,
Inc.’s demurrer to the first, second, third, and fifth causes of action is
overruled. The Motion to Strike is granted; leave to amend is granted
regarding punitive damages. 

 
            This is a personal injury action
involving exposure to toxic silica, metals and other fibrogenic substances. Plaintiff Oscar Alvarado Ortiz
(Plaintiff) sued Defendant Architectural Surfaces Group, LLC
and 48 other defendants for injuries Plaintiff allegedly sustained while
working “in Los Angeles County, cutting, grinding, drilling, edging, and
polishing granite, marble, [and] other natural stone and artificial stone
countertops” from 2005 to 2009 and 2013 to 2022.
 
On
January 30, 2024, Category 2 Defendants Parsoda USA, Inc. dba Pacifica
Wholesale Tile and Stone; Lilly Industries, Inc. dba The Slab Studio; and
Architectural Surfaces Group, LLC demurred to the fourth cause of action of the
Complaint. Category 2 Defendants also filed a motion to strike portions of the
Complaint. Category 2 Defendant Elite Stone and Cabinet, Inc. filed a joinder
to the demurrer. Category 2 Defendant Parsoda USA, Inc. filed a one-page additional
briefing to the demurrer and motion to strike. Category 2 Defendant Lilly
Industries, Inc. dba The Slab Studio filed a joinder to the Category 2 Demurrer
and Motion to strike. Category 2 Defendant Surface Concepts & Slabs, Inc.
also filed an additional joinder. Category 2 Defendant Marbolis, Inc. also
filed a joinder to the Category 2 demurrer and additionally demurred to first,
second, third, and fifth causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff
opposed the demurrer and motion to strike. 
 
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled. Marbolis’s demurrer on
other causes of action is overruled. The motion to strike is granted.
 
Demurrer
 
            A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to
challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
525.)  
 
Analysis 
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Concealment: 
 
            Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment on the grounds
that the Complaint fails to allege the fraud claim with the request specificity
(especially as to corporate defendants) and fails to allege facts showing the
existence of a duty to disclose. 
 
            Here,
the Complaint alleges that Defendants owed “a legal duty to fully disclose the
toxic and fibrogenic properties of their products directly to Plaintiff.”
(Compl., ¶ 413.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants owed this duty “because
Defendants alone had knowledge of material facts, to wit the toxic properties
of their products, which were not accessible to Plaintiff,” “Defendants made
representations regarding their stone products, but failed to disclose
additional facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, and/or which
rendered the disclosures made, likely to mislead Plaintiff,” and “because a
transactional relationship existed between [Plaintiff] and Defendants inasmuch
as [Plaintiff] and/or received toxic stone products from Defendants.” (Compl.,
¶¶ 414-416.)
 
            Plaintiff
alleges greater detail as to this claim with respect to Defendants Arizona
Title, Ceaserstone USA, Inc., Cambria Company, LLC, Cosentino Group and C&C
North America, Inc., E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Company, Francini, Inc., LX
Hausys America, Inc., M S International, Inc., Pacific Shore Stones, Pental
Granite and Marble, LLC, Stylenquaz LLC, and Vadara Quartz Surfaces. (Compl.,
¶¶ 433-494.) However, with respect to Category 2 Defendants, Plaintiff’s allegations
rely solely on the general allegations set forth respect to “all Defendants.”
(Compl., ¶ 495-516.) 
 
To state a claim
for fraudulent concealment, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) the defendant
“concealed or suppressed a material fact,” (2) the defendant was “under a duty
to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant “intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff,” (4)
the plaintiff was “unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he
had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–11.) 
 
The ordinary rule
about pleading fraud with specificity is less demanding when the alleged fraud
is concealing the truth. Ordinarily, “fraud must be pleaded specifically;
general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, where, to whom, and by what means” the alleged
fraud occurred. (Id.) The purpose of the particularity requirement is to “separate
meritorious and nonmeritorious cases, if possible in advance of trial.” (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  
 
This standard is less stringent when
the defendant already has “ ‘full information concerning the facts of the
controversy.’ ” (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 217, superseded by statute on other grounds as
stated in Californians for Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39
Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation of the specificity requirement is particularly
appropriate in a concealment case. Unlike intentional
misrepresentation, which requires some affirmative representation or promise, a
fraudulent concealment is the absence of something, the suppression
of a fact. (Civ. Code § 1710.) 
 
This distinction was recognized
in Turner v. Milstein (1951) 103 Cal.App.2d 651. In
rejecting a demurrer based on uncertainty, the Turner court
pointed out:
 
“The only specification of uncertainty
was that it could not be determined how, or in what manner, Milstein concealed from
plaintiff the time and place of the sale of the real property. The ultimate
fact is pleaded. It is an old and elemental rule of pleading that a demurrer
for uncertainty does not lie if what is sought is a statement of matter already
within the knowledge of the demurring party.... If, in truth,
Milstein concealed from plaintiff the fact that the property was to
be sold, he knows it and he knows the time and place of concealment, if
there was a time and place. It would seem that concealment is
negative and that it would occur without any time or place. Milstein knows the
facts. (103 Cal.App.2d at p. 658.)
 
Thus, based on the
nature of this type of claim, a plaintiff in a fraud by omission suit will not
be able to specify the time, place, and specific content of an omission as
precisely as would a plaintiff in a false representation claim.
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that Defendants were aware that Plaintiff’s employers lacked
knowledge of the extreme toxic hazards of Defendants’ stone products, and
“nevertheless concealed from Plaintiff . . . the extreme measures that are
necessary to prevent fabricators and installers from getting silicosis…”  (Compl., ¶¶ 497-498.)  Further, Defendants allegedly concealed from Plaintiff and others
that greater protective equipment was necessary and the hazardous nature of
their products. (Compl., ¶¶ 500-501.)  In
conclusory language, the Complaint also alleges that Defendants owed a duty to
disclose the toxic hazards of their stone products because they alone had
knowledge of their toxic properties, which were inaccessible to Plaintiff, and
because they “made representations regarding their stone products, but failed
to disclose additional facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed….” (Compl.,
¶¶ 414-415.)
 
Absent a fiduciary
relationship between the parties (which Plaintiff does not allege here), a duty
to disclose can arise in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had
exclusive knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed
the material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also
suppressing the material fact. (BiglerEngler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p.
311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) The California
Supreme Court “has described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty
to disclose as a ‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los Angeles (1970) 2
Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve fiduciary or
confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where plaintiffs “were
not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim defrauded them”]; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337 [“such a relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort
of transaction between the parties”].)
 
            Here,
as noted, the allegations are conclusory concerning any specific knowledge held
by any specific Category 2 Defendant. The Complaint does not state what knowledge
Defendants had about toxic properties,[1] or what partial
representations they supposedly made and failed to disclose.  Plaintiff maintains, however, that these
allegations pass muster under 
Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187. In Jones, the appellate court
concluded that, at the pleading stage, the plaintiffs (family members of a
deceased worker exposed to toxic chemicals) had alleged sufficient facts to
support a claim of fraudulent concealment against chemical manufacturers.
Specifically, they alleged that the defendants alone were aware of their
products’ toxicity, it was a fact not available to the decedent, and the
defendants concealed that fact. (Id. at pp. 1199-1200.)  Characterizing these as “conclusory
allegations,” the Jones decision recognized that it was a “closer
question” whether they were adequate to state a fraudulent concealment claim
against defendants against whom there were no allegations of manufacturing a
specific product – DMF – for which published studies had attested to its
toxicity.  (Id. at p. 1200.)  “On balance,” reasoned the Jones court,
the pleading provided “adequate notice to the remaining defendants of the
material facts they allegedly concealed” from plaintiff.  Each defendant was found to be “on notice
that it allegedly concealed or failed to disclose the toxic properties of the
product it sold…. Although sparse, nothing more is required at this early stage
of the litigation.”  (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal reversed the dismissal after demurrer to the
complaint was sustained.
 
Category 2 Defendants argue that Jones “is not actually
adverse to Defendants’ position.”  Defendants
rely on Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
230.  In that case, however, the
appellate court concluded that, “keeping in mind the procedural posture of the
case,” a claim for fraudulent concealment was adequately pleaded even when some
of the purportedly concealed facts can be distilled from relevant documents. (Id. at 248-249.)  
 
Defendants also argue that
scienter has not been adequately pleaded. 
But the Complaint avers that “Defendants concealed significant health
hazards from Plaintiff; Defendants intended that their products be used by
Plaintiff; and therefore intended and had reason to expect that their
concealment of toxic hazards and health risks would be acted upon by
Plaintiff.”  (Compl., ¶ 419.)  Accepting these allegations as true, and adopting
the “sparse” but sufficient standard set forth in Jones v. ConocoPhillips, the allegations of scienter survive demurrer.
 
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Defendant, Marbolis, Inc.’s
Joinder and Demurrer: 
 
            In
joining the demurrer to the fourth cause of action, Defendant Marbolis, Inc.
also demurs to the first cause of action for negligence, second cause of action
for strict liability (warning defect), third cause of action for strict
liability (design defect) and the fifth cause of action for breach of implied
warranties. 
 
            In
the page briefing, Defendant provides no legal analysis and only single citation
to the Complaint (Paragraph 521). The demurrer argument here, therefore, is insufficient.
 
            Marbolis,
Inc.’s demurrer to the first, second, third, and fifth causes of action is
overruled. 
 
Legal
Standard for Motions to Strike
 
            “The
court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)
“Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters include allegations not essential to the
claim, allegations neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by
the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds.
(b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Category 2 Defendants
move to strike from the Complaint the phrase “And other stone products to be
identified in discovery,” as well as the request for punitive damages.
 
            First,
citing Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, Defendants
argue the Court must strike Plaintiff’s reliance on “other products” as the
basis for liability. Defendants argue that this allegation is contrary to Bockrath,
which held “the plaintiff must allege facts albeit as succinctly as possible,
explaining how the conduct caused or contributed to the injury” because “the
law cannot tolerate lawsuits by prospecting plaintiffs who sue multiple
defendants on speculation that their products may have caused harm over time
through exposure to toxins in them, and who thereafter try to learn through
discovery whether their speculation was well founded.” (Id. at 79-80)
This argument is well taken. The Court grants the motion to strike this
allegation concerning “other stone products to be identified in discovery.” 
 
             Second, with respect to allegations of punitive
damages, they are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code, § 3294.)
“Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for
punitive damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such
as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the
defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of
others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific
intent to injure is not necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that
the defendant’s conduct was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or
conscious disregard of others’ rights.” (McConnell
v. Quinn (1925) 71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request for punitive damages that is
not supported with specific allegations of oppression, fraud, or malice is
subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory allegations that defendants acted
“willfully,” “maliciously,” or with “oppression, fraud, or malice” are not,
without more, sufficient to give rise to a claim for punitive damages, but such
language is permissible where the complaint contains sufficient factual support
for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior
Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
The Complaint contains no allegations
showing any wanton, willful or fraudulent conduct by Category 2 Defendants.  Further, as punitive damages are
sought against corporate entities, Plaintiff was also required to – and failed
– to comply with Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b). The motion to strike
is granted as to the request for punitive damages.
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is
granted as to references to “other stone products” and the request for punitive
damages. Leave to amend is granted as to the punitive damages allegation.
 
Conclusion
 
            The Demurrer by Category 2 Defendants
to the fourth cause of action is overruled. Defendant Marbolis, Inc.’s demurrer
to the first, second, third, and fifth causes of action is overruled. The
motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff shall have leave to amend with respect
to the request for punitive damages. 
 


