  Case Number:  22STCV30058    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Sandra Mariana Vidal’s  Motion to Trifurcate Equitable Issues, Legal Issues, and Punitive Damages Defendant Sandra Mariana Vidal moves to sever the  trial into three phases: (1) a court trial on equitable issues (the sixth cause  of action for declaratory relief and eighth cause of action for prescriptive  easement); (2) a jury trial on the remaining causes of action; and (3) a jury  trial on the amount of punitive damages, if any. Trying the equitable issues first will be  efficient.  Courts may sever trials “when  the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and  efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted” (Code Civ. Proc., §  598) or “in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate  trials will be conducive to expedition and economy” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,  subd. (b)).  Generally, when the plaintiffs’  “claims consist of a ‘mixed bag’ of equitable and legal claims, the equitable  claims are properly tried first by the court.”   (Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1238.)  Plaintiffs Sima Ashrafi and Mohammad Ali  Nateghi agree with defendant that the court should try the equitable issues  first.   As for punitive damages, defendant is entitled to  bifurcation.  Civil Code section 3295,  subdivision (d) provides, “The court shall, on application of any defendant,  preclude the admission of evidence of that defendant’s profits and financial  condition until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff  awarding actual damages and finds that a defendant is guilty of malice,  oppression, or fraud.”  Upon such a  motion, bifurcation is mandatory.  (Westrec  Marina Management, Inc. v. Jardine Ins. Brokers Orange County, Inc. (2000)  85 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1049.) Defendant Sandra Mariana Vidal’s motion to trifurcate  trial is granted.   The court hereby severs the trial into three  phases: (1) a bench trial on plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action for declaratory  relief and eighth cause of action for prescriptive easement, (2) a jury trial  on plaintiffs’ remaining causes of action and on defendant’s liability for  punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294; and (3) if the jury finds  defendant liable for punitive damages, a third phase to determine the amount of  punitive damages.  The court hereby  precludes admission of evidence of defendant’s profits or financial condition  until the third phase of trial.  Plaintiffs Sima Ashrafi and Mohammad
Ali Nateghi’s Motion for Order Permitting Late Designation of ExpertsPlaintiffs Sima Ashrafi and Mohammad Ali Nateghi move
for an order permitting them to serve an untimely designation of expert
witnesses.  On October 10, plaintiffs
filed this motion seeking to designate expert witnesses Kamran Kazemi, Jacinto
Munoz, and R. Michael Burrous.  On
October 19 (a Saturday), plaintiffs served a “notice of errata” stating they
seek to designate Zhina Vartanian, LCSW as an expert instead of Kazemi.     Code
of Civil Procedure section 2034.720 provides:The court shall grant leave to submit tardy expert witness information
only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:(a) The court has taken into account the extent to which the
opposing party has relied on the absence of a list of expert witnesses.(b) The court has determined that any party opposing the motion will
not be prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.(c) The court has determined that the moving party did all of the
following:(1) Failed to submit the information as the result of mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.(2) Sought leave to submit the information promptly after learning
of the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.(3) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness
information described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have
appeared in the action.Plaintiffs do not meet their burden of showing the first
and third elements under subdivision (c). 
First, plaintiffs provide only a conclusory declaration from their
counsel about the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect: “Only
two days prior to the mediation and filing deadline for the motion for summary
adjudication opposition, on September 24, 2024, Plaintiffs expert designation
was due.  Through inadvertence and error,
we did not serve our expert designation.” 
(Solberg Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.) 
Plaintiffs do not show a sufficient basis to conclude they excusably “did
not serve [their] expert designation” on time. 
Rather than simply missing the deadline to serve the
expert designation, the record instead shows plaintiffs had not even retained
their experts before the deadline.  On September
23, 2024, defendant Sandra Mariana Vidal served her expert designation.  (Danker Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. D.)  On September 24, plaintiffs sent an email
asking if defendant would stipulate to postpone the deadline to designate
expert witnesses.  (Id., Ex.
E.)  Defendant did not agree.  (Ibid.)  On September 25, plaintiffs served an expert
designation that identified three experts: (1) John Pagliassotti, (2) Larry
Scott, and (3) “Cesar Bregaudit or Kamran Kazemi.”  (Danker Decl., Ex. F.)  The designation gave the experts’ contact
information but included no information about why plaintiffs designated them as
experts or what opinions they would provide. 
(Ibid.)  The designation
also did not include a sworn declaration as required.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.260, subd. (c).)  Plaintiffs’ motion acknowledges their initial
“designation was not code compliant.” 
(Solberg Decl., ¶ 9.)  On October
9, plaintiffs served a new designation identifying three experts: (1) Kamran
Kazemi, (2) Jacinto Munoz, and (3) R. Michael Burrous.  (Id., Ex. A.)Of their initial untimely designation on September
25, two of the three experts were omitted in the October 9 designation.  The only expert included in both designations
was Kazemi, who was listed as one of two alternatives (“Cesar Bregaudit or
Kamran Kazemi”) in the initial designation. 
Plaintiffs no longer seek to designate Kazemi as an expert.  The October 9 designation also did not
include Vartanian, whom plaintiffs did not seek to designate as an expert until
Saturday, October 19.  Plaintiffs’
mistake or neglect in failing to retain their experts and serve their expert
designation by the deadline was inexcusable. 
Plaintiffs did more than inadvertently fail to calendar the deadline.  They inexcusably failed to prepare for
trial.  Plaintiffs also do not show that, after learning of
their mistake, they “[p]romptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert
witness information described in Section 2034.260.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.720, subd. (c)(3).)  Plaintiffs’ email dated September 24, 2024,
acknowledges they missed the deadline because they asked for an extension.  (Danker Decl., Ex. E.)  The next day, plaintiffs served a copy of
proposed expert witness information, but it included none of the three experts
plaintiffs now seek to designate and did not include a declaration (or even a
non-sworn statement) containing any of the five things required under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2034.260, subdivision (c).  The first designation did not describe the
experts’ qualifications or why plaintiffs retained them at all.  Plaintiffs’ subsequent designation on October
9 and “notice of errata” seeking to designate a different expert on October 19
were not prompt.Granting this motion would cause some prejudice to
defendant.  Prejudice occurs when a “party,
due to its reliance on the previous list of experts” or lack thereof “is not
prepared and cannot be prepared in time.” 
(Dickison v. Howen (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1471, 1479.)  Plaintiffs did not designate these experts
until October 9 (and for Vartanian, October 19).  The trial is set for November 13, 2024.  Plaintiffs’ designation was too late to
permit defendant a meaningful amount of time to prepare for trial.  The
court has considered all factors under Code of Civil Procedure section
2034.720.  Plaintiffs do not satisfy the
required conditions.  Defendant relied on
plaintiff’s lack of any timely expert designation.  Permitting plaintiffs to designate three
experts so shortly before trial would prejudice defendants in maintaining their
defense on the merits.  Plaintiffs’ failure
to timely designate the experts was not the result of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. 
Plaintiff did not serve a copy of the proposed expert witness
information promptly after learning of any mistake.  The court therefore must deny this motion.Sanctions            In her opposition, defendant seeks
$1,810 in sanctions against plaintiffs and their counsel of record, Mashian Law
Group, APC.  Code of Civil Procedure
2034.730 provides, “The court shall impose a monetary sanction  … against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to submit tardy expert witness
information, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  Plaintiffs
unsuccessfully moved to submit tardy expert witness information.  Plaintiffs did not act with substantial
justification.  Sanctions are just under
the circumstances.  Defendant reasonably
incurred $1,810 in expenses.   Disposition            Plaintiffs
Sima Ashrafi and Mohammad Ali Nateghi’s motion for order
permitting late designation of experts is denied.  









































Plaintiffs
Ashrafi and Nateghi and their counsel Mashian Law Group, APC, are ordered
to pay $1,810 in sanctions to defendant Sandra Mariana Vidal no later than
November 13, 2024.  Both plaintiffs and
their counsel are jointly and severally liable for the sanctions. 