 Case Number:  24STCV16348    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G.
Iwasaki     

Department 58

Hearing Date:             October
2, 2024
Case Name:                Joanne Anderson v. 5 Seasons
Showroom LLC
Case No.:                    24STCV16348
Matter:                        Demurrer 
Moving Party:             Defendant 5 Seasons Showroom, LLC

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Joanne Anderson


Tentative Ruling:        The Demurrer is sustained with leave
to amend as to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and seventh causes of
action. The Demurrer is overruled as to the eighth and ninth causes of
action.

 
            This
case arises from Defendant 5 Seasons Showroom, LLC’s (Defendant) termination of
Plaintiff Joane Anderson’s (Plaintiff) employment. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant terminated her employment after she stated that she had a condition
that required her to have surgery, which she underwent on or about March 25,
2024.
 
            On
July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, alleging causes of action for: (1)
wrongful termination under FEHA; (2) discrimination based upon
disability/perceived disability under FEHA; (3) harassment based upon
disability/perceived disability under FEHA; (4) retaliation under FEHA; (5)
failure to take all reasonable steps to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation under FEHA; (6) violation of California Family Rights Act; (7)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; (8) failure to pay wages; (9)
violation of wage and hour laws.
 
            On
August 28, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed her sixth cause of action for Violation of
the California Family Rights Act. 
            
On August 30,
2024, Defendant demurred as to all remaining causes of action in the complaint.

 
            On
September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
 
            On
September 24, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
 
Demurrer
 
            A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to
challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “‘treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . ..’” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
525.)  
 
            When a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Before filing a
demurrer, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading demurred to or the
pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41.)  
 
Counsel for
Defendant, Robert J. Leonard, provided a declaration that establishes that he
and Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred on August 21, 2024 “by telephone
regarding the objections raised in Defendant’s demurrer.” (Leonard Decl., page
2.) Due to this meet and confer, Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to voluntarily
dismiss the sixth cause of action. (Ibid.) 
 
Thus, the meet
and confer requirement has been met. 
 
Analysis 
 
            Defendant demurs to
Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds that the allegations contained in the
complaint fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action for: (1)
wrongful termination under FEHA; (2) discrimination based upon
disability/perceived disability under FEHA; (3) harassment based upon
disability/perceived disability under FEHA; (4) retaliation under FEHA; (5)
failure to take all reasonable steps to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation under FEHA; (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (8)
failure to pay wages; (9) violation of wage and hour laws.
 
Existence of a Disability 
 
Defendant demurs
as to the first through fifth causes of action on the grounds that Plaintiff
has failed to allege facts regarding the existence of a disability, which forms
the basis for her claims. 
 
A physical
disability under FEHA includes having a physical disease or condition that
affects one or more of the body’s systems or one that “[l]imits a major life
activity.” (Cal. Gov. Code § 12926(m)(1).) A mental or physical disability
under FEHA “limits a major life activity if it makes the achievement of the
major life activity difficult” (Ibid. §§ 12926(j)(1)(B); (m)(1)(B)(ii).)
 
Plaintiff alleges
that when she was initially hired by Defendant, she “informed defendant[] that
she had a medical condition that required surgery.” (Compl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs
also alleges that she “continued to remind [D]efendants of her upcoming surgery
and constantly kept defendant[] updated on her deteriorating health condition.”
(Ibid. ¶ 4.) 
 
In Avila v. Cont'l Airlines, Inc.
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1237, 1249, the Court found that the plaintiff did not sufficiently
show that the plaintiff suffered from a disability when the plaintiff suffered
from an “unspecified condition” and “was hospitalized for three days.” There was
no specificity regarding whether plaintiff suffered from a condition that
qualified as a disability under Cal. Gov. Code § 12926. (Avila, supra, 165
Cal.App.4th at 1249.) Additionally, the court found that because the plaintiff
was hospitalized for only three days and then returned to work a few days later
without restrictions or accommodations, plaintiff “did not suffer from a
condition that qualifies as a disability.” (Ibid.) In Arteaga v.
Brink's, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 327, 346, the court held that the
plaintiff did not have an “actual disability while employed” . . . “because
his symptoms did not make the performance of his job duties difficult as
compared to his unimpaired state” and that he “never exhibited any signs of a
medical problem.”
 
Here, similarly to Avila,
Plaintiff has only alleged that she possessed an unspecified “medical” or
“health condition” that required her to have surgery. (Compl., ¶ ¶ 3, 4.)
Plaintiff also does not allege that she required restrictions or accommodations
following the medical leave of absence she took to undergo the surgery. Similarly
to Arteaga, Plaintiff has insufficiently alleged that that her “medical”
or “health condition” that required her to have surgery made the “achievement
of a life activity difficult.” (Compl., ¶ ¶ 3, 4; Cal. Govt. Code, §§ 12926(j)(1)(B);
(m)(1)(B)(ii).) Plaintiff has not alleged the “medical” or “health condition”
that required her to have surgery made the performance of her job duties more
difficult because she only alleged that she had “likely need[ed] a couple of
weeks off of work to recover following her surgery.” (Compl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff
does not allege that she continued to suffer from any kind of disabling
condition when she returned to work after she had her surgery. 
 
Accordingly, the complaint alleges
insufficient facts that Plaintiff suffered from any condition that would be
considered a physical or mental disability under FEHA, given that she only
alleged that she possessed an unspecified “medical” or “health condition” that
required her to have surgery. (Compl., ¶ ¶ 3, 4.) It is “insufficient for
[Plaintiff] simply to allege a disability or to identify an injury or physical
condition.” (Gelfo v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2006) 140 Cal. App. 4th 34,
47 [plaintiff must show that physical condition “makes ‘difficult’ the
achievement of work or some other major life activity”].) Plaintiff has not
alleged that she suffered from any physical manifestation of any disease,
disorder, or condition that affects any of the specified body systems set forth
in Government Code section 12926, subdivision (m)(1)(A). Thus, the “medical” or
“health condition” that Plaintiff alleges she has that required her to have
surgery cannot form the basis of her having a disability under FEHA. (Compl., ¶
¶ 3, 4.)
 
In opposing the
demurrer, Plaintiff does little more than quote from the Complaint and cite the
statutory definition.  Neither in the
Complaint nor her opposition papers, does Plaintiff identify the disability she
contends was the basis for adverse action. 
A disability may require surgery, but having surgery does not, by
itself, constitute a disability as defined by the statute.  
 
Thus, Plaintiff has not
sufficiently pled that she possessed a FEHA-qualifying disability. 
 
Perceived Disability 
 
Defendant demurs
as to the first through fifth causes of action on the grounds that Plaintiff
has failed to allege facts regarding whether Defendant perceived her as having
a disability, which also forms the basis for her claims. 
 
FEHA prohibits
discrimination based on a physical or mental condition that is perceived as
disabling or potentially disabling. Cal. Gov. Code § 12926.1(b). “[A]n employer
‘knows an employee has a disability when the employee tells the employer about
his condition, or when the employer otherwise becomes aware of the condition,
such as through a third party or by observation. The employer need only know
the underlying facts, not the legal significance of those facts.’” (Soria v.
Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 592 (quoting
Faust v. California Portland Cement Co. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 864,
887).) “While knowledge of the disability can be inferred from the
circumstances, knowledge will only be imputed to the employer when the fact of
disability is the only reasonable interpretation of the known facts. ‘Vague or
conclusory statements revealing an unspecified incapacity are not sufficient to
put an employer on notice of its obligations....’” (Ibid. (quoting Brundage
v. Hahn (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 228, 237).)
 
Here, Plaintiff
alleges that when she “was initially hired by defendant[], she informed
defendant[] that she had a medical condition that required surgery.” (Compl., ¶
3.) She alleges that she “continued to remind defendant[] of her upcoming
surgery and constantly kept defendant[] updated on her deteriorating health
condition.” (Ibid. ¶ 5.) In Soria, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at
589, the court found that there were triable issues of fact regarding whether
the plaintiff was perceived as having a disability because she told her
employer that she had a tumor, “explained the possibility she would have to
undergo major surgery,” and “produced evidence of a text message in which [her
employer] wished her luck on the day of a biopsy.” The court found that “a jury
could reasonably conclude [employer] knew of Soria's tumor and believed she
might continue to miss work due to further doctor appointments.” (Ibid.)
As described above, in Avila, supra, 165 Cal.App.4th at 1249, the court
found that the defendants were not put on notice of the plaintiff’s disability
from receiving forms that stated that that plaintiff was unable to work on four
workdays . . . due to an unspecified condition, and that plaintiff was
hospitalized for three days.” 
 
Here, similarly to
Soria, Plaintiff has alleged that she “continued to remind defendant[]
of her upcoming surgery and constantly kept defendant[] updated on her
deteriorating health condition,” and that “defendant[] made a number of
inappropriate comments regarding plaintiff’s medical condition,” such as Plaintiff
being “told that her surgery was ‘an inconvenience’ to defendant[].” (Compl.,
¶¶ 4, 5.) However, unlike in Soria, where the plaintiff had specified
the physical condition (tumor) that required her to have surgery, Plaintiff
here has not alleged sufficient facts to put Defendant on notice that she had a
condition perceived as disabling or potentially disabling. She has only alleged
that she had a medical/health condition that required her to have surgery and
was not specific as to what this condition is. Similarly to Avila,
putting Defendant on notice that she would be hospitalized for a finite period
of time due to an “unspecified condition” is not sufficiently alleging that
Defendant perceived Plaintiff to have a disability. Plaintiff merely told
Defendant vague and conclusory statements as to her medical/health condition
that required her to have surgery, which is insufficient to place Defendant on
notice.  As the Court of Appeal explained
in Brundage v. Hahn (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 228, 237, the employer’s
imputed knowledge of disability cannot rely on an unspecified incapacity. “While
knowledge of the disability can be inferred from the circumstances, knowledge
will only be imputed to the employer when the fact of disability is the only
reasonable interpretation of the known facts. ‘Vague or conclusory statements
revealing an unspecified incapacity are not sufficient to put an employer on
notice of its obligations under the ADA.’”
 
Thus, because
Plaintiff alleged only to have told Defendant that she had a medical/health
condition that required surgery, Plaintiff failed to plead facts to support
whether Defendant sufficiently perceived Plaintiff as having a disability. 
 
First Cause of Action for
Wrongful Termination under FEHA
 
“The elements of a
claim for wrongful discharge in violation of public policy are (1) an
employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer terminated the plaintiff’s
employment, (3) the termination was substantially motivated by a violation of
public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm.” (Yau v.
Allen (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 154.) 
 
There is no
dispute that Plaintiff sufficiently alleged facts as to the first, second, and
fourth elements. 
 
With respect to
the third element, Plaintiff alleges that “the terms and conditions of her
employment and her termination was in violation of the public policy of the
State of California which specifically prohibits defendants from discriminating
against plaintiff on the basis of her disability/perceived disability.”
(Compl., ¶ 22.) Plaintiff continues to allege that “Defendant[] violated public
policy by discriminating, retaliating against and terminating plaintiff on the
basis of her disability/perceived disability.” Plaintiff bases her wrongful
termination claim in the fact that Defendant discriminated her based on her
disability/perceived disability. However, as explained above, Plaintiff did not
plead sufficient facts to allege that she had a disability or perceived
disability. Thus, her action cannot stand on this ground. 
 
Defendant
additionally argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action fails because the
complaint fails to allege that she was terminated “because of” her “purported
disability.” (Motion, page 12.) Defendant argues that because Defendant could
not have perceived her as having a disability, the termination could not have
been a result of her disability. (Ibid. page 12-13.) As explained,
Plaintiff has insufficiently alleged that Defendant was on notice of any
potential disabling condition, and thus, Defendant necessarily could not have
terminated Plaintiff because of her disability. (See Featherstone v.
S. California Permanente Med. Grp. (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1167 (“Put
simply, unless there is some evidence an employer knows an employee is
suffering from a disability, it is impossible for an employee to claim he or
she was discharged because of it . . . .”) (quoting Pensinger v. Bowsmith,
Inc. (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 709, 722).)
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to first cause of action for wrongful termination under FEHA is
sustained. 
 
Second Cause of Action for Discrimination
Based Upon Disability/Perceived Disability under FEHA
 
To establish a
prima facie case for unlawful discrimination, a plaintiff must provide evidence
that “(1) he [or she] was a member of a protected class, (2) he [or she] was
qualified for the position he [or she] sought or was performing competently in
the position he [or she] held, (3) he [or she] suffered an adverse employment
action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available job, and (4)
some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel
National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
            
There is no
dispute that Plaintiff sufficiently alleged facts as to the second and third
elements. However, as explained above, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged
that she is part of a protected class, given that she did not plead sufficient
facts to show that she suffered from a disability or perceived disability.
Because she did not plead sufficient facts as to her having a disability or
whether Defendant perceived her as having a disability, she has not alleged
that Defendant had a “discriminatory motive,” since Defendant has not
sufficiently alleged to have been on notice of her condition. 
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to the second cause of action for discrimination based upon
disability/perceived disability under FEHA is sustained. 
 
Third Cause of Action for
Harassment Based Upon Disability/Perceived Disability under FEHA
 
“FEHA prohibits an
employer from harassing an employee ‘because of ... a physical disability.”” (Cornell
v. Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 927; Cal. Govt. Code, §
12940(j)(1).) A claim of disability harassment requires a showing “that the
conduct complained of was severe enough or sufficiently pervasive to alter the
conditions of employment and create a work environment that qualifies as
hostile or abusive to employees because of their [disability].” (Hope v.
California Youth Authority (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 577, 588.)
 
Plaintiff alleges
in the complaint that “she informed defendant[] that she had a medical
condition that required surgery,” and then “constantly kept defendant[] updated
on her deteriorating health condition.” (Compl., ¶ 3, 4.) She also alleges that
“in the weeks leading up to her surgery, defendant[] made a number of
inappropriate comments regarding plaintiff’s medical condition.” (Ibid.
¶ 5.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
harassment claim is based upon her disability/perceived disability in that
Defendant created a “hostile work environment on the basis of [P]laintiff’s disability/perceived
disability by harassing plaintiff . . . .” (Ibid. ¶ 47.) Like the above
causes of action, because Plaintiff has insufficiently alleged that she
suffered from a disability or that Defendant perceived her as having a
disability, Defendant cannot have harassed Plaintiff because of her
disability/perceived disability. Plaintiff’s failure to allege sufficient facts
to demonstrate a disability/perceived disability renders her harassment claim
insufficiently pled. 
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to the third cause of action for harassment based upon
disability/perceived disability under FEHA is sustained. Plaintiff may leave to
amend the complaint to sufficiently allege disability/perceived disability.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Retaliation
under FEHA
 
FEHA makes it
unlawful for an employer “to discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate
against any person because the person has opposed any practices forbidden under
this part or because the person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted
in any proceeding under this part.” Cal. Gov. Code § 12940(h). To allege a
prima facie claim for retaliation, a plaintiff must allege: (1) that she
engaged in a protected activity; (2) she was subjected to an adverse employment
action; and (3) that there was a causal link between the protected activity and
the adverse employment action. (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36
Cal.4th 1028, 1042. 
            
“Although an employee need not
formally file a charge in order to qualify as being engaged in protected
opposing activity, such activity must oppose activity the employee reasonably
believes constitutes unlawful discrimination, and complaints about personal
grievances or vague or conclusory remarks that fail to put an employer on
notice as to what conduct it should investigate will not suffice to establish
protected conduct.” (Yanowitz, 36 Cal.4th at 1053.) “The relevant
question ... is not whether a formal accusation of discrimination is made but
whether the employee's communications to the employer sufficiently convey the
employee's reasonable concerns that the employer has acted or is acting in an
unlawful discriminatory manner.” (Ibid.) 
            
Here, Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff
rejected illegal activity, i.e., discrimination and harassment. When plaintiff
rejected the discrimination and harassment, she was engaged in a protected
activity.” (Compl., ¶ 58.) Plaintiff alleges that “in the weeks leading up to
her surgery, defendant[] made a number of inappropriate comments regarding
plaintiff’s medical condition,” that “[f]ollowing her surgery, she was placed
on a medical leave of absence,” and that “one day after returning to work from
her medical leave, plaintiff was informed that her employment with defendant[] was
being terminated.” (Ibid. ¶¶ 5-7.) 
 
Plaintiff
insufficiently pled facts to “demonstrate some degree of opposition to or
protest of the employer’s conduct.” (Rope v. AutoChlor System of Wash. Inc.
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 635, 652.) Plaintiff’s allegations do not support the
contention that Plaintiff demonstrated any opposition or protest to Defendant’s
purported misconduct. Requesting medical leave to undergo surgery does not
“sufficiently convey concerns that [Defendant has] acted in an unlawful manner”
because it does not constitute any opposition to Defendant’s actions. (Yanowitz,
36 Cal.4th at 1053.) Further, Plaintiff’s allegation that “Plaintiff rejected
the discrimination and harassment” is a conclusory statement, as it does not
explain what Plaintiff did to reject the discrimination and harassment. 
            
Additionally
undergoing medical procedures unrelated to a specified medical condition is not
engaging in protected activity. In Paleny v. Fireplace Prod. U.S., Inc.
(2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 199, 212, the court held that the plaintiff did not
engage in protected activity because “she has never identified, nor provided
any evidence of, a medical condition that gave rise to her need to undergo
[the] medical procedure at issue.” The court stated that the plaintiff “undergoing
an elective medical procedure but, without an underlying medical condition
related to pregnancy, . . . does not have a protected characteristic under the
FEHA.” While, unlike Paleny, Plaintiff alleged that she “continued to
remind defendant[] of her upcoming surgery and constantly kept defendant[]
updated on her deteriorating health condition,” Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged that her health condition is considered a disability/perceived
disability under FEHA. Thus, the related claim for retaliation cannot remain on
that basis. 
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to the third cause of action for harassment based upon
disability/perceived disability under FEHA is sustained. 
            
Fifth Cause of Action for Failure
to Take All Reasonable Steps to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment and
Retaliation under FEHA
 
It is an unlawful
employment practice “[f]or an employer, labor organization, employment agency,
apprenticeship training program, or any training program leading to employment,
to fail to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment
from occurring.” (Cal. Gov. Code, § 12940(k).) If “a plaintiff cannot establish
a claim for discrimination, the employer as a matter of law cannot be held
responsible for failing to prevent same[.]” (Featherstone, 10
Cal.App.5th at 1166.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
claim for Failure to Prevent is derivative of her disability discrimination
claim and is also based on whether she had a disability/perceived disability.
As described above, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged that she had a
disability or was perceived as having a disability, and thus could not allege a
claim for a disability discrimination. Because she “cannot establish her
underlying cause of action for disability discrimination, she cannot maintain a
derivative claim for violation of section 12940, subdivision (k).” (Featherstone,
10 Cal.App.5th at 1166.)
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action for harassment based upon
disability/perceived disability under FEHA is sustained. Plaintiff can have
leave to amend the complaint to sufficiently allege disability/perceived
disability.
 
Seventh Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
The elements of
intentional infliction of emotional distress requires “(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff
suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant's extreme and
outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the severe emotional
distress.”  (Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc.
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007.)   
 
A.   
Extreme and Outrageous Conduct 
 
“Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community.” (Davidson v. City of Westminster (1982) 32
Cal.3d 197, 209.)  “‘[M]ere insulting language, without more, ordinarily
would not constitute extreme outrage’ unless it is combined with ‘aggravated
circumstances.’” (Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138,
147 (quoting Alcorn v. Anbro Eng’g, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499).)“Liability has been found only
where the conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so extreme in
degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be regarded as
atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized community.”¿(Cochran v.
Cochran (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 488, 496.)¿While there is no bright-line as to what constitutes outrageous
conduct and thus this involves a case-by-case analysis, courts can determine
whether conduct was sufficiently outrageous at the demurrer stage.¿ (Ibid.
at 494.)¿¿
 
Here, Plaintiff
alleges that “in the weeks leading up to her surgery, defendant[] made a number
of inappropriate comments regarding plaintiff’s medical condition. For example
. . . Diane Leonard (“Leonard”), the owner of defendant[], approached plaintiff
and questioned why she [plaintiff] needed two weeks off for her surgery, [and
that] she ‘could not understand why plaintiff needed two weeks to recover.’ In
addition, on several occasions, plaintiff was told that her surgery was ‘an
inconvenience’ to defendant[].” (Compl., ¶ 5.) 
 
In Cornell,
supra, 18 Cal.App.5th at 919, 945-46, the court held that comments about
the plaintiff’s weight, laughing in a mocking tone about her ability to fit in
a uniform, and asking if she had considered weight-loss surgery were
inappropriate but not severe enough. In Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.
4th 1035, 1051, the court held that defendant’s inappropriate comments of a
sexual nature “fall too short,” of constituting extreme and outrageous conduct.
In Ankeny v. Lockheed Missiles & Space Co. (1978) 88 Cal.App.3d 531,
536–37, demurrer was proper where the plaintiff alleged that his employer
prevented him from becoming a union steward, continuously transferred him from
job to job, wrongfully denied him promotions, personally insulted him, and
required him to do inappropriate tasks. 
 
Here, Defendant’s
alleged comment that Plaintiff’s surgery is “an inconvenience” and question
“why [Plaintiff] needed two weeks off for her surgery,” were insensitive, even
churlish. But they are not so outrageous as to “exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.” At bottom, the Complaint alleges
that shortly after Plaintiff’s return from medical leave, Defendant callously
fired her.  That is insufficient to plead
intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Buscemi v. McDonnell Douglas
Corporation (9th Cir. 1984) 736 F.2d 1348, 1352 [allegedly
pretextual firing and “emotional distress [that] resulted from the callous and
insensitive manner of …termination” do not support claim under California law
for IIED].)  Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged Defendant’s extreme and outrageous conduct.
 
B.   
Suffers Severe Emotional Distress 
 
“With respect to
the requirement that the plaintiff show severe emotional distress, [the Supreme
Court of California] has set a high bar.” (Hughes, supra, 46 Cal. 4th at
1051.) Severe emotional distress means “emotional distress of such substantial
quality or enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in civilized society
should be expected to endure it.” (Ibid. (quoting Potter v. Firestone
Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 965, 1004).)
 
Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant’s actions “caused plaintiff severe emotional distress, anxiety,
sleeplessness, and were outrageous and beyond the scope of his [sic]
employment” and that “plaintiff has become mentally upset, distressed and
aggravated.” (Compl., ¶¶ 82-83.) 
 
In Hughes,
supra, 46 Cal.4th at 1051, “plaintiff’s assertions that she has suffered
discomfort, worry, anxiety, upset stomach, concern, and agitation” because of
defendant’s comments “do not comprise emotional distress of such substantial
quality or enduring quality that no reasonable person in civilized society
should be expected to endure it.” In Wong v. Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th
1354, 1377, the court held that conduct that “caused [plaintiff] to lose sleep,
have stomach upset and generalized anxiety” did not reflect emotional distress
that was “severe, lasting, or enduring.” Similarly here, Plaintiff has not
alleged allegations beyond general statements of her having experienced “severe
emotional distress, anxiety, sleeplessness,” with her becoming “mentally upset,
distressed and aggravated.” (Compl., ¶¶ 82-83.) Plaintiff has not alleged facts
to support the existence of the symptoms she has alleged. Thus, Plaintiff has
not sufficiently alleged that she has suffered severe emotional distress. 
 
The demurrer to
the seventh cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress
FEHA is sustained. 
 
Eighth and Ninth Causes of
Action for Labor Code Violations 
 
Cal. Labor Code §
201 provides that “if an employer discharges an employee, the wages earned and
unpaid at the time of discharge are due and payable immediately.” Cal. Labor
Code § 203 requires employers to pay a waiting time penalty when they fail to
give final paychecks to terminated employees. Cal. Labor Code § 227.3 provides
that “whenever . . . an employee is terminated without having taken off his
vested vacation time, all vested vacation shall be paid to him as wages . . .
.” 
 
Here, Plaintiff
alleges that “[d]uring her employment, [she] had unused vested vacation time
[and] [s]he was not paid for this unused vested vacation time at the time of
her termination in direct violation of California Labor Code Sections 227.3.”
Plaintiff also alleges that “she was not immediately paid all wages/unused
vested vacation time owed her.” Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendant has not
since paid Plaintiff’s wages and unused vacation time is sufficient to plead
causes of action for violating the Labor Code. Plaintiff has alleged that she
has unused vacation time and leftover wages that has not been paid to her,
which taken as true, would sufficiently allege that Defendant is in violation
of the Labor Code. 
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to the eighth and ninth causes of action for Labor Code Violations is
overruled. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The Demurrer is sustained as to the first,
second, third, fourth, fifth, and seventh causes of action. The Demurrer is
overruled as to the eighth and ninth causes of action.  Plaintiff shall have leave to amend.  She shall file and serve her amended
Complaint on or before October 23, 2024.
 
