  Case Number:  21SMCV01950    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant First American Title Insurance Company’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Plaintiff Leon Thompson Jr.’s second cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is STRICKEN from the Second Amended Complaint.Defendant First American Title Insurance Company to give notice.REASONING“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)DemurrerIn his Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiff Leon Thompson Jr. (“Plaintiff”) asserts claims for breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, fraud and deceit, and negligence.First Cause of Action: Breach of ContractTo state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to state “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) In the first cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant William S. Jensen breached the Vacant Land Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (“the agreement”) by failing to deliver the property with a valid, enforceable easement as required under the agreement, and Defendant First American Title Company (“First American”) breached the agreement by denying Plaintiff’s claim under his title insurance. (Second Am. Compl. ¶¶ 35, 45, 51.)As the Court previously stated, Plaintiff must be able to point to a contractual provision which required First American to research the easement sought by Plaintiff, as he alleges the denial of his claim was First American’s own fault for its lack of diligence (Second Am. Compl. ¶¶ 25, 51), but Plaintiff again does not identify any such provision. Again, the agreement instead states that Plaintiff accepted title to the property “in its present condition subject to all encumbrances, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, rights and other matters whether of record or not.” (Second Am. Compl. ¶ 16, Ex. A, at ¶ 18(B).) It follows that the trier of fact has no basis to conclude that First American breached an agreement for title insurance when Plaintiff took the property in this manner. Moreover, the Court identified these deficiencies in its prior order sustaining First American’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, and while Plaintiff added certain factual allegations, none of those added facts serve to state a claim for breach of contract by identifying the specific contractual provision allegedly breached by First American. Thus, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment will cure any issues with this claim. Accordingly, First American’s demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Second Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair DealingAs to Plaintiff’s claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, this claim was not included in the First Amended Complaint, and the Court’s ruling on the prior demurrers stated that no causes of action were to be added without obtaining leave to do so. Plaintiff did not move for leave to add this claim. Thus, the second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is STRICKEN from the Second Amended Complaint.Third Cause of Action: Fraud and Deceit“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)While the heading of this claim does not identify First American, Plaintiff includes allegations as to First American in the body of the claim itself, stating that it was familiar with the property and failed to disclose to Plaintiff that the easement was not valid. (Second Am. Compl. ¶¶ 108, 117-118.) Plaintiff alleges that First American’s agent, Sheila Isham, a Senior Title Officer for First American, failed to exercise due care when she communicated that the easements on the property were valid and enforceable. (Second Am. Compl. ¶ 131.)Plaintiff has not sufficiently set forth the nature of the purported misrepresentations made to him by Isham or any other representative of First American, and it is axiomatic that the facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Plaintiff fails to identify the means by which any statements were made and when they were made, and he fails to allege that anyone made false statements with the intent to induce reliance by Plaintiff. Further, Plaintiff cannot hold First American liable under the title insurance policy, as discussed below. Again, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment will cure any issues with this claim. Accordingly, First American’s demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Fourth Cause of Action: NegligenceTo establish a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must establish the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) Again, while the heading of this claim does not identify First American, Plaintiff includes allegations as to First American in the body of the claim itself. Plaintiff alleges that First American breached its duty to him by stating that the easements were valid and by failing to pay for covered losses sustained by Plaintiff as a result of the missing easement. (Second Am. Compl. ¶¶ 165-166.)Plaintiff again fails to set forth how First American breached any duty to him by failing to research the easement or reimburse him when he agreed to take the property as is. Insofar as Plaintiff is seeking to hold First American liable based on the title insurance policy, Siegel v. Fidelity National Title Insurance Co. (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1191 makes clear that “a policy of title insurance is not a representation that the title is in the condition described, and it is not an opinion regarding the condition of title.” It follows that a title insurance policy “does not constitute a representation that the contingency insured against will not occur,” and “when such contingency occurs, no action for negligence or negligent misrepresentation will lie against the insurer based upon the policy of title insurance alone.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff is seeking to hold First American liable under the policy of title insurance, and a negligence claim does not lie in that respect. Again, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that amendment will cure any issues with this claim. Thus, First American’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.