 Case Number:  24STLC05638    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  25 PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO SET ASIDE ENTRY OF DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant
Herschel Edwards
RESP. PARTY:         None
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT
(CCP § 473(b))
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant
Herschel Edwards’s Motion to Set Aside the Default and Default Judgment is
CONTINUED TO JANUARY 21, 2025 at 10:00 a.m. in Department 25 at the SPRING
STREET COURTHOUSE. At least 16 court days before the next scheduled hearing,
Defendant must file proof of service and correct the errors noted herein.
Failure to do so may result in the Motion being placed off calendar or
denied.  SERVICE: 
 
[   ] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC,
rule 3.1300)                     NO
[   ] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      NO 
[   ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                       NO 
 
OPPOSITION:          None
filed as of December 16, 2024                          [  ] Late           [X]
None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of December 16, 2024                          [  ]
Late           [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff Western
Funding Incorporated (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against Defendant Herschel
Edwards (“Defendant”) and Does 1-10, alleging causes of action for Breach of
Contract and Common Counts. (Compl., pp. 1, ¶ 8.) 
 
On August 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed
proof of personal service of the Summons and Complaint and accompanying papers
on Defendant on August 13, 2024. (8/15/24 Proof of Service, ¶¶ 2, 5.)
 
On September 18, 2024, default was
entered against Defendant. (9/18/24 Request for Entry of Default.) The same
day, Plaintiff also dismissed Does 1-10 without prejudice.
 
On September 23, 2024, Defendant filed
an Answer. 
 
On September 30, 2024, default
judgment was entered against Defendant. (9/30/24 Request for Entry of Default
Judgment.) 
 
On October 14, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Notice of Motion and Motion to Set Aside Default and Default
Judgment (the “Motion”). 
 
No Opposition was filed.
 
II.                
Procedural
Issues
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes
Defendant failed to file proof of service of the Motion on Plaintiff. The Court
cannot act on the Motion until properly served.
 
Next, the Court notes Defendant failed
to attach a reservation receipt for the Motion hearing.
 
Third, the Court notes Defendant
states there are four exhibits attached to the Motion – namely, “(1) Notice of
rejection of First Answer, (2) Acceptance by Clerk of Corrected Answer, (3)
Proof of Service of Answer within 30 days of service of Complaint, [and] (4)
Proof of Service documentation Defendant Received when Served.” (Edwards Decl.,
¶ 4.) However, no such documents are attached – only the cover sheets
identifying the exhibits are included with the Motion.
 
Finally, the Court notes Defendant
failed to attach a copy of the proposed Answer or other responsive pleading to
the Motion. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
III.             
Legal
Standard 
 
The court has broad discretion to
vacate the entry of default, default judgment, or a dismissal where the moving
party timely establishes a proper ground for relief. (Cruz
v. Fagor America, Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488,
495.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) contains two
distinct provisions for relief from default.  The first provision is
discretionary and broad in scope, providing: “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall
not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
 
The second provision of Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) is mandatory, providing: “[T]he
court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months
after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s
sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or
her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2)
resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client,
unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by
the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the time within
which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section 583.310.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
The
general underlying purpose of Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b) is to promote the determination of actions on
their merits. (Even Zohar Const. & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire
Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 838-839.)  
 
IV.             
Discussion
 
A.   
Timeliness
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes the Motion was
filed on October 14, 2024, which is less than six months after the entry of
default entered on September 18, 2024.
 
 Here, Defendant
raises a claim for relief due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect by a party, which is a form of discretionary relief
that requires application for relief to be filed within a reasonable time and no
later than six months from the time of entry of default. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
 
Since Defendant filed the Motion within six months from
the entry of default, the Motion is timely. 
 
B.    
Motion to Set Aside
Default Judgment and Default
 
            Defendant moves to set aside the
default and default judgment on the grounds that Defendant was proceeding pro
se and attempted to file an Answer on September 12, 2024 – within 30 days of
receiving service of the Complaint on August 13, 2024 – but the Answer was
rejected by the Court due to incomplete information. (Motion, pp. 1-2, 5;
Edwards Decl.) Accordingly, Defendant contends the failure to timely respond to
the Complaint was due to Defendant’s excusable inadvertence and mistake.
 
Here, the Court finds there is
sufficient evidence to warrant setting aside the default judgment and default
against Defendant. While the Court notes its record does not indicate Defendant
attempted to file an Answer on September 12, 2024, Defendant submitted evidence
of his own declaration, which states that this is his first breach of contract
lawsuit; Defendant repeatedly attempted to file an Answer in this matter; Defendant
struggled to navigate the procedural requirements for filing an Answer and
scheduling a hearing for this Motion; Defendant eventually hired a lawyer to
file an Answer; and Defendant intends to participate in this action by denying
the Complaint, making discovery requests, and raising defenses to the causes of
action alleged in the Complaint. (Edwards Decl., ¶¶ 1-3.) The Court also notes
an Answer was filed by Defendant on September 23, 2024.
 
The Court finds there is sufficient
evidence to suggest Defendant’s lack of timely response to the Complaint was
due to Defendant’s inadvertence and excusable mistakes in navigating the legal
system given Defendant’s unfamiliarity with the litigation process. (See
Hopkins & Carley v. Gens (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410
[defendant’s burden to demonstrate “that due to some mistake, either of fact or
of law, of himself or of his counsel, or through some inadvertence, surprise or
neglect which may properly considered excusable, the judgment or order from
which he seeks relief should be reverse”] (emphasis in original).)  
 
However,
Defendant failed to file proof of service and attach the requisite Answer or
responsive pleading to the Motion (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b)). The Court cannot act on the Motion until properly
served.
 
            Thus, the Motion is CONTINUED.
 
V.               
Conclusion
& Order
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Defendant Herschel Edwards’s Motion to Set Aside
the Default and Default Judgment is CONTINUED TO JANUARY 21, 2025 at 10:00 a.m. in
Department 25 at the SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE. At least 16 court days before
the next scheduled hearing, Defendant must file proof of service and correct
the errors noted herein. Failure to do so may result in the Motion being placed
off calendar or denied.  
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 