 Case Number:  23STCV18508    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


April
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV18508




MOTION


(1)
  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 
(2)
  Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Path Program




OPPOSING PARTY


None
  



 
MOTION
 
On August 4, 2023, Plaintiff Karen Denise Works (“Plaintiff” in pro
per) filed a complaint against Defendant Path Program (“Defendant”).
 
On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a form first amended complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendant for general negligence and intentional tort.
 
Defendant now demurs to the FAC for failing to state a cause of action
and for being uncertain. Defendant also separately moves to strike Plaintiff’s
punitive damages claim. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. 
It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the
opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)
 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set
forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149,
156-157.) 
 
On demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to
“determine whether or not the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a
cause of action under any legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
A
demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading is so bad
that the responding party cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or she cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are
directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Where a demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty,
the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why the pleading is
uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to page and line
numbers. (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135
Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)
 
            Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)
 
According to the Declaration of Serena
L. Nervez, Defendant’s counsel called Plaintiff on February 28, 2024 to discuss
this demurrer and spoke for 30 minutes. (Nervez Decl. ¶ 3.) Therefore, the meet
and confer requirement has been met. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.)  
 
The
essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted
with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch
plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed
[he or] she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it
reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the
threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was
harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)
 
Here,
the FAC specifies a cause of action for general negligence and intentional
tort. The FAC contains a written attachment where Plaintiff wrote: “Civil
Neglect Defamation.” The allegations are written by hand and do not contain a
date when the alleged incidents took place. Plaintiff writes that she was
transported from Path Program at 9:00 at night in a vehicle. It was dark. The
drivers would not tell her where she was being taken; they barely spoke
English.  She called the police while
inside the vehicle with the drivers. She went to “PCW”. She was moved to a
different location. About 18 days after, she was assaulted by a man who chased
her from her room to the kitchen while her son was in the room. Plaintiff
states this man was still at the shelter after the assault. She filed a police
report for the assault and “was put on the street without shelter.” She also
asserts she lost her phone on the shelter couch. 
 
            Here, Plaintiff appears to outline
three separate events: a car ride at night, an assault by an unidentified man,
and losing her phone. Plaintiff has only filed this action against Defendant. 
However, there are
not enough facts to support a cause of action for negligence because Plaintiff
has not stated that Defendant owed a duty of care to Plaintiff, or what
Defendant did to breach that duty and cause injury to Plaintiff. Plaintiff also
has not specified how this defendant is responsible for the actions of the
alleged assaulter or otherwise provided sufficient facts to constitute an
assault. The complaint does not set forth the events with specificity,
including, for example, the dates or locations where the alleged events
occurred.
 
Therefore,
the demurrer to the FAC is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Motion
to Strike
 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an
opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 435; 436(a).) Motions may also target pleadings or parts of pleadings
which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws, rules or
orders. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) A motion to strike is used to address
defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from judicially noticed matter
but that are not grounds for a demurrer. (Pierson v Sharp Memorial Hospital
(1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342.)
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is conduct intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only
when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the
plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’
[Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294]
plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’
requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’
interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) (emphasis
added.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new
substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct
is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage
frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Further, “[t]here must be evidence that
defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to
plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s
Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
1149, 1155.)
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a
plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including
allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Turman
v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
“Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an
award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank
(1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory allegations are not
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. (Brousseau v. Jarrett
(1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) Lastly, “[t]he mere allegation an intentional tort was committed
is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must
there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) 
 
When
seeking damages from an employer, an employer is not liable for punitive
damages arising from an employee’s actions pursuant to Civil Code section
3294(a) unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
(Civ. Code § 3294(b).) With respect to a corporate employer, the advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of
oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing
agent of the corporation. (Id.)¿ 
 
Here, the complaint fails to
sufficiently allege that Defendant was guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, as defined above. Because there are insufficient facts to support
causes of action, let alone a prayer for punitive damages, the motion to strike
is granted with leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC
with leave to amend. The Court grants Defendant’s motion to strike with leave
to amend. Plaintiff must file a second amended complaint addressing the issues
described in this ruling within 20 days’ notice of this order. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 