 Case Number:  22STCV38100    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV38100




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Responses to Request for Production 
(2)
  Compel Responses to Interrogatories




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Mishaun Dillon
(“Plaintiff”) to serve verified responses, without objections, to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories,
Set One. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant served Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One, on Plaintiff
on January 30, 2023. (Buchongo Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A, B.) Since then, no responses have
been served. Therefore, because responses have not been served, and Plaintiff
does not oppose, the motions to compel are granted. 
 
Defendant also
requests $1,250 in monetary sanctions for each of the two motions, against
Plaintiff and their counsel of record. This represents an hourly rate of $250. (Id.
¶ 4.) The Court finds sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff has failed to
respond, but the amount requested is excessive given no opposition was filed. Therefore, the
Court awards sanctions in the amount of $750 (1.5 hours of attorney time to
file and appear at the hearing, for each motion). 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motions to Compel Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories,
Set One are GRANTED. Plaintiff Mishaun Dillon shall provide verified responses,
without objection, within 30 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and his attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced
amount of $750.00.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Defendant
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 