  Case Number:  22STCV04698    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  B Defendant Alice Christian King (“Defendant”)’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Devin R. White (“Plaintiff”)’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One is granted UPON RECEIPT OF AN ADDITIONAL $60.00 FILING FEE. Plaintiff is ordered to serve Defendant with verified, objection-free responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 20 days of this hearing. Additionally, Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay $760.00 in sanctions to defense counsel within 20 days.LEGAL STANDARDSIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(b).) The statute does not contain a time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)Where there has been no timely response to interrogatories, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300(b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. (CCP § 2031.300(a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the interrogatories. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.“The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel . . . responses to interrogatories or production demands, absent substantial justification or other circumstances that make imposing the sanctions unjust.” (CCP § 2030.290(c).) Similarly, “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (CCP § 2023.030(a).) Misuse of the discovery process includes “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” and “[d]isobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (CCP § 2023.010(d) and (g).)DISCUSSIONDefendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant also seeks sanctions in the amount of $1,135.00, comprised of a $60.00 filing fee, two hours of work at an hourly rate of $225.00, and 2.5 hours of work at an hourly rate of $250.00. (Lowell Decl. ¶ 6.)Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s response to discovery because Plaintiff failed to provide any responses. Defendant propounded discovery requests on Plaintiff on October 12, 2023. (Lowell Decl. ¶ 2; Exh A. [discovery requests].) On February 1, 2024, defense counsel unilaterally granted an extension of time to February 9, 2024. (Ibid. at ¶ 3; Exh. B [February 1, 2024, correspondence].) On February 21, 2024, having not received a response, defense counsel sent a second meet and confer correspondence granting a unilateral extension to March 1, 2024. (Ibid. at ¶ 4; Exh. C [February 21, 2024, correspondence].) Plaintiff never provided responses. (Ibid. at ¶ 5.)Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, is granted. Plaintiff is to serve Defendant with verified, objection-free responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 20 days of this hearing.Considering Plaintiff’s total failure to comply with their discovery obligations, the Court orders Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions in the reduced amount of $760.00 (reflecting the straightforward nature of this motion and lack of opposition), payable to defense counsel within 20 days of this hearing.In the future, Defendant is ordered to obtain separate hearing reservations and pay separate filing fees for each motion to compel a discovery response. Combining multiple motions under the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants. Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of filing fees deprives the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect.Be that as it may, since these motions are unopposed, and in the interest of efficiency, the Court will exercise its discretion to grant the two motions. However, this order will not become effective until moving party pays an additional $60.00 in filing fees.Moving party to give notice.Dated: November 21, 2024Hon. Karen MoskowitzJudge of the Superior Court