  Case Number:  21STCV04043    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of
California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



RACHEL
  TOLLIVER, et al.  
 
         vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC 
 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV04043 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: October 13, 2023



 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED
IN PART, consistent with the ruling set forth below. The Court declines to
award sanctions at this time.  
 
Plaintiff Rachel Tolliver and
Carmen Sims (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against General Motors
(Defendant) alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Law.
 
            Now, Plaintiffs move to compel the
deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK). 
 
Discussion

 
            Defendant argues that this motion
should be denied because: (1) this Court already denied a motion to compel the
deposition of Defendant’s PMK on 6/29/2023; (2) it is untimely; and (3) good
cause does not exist to compel the testimony on the categories sought.  
 
            As to the first contention, it is
true that this Court denied a motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s
PMK on 6/29/2023. However, Defendant does not contend that Plaintiff seeks to
compel Defendant’s PMK to testify on identical topics as those presented in the
previous motion. The fact that the Court previously denied a particular type of
motion does not, on its own, preclude Plaintiff from bringing the same type of
motion based on different facts or evidence.
 
            As to the second contention, a
moving party must file a motion to compel no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition. Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader
(2007, 2d Dist.) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127). However, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff CCP section 2025.480 applies where a deponent appears for deposition
but then refuses to answer questions or produce documents. Here, Plaintiffs
move to compel under CCP section 2025.450 which provides:
 
If, after service of a deposition notice, ... a person designated
by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having
served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.
 
(CCP § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
As such, section 2025.450 does not appear to impose the the 60-day
deadline. 
 
            Finally, as to the third contention,
the Court finds that many of the topics that Plaintiffs seek testimony on are
relevant here. For example, Plaintiffs seek information regarding complaints by
other customers in similar vehicles. However, the Court also finds some of the
requests to be overbroad. For example, Plaintiffs seek information on how TSBs
were produced, not just the TSBs themselves. 
 
Generally, this Court finds the following categories of information
to be relevant and discoverable in lemon law cases:
 
1.     
Information related to, and
involving, the Subject Vehicle itself and its repair.
 
2.     
The “Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual”
published by Defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within
the State of California, for the period of purchase to present.
 
3.     
Any internal analysis or
investigation regarding defects concerning the transmission defect in vehicles for
the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle.
 
4.     
Any customer complaints relating to
defects that are similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff in
vehicles within California for the same year, make, and model of the subject
vehicle, for the period of purchase to present.
 
5.     
All documents evidencing policies and
procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period of purchase to present.
 
6.     
Technical Service Bulletins and
Recall Notices for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and
model of the subject vehicle. 
 
Defendant must produce a PMK to testify on all categories that
overlap with these categories of information.
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel is granted in
part, denied in part, consistent with the ruling set forth above. In light of
this ruling, the Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
October    , 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 