 Case Number:  23STCV12715    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)       Motion to Strike
 
            Defendants Firm, Bowers, Abeles, and
Bayles now move this court for an order striking the Complaint, on the grounds
that it should have been filed in the related case as a compulsory cross-complaint.
Defendants also seek the removal of Plaintiff International Implants, LLC (“International”)
on the basis that it is a suspended company.
 
Decision
 
            Defendants’ Request for Judicial
Notice is GRANTED as to Exhibits 9-10. It is otherwise GRANTED only as
to the existence of the documents and the fact that certain statements were
made, not as to the truth of those statements. Lockley v. Law Office of
Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th
875, 882.
 
            Plaintiffs’
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED under the same conditions.
 
            The motion is GRANTED, without leave
to amend, as to Plaintiffs Michael Dennis Drobot (“Drobot”) and Healthsmart
Pacific, Inc. (“Healthsmart”). 
 
It is GRANTED, with leave to
amend as to Plaintiff International.
 
Governing Statute
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 426.30
provides that:
 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a party against whom a
complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any
related cause of action which (at the time of serving his answer to the
complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any
other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not
pleaded.
 
(b) This section does not apply if either of the following are
established:
(1) The court in which the action is pending does not have jurisdiction
to render a personal judgment against the person who failed to plead the
related cause of action.
(2) The person who failed to plead the related cause of action did not
file an answer to the complaint against him.”
 
A claim is not
subject to the compulsory cross-complaint bar if the plaintiff had not yet discovered
it when the operative answer was filed in the earlier case. Align Technology,
Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 968-972. 
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiffs argue that this motion to
strike is a “disguised demurrer” and should be denied on that basis. While the
issue of the compulsory cross-complaint bar is usually handled on a demurrer,
there is no rule of law which requires it to be so handled. Demurrers are meant
to handle substantive issues, while motions to strike may be used for
procedural ones. Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
509, 528-529. 
 
Enforcement of the compulsory cross-complaint rule could well be viewed
as a procedural matter. And in any event, the nature of a motion is
determined by the nature of the substantive relief sought, not by any label or
other formality. California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. Virga
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 30, 43 (quoting Sole Energy Co. v.
Petrominerals Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 187, 193). The court
will not deny the motion simply because it carries the wrong title.
 
            There is no real dispute between the
parties that the claims in this case are “related,” within the meaning of
Section 426.30(a), to the claims in Case No. 19 STCV 26678. Plaintiffs’
argument is instead that they didn’t “have” these claims at the time they
served their Answer in that case because they hadn’t discovered them yet.
 
Plaintiffs Drobot
and Healthsmart
 
            In Case No. 19 STCV 26678, the operative
First Amended Complaint was filed on September 16, 2021. Only Plaintiffs
Drobot and Healthsmart filed an Answer to that pleading, on July 11, 2023. 
 
            The complaint
in this case was filed on June 2, 2023, a full month before the
operative answer was filed in Case No. 19
STCV 26678. Therefore, Plaintiffs Drobot and Healthsmart had discovered their
claims when they filed their operative answer. Their claims in this case are
therefore subject to the compulsory cross-complaint bar.
 
            In their opposition, Plaintiffs ask
this court to permit them to file their claims as a cross-complaint in Case No.
19 STCV 26678. To obtain such relief, Plaintiffs will need to file a motion in
that case. No such motion has ever been filed there.
 
Plaintiff
International
 
            In Case No.
19 STCV 26678, the only answer filed by Plaintiff International, on September
27, 2019, was made in response to an earlier version of the complaint. In the
intervening time, that answer was stricken, and default entered against International,
based on its suspended status.
 
            It is not
clear whether Plaintiff International had discovered its claims by September
27, 2019. The date on which a party actually discovers (or should have
discovered) a legal claim represents a classic factual question, not amenable
to resolution at the pleadings stage. And while International’s answer in the
earlier case did assert that the Firm hadn’t performed the services for which
they sought payment, such a pleading is not conclusive as a matter of law.
 
            It is
common practice, when filing an Answer, to plead large numbers of affirmative
defenses in a conclusory fashion, so as to avoid any subsequent waiver
argument. The related case is a breach of contract action. Pleading the
opponent’s lack of performance is an entirely reflexive response to such an
action.
 
            What
remains true of Defendant International, however, is its suspended status. So
long as it remains suspended, it cannot prosecute this case. Tabarrejo v. Superior Court (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 849, 861-862. Counsel
have known of Defendant International’s suspended status, since its default was
entered in Case No. 19 STCV 26678 on January 4 of this year. They will be given
one chance to revive it.
 
Conclusion
 
            As
to Plaintiffs Drobot and Healthsmart, this is a compulsory cross-complaint
which ought to have been filed in the earlier action. Therefore, the motion to
strike their claims is GRANTED, without leave to amend.
 
            As to Plaintiff
International, they are currently suspended and therefore legally barred from
prosecuting this case. Therefore, the motion to strike their claims is GRANTED,
with 30 days leave to amend.
 
(2)       Demurrer
 
Defendants Firm, Bowers, Abeles, and Bayles now demur to the Complaint on
the grounds that it is barred by the statute of limitations and fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a claim for violation of Penal Code
§ 496(c).
 
Decision
 
            The demurrer is TAKEN OFF-CALENDAR
as MOOT.