  Case Number:  19STCV26678    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)       Motion to Stay
 
Defendants Drobot and Healthsmart now move this court for an order staying
the case pending the completion of arbitration.
 
Decision
 
            Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial
Notice is GRANTED as to the existence of Exhibit 1. It is also GRANTED
as to Exhibit 2. Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED as
duplicative.
 
            The motion is DENIED.
 
Governing Standards
 
            Fee
disputes between clients and attorneys are governed by the Mandatory Fee
Arbitration Act (“MFAA”). “The MFAA was first proposed by the Board of
Governors of the State Bar of California in 1976 when, finding that disputes
concerning legal fees were the most serious problem between members of the bar
and the public, the board sought to create a mechanism for arbitrating disputes
over legal fees and costs… In contrast to the [California Arbitration Act],
which is governed by the Code of Civil Procedure, the MFAA has its own rules
and limitations, as set forth in the Business and Professions Code.” Aguilar
v. Lerner (2004) 32 Cal.4th 974, 983-984.
 
            “The nature
of the obligation to arbitrate under the MFAA differs from that under standard
arbitration in two important ways. First, the obligation to arbitrate under the
MFAA is based on a statutory directive and not the parties' agreement. Thus, a
client may invoke the MFAA and proceed to arbitration despite the absence of
any prior agreement to do so… Second, section 6200, subdivision (c) provides:
“[A]rbitration under this article shall be voluntary for a client and shall be
mandatory for an attorney if commenced by a client.” In other words, whereas a
client cannot be forced under the MFAA to arbitrate a dispute concerning legal
fees, at the client's election an unwilling attorney can be forced to do so.” Id.
at 984.
 
            Business
& Professions Code § 6201 governs the interaction of the fee
arbitration with any pending lawsuit between the same client and attorney. It
provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(a) The rules adopted by the board
of trustees shall provide that an attorney shall forward a written notice to
the client prior to or at the time of service of summons or claim in an action
against the client, or prior to or at the commencement of any other proceeding
against the client under a contract between attorney and client which provides
for an alternative to arbitration under this article, for recovery of fees,
costs, or both. The written notice shall be in the form that the board of
trustees prescribes, and shall include a statement of the client's right to
arbitration under this article. Failure to give this notice shall be a ground
for the dismissal of the action or other proceeding. The notice shall not be
required, however, prior to initiating mediation of the dispute.
 
The rules adopted by the board of
trustees shall provide that the client's failure to request arbitration within
30 days after receipt of notice from the attorney shall be deemed a waiver of
the client's right to arbitration under the provisions of this article.
 
(b) If an attorney, or the
attorney's assignee, commences an action in any court or any other proceeding
and the client is entitled to maintain arbitration under this article…the
client may stay the action or other proceeding by serving and filing a request
for arbitration in accordance with the rules established by the board of
trustees pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 6200. The request for
arbitration shall be served and filed prior to the filing of an answer in the
action or equivalent response in the other proceeding; failure to so request
arbitration prior to the filing of an answer or equivalent response shall be
deemed a waiver of the client's right to arbitration under the provisions of
this article if notice of the client's right to arbitration was given pursuant
to subdivision (a).
 
(c) Upon filing and service of the
request for arbitration, the action or other proceeding shall be automatically
stayed until the award of the arbitrators is issued or the arbitration is
otherwise terminated…
 
(d) A client's right to request or
maintain arbitration under the provisions of this article is waived by the
client commencing an action or filing any pleading seeking either of the
following:
(1) Judicial resolution of a fee
dispute to which this article applies.
(2) Affirmative relief against the
attorney for damages or otherwise based upon alleged malpractice or
professional misconduct.
 
(e) If the client waives the right
to arbitration under this article, the parties may stipulate to set aside the
waiver and to proceed with arbitration.”
 
Discussion
 
            On May 16,
2019, Plaintiff mailed a letter to Defendant Drobot. (Declaration of Vivian
Labarreda ¶ 3).[1]
That letter enclosed a Notice of Client’s Right to Fee Arbitration on the
mandatory State Bar form. (Id. Exhibit A). The letter was never returned as
undeliverable. (Id. ¶ 4). But it was also never received by Defendant
Drobot. (Declaration of Michael Dennis Drobot ¶ 5).
 
            Defendant
Drobot takes the position that, because he never received the notice, he
remains entitled to demand both arbitration and the ensuing statutory stay of
this case. Plaintiff takes the position that because they properly gave the
notice, Defendant Drobot’s subsequent actions constitute a waiver of
arbitration, whether or not he actually received it. Plaintiff has the better
of this argument.
 
            The problem
with Defendant Drobot’s argument is that he equates the giving of notice
with the actual receipt of that notice. Business & Professions Code
§ 6201(a) required Plaintiff to “forward a written notice” to Defendant
Drobot “prior to or at the time of service of summons.” It does not provide
that the requirement is fulfilled upon receipt. The requirements of Section
6201(a) were fulfilled upon mailing. 
 
            Section
6201 contains multiple waiver provisions. Subdivision 6201(a) provides for
waiver if the client does nothing within 30 days of actual receipt of the
notice. Subdivision 6201(b) provides for waiver if the notice was properly
given and the client files a responsive pleading in the lawsuit. Subdivision
6201(d) provides for waiver if the client commences an action against the
attorney, either based on the same fee dispute or based on malpractice or
professional misconduct.
 
            Had the
legislature meant to say that arbitration was only waived where notice was received,
they could have done so. In fact, they did, in Subdivision 6201(a). But in the
other subdivisions, they did not. Therefore, the fact that Defendant Drobot never
received the notice is not dispositive of this motion.
 
            Defendant Drobot
has waived arbitration under Subdivision 6201(b). Plaintiff gave proper notice
under Subdivision 6201(a). Then Defendant Drobot filed an Answer in this
litigation on September 27, 2019. That fulfills the waiver conditions. 
 
            Defendant
Drobot has also waived arbitration under Subdivision 6201(d). On June 2, 2023,
prior to filing his demand for arbitration, Defendant Drobot filed a separate
lawsuit against Plaintiff. (Plaintiff’s RJN Exhibit 1). That lawsuit charges Plaintiffs
with breach of their fiduciary duties related to their billing of Mr. Drobot.
(Id.). It therefore seeks both (1) judicial resolution of the fee dispute and
(2) affirmative relief against the attorney for professional misconduct. That
fulfills the waiver conditions.
 
            Finally,
Defendant Drobot relies on the policy behind the law, which is to correct an
imbalance of bargaining power between counsel and lay clients. But the law
recognizes that this imbalance does not exist in every case. See Richards,
Watson & Gershon v. King (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1176, 1180 (“a
sophisticated client will know of its right to arbitration whether or not it
received notice”). Defendant Drobot has been represented by counsel throughout
this entire proceeding. The imbalance of bargaining power the law was designed
to correct has never existed in this case.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Drobot has waived his
right to arbitrate this fee dispute under multiple subdivisions of Business
& Professions Code § 6201. Therefore, he is not entitled to a
statutory stay of this case while that arbitration is pending. The motion to
stay is DENIED.
 
(2)       Motion to
Strike
 
            Plaintiff
now moves this court for an order striking the First Amended Answer filed by
Defendants Drobot and Healthsmart on July 11, 2023.
 
Decision
 
            Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
 
            The motion
is DENIED.
 
Discussion
 
            The
original complaint in this case was filed on July 30, 2019. Defendants Drobot,
Healthsmart, and International filed an Answer on September 27, 2019. Defendant
Mickey filed an Answer on October 15, 2019.
 
            On
September 16, 2021, Plaintiff filed the operative, First Amended Complaint. This
filing entitled Defendants to file new Answers. See Code of Civil Procedure
§ 430.10. No defendant elected to do so immediately; Defendant Gregory was
dismissed on a motion to quash while Defendants International and Mickey were
defaulted based on their status as suspended corporations.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendants Drobot and Healthsmart had 30 days to make an election:
either to file a new answer, or to stand on their old one. According to
Plaintiff, once that 30 days ran, Defendants Drobot and Healthsmart were barred
from filing a new answer without leave of court. Plaintiff is incorrect.
 
            While it may
be true that Defendants Drobot and Healthsmart could have elected to stand on
their original answer (see Carrasco v. Craft (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 796,
809-811) no provision of law places a time limit on that election. The rule
that a defendant may stand on the original answer is meant to protect
defendants from default, thus furthering the policy that cases should be resolved
on their merits. It does not concern itself with the timing of the election.
 
            Plaintiff
cites to Code of Civil Procedure § 412.20(a)(3), which requires that a
summons contain a written instruction that a responsive pleading be filed
within 30 days. But this provision does not apply to bar untimely answers. As a
matter of practical fact, answers are far more often filed outside the 30 days
than within it. This provision simply means that default proceedings become an
available remedy after 30 days. It lies with Plaintiff to seek this remedy.
 
            With some
superficial justification, Plaintiff seems to feel that they’re being punished
for good behavior. For not seeking to enter default years ago – an aggressive
tactic which surely would have failed – they have been thanked with a new
answer filed after the close of discovery. Of course, Plaintiff could have
sought a stipulation that the original answer would stand in response to the
new complaint; a standard response to this situation. But even leaving that
aside, prejudice here is minimal. 
 
The court has not been asked to
re-open discovery, and it is not doing so now. Because discovery is closed, the
parties already know the universe of evidence available at trial. There will be
no evidence submitted in support of any defense which was not already turned
over in discovery.  
 
Conclusion
 
            When the
plaintiff amends a complaint, the defense has the right to file a new answer.
The law places no time limit on this right. It is up to plaintiff to either (a)
obtain a stipulation that the old answer stands or (b) seek to enter default
based on the lack of a new answer. Here, plaintiff did neither. Therefore,
Defendants were within their rights to file a new answer. The motion to strike
is DENIED.


