 Case Number:  22STCV30035    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)       OSC re: Dismissal
 
            The first hearing
in this case was the case management conference, called on May 2, 2023.
Defendants Fede and Figueroa appeared. Plaintiff did not. This court continued
the case management conference and set an OSC re: dismissal for July 25, 2023.
 
            On July 24,
2023, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration explaining his absence from the
prior hearing as a simple calendaring error of the kind that occur all the time
in litigation.
 
            On July 25,
2023, this court called the case management conference and the OSC re: dismissal.
Defendants Fede and Figueroa appeared in person, as it was their understanding
that physical appearances had been ordered by the court. Plaintiff’s counsel
appeared telephonically.
 
            At the
hearing, Plaintiff’s counsel represented that Defendant Vogel now lives abroad,
in Germany. Plaintiff’s counsel observed that, due to the cumbersome procedures
associated with international service, Plaintiff would probably be unable to
serve Defendant Vogel in advance of the statutory time limit. He indicated an
intent to proceed against Defendants Fede and Figueroa alone.
             The court
set trial dates at the July 25 hearing. It also continued the OSC re: Dismissal and ordered all counsel and unrepresented parties to
appear in person for the hearing. Plaintiff’s counsel has filed no subsequent,
further declaration in response to the OSC.
 
            In the
interim, the court has reviewed Plaintiff’s complaint. Nothing is alleged there
which would support the direct assertion of the first, second, third, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh, and tenth causes of action against Defendants Fede and Figueroa.
The only connection which appears between Plaintiff and Defendants Fede and Figueroa
is the sub-landlord/sub-tenant relationship. Nor does there appear to be any real
prospect of asserting those claims against them based on the vicarious theory
of conspiracy. The only connection which appears between Defendant Mona Vogel
and the other defendants is a personal acquaintance and the
sub-landlord/sub-tenant relationship.
 
            Based on
the foregoing record, the court takes the following three actions:
 

The court issues an Order
     to Show Cause re: Sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
     128.7(b)(2) & (3), to be heard on December 13, 2023, at 8:30 am.
     Plaintiff is ordered to explain both his legal theory and their evidentiary
     support (present or expected) for asserting the first, second, third,
     fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and tenth causes of action against
     Defendants Michael Fede and Casandra Figueroa. This Order to Show Cause
     will be discharged, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
     128.7(c)(2), if the Plaintiff dismisses the first, second, third, fourth,
     fifth, sixth, seventh, and tenth causes of action as asserted against
     Defendants Michael Fede and Casandra Figueroa. Otherwise, the court may
     issue sanctions against the Plaintiff pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
     section 128.7(c) & (d).

 

The court ORDERS Plaintiff
     Philip Smith to appear in person at the December 13 hearing if he has not
     retained new counsel. If he has retained new counsel, the court ORDERS
     that new counsel to appear in person.

 

The court CONTINUES the
     OSC re: Dismissal to December 13, 2023, at 8:30 am. At that time, the
     court expects to hear either that Plaintiff has a concrete plan to serve
     Defendant Vogel, or that Plaintiff is willing to dismiss her. 

 
(2)       Motion to
be Relieved
 
Attorneys Daniel A. Crawford and
Roza Crawford now seek to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff, Philip
Smith. 
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED, effective upon the filing
of the proof of service of the signed orders upon the client. 
 
Governing Rule
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 requires that counsel fill out forms MC-051, MC-052,
and MC-053. These forms serve two basic functions: (1) ensuring that notice is
given to the client and (2) providing the court with an adequate explanation of
why the matter is being handled via motion rather than mutual consent. See Code
of Civil Procedure § 284; California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362.
 
Discussion
 
            Counsel have
completed the required forms. Those forms indicate that the client has been served
by mail at an address that is the one routinely used by the client to
communicate with counsel. They also indicate that the client will be served by
email at his usual email address. 
 
            Counsel indicate
that they wish to withdraw because they have been effectively discharged by
their client, who nevertheless will not sign a substitution form.
 
            This
explanation is sufficient. California Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 1.16(a)(4)
requires withdrawal if the client discharges counsel. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Counsel has
complied with the requirements of Rule 3.1362, and relief is appropriate under
the circumstances of this case. The motion is GRANTED, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed
orders upon the client.
            