


[1] Because the petition raises purely legal issues of
statutory construction, the standard of review is identical under
administrative and traditional mandate. Accordingly, the court need not address
the County’s position the petition is governed by Code of Civil Procedure section
1085. (See Opposition 13, fn. 2.)  


[2] On its own motion, the court takes judicial notice of
the Rules.   


[3] Petitioner cites Rule 11.05 but he does not contend that
such Rule is relevant to whether Commission had jurisdiction in this case.  (OB 11:14-16.)  The court has quoted Rule 11.05 for context,
as it refers to Rule 6.04.  


[4] As noted, Petitioner does not argue or show that he
was entitled to an appeal under any provisions of the Charter. Thus, under the
circumstances, Rule 4.01(C) would read: “Any employee or applicant for
employment may petition for a hearing before the commission who is: . . . C.
Otherwise entitled to a hearing under . . . these Rules.”


[5] The Commission is not required under the Rules to
grant a hearing request. (Rule 4.02(B).)


[6] While the County claims Petitioner’s interpretation of
the relevant rules renders Rule 6.07 “surplusage” (Opposition 12:7), the County’s
interpretation does exactly that. If an appeal under Rule 6.04 is limited to
discrimination, Rule 6.07’s limitation to discrimination is unnecessary.


[7] The court acknowledges the language in Monsivaiz v. Los Angeles County Civil
Service Com. indicating the
jurisdiction of the Commission is limited to claims of discrimination and
appeals related to discharges and reductions. The statement is dicta because the
issue before the court turned on the definition of employee. There was no question
in the case the Commission had jurisdiction to consider the employee’s
termination.


[8] Petitioner quotes the opinion of a Deputy County
Counsel given during a hearing before the Commission. The Deputy County Counsel
advised the Commission it had jurisdiction over Petitioner’s appeal pursuant to
Rule 7.20. (Opening Brief 4:1-12 and fn. 3.) Ultimately, the Commission disagreed
with the legal opinion. Petitioner has not cited any legal authority suggesting
the Deputy County Counsel’s view of Rule 7.20 is entitled to deference or is
somehow binding.


[9] For the reasons argued by the County, the court is
skeptical of how the Commission could fashion an appropriate remedy under the
circumstances of this case. Petitioner has taken a new position in a different department
with the County and the examination at issue has long since closed. 
 


[10] The Commission did not find it lacked
jurisdiction because Petitioner had transferred to the Department of Public
Health. (See AR 1039.) Petitioner remained a County employee after his
transfer. 

