  Case Number:  22STCP00565    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  86 LEHMAN v. LOS ANGELES COUNTY CIVIL SERVICE
COMMISSION 
Case Number: 22STCP00565
Hearing Date: December 13, 2023 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
GRANTING PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE 
 




















 
Petitioner, Nathan Lehman, seeks a writ of mandate
directing Respondent, the Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission
(Commission), “to set aside its
decision . . . that it does not have jurisdiction to adjudicate Petitioner’s
appeal . . . .” Petitioner attempted to appeal the decision of Real Party in
Interest, the County of Los Angeles (through its Director of Personnel) that Petitioner
did not meet the eligibility requirements for the civil service examination for
the position of Supervising Program Analyst, Probation. (Pet. Prayer ¶ 1.) The
County opposes the petition.
 
The petition is granted.
 
BACKGROUND 
 
In December 2016,
the County’s probation department hired Petitioner as a Research Analyst II,
Behavioral Sciences. (AR 762.) While employed as a Research Analyst II, on
December 6, 2017, Petitioner applied to take the civil service examination for
the position of Supervising Program Analyst, Probation. (AR 558-563). On April
18, 2018, the probation department determined Petitioner did not meet the
eligibility requirements to take the examination and rejected his application.
(AR 565-566.) Petitioner appealed the decision to the County’s human resources department.
(AR 568-572.) On November 15, 2018, the Director of Personnel denied the
appeal. (AR 658-659.) The Director of Personnel advised Petitioner he had
“exhausted [his] appeal rights to the Director of Personnel under Civil Service
Rule 6.” (AR 659.)
 
On December 14,
2018, Petitioner timely requested an appeal hearing with the Commission
challenging the Director of Personnel’s decision affirming the probation
department’s decision he did not qualify to take the Supervising Program
Analyst, Probation examination. (AR 661-665.) On August 14, 2019, the
Commission granted Petitioner’s request for a hearing. (AR 185.) The Commission’s
hearing officer thereafter conducted an appeal hearing on February 13 and 14,
2020 and May 3, 2021. (AR 390.)   
 
Among other
evidence, the hearing officer heard testimony from Petitioner. During his
testimony, Petitioner reported he had accepted a position of Health Program
Analyst I with the County’s Department of Public Health on May 16, 2018 while
his appeal was “winding its way through the system.” (AR 393 [hearing officer’s
report], 760 [Petitioner’s testimony].)
 
On or about July
16, 2021, the hearing officer submitted his report recommending the Commission
find the probation department’s decision “was appropriate” and deny
Petitioner’s appeal. (AR 404.)
 
Petitioner filed
objections to the findings of fact and conclusions of law and the
recommendation of the hearing officer. (AR 409-442.) At its meeting on January
12, 2022, the Commission overruled Petitioner’s objections and also voted to
deny Petitioner ’s appeal on the ground the Commission lacked jurisdiction to
entertain his appeal. (AR 1039.)  
 
This proceeding
ensued.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Petitioner
seeks relief pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5, subdivision (b), the issues for review
of an administrative decision are: whether the respondent has proceeded without
jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An
abuse of discretion is established if the respondent has not proceeded in the
manner required by law, the decision is not supported by the findings, or the
findings are not supported by the evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd.
(b).)
 
“ ‘On
questions of law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s]
independent judgment.’ . . . Interpretation of a statute or
regulation is a question of law subject to independent review.” (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.) 
 
The petition
raises purely legal questions concerning the Commission’s jurisdiction and the
proper construction of the Commission rules.[1] “The rules governing statutory
construction are well settled. We begin with the fundamental premise that the objective
of statutory interpretation is to ascertain and effectuate legislative intent.
[Citations.] To determine legislative intent, we turn first to the words of the
statute, giving them their usual and ordinary meaning. [Citations.] When the
language of a statute is clear, we need go no further. However, when the
language is susceptible of more than one reasonable interpretation, we look to
a variety of extrinsic aids, including the ostensible objects to be achieved,
the evils to be remedied, the legislative history, public policy,
contemporaneous administrative construction, and the statutory scheme of which
the statute is a part.” (Nolan v. City of
Anaheim (2004) 33 Cal.4th 335, 340.) 
 
 
To the extent
“purely legal issues involve the interpretation of a statute an administrative
agency is responsible for enforcing, [the court] exercise[s] [its] independent
judgment, ‘taking into account and respecting the agency's interpretation of
its meaning.’ ” (Housing Partners I, Inc.
v. Duncan (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1335, 1343.) The amount of weight to accord an agency's construction
is “situational,” and depends upon the circumstances. (See American Coatings Assn. v. South Coast Air Quality Management Dist. (2012)
54 Cal.4th 446, 461-462.)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Petitioner contends the Commission erred when
it concluded it lacks jurisdiction to hear Petitioner’s appeal. Petitioner
asserts he has a right to a hearing before the Commission pursuant to Civil
Service Rules (the Rules) 4.01, 6.04(A), and 7.20.  
 
The County contends unless a discrimination
claim is alleged under Rule 25, the Commission lacks jurisdiction over decisions
by the Department of Human Resources (DHR) and the Director of Personnel (the Director)
concerning an applicant’s qualifications for an examination.  
 
The Charter of the County of Los Angeles
(Charter) and the Rules 
 
“The Commission's jurisdiction derives from the Charter of the
County of Los Angeles. ‘A civil
service commission created by charter has only the special and limited
jurisdiction expressly authorized by the charter.’ ” (Monsivaiz v. Los Angeles County Service
Commission (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 236, 240; see also Hunter
v. Los Angeles Civil Service Com. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 191, 194.)  
 
As discussed in more
detail below, the Charter vests the Commission with jurisdiction over
two types of appeals: (1) appeals alleging discrimination; and (2) appeals
concerning discharge or reduction of permanent employees. (See Charter §§ 35(4)
and 35(6); County of Los Angeles Dept. of Public Social Services v. Civil
Service Com. of Los Angeles County (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 273, 284-285 [Hoa].)  
 
The County’s Board
of Supervisors has also "prescribe[d] and adopt[ed]" the Rules
"which . . . have the force and effect of law." (Rule 1.01.)[2]  Among others (discussed in the analysis
below), the following Rules are relevant here: 
 
Rule 3.01 states, in pertinent part: 
 
The Director of Personnel shall: 
A.      Administer the civil service system in
accordance with these Civil Service Rules; 
. . . .
G. Order, prepare, and conduct all
examinations; the Director shall:
. . . .
7. Pass upon all questions relating to the eligibility of
applicants, the admissibility of applicants to the examination, extensions of
time, and all questions arising during the course of an examination, subject to
appeal to the commission as provided in these Rules. . . .
 
Rule 4.01 entitled
“Right to petition for a hearing,” states: 
 
Any
employee or applicant for employment may petition for a hearing before the
commission who is: 
 
A.
Adversely affected by any action or decision of the director of personnel
concerning which discrimination is alleged as provided in Rule 25;
B.
Adversely affected by any action or decision of the commission made without
notice to and opportunity for such person to be heard other than a commission
decision denying a petition for hearing;
C. Otherwise entitled to a hearing under the Charter or
these Rules.
 
Rule 25.01(A), which
is part of Rule 25, states in full: 
 
No person in the classified service or seeking admission
thereto shall be appointed, reduced or removed, or in any way favored or
discriminated against in employment or opportunity for employment because of
race, color, religion, sex, physical handicap, medical condition, marital
status, age, national origin or citizenship, ancestry, political opinions or
affiliations, organizational membership or affiliation, or other non-merit
factors, any of which are not substantially related to successful performance
of the duties of the position. 
‘Non-merit factors’ are those factors that relate exclusively to a
personal or social characteristic or trait and are not substantially related to
successful performance of the duties of the position.  Any person who
appeals alleging discrimination based on a non-merit factor must name the
specific non-merit factor(s) on which discrimination is alleged to be based. No
hearing shall be granted nor evidence heard relative to discrimination based on
unspecified non-merit factors.  
 
Rule 6.04(A)
provides, in pertinent part: 
 
The director of
personnel, subject to the right of any person aggrieved to appeal to the
commission as provided in Rule 4, may refuse to accept an application or to
examine an applicant, or may withhold the name of a person from the eligible
list or an eligible from certification, or after notice may remove the name of
an eligible from the eligible list: A. Who does not meet the requirements set
forth in these Rules or in the bulletin announcing the examination; . . . .  
 
///
Rule 11.05 entitled
“Restoration to certification,” states in pertinent part: 
 
When
the name of a person has been withheld from an eligible list or from certification,
or has been removed from the list, it may be placed on such list or restored
thereto by the director of personnel or by the commission on appeal taken
within 10 business days after notice of the decision of the director of
personnel, only under the following circumstances: . . . C. Where the
withholding or removal was for a reason stated in Rule 6.04 and such action was
improper or the defect has since been cured.[3]
 
Rule 7.20 provides in
full: 
 
If the applicant
believes an error has been made in the application of the written-test scoring
key, or in the rating given him/her on any part of the examination, or that any
other error has been made, except such as could have been objected to during
the key-copy inspection period, the applicant may, during the final 10-day
period referred to in Rule 7.19,
make a protest in writing stating specifically where an error has been made;
provided, however, that if there has been a key-copy inspection period, no
protest may be made against the written questions and key answers which would
have been made during the key-copy inspection period. Each protest shall be in
writing and on forms provided by the director of personnel, shall give specific
facts and reasons to support the protest, and shall include authoritative
references or opinions of recognized experts where such exist. No protest may
be made after the 10-day period. Upon receipt of a written protest or request
for re-scoring or re-rating, a review of the protest shall be made by the
director of personnel, who shall pass on all such protests or requests within
60 days of the date of such protest or request and make any necessary
corrections in grades and ratings. If the director of personnel does not render
a decision within such time period, the appellant may, at his/her option, deem
this a denial and proceed with an appeal to the commission. Any person
aggrieved may appeal to the commission for the rulings of the director of
personnel pursuant to Rule 4, within 10 business days of the notice of such
rulings.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
in a situation where a successful appeal will not result in the appellant
moving from one group (as defined in Rule 11.01) to a higher group, the
appellant will not proceed with the appeal to the civil service
commission.  
 
The Commission Did
Not Have Jurisdiction Over Petitioner’s Appeal Pursuant to the Charter 
 
The
starting point for analysis of the Commission’s jurisdiction is the Charter. As
the Court of Appeal has explained: 
 
Section 34 of
the Los Angeles County Charter provides that the Commission “shall serve as an
appellate body in accordance with the provisions of Sections 35(4) and
35(6) of this article and as provided in the Civil Service Rules. [¶] The
Commission shall propose and, after a public hearing, adopt and amend rules to
govern its own proceedings.” Section 35(4) of the Los Angeles County Charter
requires the Board of Supervisors to adopt rules to provide for procedures for
appeal of allegations of discrimination.’ (Zuniga, supra,
137 Cal.App.4th at p. 1259, 40 Cal.Rptr.3d 863.) Section 35(6) of the
Charter requires that the Rules provide for “Civil Service Commission hearings
on appeals of discharges and reductions of permanent employees.” Thus, as is
evident from the plain language of the Charter, the Commission's special and
limited jurisdiction encompasses only appeals alleging discrimination—including
‘discrimination based on . . . handicap” (Charter, § 35(4))—and appeals
concerning discharge or reduction of permanent employees (Charter, §
35(6)).  (Hoa, supra, 35
Cal.App.5th at 284-285.)  
 
Petitioner does not address Hoa or related Court of
Appeal decisions suggesting the Commission’s jurisdiction is limited to these
two issues (allegations of discrimination and discharge or reduction of
permanent employees).  Petitioner has not identified any other Charter provision
that afforded him a right to appeal before the Commission for the Director’s
eligibility decision. While Petitioner argues that various Rules afforded him a
right to appeal, Petitioner does not explain why the court should interpret the
Rules to grant jurisdiction to the Commission that is more expansive than that
authorized by the Charter and Court of Appeal decisions. 
 
Furthermore,
even if the Rules could provide appeal rights that exceed those stated in the
Charter, Petitioner’s jurisdictional arguments are not persuasive, as discussed
below.
 
The Commission’s Jurisdiction Based on
the Rules 4.01 and 6.04
 
Petitioner
does not contend he is entitled to an appeal before the Commission under Rule
4.01(A) or 4.01(B). Petitioner concedes he was not “[a]dversely affected by any
action or decision of the director of personnel concerning which discrimination
is alleged as provided in Rule 25.” (Rule 4.01(A); see Opening Brief 4, fn. 2.)
Petitioner also does not suggest he was “[a]dversely affected by any action or
decision of the commission made without notice to and opportunity for such
person to be heard other than a commission decision denying a petition for
hearing.” (Rule 4.01(B).)  
 
Petitioner
argues the Commission had jurisdiction over his appeal pursuant to Rule 4.01(C).
Rule 4.01(C) provides for a hearing if the employee or applicant is “[o]therwise entitled to a hearing under the Charter or these
Rules.” Rule 4.01(C) does not provide any independent basis for jurisdiction,
but instead generally refers to hearing rights in unspecified parts of the
Rules or County Charter.[4]  
 
Petitioner
contends he is entitled to an appeal before the Commission pursuant to Rule
6.04. Rule 6.04 provides, in pertinent part, that “[t]he director
of personnel, subject to the right of any person aggrieved to appeal to the
commission as provided in Rule 4, may refuse to accept an
application or to examine an applicant . . : A. Who does not meet the
requirements set forth in these Rules or in the bulletin announcing the
examination; . . . .”  (Emphasis added.)  
 
Petitioner focuses
on the words “subject to the right of any person aggrieved to appeal to the
commission” in Rule 6.04. Petitioner argues the Director may “refuse to accept
an application” and “any person aggrieved” by the Director’s decision has the “right”
“to appeal to the commission . . . .” (Rule 6.04.) The rule then instructs the
right to appeal is “as provided in Rule 4.” (Rule 6.04.) Rule 4 then instructs “[a]ny
. . . applicant for employment may petition for a hearing before the commission
. . . .” (Rule 4.01.) The aggrieved person’s appeal “right” requires a petition
which may result in the Commisssion granting a hearing. 
 
Petitioner’s
interpretation follows the plain language of Rule 6.04 and Rule 4.01. Because
Petitioner was “aggrieved” by the Director’s “refus[al] to accept [his] application,”
Petitioner has the “right” “to appeal to the commission as provided in Rule 4.”
(Rule 6.04.) Rule 4.01 instructs Petitioner “may petition for a hearing before
the commission” because Rule 6.04 entitles him to such a hearing because he is aggrieved
by the Director’s decision.[5]
 
The County disagrees
arguing Petitioner ignores Rule 4.01(A). (Opposition 11:19.) The County asserts
the Commission’s authority extends only to decisions where discrimination is
alleged. (Opposition 11:19-22.) The County’s position is not persuasive.
 
Petitioner concedes
discrimination is not at issue here. He does not claim the Director discriminated
against him as described in Rule 25. Moreover, Rule 4.01 is not limited to
discrimination. Rule 4.01B also confers jurisdiction where due process issues
are alleged. Rule 4.01(C) confers jurisdiction on the Commission where an
individual is “[o]therwise entitled to a hearing under . . . these Rules.”
 
The County contends
“neither clause (in Rule 4.01(C) and/or Rule 6.04) provides an independent
basis for jurisdiction. Both refer to other provisions.” (Opposition 12:1-4.) Rule
6.04, however, expressly provides an appeal right of “any person aggrieved” by
a Director’s decision to reject an application. To pursuant the appeal, the “person
aggrieved” must proceed pursuant to Rule 4.01 and “petition for a hearing
before the commission . . . .” (Rule 4.01.) The “person aggrieved” is expressly
“entitled to a hearing under” Rule 6.04.
 
In interpreting a
statute, the court “may neither insert
language which has been omitted nor ignore language which has been inserted.” (People v. National Automobile and Casualty
Ins. Co. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 277, 282.) The County’s
interpretation reads language into Rule 6.04 that does not exist. The County
would limit the “person aggrieved” language (i.e., insert language) in the rule
to claims of discrimination and due process.
 
The court acknowledges
Rule 6.07, entitled “Appeals,” which states in part: “any person aggrieved by any ruling of the director of
personnel concerning . . . the eligibility or disqualification of applicants,
or the withholding of name from certification; and who believes such action
was based on consideration of non-merit factor(s) as set forth in Rule 25,
may appeal to the commission in writing within 15 business days as
provided in Rule 4.”[6]  (Emphasis added.) Rule 6.07 extends the time
from 10 to 15 days for an appeal of the Director’s eligibility determination
based on discrimination. (See Rule 4.05(B).) Neither Rule 6.04 nor Rule 4
provide the time within which a petition must be filed—Rule 6.07 is about
timing.
 
Finally, the County’s
argument Petitioner’s “broad reading of Commission jurisdiction runs contrary
to the Monsivaiz, Zuniga, Hunter and Hoa line of cases, just to name a few” is
unpersuasive. None of the cases referenced address the factual circumstances
here. 
 
While Hoa largely
focused on the Charter, Hoa also recognizes the Rules can and do confer
jurisdiction. (Hoa, supra, 35 Cal.App.5th at 285. [“. . . no Charter
provision or Rule permitting the Commission to hear appeals . . . .”]) Zuniga
v. Los Angeles County Civil Service Com. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1259 addressed
the definition of “employee” for purposes of Rule 4.01 and has no relevance to
the jurisdictional dispute here. Hunter v. Los Angeles County Civil Service
Com. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 191, 195 explained the Rules do not establish
and “procedure for appeal from a failure to promote.” Finally, Monsivaiz v.
Los Angeles County Civil Service Com. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 236, 241 found
“a deceased former employee does not fit within the description of ‘employee’
under the Commission’s rules” and dismissed a writ proceeding challenging the
Commission’s decision for an employee who had died during the pending writ
proceeding.[7]
 
Based on the foregoing,
the court finds Rule 6.04 and Rule 4.01 conferred jurisdiction on the
Commission to hear Petitioner’s appeal as a “person aggrieved” by the Director’s
eligibility determination.
 
The Commission Did Not Have Jurisdiction
Over Petitioner’s Appeal Pursuant to Rule 7.20
 
Petitioner also
argues he was “authorized to appeal to the Commission pursuant to Rule 7.20, as
Lehman was a person aggrieved by the ruling of the Director of Personnel
denying his appeal.” (Opening Brief 3:22-23.)[8] The County asserts Petitioner
“takes the language of Rule 7.20 out of context” and “Rule 7 relates to the
examination process; [Petitioner] never took the SPA examination.” (Opposition
10:24-26.) The County’s interpretation of Rule 7.20 is more persuasive.
 
Rule 7 is entitled “Competitive
Examinations” and includes detailed rules pertaining to the conduct of civil
service examinations. Rule 7.20 is one of those rules and is entitled “Protests
against ratings to the director of personnel.” 
Rule 7.20, which is quoted in full above, authorizes an appeal for an
applicant who “believes an error has been made in the application of the
written-test scoring key, or in the rating given him/her on any part of the
examination, or that any other error has been made.” (Emphasis added.) 
 
While the emphasized language might apply
to the Director’s eligibility decision for purposes of qualifying to take the
examination, reading the rule in that manner would ignore context. Rule 7
addresses errors in the examination process—not eligibility. When
interpreting a statute, the court must construe the statute to achieve harmony
among its parts. (People v. Hull
(1991) 1 Cal. 4th 266, 272.) 
 
Since Petitioner did
not take the examination at issue, Rule 7.20 does not apply to him.
 
Petitioner’s
interpretation of Rule 7.20 violates well-established rules of statutory
construction.  Rule 7.20 must be
interpreted in context of Rule 7 as a whole. The detailed examination rules
within Rule 7 and also the titles of such rules show that Rule 7 only pertains
to the examination process. Further, Rule 7.20 is titled “Protests against ratings to the director
of personnel” and is reasonably interpreted to apply only to examination errors.  
 
For example,
the protest procedure in Rule 7.20 only applies “during the final 10-day period
referred to in Rule 7.19.” If a
protest is successful, the Director may “make any necessary corrections in
grades and ratings.” Further, “in a situation where a successful appeal will
not result in the appellant moving from one group (as defined in Rule 11.01) to
a higher group, the appellant will not proceed with the appeal to the civil
service commission.” These procedures necessarily only apply to the examination
process and make no sense if applied to an eligibility decision.  
 
The principle
of ejusdem generis also applies to Rule 7.20.  “Ejusdem generis ‘instructs that
‘when a statute contains a list or catalogue of items, a court should determine the meaning of 
each by reference to
the others, giving preference to an interpretation that
uniformly treats items similar in nature and scope.’ ” (In re Corrine W. (2009)
45 Cal.4th 522, 531.) “Ejusdem
generis applies whether specific words follow general words in
a statute or vice versa. In either event, the general term or category is
‘restricted to those things that are similar to those which are enumerated
specifically.’ ” (Pour Le Bebe, Inc. v. Guess? Inc. (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 810, 827.)  
 
Rule 7.20 authorizes a protest “against ratings” in the
following three circumstances: “[1] If the
applicant believes an error has been made in the application of the
written-test scoring key, [2] or in the rating given him/her on any part of the
examination, or [3] that any other error has been made, except such as could
have been objected to during the key-copy inspection period . . . .” The first
two listed categories are specific and clearly pertain to errors in the
examination process. Pursuant to ejusdem generis, the third category,
which is general in nature, should be interpreted similarly in nature and scope
as the first and second categories. 
Petitioner’s interpretation violates this rule of construction because
it would expand the list of items that may be protested under Rule 7.20 to include
eligibility decisions, which is a category dissimilar from the first two
specifically enumerated items in the list. As discussed above, other provisions
of Rule 7, and the titles of such Rules, also provide context for the proper
interpretation of the third, general category of protest listed in Rule 7.20
and do not support Petitioner’s interpretation. 

 
For these reasons, Petitioner’s reliance on
Rule 7.20 is misplaced.  That rule
provides no basis for Commission jurisdiction over Petitioner’s appeal of an
eligibility decision of the Director.  
 
Mootness 
 
The
County contends the petition is moot because: (1) the Commission “cannot
provide [Petitioner] with any form of statutorily authorized relief”
(Opposition 13:13-24); (2) “[e]ven assuming that the Commission had
jurisdiction, [Petitioner] fails to show how it could reopen a closed
examination and expired promotional list, or how it could simply deem him
qualified” (Opposition 13:20-21); and (3) Petitioner’s “objections to the
Commission were overruled and thus even if the Commission had jurisdiction, [Petitioner’s]
instant Petition could only serve to reinstate the Commission’s adoption of the
hearing officer’s report.” (Opposition 14:11-13.)
 
“California
courts will decide only justiciable controversies. [Citations.] The
concept of justiciability is a tenet of common law jurisprudence and embodies
‘[t]he principle that courts will not entertain an action which is not founded
on an actual controversy. . . .’ ”  (Wilson & Wilson v. City Council of
Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1573.) “A case is considered moot
when ‘the question addressed was at one time a live issue in the case,’ 
but has been
deprived of life ‘because of events occurring after the judicial process was
initiated.’ ” (Id. at 1574.) “The pivotal question in determining
if a case is moot is therefore whether the court can grant the plaintiff any
effectual relief.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, if the
court found the Commission erred when it dismissed Petitioner’s appeal on
jurisdictional grounds, the court could issue a writ directing the Commission
to decide the appeal on the merits and determine the appropriate remedy, if any.
Accordingly, to the extent the petition challenges the Commission’s decision on
jurisdictional grounds, the writ petition technically is not moot.[9]
 
Because the
Commission determined it lacked jurisdiction over Petitioner’s appeal, its
decision to overrule Petitioner’s objections does not show the Commission
intended to adopt the hearing officer’s report as to the merits of Petitioner’s
appeal. The County’s remaining “mootness” arguments go to the merits of
Petitioner’s appeal and the appropriate remedy—issues to be determined by the
Commission.
 
Other
Contentions 
 
Petitioner asserts the Commission
“previously rejected” the County’s jurisdictional argument when it granted the
petition for hearing. That the Commission initially exercised jurisdiction over
the appeal is not dispositive. Jurisdictional issues may be raised at any time,
including for the first time on appeal. (Hoa, supra, 35 Cal.App.5th at
284.) As Petitioner ultimately concedes in reply, the “Commission’s initial
discussion of jurisdiction at its meeting on August 14, 2019 and its referral
of the appeal to a hearing officer does not create Commission
jurisdiction.”  (Reply 5:14-16.)    
 
Petitioner also asserts the County’s
contention Petitioner lacks standing because he transferred to the Department
of Public Health is a “distraction”; and the Commission has authority to
fashion an equitable remedy and appoint Petitioner to the position of
Supervising Program Analyst, Probation. However, as Petitioner acknowledges in
reply, these are merits-based issues that only become relevant if the Commission
had jurisdiction over the appeal.[10]
 
The County
also briefly asserts Petitioner “failed to exhaust his administrative and/or
judicial remedies, in a timely fashion, jurisdictionally barring this action.”
(Opposition 14:15-16.) The County does not provide any legal analysis in
support of its exhaustion defense and it does not explain how the authorities
it cites are relevant here.  Given the
limited briefing, the court finds the County’s exhaustion defense unpersuasive.
(Nelson v. Avondale Homeowners Assn. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863 [argument must be supported by reasoned legal
analysis and discussion of authority].)  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the court finds the Commission erred when it concluded it lacked
jurisdiction over Petitioner’s appeal. 
 
The petition is granted.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
December 13, 2023                                                                                           
________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


