 Case Number:  23STCP02378    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  86 ALLIANCE FOR
CONSTITUTIONAL SEX OFFENSE LAWS, INC. v. MACOMBER
Case Number: 23STCP02378
Hearing Date: December
13, 2023 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER
 
 
Respondent, Jeff
Macomber, Secretary of the California Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation (CDCR), demurs to the petition for writ of mandate filed by
Petitioners, Alliance for Constitutional Sex Offense Laws, Inc., Christopher
Sandahl, Joshua Morales, Alexander Flores, John Doe # 1, and John Doe # 2
(collectively, Petitioners).
 
Petitioners’ unopposed
Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) of Exhibits A and B is granted.  
 
SUMMARY OF PETITION
ALLEGATIONS 

The five individual Petitioners are parolees subject to the jurisdiction of the
CDCR. Petitioner, Alliance for Constitutional Sex Offense Laws, Inc., is a
non-profit organization. (Pet. ¶¶ 9-17.)
 
Petitioners
contend “CDCR’s regulations, policies, and practices are inconsistent with and
in conflict with the statutory requirements of the ‘Containment Model’ of
parole supervision codified in Penal Code section 3008, subds. (d)(1)-(d)(4),
and related statutes.” (Pet. ¶ 1.)
 
The petition
alleges Penal Code section 3008, subdivision (d) and related statutes codify
the Containment Model. (Pet. ¶¶ 20-24.) The petition explains Penal Code “Section
3008(d) requires each Registrant on parole to ‘successfully complete a
sex offender management program . . . as a condition of parole.’ (Cal. Penal
Code § 3008, subd. (d)(2), emphasis added.)” 
(Pet. ¶ 2.) “[T]he Legislature declared that ‘the length of the period
in the program shall be not less than one year, up to the entire period of parole,
as determined by the certified sex offender management professional in
consultation with the parole officer and as approved by the court.’ (Cal. Penal
Code § 3008, subd. (d)(2), emphasis added.) In other words, Section 3008(d)
requires CDCR to provide Registrants the opportunity to ‘complete,’ and thereby
terminate their participation in, the management program as early as one year
after placement on parole.” (Pet. ¶ 3.)[1]  
 
As relevant to
this demurer, the petition alleges, in conflict with Penal Code section 3008,
subdivision (d), CDCR regulations, policy, and practice do not allow
registrants to complete and discontinue the management program prior to
discharge from parole. (Pet. ¶¶ 31-55, 57-60.) 
Among others, relevant allegations in support of this claim include the
following:
 
The only CDCR regulation that
expressly implements Section 3008 and the management program it requires as a
condition of parole is Title 15, Section 3573, of the Code of Regulations. . .
. Notably, no provision of Section 3573 or any other regulation allows for the
‘completion’ of the management program. Nor does Section 3573 or any other
regulation allow for termination of a Registrant’s participation in the
management program prior to discharge from parole, as Section 3008(d)
contemplates. (Pet. ¶ 32.)  
 
Notably, the Operations Manual for
CDCR’s Division of Adult Parole Operations confirms that Registrants are
retained in the management program for the duration of their parole term,
regardless of whether continued participation is necessary. . . . (Pet. ¶ 33.)
 
[U]pon information and belief, as a
matter of policy and practice, CDCR does not permit any Registrant
to ‘complete’ the management program prior to discharge from parole, as Section
3008(d) contemplates. Nor does CDCR otherwise allow a Registrant’s
participation in the management program to be terminated, as Section 3008(d)
contemplates. Rather, CDCR and CDCR, as a matter of policy, retain all
Registrants in a management program until their discharge date, regardless of
whether they have completed the treatment curriculum, and regardless of the
Registrant’s individual treatment needs, supervision level, or risk of
re-offense. (Pet. ¶ 34.)  
 
CDCR
recently confirmed its policy in the habeas corpus proceeding captioned In
re Frederick Dwyer (See Exh. A, Order dated March 20, 2023 in San Mateo Co.
Super. Ct. Case No. SC-080355A, HC-3020). (Pet. ¶ 35 and Exh. A.)  
 
The
Registrant challenged the requirement to repeat the treatment curriculum in a
petition for writ of habeas corpus, invoking the Court’s discretionary
authority to terminate a sex offender management program after one year
pursuant to Section 3008. The Court held an evidentiary hearing at which it
found that the sole basis for retaining the Registrant in the management
program was CDCR’s policy of requiring all Registrants to participate in the
program for the duration of parole, regardless of their individual treatment
needs. (Exh. A, at p. 10.) CDCR agents including the Registrant’s individual
parole agent, as well the parole administrator for the East Bay District
(Alameda and Contra Costa County), confirmed that policy in response to the
Court’s inquiry:
 
[THE
COURT:] Have you ever during the time that you have been in the positions that
you have described were responsible to 290 registrants seen a participant in a
sex offender management program complete such a program prior to[] termination
or discharge from parole? 
 
THE
[CDCR] WITNESS: No. 
 
THE
COURT: Is it essentially the policy of the Department of Corrections that
completion of the program is not possible before the discharge from parole
program . . . ? 
 
THE
[CDCR] WITNESS: Yes. 
 
(Transcript
of Hearing on February 9, 2023 in In re Dwyer, (San Mateo Co. Super. Ct.
Case No. SC080355A, HC-3020). See also Order, Exh. A, at pp. 6-7 [“[A former
East Bay region supervisor from CDCR] testified that it is the policy of the
California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation and the Division of
Adult Parole Operations that a sex offender management program as defined in
Penal Code      § 3008 cannot be
completed short of discharge 3 from parole.”].) 
(Pet. ¶ 39.)
 
Based on these and other allegations,
Petitioners seek a writ of mandate directing Respondent “to amend and revise
its regulations implementing Penal Code section 3008(d), including its
Regulations at Code of Regulations, Title 15, section 3573, to permit Penal
Code section 290 Registrants supervised by CDCR on parole to complete and be
terminated from the sex offender management program required by Penal Code
section 3008(d) after one year in the program, and prior to discharge from
parole.” (Pet. ¶¶ 56-61 and Prayer ¶ A.)
 
In the second cause of action for declaratory
relief, Petitioners pray for “a judgment declaring that Penal Code section
3008(d) prohibits CDCR from retaining, as a matter of policy or practice, all
Registrants in a sex offender management program for the entire term of
parole.” (Pet. ¶¶ 63-68 and Prayer ¶ B.) 

 
LEGAL STANDARD
FOR DEMURRER 
 
A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer
must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.
(Code Civil Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) “We assume the truth of the allegations in the complaint, but do not
assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California
Logistics, Inc. v. State of California (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.) 
“A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The allegations in the petition
must be liberally construed in favor of a petitioner on demurrer. (See Mobil
Oil Corp. v Exxon Corp. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.) “A demurrer must
dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
First Cause of Action – Writ of
Mandate 
 
The first cause of action is for
ordinary mandate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1085. There are
two essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate: 
(1) a clear, present, and ministerial
duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and beneficial
right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty. (California
Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health Services (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where . .
. the claim is that an agency has failed to act as required by law.” (Id.
at 705.)
 
“Generally, mandamus is available to
compel a public agency’s performance or to correct an agency’s abuse of
discretion when the action being compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles
County Dept. of Public Health (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.) “A ministerial act is an act that a
public officer is required to perform in a prescribed manner in obedience to
the mandate of legal authority and without regard to his own judgment or
opinion concerning such act’s propriety or impropriety, when a given state of
facts exists.” (Kavanaugh v. West Sonoma
County Union High School Dist. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 911, 916.)   
 
“ ‘While, of course, it is the general
rule that mandamus will not lie to control the discretion of a court or
officer, meaning by that that it will not lie to force the exercise of
discretion in a particular manner . . . [it] will lie to correct abuses of
discretion, and will lie to force a particular action by the inferior tribunal
or officer, when the law clearly establishes the petitioner's right to such
action.’ ” (Flores v. Dept. of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 199, 208.)  
 
Respondent argue Petitioners have not
stated a cause of action for mandate because: 
(1) Petitioners failed to exhaust
their administrative remedies in CDCR’s “robust
administrative grievance and appeal process (Memo 11:6-7); (2) the petition
provides “no factual support” (Memo 12:18); (3) Petitioners “fail to establish
a ministerial duty or valid rule making challenge” related to CDCR’s
regulations (Memo 16:12); and (4) Petitioners have an adequate legal remedy in
a petition for writ of habeas corpus. (Memo 16:16.)
 
Petitioners
assert the demurrer misapprehends the nature of the petition and fails to
address all pertinent allegations. The court agrees. Respondent’s demurrer does
not persuasively address Petitioner’s specific legal claim or all pertinent
allegations, including those based on evidence from In re Frederick Dwyer.  For that reason, and the additional reasons
outlined below, the demurrer is overruled.[2]  
 
Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies 
 
Exhaustion of administrative remedies
is “a jurisdictional prerequisite to judicial review.” (California Water Impact Network v. Newhall County
Water Dist. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1464, 1489.)
“The exhaustion requirement applies whether relief is sought by
traditional (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1085) or administrative (Code Civ. Proc., §
1094.5) mandamus.” (Eight Unnamed Physicians v.
Medical Executive Com. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 503, 511.)  
 
“Before seeking judicial review a
party must show that he has made a full presentation to the administrative
agency upon all issues of the case and
at all prescribed stages of the administrative proceedings.” (Edgren v. Regents of University of
California (1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 515, 520.) There are exceptions to the
exhaustion requirement, including “when the subject of the controversy lies
outside the administrative agency's jurisdiction, when pursuit of an
administrative remedy would result in irreparable harm, when the administrative
agency cannot grant an adequate remedy, and when the aggrieved party can
positively state what the administrative agency's decision in his
particular case would be.” (Edgren v. Regents of University of California, supra, 158 Cal.App.3d at 520.)  
 
Respondent contends CDCR’s governing regulations establish
a “robust administrative grievance and appeal
process for inmates and parolees . . . to challenge imposed parole conditions
or seek modifications of the conditions imposed before seeking judicial relief.”
(Memo 11:6-10 [citing Cal. Code Regs., tit. 15, § 3481, subd. (a).)[3]
CDCR’s exhaustion argument might be persuasive if Petitioners were seeking
writs to terminate their own participation in a treatment program or other
relief specific to their individual parole conditions. However, Petitioners do
not seek such relief. Instead, Petitioners challenge the legality of CDCR’s
regulatory implementation of Penal Code section 3008 and the sex offender
management and treatment program (SOMP) across the state. Petitioners “seek a
writ of mandate directing CDCR to amend its regulations to authorize completion
of and termination from the sex offender management program prior to discharge
from parole.” (See Pet. ¶ 6; see also ¶¶ 34-41, 56-61, and Prayer.) 
 
The petition asserts certain CDCR
promulgated regulations, in addition to its policies and practices for
implementing such regulations, conflict with a controlling statute. Parties are
“not required to exhaust administrative remedies” when they “attempt to enforce
[an agency’s] compliance with . . . controlling statutes,” or when the
challenged agency action “is based upon a regulation it promulgated.” (United
Teachers-L.A. v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (1994) 24 Cal. App. 4th
1510, 1519 n.4; Sabatasso v. Superior Court (2008) 167 Cal. App. 4th
791, 795.)  While the regulation (Cal.
Code Regs., tit. 15, § 3481, subd. (a)) does authorize the claimant to submit a
grievance disputing a “policy” of CDCR, Respondent fails to develop an argument
the regulation provides an administrative remedy for a challenge to CDCR’s
promulgated regulations and state-wide implementation of such regulations. Nor
does Respondent cite any statutory authority or case law supporting its
position.  
 
Petitioners have sufficiently pleaded
an excuse from the exhaustion requirement, including lack of adequate
administrative remedy.  
 
Petitioners
Have Alleged Sufficient Facts to State a Cause of Action for Ordinary      Mandate, including a Ministerial Duty 
 
Respondent contends “[t]here is no factual
support for the petitioners’ claim that all sex offenders must participate in
all aspects of the SOMP [supervision, treatment, and polygraph] for the
duration of their statutory parole term.” (Memo 12:18-20.) Citing allegations
pertaining to the individual Petitioners, Respondent contends “the petitioners’
cherry-picked facts do not support their claim that sex offenders are always
held to their statutory maximum parole period and required to participate in
SOMP for that duration . . . .” (Memo 13:12-14.)  
 
To be sure, Petitioners are not required to
provide “factual support” at the pleading stage.  “A pleading ‘is sufficient if it alleges
ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.’ ” (Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 998, 1027.)  
 
Petitioners have alleged the following ultimate
facts, among others, in support of their traditional writ cause of action: 
 
[A]s
a matter of policy and practice, CDCR does not permit any Registrant to
‘complete’ the management program prior to discharge from parole, as Section
3008(d) contemplates. Nor does CDCR otherwise allow a Registrant’s
participation in the management program to be terminated, as Section 3008(d)
contemplates. Rather, CDCR and CDCR, as a matter of policy, retain all
Registrants in a management program until their discharge date, regardless of
whether they have completed the treatment curriculum, and regardless of the
Registrant’s individual treatment needs, supervision level, or risk of
re-offense. (Pet. ¶ 34.)  

Although not required at the pleading stage, Petitioners have also pleaded certain
evidentiary facts. For example, Petitioners allege in the In re Frederick
Dwyer Dwyer habeas corpus proceeding, the trial court heard testimony from
a CDCR regional supervisor reporting it is “essentially the policy of the
Department of Corrections that completion of the program is not possible before
the discharge from parole program.” (Pet. ¶ 39.)[4] The
petition also provides information about how all five individual Petitioners
have been “retained in the management program indefinitely rather than
evaluated for termination from the program, as Section 3008(d) contemplates.” (Pet.
¶¶ 43-55.) These ultimate facts and factual allegations are sufficient to state
a claim.  
 
Relatedly, Respondent contends Petitioners
have not alleged a ministerial duty owed by Respondent and enforceable by
mandate. (Memo 14:8-16:12.) Although the argument is not well developed and is
unclear, Respondent appears to contend section 3573 of title 15 of the
California Code of Regulations (Section 3573) “does not amend, impair, or limit
the scope of section 3008(d)(2) as nothing in Penal Code section 3008(d)(2)
prohibits nor mandates that the Secretary exercise his discretion in any
particular manner.” (Memo 15:26-28.) Respondent notes the “regulation does not
exempt any sex offender parolees from requesting or being granted early
discharge from their statutory parole period.” (Memo 15:28-16:2.) That a sex
offender parolee may request early discharge does not appear to inform on the
validity of the regulation.
 
The petition is partly based on an alleged
conflict between Section 3573 and Penal Code section 3008, subdivision (d) (see
Pet. ¶ 32), but the petition also alleges “CDCR, as a matter of policy,
retain[s] all Registrants in a management program until their discharge date,
regardless of whether they have completed the treatment curriculum, and
regardless of the Registrant’s individual treatment needs, supervision level,
or risk of re-offense.” (Pet. ¶ 34 [emphasis added].) Further, as to Section
3573, the petition alleges “no provision of Section 3573 or any other
regulation allows for the ‘completion’ of the management program. Nor does
Section 3573 or any other regulation allow for termination of a Registrant’s
participation in the management program prior to discharge from parole, as
Section 3008(d) contemplates.” (Pet. 
¶ 32.)
 
Respondent does not demonstrate Petitioner’s allegations
concerning Section 3573 are incorrect. Even if Section 3573 does not expressly
prevent parolees from “requesting or being granted early discharge from their
statutory parole period,” as argued by Respondent, the petition sufficiently
alleges the regulation is interpreted and implemented by CDCR in a manner that
conflicts with Penal Code section 3008, subdivision (d).  
 
“[M]andamus may issue to compel an official both to exercise
his or her discretion (if he or she is required by law to do so) and to
exercise it under a proper interpretation of the applicable law.” (California
Assn. for Health Servs. at Home v. State Dept. of Health Care Servs. (2012)
204 Cal.App.4th 676, 683; see also Gov. Code, § 11342.2. [“Whenever by the express
or implied terms of any statute a state agency has authority to adopt
regulations to implement, interpret, make specific or otherwise carry out the
provisions of the statute, no regulation adopted is valid or effective unless
consistent and not in conflict with the statute and reasonably necessary to
effectuate the purpose of the statute.”]) 

 
Because Petitioners have alleged CDCR’s
regulations, policies, and practices conflict with the controlling statutes,
including Penal Code section 3008, subdivision (d), Petitioners have alleged a
cause of action for traditional mandate. 

 
Petitioners
Sufficiently Allege They Lack a Plain, Speedy, and Adequate Remedy in the
Ordinary Course of Law
 
Respondent contends Petitioners have an
adequate legal remedy through a petition for writ of habeas corpus “to
challenge their parole condition that requires them to participate in the
SOMP.” (Memo 17:6-7.)
 
The argument is unpersuasive for at least three
reasons. First, it misapprehends the nature of Petitioners’ writ claim as a
challenge to individual parole conditions, rather than a challenge to
Respondent’s state-wide regulations, policies, and practices. Second, it
ignores applicable case law, which held, in similar circumstances, that “[a]
writ of habeas corpus . . . is not available ‘in the ordinary course of law’”
because it is “an extraordinary remedy.” (Villery v. Department of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2016) 246 Cal. App. 4th 407, 415-16.) Finally,
Respondent does not demonstrate, for purposes of a demurrer, that numerous
habeas corpus petitions challenging CDCR’s regulations, policies, and practice
would be more “speedy” or “adequate” than a single writ petition raising the
same claim.  
 
Respondent does not addressed Villery v.
Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation or Petitioners’ other
contentions regarding the inadequacy of habeas corpus petitions for the claim
made in the petition. (Sehulster
Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor Brothers, Inc., supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at 1345,
fn. 16 [failure to address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  
 
Petitioners have sufficiently alleged they
lack a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law.  
 
///
 
Demurrer
for Uncertainty 
 
Respondent
contends “use of the fictitious names John Doe # 1 and John Doe # 2 render the
petition uncertain and ambiguous providing additional grounds for the Court to
sustain the demurrer.” (Memo 13:16-17.)
 
Demurrers
for uncertainty are strictly construed. Discovery can be used for clarification.
A demurrer for uncertainty is appropriate only where a defendant cannot
reasonably determine what issues or claims are stated. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  “[U]nder our liberal pleading
rules, where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations
sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a
demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to
amend.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,
139, fn. 2.)  
 
Here, even with the use of fictitious names
for Petitioner Does 1 and 2, Respondent can reasonably determine the nature of
Petitioners’ claims. Notably, Petitioners’ claims are also based on allegations
concerning the In re Frederick Dwyer litigation and the other, named individual
Petitioners. Further, as discussed earlier, the petition does not seek writ
relief as to any individual’s parole conditions. Instead, Petitioners challenge
Respondent’s statewide regulations, policies, and practices. In these circumstances,
the use of fictitious names for two of the Petitioners does not render the
pleading uncertain as asserted by Respondent.
 
Respondent has not demonstrated his demurrer
for uncertainty should be sustained.
 
              New
Reply Arguments 
 
In reply, Respondent admittedly challenges the
petition based on entirely new arguments not discussed in his demurrer.
Specifically, Respondent contends: (1) Petitioners have not alleged sufficient
facts to support a facial challenge to Section 3573 (Reply 3:5-6); (2) the
petition allegations are insufficient because they are made on “information and
belief” and “Petitioners do not rely on their own
circumstances or experience in relation to th[e] alleged [unlawful] policy and
practice” (Reply 6:9-11); (3) testimony from the In re Frederick Dwyer litigation
is insufficient to state a cause of action for mandate (Reply 7:12-14); and (4)
Petitioners have not alleged standing to make “as applied” challenges to CDCR’s
regulations, policies, and practices based on a “hypothetically similar
petitioner.” (Reply 7:14, fn. 3.)
 
“The salutary rule is that points raised in a reply
brief for the first time will not be considered unless good cause is shown for
the failure to present them before.” (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983)
149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010; see also Regency
Outdoor Advertising v. Carolina Lances, Inc. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1323, 1333.) 

 
Respondent does not show good cause to raise new
arguments in reply. The reply arguments are legal in
nature and could have been raised in the demurrer. Respondent’s counsel’s meet and confer declaration states that on August
11, 2023 counsel for Respondent and Petitioner discussed “the
Secretary’s position that claims raised in the petition failed as a matter of
law.”  (Heinisch Decl. ¶ 4.) Nonetheless,
there is no explanation for failing to raise the Respondent’s reply arguments
in the demurrer.  Petitioners have not
had a full and fair opportunity to respond in writing to the arguments
initially raised in Respondent’s reply. Under the circumstances, the court
declines to consider the new reply arguments summarized above.[5]
 
Second Cause of
Action – Declaratory Relief 
 
Respondent argues “Petitioners’ claim for
declaratory relief is wholly and entirely dependent on their claim for mandamus
relief” and should be sustained. (Memo 17:10-11.) However, as argued by
Petitioners, the second cause of action is based on Government Code section
11350, subdivision (a), in the Administrative Procedures Act and, therefore, is
not derivative of the writ cause of action.[6]
Respondent does not address the argument in reply and thereby concedes it for
purposes of this demurrer. (Sehulster
Tunnels/Pre-Con, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at 1345, fn. 16.)
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The demurrer is overruled.
 
 IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
December 13, 2023                                                              ________________________________ 
Hon.
Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge
of the Superior Court 
 
 


