


[1]
Specifically, Penal Code section 3008, subdivision (d)(2) provides: “(d) On or
after July 1, 2012, the parole conditions of a person released on parole for an
offense that requires registration pursuant to Sections 290 to 290.023, inclusive, shall include all of the following: . .
. (2) Persons placed on parole on or after July 1, 2012, shall successfully
complete a sex offender management program, following the standards developed
pursuant to Section 9003, as a condition of parole. The length of the
period in the program shall be not less than one year, up to the entire period
of parole, as determined by the certified sex offender management professional
in consultation with the parole officer and as approved by the court. Participation in this program applies to every
person described without regard to when his or her crime or crimes were
committed.”  
 


[2] In reply, Respondent does not specifically
defend the arguments he made in his demurrer. Instead, Respondent makes entirely
new arguments which is procedurally improper. In a footnote, Respondent states he
“does not abandon any arguments raised in the demurrer. Respondent relies on
the arguments as presented in the demurrer in addition to those presented in
this reply.” (Reply 3, fn. 1.) While Respondent may not have “abandoned” any
legal arguments for purposes of this proceeding, he has not responded to many,
if not all, of Petitioners’ opposition arguments concerning the sufficiency of
the pleading. (See Sehulster
Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328,
1345, fn. 16 [failure to address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  


[3] The regulation states in part: “A claimant
has the ability to submit a written grievance to the department containing one
or more claims, subject to the requirements in section 3482, to dispute a policy,
decision, action, condition, or omission by the department or departmental
staff. . . .” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 15, § 3482, subd. (a).)


[4] Respondent wholly ignores the In
re Frederick Dwyer allegations in the demurrer. In reply, Respondent
argues the In re Frederick Dwyer allegations
could only be relevant to a claim of collateral estoppel. (Reply 6:27-7:3.) The
court disagrees. Whether the In re Frederick
Dwyer decision has any collateral estoppel effect, testimony
from that action may constitute judicial admissions or otherwise lead to
evidence in support of Petitioner’s claim. As a result, the ultimate ruling of
the San Mateo County Superior Court in In re Frederick
Dwyer is not determinative here. (See
Reply 7:4-14.)
 


[5] Alternatively, even if the court considers the new
reply arguments, the court reaches the same result and overrules the demurrer
for the reasons discussed above and in Petitioners’ opposition. Given the
liberal pleading standard and the allegations that Respondent’s regulations,
policies, and practices are unlawful, including based on testimony from a CDCR regional
supervisor in the In re Frederick Dwyer litigation,
the reply arguments do not persuade the court that the demurrer should be
sustained.  Of course, Respondent is not
precluded from further developing its arguments for the trial on the writ
petition.  


[6] Government Code section 11350, subdivision (a) states
in pertinent part: “Any interested person may obtain a judicial declaration as
to the validity of any regulation or order of repeal by bringing an action for
declaratory relief in the superior court in accordance with the Code of Civil
Procedure. . . . The regulation or order of repeal may be declared to be
invalid for a substantial failure to comply with this chapter. . . .”  

