  Case Number:  23STCV11642    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  57 MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES (GENERAL AND EMPLOYMENT)For some of the Form Interrogatories, Plaintiff's separate statement filed on April 26, 2024 shows that Plaintiff provided supplemental responses after Defendant's motion was filed.  The supplemental responses contained the same objections that accompanied Plaintiff's initial responses.   At this point, the Court is ordering Plaintiff to provide further responses to the following Form Interrogatories, without objection, by May 31, 2024: 2.5, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 12.1, 50.1, 201.1, 201.3, 202.2, 203.1, and 207.2.   That the Court is not ordering Plaintiff to provide further responses to the other Form Interrogatories without objection is not to say that the objections are meritorious  -- in the main, they are not.   But the Court is satisfied that the responses themselves are satisfactory.MOTOIN TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS Plaintiff's separate statement filed on April 26, 2024 shows that Plaintiff provided supplemental responses after Defendant's motion was filed.  The supplemental responses contained the same objections that accompanied Plaintiff's initial responses.  The supplemental responses identified essentially the same range of Bates numbered documents for every request.  That cannot be right.  The Court is directing Plaintiff to provide further responses to all of the Requests for Production of Documents, without objections (other than objections based on the attorney-client privilege where applicable), and with  reference to specific  responsive documents by Bates number , not by the same range for every request.  The Court is directing that the further responses be provided without objections because the Plaintiff's objections lacked merit. SANCTIONSBecause Plaintiff's position in this discovery dispute lacked substantial justification, Defendant is entitled to sanctions in the form of attorney's fees Defendant incurred in connection with the two discovery motions that it filed.  The supporting declarations of Defendant's counsel, Evan Grant, are deficient, however.  First, they do not provide any basis for the  Court to assess whether Mr. Grant's claimed billing rate of $950 per hour is reasonable.  For example, the declarations do not set forth Mr. Grant's background and experience.   The rate of $950 per hour strikes the Court as high.  Second, the declarations are imprecise and confusing in the actual amount of sanctions in the form of attorney's fees Defendant is seeking.   The Court is inclined to continue the hearing so that Mr. Grant can provide supplemental declarations.