  Case Number:  24STCV07266    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:    October
2, 2024                                              
 
CASE NAME:           James
Scher, et al. v. Howard Herron, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV07266

 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Howard Herron, Longview Valley Road, LLC, Litchfield Management, Inc.,
Christine Dixon, and Matthew Webber
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs James Scher and
Sandra Scher
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.     Demurrer
to the entire Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts;
2.     Motion
to Strike portions of the Complaint concerning punitive damages, attorneys’
fees, and costs.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.     Demurrer
is SUSTAINED as to the Fourth Cause of Action with leave to amend;
2.     Demurrer
is OVERRULED as to the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action;
3.     Motion
to Strike is DENIED in its entirety;
4.     Plaintiffs
to file an amended complaint within twenty (20) days of notice of this ruling.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On March 22, 2024, Plaintiffs James Scher and Sandra Scher
(Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Howard Herron, Litchfield
Management, Inc., Longview Valley Road, LLC, Christie Dixon, and Matthew Weber
(Defendants) with four causes of action for: (1) Public Disclosure of Private
Facts; (2) Violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act; (3) Violation of
the Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance; and (4) Negligence.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiffs reside in Apartment 2
of the subject property located at 14259 Dickens Street which Defendants own
and/or operate. Plaintiffs allege they are protected by the Los Angeles Rent
Stabilization Ordinance. Plaintiffs adopted various elderly small dogs that
served as their emotional support animals. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants wrongfully
used Plaintiffs’ health conditions to attempt to wrongfully evict them from the
premises.
 
On June 13, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer.
 
On June 17, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion to
strike.
 
On September 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed oppositions.
 
On September 24, 2024, Defendants filed replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
(CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) &
(3).¿The meet and confer requirement also applies to motions to strike. (CCP §
435.5.) Here, counsel sent one meet and confer
email with an offer to discuss telephonically the next day. (Levine Decl. ¶ 2.)
One email with a one day turnaround deadline is hardly sufficient meet and
confer efforts.
Still, insufficient meet and confer is not a
sufficient ground to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).) 
 
Demurrer 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn,¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Demurrer
 
First Cause of
Action – Public Disclosure of Private Facts
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs failed to state
sufficient facts supporting this claim and that, as alleged, the supposed
private facts are not offensive or objectionable to a reasonable person.[1]
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants improperly dispute the truth of Plaintiffs’
allegations.
 
The elements of a claim for public disclosure of private
facts are: “(1) public disclosure (2) of a private fact (3) which would be
offensive and objectionable to the reasonable person and (4) which is not of
legitimate public concern.” (Shulman v.
Group W Productions, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 200, 214 (internal quotes
omitted); Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40
Cal.4th 683, 717; Jackson v. Mayweather (2017)
10 Cal.App.5th 1420, 1256.) The
communication must be to “a large number” of persons, as distringuished from a
few. (Catsouras v. Dept. of Calif.
Highway Patrol (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 856, 904.) The facts disclosed must
be matters as to which plaintiff had an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy. (See Ibid; Sipple v. Chronicle Publishing Co.
(1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 1040, 1047-1048 [“no liability when the defendant merely
gives further publicity to information about the plaintiff which is already
public or when the further publicity relates to matters which the plaintiff
leaves open to the public eye.”]) The
publication must be offensive and objectionable to a reasonable person of
ordinary sensibilities – e.g., something highly embarrassing to plaintiff. (Forsher v. Bugliosi (1980) 26 Cal.3d
792, 809.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged a claim for
public disclosure of private facts. First, Plaintiffs alleged public disclosure
because “Defendant Matthew Weber approached several residents of the building” and
“persons who worked for the Building, including vendors such as plumbers” to discuss
“Mr. Scher’s mental health condition and disability.” (Complaint ¶¶ 20, 28,
32.) Second, Plaintiffs alleged a private fact because they alleged Mr. Scher’s
mental health condition and disability. (Complaint ¶¶ 30, 31.) Third,
disclosure of Mr. Scher’s mental health condition would be objectionable to the
reasonable person because it is personal health information. (Complaint ¶¶ 33, 35.)
Finally, Plaintiffs allege that Mr. Scher’s mental health condition is not
newsworthy but were made to evict Plaintiffs.[2]
(Complaint ¶ 34.)
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to
the first cause of action.
 
Second Cause of
Action – Violation of FEHA
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs misread Gov. Code §
12955(c) as it does not apply to the subject facts and that the remaining
allegations are conclusory. Plaintiffs argue that Defendants improperly dispute
the truth of Plaintiffs’ allegations.
 
Gov. Code § 12955(a) prohibits an owner of “any housing
accommodation to discriminate against or harass any person because of . . .
disability.” Gov. Code § 12955(c) prohibits “any person to make, print, or
publish . . . any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale
or rental of a housing accommodation that indicates any preference, limitation,
or discrimination based on . . 
disability . . . or an intention to make that preference, limitation, or
discrimination.” Gov. Code § 12955(d) similarly prohibits preferences. Gov.
Code § 12955(f) prohibits “any owner of housing accommodations to harass,
evict, or otherwise discriminate against any person in the sale or rental of
housing accommodations when the owner’s dominant purpose is retaliation against
a person who has opposed practices unlawful under this section . . . .”
 
Here, Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged a claim for violation
of FEHA. Notably, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants threatened to terminate the
lease because of Mr. Scher’s disability. (Complaint ¶¶ 21, 22, 23, 24, 43; see
also Exhibits B, C, and D.) Plaintiffs also allege that Defendants are
retaliating against Plaintiffs for having emotional support animals. (Complaint
¶ 46.) Again, Defendants’ arguments that this conduct shows “investigating”
behavior is inappropriate at the demurrer stage.
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to
the second cause of action.
 
Third Cause of
Action – Violation of the Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs failed to allege facts
that Defendants’ actions served no lawful purpose and that the remaining
allegations are speculative and conclusory. Plaintiffs argue Defendants provide
no authority supporting their position and that Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged
violations.
 
 Los Angeles Municipal
Code § 45.33 (TAHO) defines tenant harassment as “a landlord’s knowing and
willful course of conduct directed at a specific tenant that seriously alarms
or annoys the tenant, and that serves no legitimate purpose. . . .” This
includes: “Threatening or taking action to terminate any tenancy including
service of any notice to quit or other eviction notice or bringing action to recover
possession of a rental unit based on facts which the landlord has no reasonable
cause to believe to be true.” (L.A. Municipal Code § 45.33(6).) It also
includes “Engaging in any activity prohibited by federal, state, or local
housing anti-discrimination laws.” (Id.
at subd. (11).) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged a claim for violation
of TAHO. Specifically, Plaintiffs allege Defendants’ violated federal law,
FEHA, by discriminating against them based on disability. (See, e.g., Complaint
¶¶ 43, 46.) Plaintiffs also allege that Defendants repeatedly threatened to
terminate their lease because of Mr. Scher’s disability. (Complaint ¶¶ 21, 22,
23, 24.) Defendants’ arguments, once again, are inappropriate for the demurrer
stage.
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to
the third cause of action.
 
Fourth Cause of
Action – Negligence
 
Defendants contend Plaintiffs allege conscious intent by the
Defendants so this claim fails. Plaintiffs argue they are allowed to plead
inconsistent theories at this stage and that intentional conduct by the agents
and still lead to a negligent supervision claim against the entity defendants. 
 
The elements for negligent hiring are: (1) employer’s hiring
an employee, (2) who is incompetent or unfit, (3) employer had reason to
believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment, and (4) the
harm occurs. (Federico v. Superior Court
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1213; Doe
v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054, 1055 (“the cornerstone
of a negligent hiring theory is the risk that the employee will act in a
certain way and the employee does act in that way. Plaintiff has failed to
allege those necessary facts.”); Evan F.
v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs insufficiently alleged a claim for
negligence against Defendants Litchfield Management, Inc. and Longview Valley
Road, LLC. Notably, Plaintiffs did not allege facts that these entity
defendants had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because they
employed the individual defendants or that the individual defendants were
incompetent or unfit. Plaintiffs similarly dids not allege facts demonstrating
their damages. Indeed, Plaintiffs allege they remain in possession of the
leased property. (Complaint ¶ 26.)
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to
the fourth cause of action with leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants seek to strike the following:
1.     Paragraph
38, 7:21-28: “Moreover, among the reasons Defendants disclosed private facts
about Mr. Scher to third parties was that Defendants Herron, Litchfield
Management, Inc. and Longview Valley Road, LLC had a profit motive to do so. If
they could bully Plaintiffs to move out, Defendants Herron, Litchfield
Management, Inc. and Longview Valley Road, LLC would be able to raise the rent
when they rented the Apartment to new tenants. Defendants Dixon and Webber had
similar motives – to please their bosses. For these reasons, Mr. Scher is
entitled to punitive damages to punish Defendants, and each of them, and to
dissuade them from continuing to publicly disclose his sensitive medical
information to others and to deter such conduct in the future.
2.     Paragraph
46, 9:10-17: “Alternatively, or in addition to the profit motive, Defendant
Howard Herron is motivated to discriminate against and harass the Plaintiffs
because he is retaliating against the Plaintiffs for adopting two emotional
support animals. Because of this, Plaintiffs are entitled to punitive damages
under Civil Code § 3294. Defendants’
actions against Plaintiffs are malicious in that they are willful and evidence
a conscious disregard for their rights to privacy and their rights not to be
discriminated against or ousted from their home because of James Scher’s
medical condition. Therefore, Defendants should be liable for punitive damages
to make an example out of them and to prevent them from discriminating against their
disabled tenants in the future.”
3.     Prayer
for Relief, 11:8: “2. For punitive damages as authorized by Civil Code section 3294;”
4.     Prayer
for Relief, 11:12: “4. For punitive damages as authorized by Civil Code section 3294;” and
5.     Prayer
for Relief, 11:13-14: “5. For reasonable attorney fees, expert witness fees and
costs of suit, as permitted by the Fair Employment and Housing Act.”
Attorney Fees
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs are barred from
recovering attorneys’ fees because their lease agreement provides a condition
to mediate before filing suit and clearly states failure to do so waives
recovery of attorneys’ fees. Plaintiffs argue that the mediation provision bars
contractual fee recovery, not recovery of statutory fees that they seek. 
 
Unless a contract or “specifically provided for by statute,”
each party to a lawsuit must pay its own attorney fees. (CCP § 1021; Brown Bark III, L.P. v. Haver (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 809, 818.)¿ 
 
According
to the Complaint, Plaintiffs seek reasonable attorney’s fees and costs pursuant
to FEHA and TAHO. (Complaint ¶ 49, Prayer ¶¶ 5, 6.) TAHO provides that a
prevailing tenant may recover reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. (TAHO §
45.35(B).) In FEHA
cases, a court may award reasonable attorney fees and costs, including expert
witness fees, to the prevailing party. (Gov. Code §
12965(b).) As such, these are discretionary.
 
Here, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting
a prayer request for attorney’s fees. Notably, Defendants’ argument that all of
Plaintiffs’ claims “arise from” the lease was recently rejected by the Court of
Appeal. (See Cook v. University of
Southern California (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 312, 321-325.) Defendants
provide no authority supporting this contention either. Additionally, the
parties cannot agree to waive an unwaivable right, such as the right to
attorney’s fees under FEHA.[3]
(See, e.g., Serpa v. California Surety
Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 709.) 
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendants’ motion to
strike pertaining to attorney’s fees.
 
Punitive Damages
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs insufficiently alleged
actual malice warranting punitive damages. Defendants further contend that
Plaintiffs allege speculative and conclusory “facts” that do not support
punitive damages. Plaintiffs argue that they alleged willful and malicious
course of conduct designed to induce disabled persons to vacate their home.
 
To obtain punitive damages, a plaintiff
must plead sufficient facts in support of punitive damages.¿ (See¿Hilliard v. A.H. Robins Co.¿(1983) 148
Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.)¿ In addition,¿punitive damages are allowed only where
“it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294,¿subd. (a).)¿
Courts have viewed despicable conduct as conduct “so vile, base, contemptible,
miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised
by ordinary decent people. (Scott v.
Phoenix Schools, Inc., (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Further,
Civil Code § 3294(c) provides the definition of malice, oppression, and fraud.
Malice is “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Oppression
is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” Fraud is “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”¿¿¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged a claim warranting
punitive damages. First, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants asked tenants to
monitor Mr. Scher’s behavior to build a case to evict Plaintiffs. (Complaint ¶
20.) That Defendants’ falsely claimed in letters to Plaintiffs that they
received reports from other tenants about Mr. Scher’s behavior. (Complaint
¶¶  21, 22, 23, 24.) And that Defendant Herron
is retaliating against Plaintiffs for adopting two emotional support animals.
(Complaint ¶ 46.) Inciting neighbors to monitor and report on a co-tenant as
well as retaliating against tenants for disability accommodations is “loathsome
[conduct] that . . . would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.” (Scott, supra, 175
Cal.App.4th at p. 715.) Defendants’ argument that the facts alleged are false
is unpersuasive. (Clauson v. Superior
Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) The court is not otherwise
persuaded by Defendants’ arguments, yet again, that these facts are not true or
lack evidence.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike as
to the punitive damages claims.
 
Costs & Expert
Witness Fees
 
A prevailing party is entitled to costs. (CCP § 1021.)
Therefore, the court will not strike the portion of the Prayer that seeks costs
of suit.¿ 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the
Fourth Cause of Action with leave to amend;
2.Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
First, Second, and Third Causes of Action;
3.Motion to Strike is DENIED in
its entirety;
4.Plaintiffs to file an amended
complaint within twenty (20) days of notice of this ruling.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              October 2, 2024                      __________________________________                                                                                                                        Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 


