 Case Number:  24STCV10778    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:    October
2, 2024                                              
 
CASE NAME:           Donna
DiFronzo v. Grant Shenon, APLC
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV10778

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Grant Shenon, APLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Donna DiFronzo
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.     An
Order compelling arbitration and staying this case pending arbitration.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.     Motion
to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff Donna DiFronzo (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant Grant Shenon, APLC (Defendant) with seven
causes of action for: (1) Discrimination; (2) Associational Discrimination; (3)
Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment; (4) Violation of the
California Family Rights Act; (5) California Family Rights Act Retaliation; (6)
Wrongful Adverse Actions in Violation of Public Policy; and (7) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff worked for Defendant (or
Defendant’s predecessor entities) since 1988. Plaintiff alleges that she took a
leave of absence pursuant to CFRA to care for her father and Defendant did not
reinstate her to the position she had before taking leave and that it otherwise
retaliated against her.  Plaintiff
alleges that her health deteriorated as a result which required taking another
leave of absence to care for her own health.
 
On June 21, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to
compel arbitration. On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. Defendant
filed a reply on September 24, 2024.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Under
California law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to
CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of
the parties refuses to arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute provides that,
“[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of
a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
arbitrate the controversy exists.”¿ The statute further sets forth four grounds
upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to
compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a
pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the
same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.¿
 
“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . .
.”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel,
Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first
identified and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope of the
contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional
Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿
 
“[A] party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.
[Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of
fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to
reach a final determination.”¿¿(Giuliano,
supra, at p. 1284.)¿¿
 
However, when an arbitration agreement states that the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA) governs enforcement, the FAA governs a motion to compel
arbitration. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman
Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345-346 (Victrola 89).) “A written provision … to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising … or … to submit to arbitration an existing controversy … shall
be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” [9 U.S.C. § 2 (emphasis added)] A party to an
arbitration agreement may seek a court order compelling the parties to
arbitrate a dispute covered by the agreement. (9 U.S.C. § 4.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendant seeks to enforce the October 29, 2021 Arbitration
Agreement (Agreement).[1]
Defendant contends that Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate her claims because she
continued to work for Defendant. Plaintiff argues Defendant did not meet its
burden of proving an arbitration agreement exists because it relies upon agreements
which were superseded or unsigned. 
 
Existence of
Arbitration Agreement¿ 
¿ 
In determining the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1)
whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the parties, and (2)
whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 

Agreement
     Between Parties:¿ 

 
The moving party can meet its initial burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement by attaching a copy of the agreement to
this motion bearing the signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021)
64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The party seeking arbitration can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving
party can meet its initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions
in the motion. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
 
Here, Defendant met its initial burden. First, they attached
the various arbitration agreements at play: the 1994 Agreement, the 2002
Handbook, the 2006 Handbook, and the 2021 Handbook. (Barr Decl., Exhibits 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6.) Defendant also notes that Plaintiff, as office administrator, knew
that the firm had an arbitration agreement and had executed acknowledgement of
it – somewhere. (Barr Decl. ¶¶ 7, 9, 11.) 
 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and
the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 158,165 (Gamboa).) The evidence must be
sufficient to create a factual dispute to shift the burden back to the arbitration
proponent who retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the authenticity of the signature. (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere).)
 
Here, there is no signature in dispute. Rather, Plaintiff
disputes that the 2021 Handbook is the operative agreement at all. Notably, Plaintiff
produced evidence of a 2023 Handbook which omitted the Arbitration Agreement
found in the prior handbooks. (DiFronzo Decl. ¶¶ 16-17, Exhibits A, B.)
Defendant’s contention that this omission nevertheless incorporates the prior
arbitration agreements is unpersuasive.[2]
First, it ignores the clause present in each handbook presented to the court
that “the Firm’s policies and procedures may be changed at the sole discretion
of the Shareholders.” (DiFronzo Decl., Exhibit A; Barr Decl., Exhibits 2, 3, 5,
6.) It appears clear to the court that such “policies and procedures” included
arbitration as it is conspicuously missing from the 2023 Handbook. This is
particularly relevant since the 1994 Handbook has the signed acknowledgement of
an arbitration policy as well as the separate arbitration agreement and there
is a separate agreement signed in 2003. (Barr Decl., Exhibits 1, 2, 4.) Second,
it is nonsensical. Based on this logic, Defendant’s employees would need to
compare every handbook issued to employees for conflicting clauses and
omissions. The court is thus persuaded that the 2023 Handbook controls and does
not have an arbitration agreement.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is
DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.     Motion
to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              October 2, 2024                      __________________________________                                                                                                                        Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 


