 Case Number:  23STCV25848    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


May 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV25848




MOTIONS


Demurrer to Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint 




MOVING PARTY


Defendants RF
  Renovo Management Company, LLC, Daniel Rosen, Kevin Werner, and Brendan
  Ochinero 




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Megan Blair O’Brien



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Megan
Blair O’Brien (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants RF Renovo Management Company, LLC
(“RF Renovo”), Daniel Rosen (“Rosen”), Kevin Werner (“Werner”) and Brendan
Ochinero (“Ochinero,” collectively, “Defendants”) for employment claims.  Defendants demur to the second, fifth,
seventh, eighth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action in
Plaintiff’s complaint.  Defendants also
move to strike the punitive damages allegations from the complaint.
  
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322,
subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Plaintiff’s second
cause of action is for hostile work environment harassment against RF  Renovo and Rosen.  (See Complaint, ¶ 62.) 
To state a claim for hostile work environment harassment, Plaintiff
must allege that RF Renovo and Rosen engaged in severe
or pervasive harassment that unreasonably interfered with Plaintiff’s work
performance.  (See Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 860, 877.)  Here, Plaintiff
alleges, “Rosen routinely made comments to [Plaintiff] that were charged with
gender-based animus and gender stereotyping, including: Warning O’Brien that ‘a
more quiet way up the leader board will go a long way;’ After a meeting, in
response to [Plaintiff]’s request for access to a lead generator to which male
employees had access and about which they were contemporaneously talking,
yelling at [Plaintiff], ‘you speak when you’re spoken to!’; telling [Plaintiff]
in team meetings that her successes were only a result of luck; commanding [Plaintiff],
‘you don’t do anything until I tell you to do it!’; Frequently screaming at [Plaintiff]
while sparing male employees from such hostile behavior; [¶] Rosen repeatedly
suggested to [Plaintiff] that she needed ‘mental help’ or similar from June
2022 forward;  [¶] [RF Renovo] and Rosen
failed to send [Plaintiff] a single referral during her first ten months on the
job, while they routinely provided multiple weekly leads to their male regional
directors and loan officers during the same time period; [¶] Rosen refused to
grant [Plaintiff] access to vital industry resources that [RF Renovo] provided
to male employees, including ‘Black Knight,’ a lead generating tool; [¶]  Rosen barred [Plaintiff] from obtaining a
California Broker’s License, a credential that Rosen knew another executive had
recommended to [Plaintiff] that she obtain, and that Rosen allowed Tony
Hayeslip, a California-based employee, who was ultimately given [Plaintiff’s]
business, to obtain, and that Brendan Ochinero, another California regional
director who is a man, had already obtained.  [¶]  Rosen told [Plaintiff] that she needed to
boost her marketing and prospecting efforts, while he simultaneously cut her
meetings with the marketing team, denied her access to team members who are
vital [and] thwarted her efforts at marketing herself online, refused her
access to the marketing tool that was available to men in her position, and
created a flyer with [Plaintiff’s] likeness and list of credentials and an
email address whose contacts were purposely funneled to Tony Hayeslip and
Brendan Ochinero, to whom Rosen later gave [Plaintiff]’s promised and
established territory. [Plaintiff’s] male counterparts were not subject to such
actions; [¶] Rosen ignored [Plaintiff]’s efforts to reach him so that he could
approve deals, worth several million dollars, that she was near closing,
interfering with prospective profits and damaging her business relationships.  When pressed, Rosen explained that he simply
was ‘having a bad day,’ and, on another instance, that he ‘did not want to deal’
with [Plaintiff] at the time.”  (Complaint,
¶ 20.)
  Plaintiff
further alleges, “On one occasion, Werner told [P]laintiff that his residence
of Chicago had more stringent COVID-related policies in place ‘because we have
a Black dyke as a mayor.’  [¶] In a
group meeting, Rosen openly mocked an Afghan-American woman employee’s name: ‘What
kind of parents would name you Horia?!’  In another meeting, Rosen told the same
employee: ‘How can I put this?  They're
not bad locations, but I wouldn't feel comfortable living there.  You probably would though.’  [¶] On May 10, 2022, Werner, Rosen, O’Brien, and
other [RF Renovo] employees went out on the town to socialize after a day of
training.  Throughout the evening, which
began with a happy hour and progressed through other bars, a male lender
approached woman after woman after woman, to the visible amusement of other
male [RF Renovo] employees.  Later that
night, an employee told the group, including the lender, that a busy two-story
McDonald’s restaurant they were passing was known locally as ‘Club McDonald’s’
because it was filled most nights with underage girls who could not yet get
into bars.  The next morning, sitting
around a packed conference room table inside Company headquarters, the lender
and other male employees loudly celebrated the revelation that the lender had
visited and left the McDonald’s with two young women who had attended a Justin
Bieber concert earlier that night.  Upon
hearing this news, Rosen rose from his chair and gave the lender a celebratory
high-five, laughing, and gleefully congratulating him on the
accomplishment.  [¶] In a
mid-August group meeting, Rosen told the remaining sales team the Company was
no longer going to use recruiters to find new employees, as they had done in
hiring a then recently departed woman employee.  Rosen made clear that he did not want to
repeat such hires.  He urged the
employees present in the meeting to look within their former companies to ‘find
other guys that fit into this culture.’  All but two of the twenty meeting attendees
were men.  ‘Look around you,’ Rosen
instructed.  ‘Make sure they fit into our
group. Make sure they look like the guy next to you.’  [Plaintiff] reasonably believed that the
comment was discriminatory in nature, as both [P]laintiff and the recently
terminated woman employee were hired through the recruiting process.  [¶] Rosen scolded other women employees and
diminished their professional accomplishments in meetings.”  (Complaint, ¶ 21.) 

The court cannot say, as a matter of law, Plaintiff
has not pled conduct amounting to severe or pervasive harassment.  Therefore, for pleading purposes, Plaintiff’s
allegations suffice, and the court overrules the demurrer to the second cause
of action.
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action is for
retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5 against RF Renovo, Rosen and Werner.  Rosen and Werner demur to the fifth cause of
action.  By its terms, Labor Code section
1102.5 provides for an action against an employer.  (See Mathews v. Happy Valley Conference
Center, Inc. (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 236, 266-267.)  As Plaintiff concedes, Rosen and Warner were
not Plaintiff’s employer; RF Renovo employed Plaintiff.  (Complaint, ¶ 13.) 
Accordingly, the court sustains the demurrer to the fifth cause of
action against Rosen and Werner without leave to amend.
Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action is under
Labor Code section 1197.5, which is the Equal Pay Act.  Pursuant to the statute, an employer cannot
discriminate in wages based on the sex,
race, or ethnicity of employees, if the wages are “for substantially similar
work, when viewed as a composite of skill, effort, and responsibility, and
performed under similar working conditions.”  (Lab. Code, § 1197.5(a), (b).)  Plaintiff alleges, “[RF Renovo] failed to pay
[Plaintiff] her wages due on November 30, 2022 and December 15, 2022, failed to
pay [Plaintiff] the full amount of her incentive compensation throughout 2022,
and intentionally conspired to divert [Plaintiff]’s business and exclusive
geographic area to its favored male lenders for the purpose of depriving
O’Brien of her income and terminating her.” 
(Complaint, ¶ 56.) 
Plaintiff does not allege that RF Renovo failed to pay Plaintiff the
same amount as it paid other employees who performed substantially similar work
as Plaintiff.  As such, Plaintiff fails
to state a claim under Labor Code 1197.5. 
The court sustains the demurrer to the seventh cause of action with
leave to amend.
Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action is for
conversion against Defendants.  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants “wrongfully appropriated and used [Plaintiff’s] book of
business and business reputation at little or no cost to them.”  (Complaint, ¶ 60.) 
“[T]here can be a conversion of intangible rights represented by special
instruments . . . .”  (Welco
Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 212.)  Here, however, Plaintiff claims Defendants
misused interests that do not have a readily ascertainable value.  These are not proper subjects for a claim of
conversion.  
In opposition, Plaintiff cites Palm
Springs-La Quinta Development Co. v. Kieberk Corp. (1941) 46 Cal.App.2d 234
(Palm Springs-La Quinta).  In that
case, the court upheld a claim for conversion “for destroying and appropriating
tangible personal property consisting of a cabinet of lead cards containing the
names and valuable information regarding prospective and actual purchasers of
real property, contrary to the express terms of a written contract.”  (Id. at p. 240.)  The court distinguished a claim for
conversion of “good-will of a business in a specified district . . . ,” which
would not be actionable.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s allegations Defendants
misappropriated Plaintiff’s business reputation and book of business are more
akin to the goodwill of a business than to the tangible personal property at
issue in Palm Springs-La Quinta Development Co. v. Kieberk Corp. (1941)
46 Cal.App.2d 234.  If Plaintiff contends
Defendants misappropriated tangible personal property, Plaintiff must so
allege.  The court sustains the demurrer
to the eighth cause of action with leave to amend.
Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action is for
unjust enrichment against Defendants.  Unjust
enrichment is ““a general principle,”” not a cause of action.  (Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc.
(2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 779, 793.) The court sustains the demurrer to the tenth
cause of action without leave to amend.
Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of action is under
Business and Professions Code section 17200 against Defendants.  Plaintiff must allege a claim under Business
and Professions Code section 17200 “with reasonable particularity . . . .”  (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) 
Plaintiff alleges, “Defendants engaged in unlawful, unfair, and
deceptive business practices when they misappropriated [Plaintiff’s] book of
business, used her likeness and labor without just compensation, and damaged
her business reputation and relationships with her clients.”  (Complaint, ¶ 74.) 
Plaintiff’s allegations are not sufficiently specific.  Plaintiff must allege with specificity which of
Defendants’ actions she contends violated Business and Professions Code section
17200.  Accordingly, the court sustains
the demurrer to the eleventh cause of action with leave to amend.  
Plaintiff’s twelfth cause of action is for
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage against Defendants.
 To state a cause of action in that
regard, Plaintiff must allege an economic relationship exists between Plaintiff
and a third party with the probability of future economic benefit to Plaintiff,
Defendants’ knowledge of the relationship, Defendants’ intentional acts to
disrupt the relationship that result in actual disruption of the relationship,
and resulting harm to Plaintiff.  (Salma
v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275, 1290.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges that she “was in an
economic relationship with her business contacts and prospective clients that
likely would have resulted in economic benefit to [Plaintiff].  Defendants knew of those relationships but
nevertheless engaged in wrongful conduct, including conversion of [Plaintiff’s]
book of business, that they intended to disrupt those relationships or knew
that disruption of those relationships were certain or substantially certain to
occur.”  (Complaint,
¶¶ 76-77.)  Plaintiff does not adequately allege the
nature of the relationship that Plaintiff had with her business contacts and
prospective clients.  “[A]n essential
element of the tort of intentional interference with prospective business
advantage is the existence of a business relationship with which the tortfeasor
interfered.  Although this need not be a
contractual relationship, an existing relationship is required.”  (Roth v. Rhodes (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
530, 546, internal citation omitted.)  A mere
hope of future business with Plaintiff’s business contacts and prospective
clients is not actionable.  The court,
therefore, sustains the demurrer to the twelfth cause of action with leave to
amend.
Plaintiff’s thirteenth cause of action is for
fraud in the inducement against RF Renovo and Werner.  A party must allege fraud with particularity.
 “This means: (1) general pleading of the
legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and
the policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams &
Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.) 
Fraud in the inducement is a claim that a party intended to enter into a
contract, but fraud induced the party’s consent to that contract.  (Brown v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2008)
168 Cal. App. 4th 938, 958.)  Plaintiff
alleges, to induce her to work for RF Renovo, Werner, as RF Renovo’s chief
executive officer, promised her she “would serve as the exclusive managing
director of L.A., and that anyone in the L.A. lending team would report to her
in subordinate positions;  [¶] [RF Renovo]
would funnel leads and referrals to [Plaintiff], to expand her book of business
and, as explicitly stated in its offer letter, back her ‘with capital, team
support, marketing air cover, and technology, to help maximize the success of
[her] business;’ [¶] [RF Renovo] funds its own loans, because it is financially
secure; [¶] [and] neither Werner nor his businesses had ‘ever been sued,’ a
claim offered as evidence of the integrity and trustworthiness of him and his
business operations.”  (Complaint, ¶ 16.)  
To be actionable as fraud, a
misrepresentation must be of fact.  (Civ.
Code, § 1710, subd. (1).)  Werner’s
alleged statements of plans for Plaintiff’s work with RF Renovo are not statements
of fact.  While Werner’s alleged
statements that RF Renovo and Werner had never been sued and RF Renovo funds
its own loans are statements of fact, Plaintiff does not allege how those
statements were false, or how those statements induced Plaintiff to work for RF
Renovo.  The court, therefore, sustains
the demurrer to the thirteenth cause of action with leave to amend.
The Court likewise grants the motion to
strike the prayer for punitive damages with leave to amend.  To state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages
statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital).) 
Pursuant to  Civil Code section
3294, a plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a).)  “Malice is defined in the
statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff
or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (College
Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p.
725.)  “The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and footnotes omitted.)  
Plaintiff does not allege any specific facts
that constitute malicious conduct, which could support an award of punitive
damages.  (See,
e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 83-84.)  Accordingly, to the extent it is not moot,
the Court grants the motion to strike with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The demurrer by
Rosen and Werner to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action in the complaint is sustained
without leave to amend.  The demurrer to
the second cause of action in Plaintiff’s complaint is overruled.  Defendants’ demurrer is otherwise sustained
with leave to amend.
To the extent it
is not moot, Defendants’ motion to strike is granted with leave to amend.  
Plaintiff is to
file an amended complaint within 10 days of notice of this order.  
Defendants are ordered
to provide notice of this order and file proof of service of such. 