  Case Number:  23STCV00006    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



STEPHEN NEWLAND, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
TYLER GARY GALLAGHER, an individual; LEAH ANN DONOSO, an individual;
  CHRISTIAN HOWARD, an individual; REGAL ASSETS, LLC, a California Limited
  Liability Company; and, DOES 1-10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV00006
 Hearing Date:   2/14/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Brink’s
  Incorporated’s Motion to Dismiss or Stay Action on Ground of Inconvenient
  Forum; and
Plaintiff Stephen
  Newland’s Motion to Compel Defendant Brink’s Incorporated to Serve Further
  Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production (Set No. 1) Without
  Boilerplate Objections, to Serve a Privilege Log and to Produce All Responsive
  Writings and ESI, and Provisional Request for $4,200.00 in Monetary Sanctions
  Against Brink’s Incorporated.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Stephen Newland sues Defendants Tyler Gary Gallagher, Leah Ann
Donoso, Christian Howard (collectively, Individual Defendants), Regal Assets,
LLC (Regal Assets; with Individual Defendants, Regal Assets Defendants), Doe 1
Brink’s Incorporated (Brink’s Inc.) and Does 2-10 pursuant to a January 8, 2024
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleging claims of: (1) Fraud (False Promise), (2)
Fraud (Intentional Misrepresentation), (3) Fraud (Concealment), and (6) Breach
of Contract against Defendants Regal Assets, Gallagher, Donoso, Howard, and
Does 2-10; and (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (5) Conversion, and (7) Breach of Contract
(Third-Party Beneficiary) against all Defendants.
The claims arise from allegations that between August 24 and 25, 2018,
Plaintiff Newland was enticed to purchase silver and gold coins from Regal
Assets—a suspended California LLC that operated as the alter ego of Defendants
Gallagher, Donoso, and Howard, alleged as co-conspirators, as well as agents of
Regal Assets. Through Defendant Donoso, Regal Assets represented that it would
secure Newland’s coins with Brink’s Inc. pursuant to an agreement through which
Brink’s Inc. would store precious metals purchased from Regal Assets (the Precious
Metal Storage Agreement or PMSA). Plaintiff Newland alleges having purchased
the coins based on Howard’s representations as to the coins’ characteristics
and based on the alleged agreement with Brink’s Inc. Plaintiff Newland paid
$15,007.67 for the coins, which were allegedly stored with Brink’s Inc. Regal
Assets persistently failed to turn over account verification reports, which
Plaintiff Newland requested on various occasions. Later, Plaintiff Newland
requested that the coins be transferred from the possession of Brink’s Inc. to
Newland, making his requests directly to Brink’s Inc. and to Regal Assets’
agents Donoso and Howard. In October 2022, Brink’s Inc. finally responded to
Plaintiff Newland, asserting that it had transferred the silver and gold coins
to “Defendants ‘several months ago.’” The SAC implies that Plaintiff Newland
has not received his silver and gold coins from Defendants.
The SAC attached copies of (1) an email from Brink’s Inc. showing it had
possession of Newland’s coins on October 22, 2018, (2) an October 22, 2018
report by Brink’s Inc., (3) an October 26, 2018 email from Defendant Donoso,
(4) a copy of the PMSA, and (5) a written statement from Brink’s Inc. regarding
Regal Assets’ relationship with Brink’s Inc., the secure vault services
provided by Brink’s Inc., and the benefits of Regal Assets’ relationship with Brink’s
Inc.
Motion for Dismissal or Stay –
Forum Non Conveniens
On October 30, 2023, Defendant Brink’s
Inc. filed a motion to dismiss or stay this action based on the doctrine of
forum non conveniens. The motion seeks dismissal of this action or a stay of
this action subject to dismissals upon Plaintiff Newland’s filing of a
complaint in Utah.
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff
Newland opposed the motion to dismiss or stay.
On February 6, 2024, Defendant Brink’s
Inc. replied to the opposition.
Motion to Compel Further
Production
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a motion to compel further production from Defendant Brink’s Inc. and for
sanctions.
On January 31, 2024, Defendant Brink’s
Inc. opposed the motion to compel further.
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an Amended Notice of Motion noting that the hearing had been continued to
May 13, 2024 to give the parties time to complete their meet and confer.
Accordingly, the Motion to Compel is continued to May 13, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
Per Plaintiff Newland’s request,
the Court takes judicial notice of State of California, Secretary of State
filings for Defendant Brink’s Inc.. (Forum Non Conveniens (FNC) Opp’n, RJN,
Exs. A-B; see Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (c), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
Per Plaintiff Newland’s request,
the Court takes judicial notice of the Complaint filed in federal court on
September 27, 2023 by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the
California Department of Financial Protection & Innovation against
Defendants Regal Assets, LLC, Tyler Gallagher and Leah Donoso: Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and California Department of Financial Protection
& Innovation v. Regal Assets LLC, Tyler G. Gallagher, and Leah Donoso
(Civil Action No. 2:23-cv-8078). (FNC Opp’n, RJN, Ex. C; Compel Further Mot.,
RJN, Ex. A; see Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (d), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
Motion
to Dismiss or Stay – Forum Non Conveniens
Legal Standard
“Forum non conveniens is an
equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a court to decline to
exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of action when it
believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly tried elsewhere.”
(Stangvik v. Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.)
The doctrine of forum non conveniens
is codified in Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30. (Animal Film, LLC v.
D.E.J. Prods., Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 466, 471.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 410.30, subdivision (a) provides that “[w]hen a court upon
motion of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial
justice an action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court
shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may
be just.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).) A defendant may move to stay
or dismiss an action on grounds of inconvenient forum. (Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10, subd. (a)(2).)
“In applying the traditional forum
non conveniens analysis, the trial court must engage in a two-step process, on
which the defendant bears the burden of proof. [Citation.] In the first step,
the court must determine whether a suitable alternative forum exists. [Citation.]
If the court finds that a suitable alternative forum exists, it must then
balance the private interests of the litigants and the interests of the public
in retaining the action in California. [Citation.]” (Animal Film, supra,
193 Cal.App.4th at p. 472.) 
The party seeking a dismissal due
to an inconvenient forum bears the burden of proof. (National Football
League v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 902, 926.)
[A]n action brought by a California
resident specifically may not be dismissed on grounds of forum non conveniens
except in extraordinary circumstances. (Century Indemnity Co. v. Bank of
America (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 408, 411.)
The trial court has more discretion
to grant a stay on a forum non conveniens motion because California would
retain jurisdiction. (Id. at p. 412.) The decision to grant a forum non
conveniens motion is discretionary and is accorded substantial deference on
appeal. (Id. at p. 411.)
Order Granting Dismissal or Stay
Based on Forum Non Conveniens: DENIED.
Defendant Brink’s Inc. moves for an
order dismissing or staying this action subject to dismissal upon Plaintiff
Newland filing an action in Utah based on Utah being a suitable alternative
forum and the balancing of interests favoring dismissal.
I.
Whether a Suitable Forum Exists
Elsewhere
A suitable alternative forum exists
when the “… defendants are subject to the court’s jurisdiction and the cause of
action is not barred by the statute of limitations.” (Guimei v. General
Electric Co. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 689, 694.) “‘[A] forum is suitable
where an action “can be brought,” although not necessarily won.’ [Citations.]” (Animal
Film, supra, 193 Cal.App.4th at p. 472.) The existence of a suitable
alternative forum is a legal question. (Ibid.) 
In its motion, Brink’s Inc. argues
that Utah is a suitable forum for this action. Brink’s Inc. points to the fact
that the FAC alleged Plaintiff Newland to be a resident of Ohio and Brink’s
Inc. is a Delaware corporation operating out of Utah and that only Regal Assets
is a California limited liability company, with the Individual Defendants being
California residents. Brink’s Inc. then argues that the relationship underlying
this action (the PMSA executed by Brink’s Inc. and Regal Assets) and the
alleged events (transfer of the coins from Brink’s Inc. secure vault facility
in Utah and communications with Brink’s Inc. employees, who live and work in
Utah) all center around Utah. Brink’s Inc. summarizes its position by arguing
that Utah is a suitable forum because Brink’s Inc. operates its secure vault
facility out of Utah, the coins were stored in Utah, transactions with the
Regal Assets Defendants were for the purpose of storing coins in Utah, and Utah
law allows civil actions for the alleged causes of action, citing specific Utah
Code sections in support. (FNC Mot., pp. 3-6, citing in part FNC Mot., Housley
Decl., ¶¶ 3-5, FAC, ¶ 34, and Utah Code, §§ 76-6-401, 70A-3-307, 70A-7a-101, et
seq.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Brink’s Inc. has failed to carry its burden addressing whether Brink’s
Inc. is subject to jurisdiction in Utah, whether the statute of limitations in
Utah will bar Plaintiff’s claims, whether Brink’s Inc. stipulates to tolling of
the statute of limitations, or whether the Regal Assets Defendants are subject
to jurisdiction in Utah, showing a lack of a suitable alternative forum. (FNC
Opp’n, pp. 2-4.)
In reply, Defendant Brink’s Inc. reiterates
its arguments from the moving papers as to suitable alternative forum. Brink’s
Inc. also responsively adds that Utah has a long-arm statute that would clearly
apply to the Regal Assets Defendants, who transacted to store precious metals
in Utah through the PMSA and Regal Assets, permitting specific jurisdiction.
Last, Brink’s Inc. argues that Utah has an interest in a suit involving
individuals who transacted business within its borders and the secure vault at
issue is located in Utah and must conform with Utah law. (FNC Reply, pp. 3-5.)
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant Brink’s Inc. on this issue.
It is readily evident from the
pleadings and Defendant Brink’s Inc. evidence that a substantial number of
transactions in this lawsuit occurred in Utah, if only because Brink’s  secure vault and employees operate out of Utah
and because the coins were stored there and were released from Utah. (See SAC,
¶¶ 11-34 [series of transactions involving deposit of coins in and release from
Brink’s secure vault facility in Utah]; FNC Mot., Housley Decl., ¶¶ 1-5.)
Moreover, Defendant Brink’s Inc. cites to Utah statutes permitting long-arm
jurisdiction over the Regal Assets Defendants (cited as Utah Code, § 78B-3-205)
and permitting the claims advanced in this action (cited as Utah Code, §§ 76-6-401,
70A-3-307, 70A-7a-101, et seq). Brink’s Inc. is essentially arguing that it is
subject to jurisdiction in Utah based on its multiple contacts with that State.
These facts show a suitable alternative forum because it is another forum where
this action may be brought. (See Opp’n, p. 2 [Introduction arguing PMSA
contains no forum selection clause]; see also SAC, Ex. D [PMSA]; Animal Film,
supra, 193 Cal.App.4th at p. 472.)
II.
Whether Balancing of Interests
Favors Dismissal or Stay
The second part of the analysis is
the weighing and balancing of private and public factors. (National Football
League, supra, 216 Cal.App.4th at p. 918.) “The private interest
factors are those that make trial and the enforceability of the ensuring
judgment expeditious and relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of access to
sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the
availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling witnesses. The
public interest facts include avoidance of overburdening local courts with
congested calendars, protecting the interest of potential jurors so that they
are not called upon to decide cases in which the local community has little
concern, and the weighing of competing interests of California and the
alternative jurisdiction in the litigation.” (Morris v. AGFA Corp.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1463-1464.) Additionally, in determining whether
to issue a stay, the court considers whether the rights of the parties can best
be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction because of the nature of
the subject matter [and] the stage to which the proceedings in the other court
have already advanced.” (Century Indemnity Co. v. Bank of America (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 408, 412.)
In its motion, Defendant Brink’s
Inc. argues that the private and public interests support dismissal. Brink’s
Inc. points to the coins being stored in Utah, meaning California had little
connection to the coins. Brink’s also points out that it stored the coins and
always operated out of Utah during the transactions alleged in the SAC, with Brink’s
witnesses at trial most likely consisting of the Brink’s Inc. employees that
work at the Salt Lake City facility. Brink’s Inc. notes that Plaintiff does not
reside in California and last argues that it does not consent to personal
jurisdiction in California, particularly where requiring it to defend itself in
California courts would be burdensome, prejudicial, and expensive. Brink’s Inc.
also argues that dismissal of this action would avoid overburdening California courts
(particularly where multiple parties are involved), protect potential jurors
from deciding cases in which the community has little concern, and is proper
where neither the accident nor most of the parties have any connection to
California. Last, Brink’s Inc. cites to Rinauro v. Honda Motor Co.
(1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 506, 510 to compare this case to an affirmed dismissal
based on inconvenient forum, likening the out-of-state parties, an alleged
out-of-state wrongdoing, and burden to California courts, taxpayers, and
jurors. (FNC Mot., pp. 7-8.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Newland
argues that deference should be shown for the plaintiff’s choice of forum.
Plaintiff also argues that while the coins were stored in Utah and some
witnesses will be located there, substantial justice can be in essence effected
by maintaining the action in California and allowing Brink’s Inc. to be deposed
from Utah. Plaintiff adds that California had substantial connections to this
action. These connections include: Brink’s Inc. decades-long operations in
California; the Regal Assets Defendants’ connection to and activity in Los
Angeles County and the probable depositions of Regal Assets’ employees here; the
residence in Los Angeles County of Defendant Howard; the existence of a State
of California lawsuit against Regal Assets and two of its principals for misappropriating
more than $21 million of the funds paid by more than 120 customers; and the
fact that many of the events related to this action occurred in Los Angeles,
where Defendant Regal Assets was operating and committed fraud on Plaintiff
Newland. (FNC Opp’n, pp. 4-6, citing in part FNC Opp’n, RJN, Exs. A-B [State of
California, Secretary of State filings for Brink’s Inc. Incorporated], C [complaint
in federal action].)
In reply, Defendant Brink’s Inc. repeats
the arguments from its moving papers. (Reply, pp. 5-6.)
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Newland.
The Court initially notes that
Plaintiff’s choice of forum, even as a nonresident, is entitled to great weight.
(See Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452 [“A plaintiff’s
choice of forum ‘is entitled to great weight even though the plaintiff is a
nonresident[]’ [citations[],] [b]ut a plaintiff’s choice of forum can be
disturbed if the balance is strongly in favor of the defendant[] [citations[]]”].)
Next, the Court strongly disagrees
with the position that this action does not involve interests concerning
California courts and juries. This action involves allegations of fraud
perpetrated by California residents through a California limited liability
company, through which conduct these California persons and entity allegedly defrauded
a nonresident of his money. Indeed, California has sued Defendants Regal
Assets, Gallagher, and Denoso for allegedly misappropriating more than $21
million of funds provided by 120 customers in a scheme like the one alleged by
Plaintiff Newland. (See FNC Mot., RJN, Ex. C; Julian Volunteer Fire Co.
Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca Fire Protection Dist. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 583,
600 [judicial notice may be taken as to existence of document and legal effects
deriving therefrom].)
Moreover, the Court notes that especially
in the post-COVID-19 pandemic world, discovery rules in California can
accommodate depositions of out-of-state parties, whether in person or remote. Brink’s
Inc. can submit to deposition in Utah or remotely, and so present its employees
for deposition. Brink’s Inc. can also direct its employees to collect any
evidence that its counsel may need to produce in this action. This undercuts
some of the prejudice that Brink’s Inc. would sustain in relation to defending
this action in California.
Last, the Court notes that while
Utah undoubtedly has an interest in this action (see Discussion at § I supra), so
does California. To the extent that Brink’s Inc. contests jurisdiction based on
insufficient contacts with California, a motion to quash is the proper
procedural vehicle for dismissal pursuant to that theory of relief.
III. Forum Non
Conveniens Conclusion
Because the balancing of interests disfavors
dismissal or stay, Defendant Brink’s Inc. motion is DENIED.
 
Conclusion
I.
Defendant Brink’s Incorporated’s
Motion to Dismiss or Stay Action on Ground of Inconvenient Forum is DENIED.
II.
Plaintiff Stephen Newland’s Motion
to Compel Defendant Brink’s Incorporated to Serve Further Responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production (Set No. 1) Without Boilerplate Objections,
to Serve a Privilege Log and to Produce All Responsive Writings and ESI and Provisional
Request for $4,200.00 in Monetary Sanctions is CONTINUED
to May 13, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. at the moving party’s request. 