  Case Number:  23CMCV01320    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01320
 Shawn Morris v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Tuesday,
 January 30, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING
DEMURRER TO SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION FOR FRAUDULENT INDUCEMENT/CONCEALMENT 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE THE CLAIM FOR PUNITIVE DAMAGES 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The
complaint alleges that Defendant issued Plaintiff a written warranty for the
purchase of a new 2021 Honda Accord made by Defendant. The vehicle’s “sensing”
system and subsystems, including its Collision Mitigation Braking System (“CMBS”)
developed defects which Defendant failed to repair and failed to replace with
another vehicle. Plaintiff alleges (1) violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (the “Warranty Act”) and (2) claim for fraudulent inducement -- concealment.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action for failure to state a claim. The parties
have met and conferred but have not been able to resolve their differences.  Defendant claims that the alleged intent to
deceive is conclusory. The claim is barred by the economic loss doctrine.
      In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the second cause of action is adequately
alleged and meets all heightened pleading standards. Plaintiff requests
judicial notice of Dhital v. Nissan North America that supports
Plaintiff’s claim that the economic loss rule does not apply.
      In
reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot rely on Dhital because
petition for review of that case was granted on February 1, 2023. Defendant
argues for the first time that federal law preempts Plaintiff’s breach of duty
claim. California does not regulate the types of disclosures sought by
Plaintiff. The alleged damages for fraud are not separate and distinct from the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”) damages. 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
      A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises
only questions of law. (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) The court must assume the truth of (1) the properly
pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from
those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court
may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th
634, 638.)
      Plaintiff
must allege facts sufficient to establish every element of each cause of
action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where the complaint fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the
demurrer. Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e); (Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1126.) The Plaintiff is required to allege
facts "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.” (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) Whether the Plaintiff will be able to prove the
pleaded facts is irrelevant. (Stevens
v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)
      A
demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.” Uncertainty
exists where a complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing, they do not
sufficiently apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2; Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10 subd. (f).)
IV.   
DISCUSSION
      Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
intentionally concealed and failed to disclose facts relating to the Honda
sensing defect. (Complaint, ¶ 111.) Defendant had exclusive knowledge of this information
which Defendant failed to make publicly available, and which Defendant actively
concealed. (Complaint ¶ 112, 119.) Defendant prepared marketing materials for
distribution to its dealerships and made available to the public that touted the
characteristics of the vehicle and its safety system while failing to disclose
defects, making the disclosure deceptive. (Complaint ¶ 113-116.)     
      The elements of a fraud claim based on
concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed
or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the
plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did
if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311.) 
      There are “four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id. at
311.) If a
fiduciary relationship does not exist, but the latter three circumstances are
present, plaintiff must still show “the existence of some other relationship
between the plaintiff and defendant from which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311.) Accordingly,
Defendant’s contention that a fiduciary relationship does not exist is
irrelevant since Plaintiff adequately alleges the duty to disclose defects of
which Plaintiff was not aware. (Dem. 11:26-28.)
      Contrary to Defendant’s argument, Plaintiff
adequately alleged that Defendant concealed material facts with respect to its
sensing systems that were contrary to the materials “touting” the vehicle’s
safety and performance. (Complaint, 113-116.) Defendant contends that the
alleged misrepresentation must have concerned the Honda Sensing Defect. (Dem.,
12:3-9.) Defendant interprets case authority too narrowly.
      In  Daugherty
v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 824, the Court determined that statements proscribed
under the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (“CLRA”) included “specifically, ‘[r]epresenting
that goods ... are of a particular standard, quality, or grade, ... if they are
of another’ (Civ.Code, § 1770, subd. (a)(7))— included ‘a proscription against
a concealment of the characteristics, use, benefit, or quality of the goods
contrary to that represented.” (Daugherty
at 834.)  Therefore, the court concluded that plaintiff
failed to allege "an omission of a fact the defendant was obliged to
disclose. In Daugherty's case, no representation is alleged relating to the F22
engine, which functioned as warranted." (Daugherty
at 835.)  
      Plaintiff has not alleged a claim under
the CLRA and Daugherty does not require an allegation that the
proscribed statement concerned the specific defect at issue, only that the
contrary statement concerned the “characteristics, use, benefit, or quality of
the goods.” (Daugherty at 834.) Plaintiff specifically describes
the concealment/omission relating to the vehicle’s “sensing system”).
(Complaint, ¶ 11.) This system included an “autonomous braking system” called
the Collision Mitigation Braking System (“CMBS”), that purportedly avoided
front-end collisions. (Id.) Plaintiff further describes the
circumstances under which the CMBS is activated. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff
alleges that he viewed marketing materials about the “qualities” of the
vehicle. (Complaint ¶ 87.) The materials “touted the characteristics of the
[vehicle] and its computerized driver-assistance safety system.” (Complaint, ¶ 116.)
Defendant disclosed some facts about the vehicle’s performance which were allegedly
deceptive given the Defendant’s exclusive knowledge of the defects in the
safety system. (Complaint ¶ 116-119.) Accordingly, the alleged concealment of a
material fact that was contrary to the alleged performance and safety of the
vehicle is specifically and adequately alleged. 

      Defendant also contends that Plaintiff did
not allege direct contact between Defendant and Plaintiff. Regardless,
Defendant contends that any statement by the dealer is “mere puffery.” (Dem.,
9:22-25.) However, whether any statements at issue are “puffery” is an issue of
fact that cannot be determined at the pleading stage. 
      With respect to a manufacturer’s “direct
contact” with Plaintiff, a duty to disclose may arise as a result of some sort
of transaction between the parties. However, the transaction "must
necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant;
it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large." (Bigler-Engler at
312 [noting that the duty of a manufacturer to
warn consumers of a product’s hazards and faults applies in the context of
strict products liability actions but does not apply in a suit for intentional
misrepresentation.]).
      As previously noted, Defendant’s direct
contact with Plaintiff allegedly arose from the marketing materials Defendant
prepared and published for distribution to buyers concerning the vehicle’s
safety and performance. The contention that the dealers are not legally
“agents” of the manufacturer involves a different basis for liability alleged
by Plaintiff (vicarious), while Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a basis for
direct liability. 
      Moreover, Defendant’s contention that a
dealer is not legally its agent based on numerous case authority ignores the
allegation that Plaintiff relied on statements and omissions and concealments by
a technician at Honda’s “authorized repair facility” and that the vehicle was
repaired and safe to drive. (Complaint ¶ 89.) Plaintiff alleges numerous
occasions when he brought the vehicle to an authorized repair facility, namely
after the vehicle stopped suddenly while on the freeway, both before and after
the safety sensors were turned off. (Complaint ¶ 91.) Plaintiff relied on the
technicians, who further contacted Defendant’s “tech line” for instructions.
(Complaint ¶ 90.) After eight days, the technician responded by disputing
Plaintiff’s complaint and blaming the episode on Plaintiff’s driving which
implicated the “lane mitigation system.” (Complaint, 22:21-28.) After each
instance, the technicians allegedly advised Plaintiff that the vehicle was safe
to drive.  
      The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice of cites Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828,[1] on
which the Court relies for persuasive value only given the case is pending
review by the California Supreme Court although it has not been depublished. (Cal
Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115 (e)(1).) Dhital determined
that the allegations were sufficient to support the existence of a buyer-seller
relationship between the Plaintiff and the manufacturer in support of the claim
for fraudulent concealment since “Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car
from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty,
and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are [the manufacturer’s] agents for
purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these
allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the ground there
was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects." 
      Here, Plaintiff relies on the representations
of safety in the marketing materials prepared by Defendant, as well as the
omissions and concealment of the authorized technicians who allegedly were advised
to dispute the Plaintiff’s allegations and evidently not disclose the known defects
in the braking system.
      Dhital is also relevant to
Defendant’s contention that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the economic loss
rule which states that “[i]n general,
there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic
losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or
property damage.” (Dhital, supra 721-722.)  Defendant argues that Plaintiff
did not allege Defendant breached a duty independent of the warranty, or that
Plaintiff suffered any independent tort loss beyond the alleged breach of warranty
claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. (Dem 15:26 – 16:2.)  
      The Dhital court held that the tort of fraudulent inducement
by concealment is excepted from the economic loss rules since "the duty
that gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the
contract or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.”
(Dhital at 828). Accordingly, the second cause of action is not
barred. 
      Fraud claims are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading which necessitate pleading facts
showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered."
(Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)  However, the specificity rule is intended to
apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009)
89 Cal.Rptr.3d 659.) 
      Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
contention that Defendant published Technical Service Bulletins (“TSBs”) to
NHTSA undermines the allegation that Defendant failed to disclose the defects.
Defendant does not cite any authority to suggest that a duty to disclose does
not arise if it publishes TSBs to a government entity. This argument
contradicts Defendant’s claim that a direct transaction with the manufacturer
is required to impose liability all which Plaintiff has adequately
alleged.  
      In its reply, Defendant improperly raises new arguments supporting the demurrer
concerning preemption and sub-arguments that the concealment claim is a
common-law claim concerning disclosures otherwise regulated by NHTSA. Defendant
also goes on at length explaining the duties of NHTSA. 
      Defendant cannot introduce
new arguments in its reply brief, as Plaintiff has not had an opportunity to
address them. (Tellez
v. Rich Voss Trucking, Inc. (2015) 240
Cal.App.4th 1052, 1066,  ["In general, “‘[p]oints
raised for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered,
because such consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to
counter the argument." Additionally, the argument is undeveloped, and
therefore, unpersuasive as Defendant argues for preemption but concludes that a
jury’s finding in Plaintiff’s favor would result in rulemaking.)
 
V.   CONCLUSION

      Based on the foregoing, demurrer to
Plaintiff’s complaint is overruled. Defendant shall file an answer within 10
days. 

 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE
I.       
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant separately moves
to strike the claim for punitive damages on grounds Plaintiff did not allege
facts showing that Defendant acted with malice, fraud, or oppression to warrant
recovery of such damages. The fraudulent concealment claim is defective and
cannot serve as a predicate to support recovery of punitive damages. Plaintiff
must allege corporate ratification.
      In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue that the fraudulent concealment is not defective as alleged and supports
recovery of punitive damages.  
      In reply, Defendant contends
that punitive damages claim is not well stated because Plaintiff did not
properly allege a concealment claim which is barred by the economic loss rule
and federal preemption. 
II.   LEGAL STANDARDS
      The court may, upon motion
or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2)
strike out all or any part of the pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the Court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd (a)-(b)). Grounds for the motion to strike
are limited to matters that appear on the face of the pleading or on any matter
which the court shall or may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437).
III.   
DISCUSSION
      Plaintiff may recover on a
claim for exemplary damages if Plaintiff establishes “by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (a)). The predicate acts to support a claim for
punitive damages must be intended to cause injury or must constitute
“malicious” or “oppressive” conduct as defined by statute. “Malice” is defined
as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff
or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
(Civ. Code,
§ 3294 subd. (c)(1); College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 725 ["malice involves awareness of dangerous consequences and a
willful and deliberate failure to avoid them"]). "Oppression" is
defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust
hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (a) subd. (c)(2).) 
      Absent an intent to injure
the plaintiff, the conduct must be “despicable” which is defined as “base,
vile, or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. at 725.) Plaintiffs must demonstrate that “the defendant acted in such an
outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he knowingly
disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others." (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90.) Additionally, liability for punitive damages will
not be imposed against a corporate employer absent proof of advance knowledge
or ratification by an officer, director or managing agent. (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (b).) 
      As explained in the Court’s
ruling overruling Defendant’s demurrer, the claim for fraudulent concealment is
well stated and provides the predicate acts necessary to recover punitive
damages based on intentional misconduct. Plaintiff also alleges that all acts
of a corporate employee were authorized by an officer, director, or managing
agent of the corporate employer. (Complaint, ¶7.)
      Defendant relies on White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21
Cal.4th 563, contending that
Plaintiff is required to identify the corporate agent who engaged in the
unlawful acts or specific materials relied on by Plaintiff. (Mot. 8:16-9:14.) White considered whether plaintiff’s evidence at trial
was sufficient to establish that plaintiff’s supervisor was a managing agent
for purposes of imposing punitive damages. 
(White
at 573.) The White Court did not address the requirements of
pleading. Whether a corporate employee has broad discretionary powers and
exercises substantial discretionary authority in the corporation to be
considered a managing agent requires evidence, which Plaintiffs are not
required to allege. (White
at 577.) 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
      Based on the foregoing,
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED. Defendant is ordered to answer within
10 days. 
 
 
      
 
 


