  Case Number:  24VECV03989    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Kamran
  Dehdashtinejad,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Lurie Physical
  Therapy, P.C., et al.,
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    
  24VECV03989                      107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
  
Demurrer Without
  Motion to Strike
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:

 
 
This court overrules the demurrer.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
Plaintiff Kamran Dehdashtinejad (“Plaintiff”) was injured when a
Suspension Body Fitness Trainer Strap (“G-Strap”) at a premises located at 7320
Woodlake Avenue, Suite 200, West Hills, CA 91307 (the “Premises”) “failed,
tore, ripped, pulled apart, broke and/or ruptured.” (Complaint ¶¶ 7, 13-14.) On August 21, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Lurie Physical Therapy, P.C. dba
Balance and Vestibular Center, Saskia Anna Van Ommeren Egberts, and Does 1
through 25, alleging causes of action for premises liability and negligence.
 
On
September 12, 2024, Defendant Saskia
Anna Van Ommeren Egberts (“Defendant”) demurred
to Plaintiff’s complaint. On October 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
October 15, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
II.            
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Citing Evidence Code section 452 subdivisions (b) and (c), Defendant
requests this court take judicial notice of printouts from the California
Secretary of State’s website showing Defendant is not the owner or operator of
Lurie Physical Therapy, P.C. (Request for Judicial Notice, p. 2; Ex. B.) 
 
Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s request for judicial
notice. Plaintiff argues the printouts lack authentication and they are not the
proper subject for judicial notice because they are not official records.
(Plaintiff’s Objections to Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice pp. 1-2.)
Plaintiff further argues that even if the court takes judicial notice of the
printouts, the court may only accept the fact of their existence, not the truth
of their contents. (Plaintiff’s Objections to Defendant’s Request for Judicial
Notice p. 2.)
 
“Subdivision (c) of Evidence code section 452 authorizes
the taking of judicial notice of ‘official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.’” (People v. Thacker (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 594, 597.)  “However, to be judicially noticed pursuant
to subdivision (c) the matter must meet the test of an official act.” (Id.
at p. 598.) In People v. Thacker, the court stated “We have found no
authority and none has been cited for the proposition that materials prepared
by private parties and merely on file with state agencies may be judicially
noticed pursuant to subdivision (c). (Id.) 
 
Moreover, although the court may take
judicial notice of a document’s existence, “[w]hen judicial notice is taken of
a document . . . the truthfulness and proper interpretation of the document are
disputable.” (StorMedia, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 449,
456 fn. 9; see also Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375 [“Taking judicial notice of a document is not the
same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a particular
interpretation of its meaning. [Citation.] While courts take judicial notice of
public records, they do not take notice of the truth of matters stated
therein.”]) Accordingly, even if this court took judicial notice of the
existence of the printouts, their truthfulness and proper interpretation are
subject to dispute.
 
The printouts in Exhibit B appear to
be materials prepared by private parties and filed with the California
Secretary of State. (Ex. B.) Accordingly, the printouts are not official acts
under Evidence Code section 452 subdivision (c). Further, the printouts are not
regulations or legislative enactments under Evidence Code section 452
subdivision (b). Thus, this court denies Defendant’s request for judicial
notice.
 
III.          
PROCEDURAL
MATTERS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Timeliness
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure section 1005,
subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days before
they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine
court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be
filed at least five court days before the set hearing.
 
This court finds that the demurrer, opposition, and reply
were timely filed.
 
B.   
The
Meet & Confer Requirement¿ 
¿ 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to
“meet and confer” in good faith before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to
informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer.¿The demurring party
is required to file and serve with the demurrer a declaration either confirming
that parties were unable to resolve the issues raised by the demurrer despite
having met and conferred or that the opposing party failed to meet and confer
with the demurring party in good faith. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)
 
Defendant’s counsel submits a
declaration stating counsel sent a meet and confer letter and spoke to
Plaintiff’s counsel, but the parties were not able to resolve the issues.
(Bridwell Declaration ¶¶ 3-4; Ex. A.)
 
Accordingly, this court finds the meet and confer requirement has
been satisfied.
¿ 
IV.          
LEGAL
STANDARD 
¿¿ 
As a general
matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard,
a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.)¿
 
V.             
DISCUSSION 
 
A cause of action for premises liability requires showing: (1)
duty; (2) breach; (3) causation; and (4) damages. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(“Ortega”) (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) The elements of a negligence
action are: (1) a legal duty to use due care; (2) a breach of such legal duty;
and (3) the breach was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. (Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917-918.) Thus, the elements
of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for a
negligence cause of action. (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s complaint fails to state a premises
liability or negligence cause of action against Defendant because it does not
allege Defendant owned or controlled the Premises. (Demurrer p. 6.) Defendant
further argues Plaintiff has not alleged Defendant “was negligent in her
use/maintenance of the property, ex[cept] conclusory allegations which are
insufficient.” (Demurrer p. 6.) Finally, Defendant argues Plaintiff has not
alleged Defendant “knew of any dangerous condition at the property before the
alleged incident/injury occurred” and “no facts plead that Plaintiff was
injured due to Defendant[‘s] . . . conduct or that the conduct was a
substantial factor in causing any of the alleged harm to Plaintiff.” (Demurrer
p. 6.)
The first element requires Plaintiff to allege Defendant owed
him a duty of care. Plaintiff alleges Defendants “owned, maintained, repaired,
cleaned, constructed, designed, inspected, serviced, controlled, managed,
furnished, leased, rented, operated and/or constructed for use to their
business invitees, clientele and/or authorized members of the general public”
the Premises. (Compliant ¶ 7.) As to the premises liability cause of action, Plaintiff
alleges “Defendants . . . owed a
duty of care to their business invitees, clientele and/or authorized members of
the general public, including but not limited to the Plaintiff, to use
reasonable care to discover any unsafe conditions of the PREMISES, the
EQUIPMENT and/or G-STRAP located at the PREMISES[.]” (Complaint ¶ 11.) As to the negligence
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges “Defendants and each of them,
owed a duty of care [and] were under a duty to exercise such reasonable care as
that exercised by reasonably prudent persons within the community, for the
safety of persons lawfully on the PREMISES and lawfully using the EQUIPMENT
and/or the G-STRAP located at the PREMISES, including the Plaintiff.”
(Complaint ¶ 18.) Finally, Plaintiff
alleges he was “lawfully at the PREMISES using the EQUIPMENT, including the
G-STRAP at the PREMISES with the consent, permission and/or direction of
Defendants[.]” (Complaint ¶ 9.)
 
Defendant argues she owed
Plaintiff no duty because she is “not the owner or operator of Lurie Physical
Therapy P.C., which is the business where the alleged incident/injury
occurred.” (Demurrer p. 6.) But Plaintiff also alleges Defendant “controlled”
the Premises. (Complaint ¶ 7.) “A defendant need not own, possess and control
property in order to be held liable; control alone is sufficient.” (Alcaraz
v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, 1162.) Accordingly, even if Defendant did
not own or operate the Premises, it is sufficient that Plaintiff alleged
Defendant controlled the Premises.
 
Thus, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that Defendant owed him a duty.
 
The second element requires
Plaintiff to allege Defendant breached her duty. As to the premises liability
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges “Defendants . . . breached their applicable
duty of care to Plaintiff by” among other things, “negligently
failing to adequately inspect, service, maintain, repair, replace, install,
construct, test, own, control, manage, place, upkeep, control, lease, rent,
supervise, own, operate and/or secure the PREMISES and its contents, including
but not limited to the EQUIPMENT and/or the G-STRAP in a safe and reasonable
manner . . .” (Complaint ¶ 13.) As to
the negligence cause of action, Plaintiff alleges “Defendants,
and each of them, breached their applicable duty of care to Plaintiff by 1)
negligently failing to adequately inspect, service, maintain, repair, install,
replace, construct, design, manufacture, assemble, distribute, test, fabricate,
analyze, recommend, advertise, promote, sell, own, control, manage, place,
upkeep control, lease, rent, supervise, own, operate and/or secure the PREMISES
and its contents including but not limited to the EQUIPMENT and/or the G-STRAP
in a safe and reasonable manner . . .” (Complaint ¶ 20.) As to both causes of action, Plaintiff alleges that
“Defendants . . . knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care should have known
the defective and dangerous character of the PREMISES and/or its
EQUIPMENT, including the G-STRAP, and that they were unsafe for the use and
purpose for which it was intended. However, the defective and dangerous
character of the PREMISES, and/or its EQUIPMENT, including the G-STRAP, was not
made known to their business invitees, clientele and/or other permissible
users, including Plaintiff, by any of the Defendants herein or their agents or
employees.” (Complaint ¶¶ 14, 21.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff has alleged Defendant breached her duty.
 
The third and fourth elements
require Plaintiff to allege Defendant’s breach caused him damages. As to the
premises liability cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a direct and
proximate result of Defendants’, and each of their negligence . . . Plaintiff
was injured in his health, strength and activity, sustaining injury to his
person, all of which injuries have caused, and continue to cause Plaintiff
great mental, physical and nervous pain and suffering and have caused permanent
injury and disability to him.” (Complaint ¶ 15.) Plaintiff further alleges that
“[a]s a result of such injuries, Plaintiff has suffered and will
continue to suffer general damages in an amount according to proof.” (Complaint
¶ 15.) Finally, Plaintiff
alleges that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of Defendants',
and each of their negligence . . . Plaintiff has been required to obtain and
incurred the costs of hospital and medical services, past, present and future;
has suffered loss of income and earnings, past, present and future; has
suffered incidental and consequential damages, past, present and future and has
suffered other monetary and non-monetary damages[.]” (Complaint ¶ 16.) 
 
As to the negligence cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a direct and proximate
result of Defendants', and each of their negligence . . .  Plaintiff was hurt and injured in his health,
strength and activity, sustaining injury to his person, all of which injuries
have caused, and continue to cause Plaintiff great mental, physical and nervous
pain and suffering and have caused certain permanent injury and disability to
him. As a result of such injuries, Plaintiff has suffered and will continue to
suffer general damages in an amount according to proof.” (Complaint ¶ 22.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of Defendants',
and each of their negligence . . . 
Plaintiff has been required to obtain and incurred the costs of hospital
and medical services, past, present and future; has suffered loss of income and
earnings, past, present and future; has suffered incidental and consequential
damages, past, present and future and has suffered other monetary and
non-monetary damages[.]” (Complaint ¶ 23.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff
alleges Defendant’s breach of her duty caused his injuries and Plaintiff has
alleged damages resulting from Defendant’s breach of her duty.
 
Defendant argues the
allegations discussed above are insufficient because they are conclusory.
(Demurrer p. 6.) Citing Hahn v. Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
p. 747, Plaintiff argues 
negligence may be pleaded generally, and because premises liability is a form
of negligence, Defendant’s demand for factual specificity within the Complaint
is not a basis for sustaining her demurrer.” (Opposition p. 8.)
 
“Negligence may be alleged in
general terms; that is, it is sufficient to allege an act was negligently done
without stating the particular omission which rendered it negligent.” (Hahn
v. Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) Further, “[t]here is no
requirement that the plaintiff identify and allege the precise moment of the
injury, or the exact nature of the wrongful act.” (Id.) “To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) Finally, although a “plaintiff
must indicate the acts or omissions which are said to have been negligently
performed”, “[o]rdinarily, negligence may be alleged in general terms, without
specific facts showing how the injury occurred.” (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 527.) 
 
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff
has alleged Defendant owed him a duty, Defendant breached that duty by
performing acts or omissions identified in the complaint, and that Defendant’s
breach of her duty caused Plaintiff damages. Thus, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged causes of action for premises liability and negligence.
 
Finally, Defendant argues
that “[l]umping all ‘Defendants’ together is insufficient.” (Demurrer p. 6.)
This court finds that the complaint sufficiently identifies which allegations
are alleged against which Defendants.
 
VI.          
CONCLUSION
 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court overrules the demurrer.
  Dated:              October 22, 2024                                  
                 _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                              Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court