Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23TRCV00606
Plaintiff's Name: Alejandro Banuelos
Defendant's Name: Kia Forum, et al.
People-Names: Brian Grant, Trevor Weinberg, Ned Wolfe, Mark J. Burns
Company-Names: ABM Industry Group, LLC, ABM Services, Inc., ABM Industries, Inc., KROQ-FM, Audacy California, LLC
Places: Kia Forum
Dates: March 1, 2024, December 10, 2022, May 13, 2024, July 16, 2024, July 25, 2024, January 27, 2025
Events: Concert, fall
Money: N/A
Intentions: To grant summary judgment to ABM
Facts: Plaintiff fell on the stairs at the Kia Forum, allegedly due to a lack of proper safety measures. ABM argues that it did not own the premises and had no responsibility for the stairs.
Disputes: Whether ABM is liable for Plaintiff's fall
Acts: ABM's janitorial services agreement, Plaintiff's fall
Agreements: Janitorial Services Agreement between ABM and the Forum
Laws: California Civil Code, CCP Section 437(c), Romero v. Los Angeles Rams, Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center, Pineda v. Ennabe, Millsap v. Fed. Express Corp.
Case Citations: Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp., Juge v. County of Sacramento, FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
Statutes: California Civil Code, CCP Section 437(c)
Roles: Plaintiff (Alejandro Banuelos), Defendant (Kia Forum, et al.), Moving Party (ABM Industry Group, LLC), Responding Party (Plaintiff)
Significant Statements:
* The Court finds that ABM has carried its initial burden on an MSJ, such that the burden is shifted to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact from Plaintiff's admissible evidence and/or from reasonable inferences to be drawn from the evidence before the Court on the motion.
* The Court tentatively finds that the photographs of a liquid and of footprints in the liquid, without opinion testimony from a safety engineer or other expert that beer or water tracked onto the stairs more likely than not made the stairs slippery enough to cause or contribute to the Plaintiff's fall, is not sufficient to overcome ABM's affirmative proof that the steps, even if wet, would not cause or contribute to a fall on the stairs.
* The Court will take oral argument as to whether an opinion, to a reasonable degree of engineering certainty, can create a triable issue of fact when the opinion is that the identified Building Code deficiencies "may" create a hazard or "could" lead to a fall.
* The Court's tentative ruling is to GRANT summary judgment as Plaintiff does not appear to have evidence to carry his shifted burden in showing that triable issues of fact exist as to ABM's liability.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English:

The judge has tentatively ruled to grant summary judgment to ABM, the defendant, in this case. The case involves a plaintiff who fell on the stairs at the Kia Forum, allegedly due to a lack of proper safety measures. ABM argues that it did not own the premises and had no responsibility for the stairs. The judge finds that ABM has carried its initial burden on an MSJ, and the burden is now shifted to the plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.

The judge has reviewed the evidence presented by both parties and has found that the plaintiff's evidence is not sufficient to overcome ABM's affirmative proof. The judge notes that the photographs presented by the plaintiff do not establish that the stairs were slippery when wet, and that the plaintiff's expert opinion is not supported by evidence.

The judge has also considered the opinions of the parties' experts, including ABM's expert, Ned Wolfe, and the plaintiff's expert, Mark J. Burns. The judge finds that Wolfe's opinion is supported by evidence and is persuasive, while Burns' opinion is not supported by evidence and is not persuasive.

The judge will allow oral argument from the parties on this issue and will consider the parties' arguments before making a final ruling.