 Case Number:  23TRCV02169    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 July 30, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02169  CASE NAME:                        Alex D. Branzburg v. Jaguar  Land Rover North America, LLC, et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff,  Alex D. Branzburg  RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,  Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC   TRIAL DATE:                        March 24, 2025   MOTION:                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s PMK   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANT  in part and ARGUE in part. The Court is inclined to grant the compelled deposition for a date  sooner than December 2024, and to discuss which of the 16 categories of  documents remain at issue given Jaguar’s non-specific opposition on this aspect  of the MTC.  The Court will need to hear  from defense counsel as to the delay in offering any alternative deposition dates  last November or December.         I. BACKGROUND    A. Factual  On July 6, 2023, Plaintiff, Alex D.  Branzburg (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Jaguar Land Rover  North America, LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint alleges causes of  action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2)  Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; and (3) Violation  of the Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2.    Plaintiff notes that on November 6, 2023,  he served a notice of deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable  (“PMK”) which detailed thirty-four (34) matters for examination requested and  containing sixteen (16) written requests for production of documents for the  deposition, which was noticed for November 21, 2023. On November 14, 2023,  Plaintiff notes that Defendant served its objections and did not provide a PMK  witness as noticed on a rather short time frame. Plaintiff argues that  Defendant’s response consisted of “boilerplate” objections to each matter for  examination, as well as “boilerplate” objections to each and every request for  production of documents.    Plaintiff contends that on December 7,  2023, he served an amended deposition notice of Defendant’s PMK that was  noticed for December 21, 2023. On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff notes that  Defendant served objections to Plaintiff’s amended deposition, and no  alternative dates were provided. Apparently, the parties or their counsel have  a past history of discovery disputes that would lead to unilateral notices of a  deposition on such short notice very close the holidays.  There is nothing in the record that shows a  genuine effort to meet and confer on future availability of the deponent for  the desired PMK deposition when the PMK designess was not available last  November or December.   Belying the apparent urgency for such  short notices in November and December of 2023, it was not until June 11, 2024,  that Plaintiff served his second amended deposition notice of Defendant’s PMK,  and once again unilaterally noticed it for June 25, 2024.   Not surprisingly, on June 13, 2024, Defendant  again served the same boilerplate objections, and again failed to provide  alternative dates.    As such, Plaintiff has brought this  motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK and production of documents.     B. Procedural   On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed this  motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK and production of documents.  On July 17, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition brief. On July 24, 2024,  Plaintiff filed a reply brief.    II.  ANALYSIS               Preliminarily, this  Court notifies the parties that it will be granting the motion and issuing an  order compelling the attendance of a Jaguar PMK or PMKs to appear for  deposition. This Court will seek oral argument from defendant was to why no alternative  dates were previously offered, and oral argument from Plaintiff as to why the  subject of a re-scheduled date for the jaguar witness’ deposition were not  discussed between mid-December of 2023 and June of 2024. The declaration of  defense counsel, Robert Cho, indicates that on July 17, 2024, after this motion  was filed, and the same day the opposition was filed, Defendant finally offered  the date of December 17, 2024, as the earliest availability for the deposition  of Defendant’s PMK. The Court finds that surprising and will need confirmation  at the hearing as to asserted lack of availability of a knowledgeable witness  for such a long period.     A.    Legal  Standard   Code of Civil Procedure  section 2025.450, section (a) provides:     “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action  or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person  designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without  having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for  examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the  deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling  the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of  any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in  the deposition notice.”    (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,  subd. (a).)     The motion must “be  accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when  the deponent fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the  petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary sanctions if  the motion to compel is granted unless the one subject to sanctions acted with  substantial justification or other circumstances would make the imposition of  the sanction unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)   B.     Discussion                                    i.             Meet and Confer Plaintiff  notes that he has made good faith efforts to meet and confer prior to the  bringing of this action. Plaintiff’s counsel originally sent a meet and confer  letter on December 7, 2023, which encouraged Defendant to provide alternative  dates for the PMK deposition, should it have been necessary. Further, Plaintiff  notes that on June 18, 2024, after receiving Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s  second amended notice of PMK deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendant,  requesting alternative dates for the deposition to occur. Based on the fact  that Defendant has not raised meet and confer issues in its opposition, and  that the declaration from Plaintiff’s counsel as well as attached exhibits  indicate that Plaintiff sufficiently attempted to meet and confer prior to  bringing this motion, this Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently done so.                                  ii.             Document Categories at PMK Deposition The  motion to compel also seeks production of 16 categories of documents at the PMK  deposition. While Plaintiff prepared a separate statement concerning the Defendant’s  opposition indicates that it either stands on all of its objections to each and  every category of documents, but also indicates that it has already produced  some of the documents, the minimalist opposition brief makes no mention at all  of the duces tecum for the PMK deposition or any response to Plaintiff’s  separate statement.  The  Court has a factual vacuum for addressing the document production aspect of  this motion to compel.  The Court does  not know what documents Defendant has allegedly already produced, and when it  produced those documents, and what Plaintiff’s rejoinder might be as to which  of the 16 categories remain at issue.   With respect to the  categories, the Court’s preliminary ruling on the objections raised by  defendant are as follows: 1.       The request for the deponent  to bring JLRNA’s “entire original file” regarding plaintiff’s vehicle is rather  vague.  This is more a scope for an  expert, not a PMK, as there may be no such thing as a “file” for the subject  vehicle.  Most of the defense objections  do not pertain to this category in the duces tecum and would be overruled, but  the Court would sustain the vagueness objection without some further showing as  to what that means for a PMK. 2.       The request for policies and  procedures for JLRNA authorized repair facilities in handling customer  complaints will be compelled, the objections other than attorney-client  privilege being overruled.  As to the  privilege objection, the Court will require a privilege log for JLRNA to  identify the documents, if any, being withheld on privilege grounds. 3.       This category seeking  communications between the South Bay dealer and some unnamed person cannot be  compelled because it does not indicate the other party to the  communications.  If Plaintiff intends to  seek documents between the dealer and JLRNA regarding the subject vehicle, this  category does not so state; a separate or amended RFP could be served to obtain  those responsive documents. 4.       This category seeks all  documents or files maintained by JLRNA regarding the subject vehicle is also  vague but could be clarified by reference to types of files as learned from  previous litigation that Plaintiff’s counsel may had with Jaguar, i.e., the  vehicle history file, the warranty reimbursement records, the files from Jaguar’s  customer assistance department, etc. 5.       This category seeks all handwritten  notes regarding Plaintiff’s request that Defendant repurchased the subject  vehicle. Subject to the privilege limitations that in-house counsel or that a  JLRNA employee might have reflecting notes of a discussion with inhouse or  outside counsel, and subject to the limitation on production of documents in a  party’s care, custody or control, the Court would compel production of these  responsive documents. 6.        Category 6 also seeks all handwritten notes  JLRNA maintains “regarding” the subject vehicle.  The Court is inclined to sustain some of the  objections to this category including privilege and overbreadth.  Normally, the parties’ meet and confer could  narrow the scope of limit the breadth of what is being sought here, as noted  with respect to category 4.  The Court  will discuss whether production of other more narrowly tailored categories will  address what plaintiff sought by this category. 7.       Call logs, a term of art in  the motor vehicle industry as to records made of phone calls or emails from or  with the plaintiff, are typically produced without objection in Lemon Law  litigation.  Subject to the privilege  limitations that in-house counsel or that a JLRNA employee might have a call  log of a discussion with inhouse or outside counsel, and subject to the  limitation on production of documents in a party’s care, custody or control,  the Court would compel production of these obviously discoverable documents. 8.       The PMK’s job description,  assuming one exists in writing, should be produced and objections to this  category would be overruled. 9.       Category 9 seeks documents  that JLRNA reviewed in deciding whether to or how to respond to Plaintiff’s  buyback requests.  While this category on  its face appears to assume that plaintiff made a buyback request and that JLRNA  made a response, and subject to the privilege limitations that communications  with in-house counsel or outside counsel would not be produced but identified  in a privilege log, the Court would compel production of these responsive  documents if any exist. 10.  This category seeks document the deponent PMK consulted in  preparing for the deposition.  The Court  sustains the attorney work product and attorney-client privilege objections to  this category, but if there are non-privileged responsive document the Court  would compel production of them. 11.  Policy and procedure documents for Song-Beverly Act compliance  including any “buy back manual” provided to decision makers would be ordered to  be produced, at least such a manual or reference materials that were in effect  as of the time Plaintiff or counsel made any pre-litigation request or demand  for a buyback, subject to the privilege limitations that communications with  in-house counsel or outside counsel would not be produced but identified in a  privilege log. 12.  Call 12 is overly broad because it is not limited to California or  the time period when Plaintiff’s vehicle was subject to consideration for a buy  back.  This category would normally be  narrowed (as per item 11 above). 13.  This category, probably a subset of Category 11, is overly broad  and would need to be narrowed to pertain to California and the time period when  Plaintiff’s vehicle was subject to consideration for a buy back.   14.  The Court’s review of this call is the same as call 13.  15.  The TSB category is one as to which the Court normally grants a  motion to compel, but limited to a repair complaints or symptoms that Plaintiff  reported during the repair history, as contrasted with broach characterizations  of things such as “electrical system” or “transmission” complaints.   Vehicles have a host of technical literature  generated for repair technicians to use as to every system in a modern-day  vehicle, and repair or installation instructions for nearly every component or  body panel.  It is overly broad to  require production of every technical bulletin for the same make and model and  model year as plaintiff’s and it is not reasonably calculated to lead to the  discovery of admissible evidence as to repair procedures or bulletins for  repair complaints plaintiff did not experience.    16.  Documents that “support” an affirmative defense in the case  appears to the Court to call for attorney work product, because which of the 30  affirmative defense JLRNA “intends to assert in this action” would involve  defense counsel’s mental impression and case evaluation.  The Court would sustain the objection to this  category.   The Court will entertain oral argument as to a  reasonable time period for defendant to gather responsive documents in advance  of the PMK deposition, whenever it occurs. 