 Case Number:  24TRCV00420    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 July 30, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00420  CASE NAME:                        Fannie Chu, Zarpar  Inc. v. Tesla Motors, Inc., et al.     MOVING PARTY:                Defendant,  Tesla Motors, Inc.   RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Fannie Chu and Zarpar Inc  TRIAL DATE:                        Not  Set.    MOTION:                              (1) Motion to Compel Arbitration    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.      I. BACKGROUND    A. Factual  On February 5, 2024,  Plaintiffs, Karen Corea and Citywide Bins & Recycling Corporation  (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendant, Tesla Motors,  Inc., and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint alleges causes of action for” (1)  Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(b);  (3) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of Express Written  Warranty – Civil Code § 1791.2 (a), Section 1794; and (5) Breach of the Implied  Warranty of Merchantability – Civil Code § 1791.1, Section 1794.    The complaint is based on a May  30, 2022 purchase by Plaintiffs of a 2022 Tesla Model X, manufactured and/or  distributed by Defendant, with corresponding Vehicle Identification Number 7SAXCBE59NF329345.  Plaintiff notes she purchased the Vehicle from a person or entity in the  business of manufacturing, distributing, or selling consumer goods at retail.  (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff also notes he received an express written warranty  in which Defendant, Tesla, undertook to preserve or maintain the utility of  performance of the Vehicle or to provide compensation if there is a failure in  utility or performance for a specific period of time. (Complaint, ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff contends that the warranty provided, in relevant part, that in the  event a defect developed with the Vehicle during the warranty period, Plaintiff  could deliver the Vehicle for repair services to a repair shop and the Vehicle  would be repaired. (Complaint, ¶ 9.)   After  Plaintiffs took possession of the Vehicle and during the warranty period, the  Vehicle is alleged to have contained or developed defects, that substantially  impair the use, safety, and/or value of the vehicle. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) During  the warranty period, Plaintiffs note the following components, systems of  features that created repair problems: (1) defective body system; (2) Defective  powertrain system; (3) defective safety system; (4) defective electrical  system; (5) defective braking system; (6) defective noise system; and (7) any  additional complaints made by Plaintiffs, whether or not they are contained in  the records or on any repair orders. (Complaint, ¶ 11.)    Plaintiffs  argues that the defects violate the express written warranties issued by  Defendant, as well as the implied warranty of merchantability. (Complaint, ¶  12.) Plaintiff notes that they provided Defendant sufficient opportunity to  service or repair the Vehicle, however, that Tesla was unable and/or failed to  service or repair the Vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 13, 14 .)               Defendant, Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Tesla”) filed a Motion to  Compel Binding Arbitration as its initial responsive pleading.      B. Procedural   On March 25, 2024, Tesla filed a Motion to Compel  Binding Arbitration. On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On July  24, 2024, Tesla filed a reply brief.     II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL  NOTICE               In addition to filing Tesla’s Motion to Compel  Arbitration, Tesla also filed a request for this Court to take Judicial Notice  of the following document:    1.      Plaintiffs  FANNIE CHU and ZARPAR INC.’s Complaint, filed on or about February 5, 2024, a  true and correct copy of which is attached to the Declaration of Ali Ameripour  as Exhibit “2.”   This Court GRANTS Tesla’s request  and takes judicial notice of the above.    III. ANALYSIS   A.     Legal Standard     California  Code of Civil Procedure, Section 1281 provides that “[a] written  agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy  thereafter arising is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, save upon such  grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”¿ “California law, like federal  law, favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.”¿ (Armendariz v.  Foundation Health Psychcare Services,  Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.)¿ “On petition of a party to an arbitration  agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a  controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that  controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to  arbitrate the controversy” unless grounds exist not to compel arbitration.¿  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) The Song-Beverly Act also favors  arbitration of Lemon Law disputes with a series of “carrot and stick”  provisions that immunize a warrantors from a species of civil penalty if they  have a certified lemon arbitration program in place.  The AAA arbitration provision in Tesla’s  contract is not the pre-litigation lemon arbitration program contemplated by  Song-Beverly, but rather is a litigation diversion provision contemplated by  the Federal Arbitration Act and by the California Arbitration Act.  Tesla’s provisions do not indicate that  federal law controls, so this Tentative Ruling will rest on California law.   “There  is no public policy favoring arbitration of disputes which the parties have not  agreed to arbitrate.” (Engineers & Architects Assn. v. Community  Development Dept.¿(1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 644, 653.) Nevertheless, the strong  public policy promoting private arbitration of civil disputes gives rise to a  presumption in favor of arbitrability and compels the Court to construe  liberally the terms of the arbitration agreement. (Vianna v. Doctors’  Management Co.¿(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189).¿ ¿¿   B.      Discussion    a.      Existence of Arbitration Agreement    Here, the parties agree that there were two written  agreements, the Retail Installment Sales Contract (“RISC”), and the Order  Agreement, that included an arbitration agreement. However, Plaintiffs argue  that the Order Agreement is a contract of adhesion and is unconscionable and/or  otherwise revocable.    Here, the Order Agreement contained an arbitration  agreement, which stated:    Agreement to Arbitrate. Please  carefully read this provision, which applies to any dispute between you and  Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates, (together “Tesla”).    If you have a concern or dispute,  please send a written notice describing it and your desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com.     If not resolved within 60 days, you  agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the  relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by a judge or jury but  instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered by the American  Arbitration Association (“AAA”) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules. This  includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as claims related to  statements about our products.    We will pay all AAA fees for any  arbitration, which will be held in the city or county of your residence. To  learn more about the Rules and how to begin an arbitration, you may call any  AAA office or go to www.adr.org.    The arbitrator may only resolve  disputes between you and Tesla and may not consolidate claims without the  consent of all parties. The arbitrator cannot hear class or representative  claims or requests for relief on behalf of others purchasing or leasing Tesla  vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may bring claims against the other only  in your or its individual capacity and not as a Plaintiffs or class member in  any class or representative action. If a court or arbitrator decides that any  part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a particular claim  for relief or remedy, then that claim, or remedy (and only that claim or  remedy) must be brought in court and any other claims must be arbitrated.   If you prefer, you may instead take  an individual dispute to small claims court.    You may opt out of arbitration within  30 days after signing this Agreement by sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O.  Box 15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970, stating your name, Vehicle Identification  Number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration provision. If you do not opt  out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement  between us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance contract.     (Declaration of Raymond Kim (“Kim Decl.”), Ex. 1, p.  4.)   Tesla points to the section of the Order Agreement that contains a  30-day opt-out provision, enabling a Tesla purchaser or lessee to send a letter  to Tesla within 30 days expressing the customer’s desire to reject arbitration  for matters embraced by the Order Agreement arbitration provision.  The Kim declaration in support of the motion  indicates Tesla did not receive any opt-out letter from Plaintiffs. (Kim Decl.,  ¶ 5.)    This  Court notes that the complaint alleges various statutory violations for alleged  vehicle defects. The Court further notes that the Arbitration Agreement applies  to, “any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates.” (Kim Decl., Ex. 1, p. 4.) The Court finds that the  claims in Plaintiffs’ Complaint are covered within the scope of the arbitration  agreement. Because this Court notes that Plaintiffs do not raise any issues of  the claims not arising within the agreement, and only focuses on the  unconscionability argument, this Court finds that on the face of the agreement  made between the parties, the Arbitration clause is enforceable.    b.      Unconscionability  Plaintiffs main argument in their opposition is that  the contract drafted by Tesla is one of adhesion and is unconscionable and/or  otherwise revocable.  Unconscionability is a valid defense to a petition to  compel arbitration. (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th  1109, 1143.) State law governs the “unconscionability” defense. (Doctor’s  Assocs., Inc. v. Casarotto (1996) 517 US 681, 687.) The core concern of the  unconscionability doctrine is the “absence of meaningful choice on the part of  one of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably  favorable to the other party.” (Sonic-Calabasas, supra, 57 Cal.4th at  1145.) The unconscionability doctrine ensures that contracts—particularly  contracts of adhesion—do not impose terms that have been variously described as  overly harsh, unduly oppressive, so one-sided as to shock the conscience, or  unfairly one-sided. (Id.)  Here,  Plaintiffs have not identified any overly harsh or unduly oppressive  provisions, other than depriving them of the court system to resolve their  dispute without any other option.  The  Court finds that such a deprivation, without much more, is not overly harsh,  unduly oppressive, nor shocking of the conscience.   “The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on  whether the contract is one of adhesion. (Armendariz, supra, 24  Cal.4th at p. 113; Mercuro v. Superior Court, supra, 96  Cal.App.4th at p. 174.) Procedural unconscionability focuses on whether there  is “oppression” arising from an inequality of bargaining power or “surprise”  arising from buried terms in a complex printed form. (Armendariz, supra,  24 Cal.4th at p. 114; Mercuro v. Superior Court, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th  at p. 174.) The substantive element addresses the existence of overly harsh or  one-sided terms. (Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064,  1071 [130 Cal.Rptr.2d 892, 63 P.3d 979]; Armendariz, supra, 24  Cal.4th at p. 114.) An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable only if both the  procedural and substantive elements are satisfied. (Armendariz, supra,  24 Cal.4th at p. 113; Mercuro v. Superior Court, supra, 96  Cal.App.4th at p. 174.) However, Armendariz held, “[T]he more  substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural  unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is  unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz, at p. 114; see also Kinney  v. United HealthCare Services, Inc., supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at p. 1329.).” McManus  v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87.)   The Court is mindful of the California Supreme Court case  decided July 25, 2024 bearing on defenses to arbitration agreements, Quach  v. California Commerce Club, 2024 S.O.S. 2517, and notes for the parties  that this tentative ruling is not predicated on any argument of a legislative preference  for arbitration over litigation.  The  Court determines that arbitration agreements are on equal foot with any other  contract.     Procedural Unconscionability                Plaintiffs  argue that the Order Agreement is adhesive and therefore procedurally  unconscionable. Plaintiffs base their arguments on the fact that the Order  Agreement is a ‘take it or leave it’ contract that gave Plaintiffs no  meaningful opportunity to negotiate or discuss any of the terms outlined in the  Agreements. In Plaintiffs’ unconscionability argument, he reference the case of  Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77. In Gutierrez,  a plaintiff entered into an automobile lease agreement with the defendant, an  automobile dealer. The plaintiff subsequently sued the dealer over alleged  fraud in the transaction, and the adhesive agreement contained an inconspicuous  arbitration clause. (Id. at 83-84.) There, based on the AAA rules in  effect at the time the defendant moved to compel arbitration, the Plaintiff  would have had to pay $8,000 in administrative fees to initiate arbitration. .  (Id. at 90-91.) The Gutierrez Court held that “where a consumer  enters into an adhesive contract that mandates arbitration, it is  unconscionable to condition that process on the consumer posting fees he or she  cannot pay.” (Id. at 89-90.)               Here, Plaintiffs attempt to draw an  analogy to Gutierrez, by claiming that the take it or leave it contract  was adhesive, and consequently procedurally unconscionable. However, the  contract in Gutierrez was not found to be unconscionable because it  was adhesive. In fact, the Gutierrez court noted that “simply because a  provision within a contract of adhesion is not read or understood by the  nondrafting party does not justify a refusal to enforce it.” (Id. at  88.) Instead, the Court reasoned that the unbargained-for term may only be  denied enforcement if it is also substantively unreasonable. (Ibid.) Here, although not specifically argued by Plaintiff, the  adhesive nature of the arbitration agreements arguably flows in part from the  digital nature of the Agreement.  A Tesla  buyer must click on the hyperlink to visualize the arbitration agreements, and  if they did so on the screen would appear five pages of an easy-to-read  document with prominently displayed agreement with distinctive border on page  three (3) of the Order Agreement. When there is no other indication of  oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the degree of  procedural unconscionability is low. (Serpa v. California Surety  Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)                 As such,  this Court finds that the procedural unconscionability is low.     Substantive Unconscionability               Next, Plaintiffs argue that the  arbitration provisions require AAA with no alternative and therefore are  substantively unconscionable. An arbitration agreement is generally enforceable, if it (1)  provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery,  (3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that  would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not require the parties to  pay unreasonable costs and fees as a condition of access to an arbitration forum.  (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24  Cal.4th 83, 102.)               Plaintiff  argues that by requiring her to submit any and all disputes solely through AAA  under its Consumer Arbitration Rules, Defendant exploits the vulnerability of  Plaintiff, and also undermines and “impairs the integrity of the bargaining  process.” For example, as noted by Plaintiff, under the AAA Rules,  parties have severely limited discovery, including a lack of any depositions.  (See AAA Rules, R-22.) Further, beyond a very ambiguous description of the  exchange of information (i.e., “specific documents and other information”), the  AAA rules state: “No other exchange of information beyond what is provided for  in section (a) above is contemplated under these rules, unless an arbitrator  determines further information exchange is needed to provide for a  fundamentally fair process.”  What Plaintiffs fail to acknowledge is that  these discovery limitations apply equally to both sides. Tesla also will be  deprived of the right to take depositions, but it will be required to exchange  specific documents and, on application to the arbitrator, both sides may be  required to exchange other information such as exchanging expert reports.    Lastly, Plaintiffs argues that although  the arbitration provision includes a link to www.adr.org, it provides no other  guidance regarding how to access the rules, or obtain any crucial information  regarding about their application, how these rules differ from a civil forum,  whether there are other rules, among other essential details. Based on this,  Plaintiffs conclude that the provision is substantively unconscionable. The  Court disagrees.  Unlike other  arbitration agreements with substantively problematic provisions, the Tesla  arbitration agreement does not require Plaintiff to travel to another state to  arbitrate, does not apply the law of any state besides California, does not  contain its own internal statute of limitations, does not require Plaintiffs to  advance the costs of the arbitrator, and does not contain a limitation of  remedies provision preventing Plaintiffs from obtaining a refund or a civil  penalty or their attorney’s fees if they prevail.  Those types of provisions where present raise  the substantive unconscionability level above the Court’s threshold for finding  an arbitration agreement unenforceable.   While this Court has found an arbitration agreement in a Song-Beverly  case to be unconscionable, such findings have been on a much stronger showing  than Plaintiffs have made here.               In  its reply brief, Tesla notes that AAA’s Consumer Arbitration Rules  (“CAR”) do allow for the exchange of information between the parties, pursuant  to Rule 22 of the CAR. (Exhibit 1, Second Ameripour Decl.) As such, Tesla  argues that for a simple lemon law case such as this, AAA's Consumer  Arbitration Rules are more than sufficient, as there is nothing in the  Song-Beverly Act that guarantees certain discovery. Further, Tesla asserts that  there is nothing that states that the discovery that is conducted in an  arbitration has to be the same as that which is conducted when a case proceeds  in a California Superior Court.               This Court does not find it  necessary to strike the provision requiring AAA as arbitrators.    IV. CONCLUSION               For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s  Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.      Tesla is ordered to give  notice.  