 Case Number:  22STCV29728    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  A 
22STCV29728
 Johnna Mike-Price, et al. v. Toshiba Lifestyle Products and Services
 Corporation, et al.
Tuesday,
 August 13,  2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF HOME DEPOT’S PERSON MOST QUALIFIED
AND REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS WITH RESPECT TO INSURANCE COVERAGE;
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL THE PRODUCTION OF CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY
COMMISSION REPORT (MIDEA 434-438) WITHELD ON THE BASIS OF PRIVELEGE
 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND       
       The complaint alleges that Plaintiffs sustained injury when
the minor Plaintiff, Commander Mike-Price, who was then six years old, ingested
a button battery from the remote for an air conditioning unit made and sold by
Defendants. Plaintiffs allege claims for negligence and strict products
liability. 
 
II.     
ARGUMENTS RELATING TO THE MOTION TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION 
       Plaintiffs
argue that they served a Notice of Deposition of Home Depot’s Person Most
Qualified (“PMQ”) with production of documents on May 29, 2024. Home Depot
objected to the notice on June 6, 2024, stating it would not produce a witness
on June 13, 2024, but agreed to identify the scope of permissible inquiry and provide
a mutually convenient date for the deposition. Despite Plaintiffs’ effort to
meet and confer, Home Depot did not provide alternative dates. On July 1, 2024,
Home Depot indicated it would not provide a PMQ on insurance coverage contrary
to its earlier responses. Plaintiffs contend that Home Depot’s insurance
coverage is relevant and discoverable. Plaintiffs request imposition of
monetary sanctions.
       In
opposition, Home Depot argues that the purpose of the PMQ deposition is to
harass, bully, and intimidate Home Depot. Defendant asserts it served responses
to Plaintiffs’ form interrogatory 4.1 identifying the layers of insurance
available up to $50 million and various other layers of insurance up to $75
million. Plaintiffs did not request production of any insurance policy or
documents. Instead, Plaintiffs stated their belief that Defendant’s declaration
does not provide enough information to make a settlement demand. Home Depot’s
insurance coverage cannot help Plaintiffs evaluate a settlement demand. Plaintiffs
do not require additional information. 
       In
reply, Plaintiffs argue that Home Depot does not oppose the discoverability of
insurance information. Plaintiffs requested a PMQ deposition because Home
Depot’s heavily redacted disclosures of insurance are not fully understood by
Plaintiffs’ counsel. Plaintiffs require information on how the complex “layers
of insurance coverage” work and their effect on indemnity agreements with
manufacturers. This is discovery, not harassment.  Insurance information is discoverable to
assist in evaluating a case for trial or facilitating settlement. 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       Service
of a deposition notice is effective to require any deponent who is a party to
the action “or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for
inspection and copying." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.280 subd.(b).) The attendance and testimony of any other
deponent, including for production of documents requires service of a
deposition subpoena on the witness. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.280 subd. (c).) 
       If a party fails to appear for a deposition
after service of a deposition notice, without having served a valid objection,
the party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document or
tangible thing described in the notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.) The moving party must show good
cause for the deposition and attempt to meet and confer. (Id.) 
 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       The
scope of discovery is liberally construed in favor of disclosure “as a matter
of right unless statutory or public policy considerations clearly prohibit it.”
(Greyhound
Corp. v. Superior Court of Merced County (1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355,
377-378.) The broad scope of permissible discovery includes “any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence”. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) 
       Defendant’s
insurance policy information falls within the broad scope of discovery. (Irvington-Moore,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 733, 739. Moreover, "It
follows that the selection of the method of discovery to be utilized is to be
made by the party seeking discovery. It cannot be dictated by the opposing
party." (Id.) Thus, it is not for Home Depot to
unilaterally determine that Plaintiffs are not entitled to the deposition to
explain the application of Home Depot’s insurance coverage. 
       Home
Depot has not offered any argument to support redacting insurance information,
nor has it moved for a protective order. The discovery of insurance coverage
information is relevant to Plaintiffs’ preparation for settlement. (Pettie
v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County
(1960) 178 Cal.App.2d 680, 690 ["as far as the investigation
and conduct of the defense is concerned, it would seem to be relevant, if not
indispensable, that plaintiff's attorney have knowledge of the existence of
insurance in order to prepare for the case he has to meet and be apprised of
his real adversary. Such knowledge, furthermore, would also lead to more
purposeful discussions of settlement, and thereby effectuate the dispatch of
court business. This aspect is most significant in terms of effective judicial
administration in coping with today's congested dockets which are largely
attributable to the increasing volume of personal injury litigation.”].)
       Plaintiffs
are entitled to an award of monetary sanctions against Home Depot. While
Plaintiffs’ counsel requests $700 per hour to prepare this discovery motion,
the court finds that $450 per hour is reasonable under the circumstances. The
court finds that four hours incurred to prepare the motion, reply, and to
appear at the hearing is reasonable.
 
V.     
CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the deposition of Home Depot’s
PMQ is GRANTED. Home Depot is ordered to designate and produce a person qualified
to testify to the topics as set forth in Plaintiffs’ Notice of Deposition and produce
unredacted documents responsive to Plaintiffs’ request. The court imposes
sanctions of $1,800 against Defendant, Home Depot, payable to Plaintiffs’
counsel within 10 days. 

 

 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL THE PRODUCTION OF CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY
COMMISSION REPORT (MIDEA 434-438) WITHELD ON THE BASIS OF PRIVELEGE
 
I.       
ARGUMENTS RELATING TO THE MOTION TO
COMPEL PRODUCTION OF CPSC REPORT
       Plaintiffs
argue that the court ordered Defendants, Wuhu Maty, and GD Midea,
(“Defendants”) to produce jurisdictional discovery without objection. (Creed
Decl, ¶ 9, Ex. 1.) Defendants’  partial
production included a privilege log identifying in part a document marked Midea
434-438 consisting of a report authored by Jonathan Judge at ArentFox Schiff,
LLP, counsel for Midea America, regarding the remote for the air-conditioning
unit at issue, and sent to the Consumer Production Safety Commission (“CPSC
Report.”) Defendants assert the report is not discoverable on grounds of
attorney-client and work product privileges. (Creed Decl., Ex. 3.) Plaintiffs
assert that the cited privileges do not apply because the report was
transmitted to a government agency, not to a client. By doing so, Defendants
waived the privileges. The CPSC Report is required by federal law with the
expectation that it would be disclosed to a government agency, and therefore,
its preparation for and transmission to federal authorities constitute a waiver
of such privileges. Defendants have not produced any confidentiality agreement
with the CPSC to protect against disclosure of the document. 
       All
Defendants oppose the motion on grounds that the CPSC Report is confidential as
provided by statute governing an attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions,
legal research or theories. The work product privilege is held by the attorney
and not the client. The CPSC Report is clearly marked as confidential and is
derived from attorney-client communication and falls within the definition of
work product. It also includes Midea’s or others’ trade secrets. It is
protected from disclosure as it is “self-critical analysis.” The CPSC cannot
publicly disclose reportable information under circumstances defined by statute,
and none of the statutory criteria apply. The case on which Plaintiffs rely (McKesson)
is distinguishable. The product of Defendants’ internal investigation is
protected by the attorney work product privilege. 
       In
reply, Plaintiffs assert that Defendants concede that the CPSC Report is
discoverable and is not attorney work product because it was prepared with the
expectation that the report would be revealed, at least to federal authorities.
Defendants improperly rely on Regents v. Superior Court, which involved
documents that were not created with the expectation of public disclosure to
federal authorities and were not required by law. The CPSC’s interest in
requiring the report at issue to protect the public from unreasonable risks of
injury associated with consumer products are aligned with Plaintiffs’ identical
interests. Defendants improperly rely on an amicus brief which is irrelevant.  
II.     
DISCUSSION
       The
attorney-client privilege does not apply to the CPSC Report at issue as it does
not involve a communication between attorney and client. A “confidential
communication” for purposes of the privilege is “information transmitted
between a client and his or her lawyer in the course of that relationship and
in confidence by a means which, so far as the client is aware, discloses the
information to no third persons other than those who are present to further the
interest of the client in the consultation or those to whom disclosure is
reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information or the
accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer is consulted, and includes a
legal opinion formed and the advice given by the lawyer in the course of that
relationship." (Evid.
Code, § 952.) Defendants concede that the report was
provided to CPSC by Midea America “in good faith consistent with the
self-reporting requirements of CPSA section 15b, 15 U.S.C.2064(b) - - which
require companies to report potentially defective or unsafe products - - and
the information disclosure procedures in section 6(b) (15 U.S.C. 2055(b)),
which work together to strike a balance between important, competing interests.”
(Opp. 16:16-20.) 
       A
writing that reflects an attorney’s impression, conclusions, legal research, or
theories are not discoverable  "under
any circumstances." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2018.030 (a).) If the writing does not reflect
impressions and conclusions under subpart (a) the privilege is qualified; it is
not discoverable unless the court determines that denial of discovery will "unfairly
prejudice the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or
defense or will result in an injustice.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2018.030 (b).) The only exception to the bar
against discovery is "under the waiver doctrine, which has been held
applicable to the work product rule as well as the attorney-client privilege.”
(McKesson
HBOC, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1239.) Whether
A waiver of the privilege occurs "by an attorney's ‘voluntary disclosure
or consent to disclosure of the writing to a person other than the client who
has no interest in maintaining the confidentiality of the contents of the
writing.’” (Mckesson
at 1239.) 
       Defendants
do not dispute that the CPSC Report at issue was required by federal statute. (Opp.
16:16-17; 15
U.S.C.A. § 2064 subpart (b) [A manufacturer of a consumer product
who obtains information to support a conclusion that a product fails to comply
with a consumer product safety rule or contains a defect which could create a
substantial product hazard or creates an unreasonable risk of serious injury or
death "shall immediately inform the Commission" of such defect or
risk.].) Plaintiffs’ reliance on Cloud
v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1552 has
merit. 
       The
“self critical analysis privilege” has not been recognized by the Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals. (T.W.A.R.,
Inc. v. Pacific Bell (N.D. Cal. 1992) 145 F.R.D. 105, 108.) Under
state law, no person (including a businesses) “has a privilege to refuse to
disclose any matter or to refuse to produce any writing, object, or other thing”
except as otherwise provided by statute. (Cloud
v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1552, 1558.) The
California Evidence Code exclusively provides for available privileges "and
the courts are not free to create new privileges as a matter of judicial
policy.” (Cloud
at 1558–1559.) 
       Cloud
involved a federal statute requiring contractors to discuss hiring, firing, and
promotion practices. (Cloud at
1556.) Cloud instructs that even if an
attorney prepared the self-critical analysis, "the analyses are conducted
and written with the expectation that they will be revealed, at least to the
federal authorities. As with the lawyer-client claim, no basis has been
presented to justify withholding the analyses on the basis of attorney's work
product." (Cloud
at 1560.) Defendants’ did not address Cloud
and its implications in its opposition. 
       Defendants
contend that the CPSC Report is confidential and not subject to disclosure
under federal law where the information is marked as a confidential trade
secret. (15
U.S.C.A. § 2055 subpart (a)(2).) Defendants have not provided
evidence to support that any information contained in the report is a trade
secret. 
       Defendants
argue that the CPSC report cannot be disclosed by the Commission, if it is
confidential trade secret information, the company enters into a voluntary
recall, the Commission has begun an administrative proceeding for mandatory
recall, the Commission finds that public health and safety requires disclosure,
or the Commission believes that the product is in violation of the CPSA. (15
U.S.C.A. § 2055 subpart (b)(5).) That section governs the Commission’s
disclosure of information; it does not govern the discoverability under
California law of a document that Defendants were required to disclose. 
       Defendants
argue that Southern
California Edison Company v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (2024)
102 Cal.App.5th 573 holds that the mandatory report is
not subject to disclosure. That case concerned discovery of internal
investigations conduct by SCE in order to comply with state law. (Id. at 578.)
SCE was required by law to a report accidents occurring on its property that
directly or indirectly arose from its operation that resulted in loss of life
or injury. (Id.) 
       The
case is distinguishable because the requesting party did not seek the report of
accidents required to be submitted, but rather emails initiated by in-house
counsel that were part of an attorney-led investigation. There, the court
concluded that the dominant purpose of the documents requested was to facilitate
the provision of legal advice to the client. (Southern
California Edison at 589.) The court
applied the work product protection as it advanced an important public policy
to “allow attorneys the freedom ‘to investigate not only the favorable but the
unfavorable aspects’ of a client's situation, and in turn will promote more
accurate and effective investigations." (Southern
California Edison at 590.) Here,
Plaintiffs do not seek production of investigative efforts including attorney
emails that may have facilitated the mandatory CPSC Report submitted to the
Commission. Plaintiffs do not ask for preliminary, investigative documents
preceding the final report submitted to the CPSC. Southern California Edison
does not apply. 
       Defendants
also cite  Regents
of University of California v. Superior Court (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 672 which is equally distinguishable as it
determined that the opposing party did not waive the attorney work product
privilege by providing results of its internal investigation conducted by
counsel to federal agencies. (Regents at 676.) In Regents,
one of the defendants obtained an agreement from the government under which the
government agreed that disclosure was not a waiver of the attorney-client and
work product privilege. (Regents at 676–677.) Additionally,
the court held that the failure to cooperate with a government’s request for
documents pursuant to a government investigation for fraud would subject the
defendants to severe regulatory or criminal consequence if they were labeled as
“uncooperative.” (Regents
678 and 684 ["because of the dramatic impact
that failure to cooperate might have on the corporations and the absence of any
cost-free redress, the trial court here correctly found that the defendants'
cooperation with the government did not waive the attorney-client and attorney
work product privileges. Under the circumstances existing at the time the
cooperation took place, it would not have been reasonable for the defendants to
resist or otherwise challenge the government's requests."].)  The factual circumstances at issue in Regents
are not present in this matter. 
VI.   
CONCLUSION
       Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED. Defendants are ordered to produce to Plaintiffs,
without objection, the CPSC Report at issue within 10 days. As Plaintiffs did
not request imposition of sanctions, sanctions are not awarded. 
 