  Case Number:  21STCV45537    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  A 
21STCV45537 Grace Rodriguez, et al. v. Paramount
 Convalescent Group, Inc., dba Paramount Convalescent Hospital
Tuesday,
 August 13, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING PLAINTIFFS’
MOTION FOR A DETERMINATION OF COSTS AND ATTORNEY’S FEES INCURRED IN CONNECTION
WITH PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SANCTIONS 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The first
amended complaint filed January 8, 2024, alleges that Plaintiff, Grace
Rodriguez, is a sister and heir of Evangeline Rodriguez (“Decedent”), who was a
resident of Defendant’s skilled nursing facility. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant failed to establish mandated safety protocols due to the COVID-19
pandemic. As a result, Decedent died on December 17, 2020, after contracting
the virus. Plaintiffs alleged claims for elder abuse, violation of residents’
rights, negligence, and wrongful death.
       A jury trial
commenced on March 13, 2024. The Court declared a mistrial on March 18, 2024,
at Plaintiffs’ oral request. On May 3, 2024, the court determined that
Plaintiffs were entitled to an award of attorney’s fees and costs pursuant Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5  as a result of defense
counsel’s frivolous and bad faith conduct but deferred determination of the
amount of fees and costs to be awarded to Plaintiffs until the conclusion of
the matter. (M.O.
5/3/24.)
       On June 10,
2024, the court entered judgment on a special verdict in favor of Defendant. (Jgmt.
6/10/24.) 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiffs
request an award of fees totaling $68,450 and costs of $34,857.81, incurred in
connection with their motion for sanctions, which the court granted. Plaintiffs
contend that the request is warranted given the highly specialized nature of
the claims for elder abuse. Plaintiffs request fees for 63.5 hours of work
expended as a result of defense counsel’s conduct. 
       Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs are not entitled to relief because the jury decided in
Defendant’s favor. Plaintiffs incurred 13.5 hours attributable to the mistrial.
All costs and fees are not recoverable pursuant to the sanctions motion. The
court has yet to rule on the amount of sanctions. Plaintiffs seek additional
costs and fees which should be denied because Plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions
sought $81,536 in fees and costs. Plaintiffs’ request should be reduced to
between $10,125 and 14,850 and costs reduced to $8,564.26. 
       In
reply, Plaintiffs contend that that they seek a determination of fees and costs
incurred as a result of the mistrial since the court already determined that
Plaintiffs were entitled to an award of sanctions.  
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       To
determine whether fees are reasonable, the court begins with the lodestar,
which is the number of hours reasonably spent multiplied by the reasonable
hourly rate. (PLCM
Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) The court considers a
number of factors including "the nature of the litigation, its
difficulty, the amount involved, the skill required in its handling, the
skill employed, the attention given, the success or failure, and other
circumstances in the case.’” (PLCM
Group at 1096.) The lodestar figure can be adjusted based on the factors
specific to the case. (Id.)
       To
determine a reasonable market rate, "the courts will look to equally
difficult or complex types of litigation.” (Syers
Properties III, Inc. v. Rankin (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 691, 700.)
The “market rate” is generally based on the rates prevalent in the community
where the court is located. (Id.) The trial court is in the best
position to value the services rendered by the attorneys in his or her
courtroom for the type of litigation at issue. 
       Plaintiffs
are entitled to “’compensation for all the hours reasonably spent‘
in litigating the action to a successful conclusion. (Ibid., italics in
original.) ‘Reasonably spent’ means that time spent ‘in the form of inefficient
or duplicative efforts is not subject to compensation.’”(Horsford
v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 394.)
 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       The court
previously determined that Plaintiffs met their burden of showing that
Defendant engaged in “frivolous actions or tactics” entitling Plaintiffs to
fees and costs incurred as a result of such conduct. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5 subd. (a); (M.O.
5/3/24.) Whether Defendant is entitled to fees and costs as the prevailing
party after trial is a separate matter to be decided under Code Civ. Proc., §
1032 and 1033.5.
       The court grants
Defendant’s request for judicial notice of Plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions
filed on April 3, 2024, Defendant’s opposition thereto, and the court’s order
granting Plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions. (Defendant’s RJN, Exhibits A-C;
Evid. Code, § 452(d).)
       While the Court has
discretion to award fees based on declarations of counsel describing the work
they have and done and the court’s own review of the number of hours reasonably
spent, this court cannot determine whether costs and fees were reasonably
incurred based on the conclusory declarations of counsel, which do not describe
the work done that was required to be duplicated as a result of Defendant’s
conduct. (Syers
Properties III, Inc. v. Rankin (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 691, 698.)
       Neither
Plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions nor the present motion includes billing
records. Plaintiffs provided a declaration by Dawn Smith with the motion for
sanctions and belatedly provided what appears to be the same declaration in
their reply, however, both declarations are unsupported by billing records. Plaintiffs
provided a table of costs purportedly incurred in preparation for the first
trial, although it is not clear that Plaintiffs were required to duplicate any
of those costs at the time of re-trial and is, therefore, attributable to
defense counsel’s conduct. (Reply, Ex. ii.) The Smith declaration alone does
not provide sufficient facts for the court to exercise its discretion in determining
whether reasonable fees and costs can be attributed to Defendant’s bad faith actions
or tactics.  Plaintiffs’ counsel did not
provide any support, other than their own conclusions, that $750 and $350 per
hour are prevailing and reasonable market rates in the community for similar
actions.
 
V.     
CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion is continued to October 3,
 2024,  at 9:15 a.m. in
Department A of the Compton Courthouse. Plaintiffs’ counsel is ordered to
provide additional evidence, including billing records, preferably in
spreadsheet format, and any other evidence to demonstrate that costs and fees
incurred prior to the mistrial can be attributed to defense counsel’s conduct
sanctionable under Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5. A supplemental declaration with
supporting evidence shall be filed 10 court days prior to the hearing. 
 