  Case Number:  23STCV16325    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




ulises gonzalez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
citistaff solutions

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV16325




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   18, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendant CitiStaff Solutions
Inc. (joined by defendant Junction Transfer & Warehousing, LLC on September
11, 2023)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Ulises Gonzalez
Motion to Compel Arbitration
The court
considered the moving, joinder, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant CitiStaff Solutions Inc. (“CitiStaff”), joined by defendant Junction
Transfer & Warehousing, LLC (“Junction”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move
the court for an order           (1) compelling plaintiff Ulises Gonzalez
(“Plaintiff”) to submit the claims alleged in his Complaint to binding
arbitration, and (2) dismissing or, alternatively, staying this action pending
completion of arbitration. 
 
 
 
1.     Plaintiff
is Exempt under the Federal Arbitration Act
As
a threshold matter, the parties dispute whether the arbitration agreements are
enforceable pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) (9
U.S.C. § 1 et seq.).  In its moving
papers, defendant CitiStaff (1) contends that the FAA applies,
and (2) has introduced evidence establishing that it is involved in interstate
commerce to support its position. 
(Slater Decl., ¶¶ 2 [CitiStaff provides temporary workers to companies
in California, Washington, and Texas, and its customers are engaged in various
industries that manufacture goods that are distributed and shipped to other
states], 3 [defendant Junction Collaborative Transports, to which Plaintiff was
assigned, is a trucking and logistics company involved in transport and
shipping of goods in and out of California]; Cerdas Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that he
belongs to a class of workers that is subject to a statutory exemption to the
FAA. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has shown that he belongs to a “class
of workers engaged in foreign or interstate commerce” and therefore has shown
that the arbitration agreements at issue in Defendants’ motion and joinder are
not enforceable under the FAA.  (9 U.S.C.
§ 1.) 
“Federal
law applies to arbitration provisions in contracts involving interstate
commerce.”  (Higgins v. Superior Court
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247; 9 U.S.C. § 2.)  However, “[s]ection 1 of the
FAA exempts from coverage of the FAA ‘contracts of employment of seamen,
railroad employees, or any other class of workers engaged in foreign or
interstate commerce.’  [Citations.]  This ‘ “any other class of workers engaged in
foreign or interstate commerce” ’ has been defined to mean ‘transportation
workers.’”  (Garrido v. Air Liquide
Industrial U.S. LP (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 833, 839 [internal citations
omitted]; 9 U.S.C. § 1 [“nothing herein shall apply to contracts of employment
of seamen, railroad employees, or any other class of workers engaged in foreign
or interstate commerce”].)  Further, “any
class of workers directly involved in transporting goods across state or
international borders falls within [section] 1’s exemption.”  (Southwest Airlines Co. v. Saxon (2022)
596 U.S. 450, 457.)  “Unlike section 2’s
reference to ‘involving commerce,’ which ‘indicates Congress’ intent to
regulate to the outer limits of its authority under the Commerce Clause’ and
thus is afforded an ‘expansive reading,’ section 1’s reference to ‘engaged in
commerce’ is ‘narrower,’ and therefore ‘understood to have a more limited
reach,’ requiring ‘a narrow construction’ and a ‘precise reading.’”  (Muller v. Roy Miller Freight Lines, LLC (2019)
34 Cal.App.5th 1056, 1062; Southwest Airlines Co., supra, 596
U.S. at p. 458 [“transportation workers must be actively ‘engaged in
transportation’ of those goods across borders via the channels of foreign or
interstate commerce’”].) 
Plaintiff has submitted his declaration, in which he states that (1)
he was rehired by CitiStaff in July 2022; (2) he was assigned to work for
joining defendant Junction, which then assigned Plaintiff to work at its
Junction Collaborative Transports facility in Long Beach; and  (3) while he worked for Junction at the
Junction Collaborative Transports facility, his “primary duty was to operate
machinery to move containers loaded with goods and [to] prep[are] them so that
they were ready to be picked up by truck drivers tasked with their
delivery.”  (Gonzalez Decl., ¶¶ 2,
7.)  
The court finds that this evidence shows that, in moving and preparing
containers loaded with goods to be later picked up by truck drivers, Plaintiff (1)
works with and prepares containers of goods to be picked up by truck drivers
for delivery,[1] and
therefore (2) belongs to a class of workers that play “a direct and necessary
role in the free flow of goods across borders” and are “actively engaged in transportation
of such goods.”  (Ortiz v. Randstad
Inhouse Services, LLC (9th Cir. Mar. 12, 2024) 2024 WL 1061287 at *6
[internal quotation marks omitted]; Ibid. [finding that the plaintiff
“fulfilled an admittedly small but nevertheless ‘direct and necessary’ role in
the interstate commerce of goods” by “ensur[ing] that goods would reach their
final destination by processing and storing them while they awaited further
interstate transport”]; Southwest Airlines Co., supra, 596 U.S.
at p. 457 [“any class of workers directly involved in transporting goods across
state or international borders falls within § 1’s exemption”].) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff qualifies for the transportation
worker exemption set forth in section 1 of the FAA, and that Defendants therefore
cannot enforce the arbitration agreements against Plaintiff pursuant thereto.
The court therefore evaluates CitiStaff’s motion (and the joinder
filed by defendant Junction) under California law.  (Muller, supra, 34 Cal.App.5th
at pp. 1070-1071 [finding that the plaintiff-employee was a transportation
worker exempt from FAA coverage and stating that, “[b]ecause the FAA is
inapplicable, [the] analysis is exclusively guided by California law”]; Mendoza
v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 763 [because the
parties agreed that the plaintiff was a transportation worker within the
meaning of section 1 of the FAA and, therefore, the FAA did not apply, the
court “analyze[d] the issues presented under the [California Arbitration Act]
and California law”].) 
2.     Existence
of Agreement to Arbitrate
“On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement
refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists[,]” unless the court finds that the right
to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner or that grounds exist
for rescission of the agreement.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿1281.2.)¿¿¿  
“‘
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the petition
bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s enforcement.” ’”¿
(Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292, 302.)¿ To determine
the existence of an agreement, the court uses “a three-step burden-shifting
process.”  (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023)
87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)  “The
arbitration proponent must first recite verbatim, or provide a copy of, the
alleged agreement.  [Citations.]  A movant can bear this initial burden ‘by
attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement purportedly bearing the opposing
party’s signature.’”  (Ibid.
[internal citations omitted].)  “If the
movant bears its initial burden, the burden shifts to the party opposing
arbitration to identify a factual dispute as to the agreement’s existence . . .
.”  (Ibid.)  If the opposing party meets its burden to
“submit sufficient evidence to create a factual dispute” as to the existence of
the agreement, the burden shifts back to the arbitration proponent, who retains
the ultimate burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence.  (Ibid.; Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165-166.)
First,
the court finds that CitiStaff has met its burden of producing prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate between Plaintiff, on the
one hand, and CitiStaff on the other hand, by submitting two arbitration
agreements purporting to bear Plaintiff’s signature. 
CitiStaff
has submitted the following arbitration agreements: (1) the Arbitration
Agreement signed by Plaintiff and an authorized representative of CitiStaff on
November 28, 2018 (the “2018 Arbitration Agreement”), and (2) the Arbitration
Agreement signed by Plaintiff and an authorized representative of CitiStaff on
July 5, 2022 (the “2022 Arbitration Agreement”) (collectively, the “Arbitration
Agreements”).  (Slater Decl., Exs. 1 [2018
Arbitration Agreement in Spanish], 2 [translated copy of 2018 Arbitration
Agreement], 3 [2022 Arbitration Agreement].)  Both agreements include an agreement to
arbitrate between (1) CitiStaff, as employer, (2) CitiStaff’s clients,
officers, employees, or agents, as employer, and (3) Plaintiff, as employee.  (Slater Decl., Exs. 1-2, p. 1 [2018
Arbitration Agreement], Ex. 3, p. 1 [2022 Arbitration Agreement].) 
Specifically,
the 2018 Arbitration Agreement provides that, in consideration of employment or
continued employment with CitiStaff, the parties “agree[d] to participate
exclusively in mandatory binding arbitration for all disputes, claims or
controversies (‘claims’) that may arise between them, including their current
and former agents, owners, officers, directors, or employees, arising from the
employment relationship between the Employee and the Employer or its
termination.”  (Slater Decl., Exs. 1, 2,
p. 1, ¶ 3.)  The covered claims included
claims brought pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act and
for wrongful discharge.  (Id., ¶
4.)  Similarly, the 2022 Arbitration
Agreement provides that the parties “agree to exclusively engage in a final
binding Arbitration for any and all disputes, claims, or controversies
(‘Claims’) they may have against each other, employer’s customer, including
their current and former agents, owners, officers, directors, or employees,
arising from the employment relationship between Employee and Employer or the
termination thereof.”  (Slater Decl, Ex.
3, p. 1, ¶ 3.)  The covered claims
specifically include those brought pursuant to the California Fair Employment
and Housing Act and for wrongful discharge. 
(Id., ¶ 4.) 
Second,
the court finds that CitiStaff has shown that the Arbitration Agreements
encompass the claims alleged by Plaintiff in his Complaint because (1) as set
forth above, both agreements apply to claims arising from the employment
relationship between CitiStaff and Plaintiff, including those brought pursuant
to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act and for wrongful discharge,
and (2) Plaintiff’s causes of action (i) arise from his employment with
CitiStaff (and Junction) and (ii) are alleged pursuant to the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act (the first through fifth causes of action) and for
wrongful termination (the sixth cause of action).  (Compl., ¶¶ 8, 22.) 
Thus, the court finds that CitiStaff has met its burden to produce
prima facie evidence of two agreements to arbitrate the controversy alleged in
Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
Third, the court finds that joining defendant Junction has met its
burden to show that it may enforce the Arbitration Agreements against Plaintiff
(1) pursuant to the language of the Arbitration Agreements since (i) the
Arbitration Agreements assert that they were made by and between the employee
(i.e., Plaintiff), CitiStaff, and CitiStaff’s clients (or customers) and agents,
and (ii) Plaintiff was assigned to work with Junction at its facility in Long
Beach, California, such that Junction is a client or agent of CitiStaff, and
(2) pursuant to the agency exception, because Plaintiff has alleged that
Junction and CitiStaff were agents of the other and joint employers.  (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1236-1239 [exceptions to rule that one must be a party to
an arbitration agreement to invoke it]; Slater Decl., Exs. 1-2, p. 1, ¶ 1
[2018 Arbitration Agreement], 3 p. 1, ¶ 1 [2022 Arbitration Agreement];
Cerdas Decl., ¶ 5; Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782,
788 [defendant may enforce the arbitration agreement “‘when a plaintiff alleges
a defendant acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration agreement”]; Compl.,
¶¶ 13 [alleging agency], 10 [alleging that Defendants were joint
employers], 8.) 
Fourth, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to
identify a factual dispute as to the existence of the Arbitration Agreements. 
Plaintiff does not dispute that he signed the 2018 Arbitration
Agreement.  (Gonzalez Decl., ¶ 2;
Opp., p. 2:11-15.)  Plaintiff also does
not appear to dispute that he signed the 2022 Arbitration Agreement, asserting
that (1) he was presented with documents by CitiStaff, which he signed, but (2)
he does not recall seeing the 2022 Arbitration Agreement and is unable to read
it because it is completely in English. 
(Gonzalez Decl., ¶¶ 3 [“I signed [the documents] because I believed
them to be a prerequisite to my employment”], 4-5.)  Instead, it appears that Plaintiff is relying
on this evidence to argue that the 2022 Arbitration Agreement is
unconscionable.  (Opp., p. 6:16-22
[arguing that the 2022 Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable
because, inter alia, he could not understand it].)  Plaintiff has not argued that his inability
to read the 2022 Arbitration Agreement renders it invalid for any other reason
(e.g., that there exists no mutual assent). 
To the extent that Plaintiff contends that the 2022 Arbitration
Agreement is not authentic based on this evidence, the court finds that
Plaintiff’s declaration is insufficient to establish a factual dispute as to
the authenticity of the 2022 Arbitration Agreement since he has “explicitly
acknowledge[d]” that he signed documents presented to him upon his rehire by
CitiStaff in his declaration and appears to concede, in his opposition, that he
signed the 2022 Arbitration Agreement.  (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 756 [noting that the plaintiffs’
declarations expressly acknowledged signing a stack of documents and did not
deny that the stack included the arbitration agreement]; Gonzalez Decl.,
¶ 3; Opp., p. 3:3-5.)  
Thus, the court finds that Defendants have shown that (1) there exist two
arbitration agreements to arbitrate the controversy alleged in Plaintiff’s
Complaint, and (2) Defendants may enforce the Arbitration Agreements against
Plaintiff either as a signatory thereto (CitiStaff) or pursuant to an exception
as a nonsignatory (Junction). 
3.     Unconscionability
“‘[A]greements to arbitrate [may] be invalidated by “generally
applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.”
’”  (Beco, supra, 86
Cal.App.5th at p. 302.)  “The burden of
proving unconscionability rests upon the party asserting it.”¿ (OTO, L.L.C.
v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126 (Kho).)¿ “Unconscionability entails
an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with
contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.”  (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 759 [internal quotations omitted].)  It
“‘has both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on
‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on
‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’ results.”¿ (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114 [citations
omitted].)¿ “As a matter of general contract law, California courts require
both procedural and substantive unconscionability to invalidate a contract.”¿ (Torrecillas
v. Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485, 492 (Torrecillas).)¿
Courts “apply a sliding scale, meaning if one of these elements is present to
only a lesser degree, then more evidence of the other element is required to
establish overall unconscionability.¿ In other words, if there is little of
one, there must be a lot of the other.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿¿  
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to prove that
the Arbitration Agreements are unconscionable. 
As set forth above, to invalidate a contract, unconscionability requires
a showing of “both procedural and substantive unconscionability .
. . .”  (Torrecillas, supra,
52 Cal.App.5th at p. 492 [emphasis added].) 
In his opposition, Plaintiff has addressed only procedural
unconscionability, and has not submitted evidence or argument to establish
substantive unconscionability.  (Opp.,
pp. 5:1-6:28.)  Thus, the court finds
that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that the Arbitration Agreements
are unconscionable and therefore unenforceable. 
(Torrecillas, supra, 52 Cal.App.5th at p. 492; Kho,
supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)
4.     Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that (1) CitiStaff
met its burden of proving that there exist two valid agreements to arbitrate
the controversy alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint, (2) Junction has met its
burden to prove that it may enforce the Arbitration Agreements against
Plaintiff, and (3) Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that the
Arbitration Agreements are not authentic or are invalid or unenforceable.  The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion
to compel arbitration.[2]

The court also grants Defendants’ motion to stay this action pending
completion of arbitration.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.4.) 
ORDER
            The court grants (1) defendant
CitiStaff Solutions, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration, and (2) defendant
Junction Transfer & Warehousing, LLC’s joinder to motion to compel
arbitration.  
            The
court orders (1) plaintiff Ulises Gonzalez and defendants CitiStaff Solutions,
Inc. and Junction Transfer & Warehousing, LLC to arbitrate the
claims alleged in plaintiff Ulises
Gonzalez’s Complaint, and (2) this action is stayed against defendants
CitiStaff Solutions, Inc. and Junction Transfer & Warehousing, LLC until arbitration is completed.  
The court sets an Order to Show Cause re completion of arbitration as
to defendants CitiStaff Solutions, Inc.
and Junction Transfer & Warehousing, LLC for hearing on October 22,
2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 53. 
The court orders defendant
CitiStaff Solutions, Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 18, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


