 Case Number:  23STCV30834    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




martin ramirez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
california landmark group

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV30834




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   18, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to deem plaintiff martin
  ramirez a vexatious litigant and dismiss action or, alternatively, require
  plaintiff to post a bond
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Intersolutions, LLC           
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Martin Ramirez
Motion to Deem Plaintiff Martin Ramirez a
Vexatious Litigant and Dismiss Action or, Alternatively, Require Plaintiff to
Post a Bond
The court considered the moving and reply papers filed in connection
with this motion. 
The court considered the first 16 pages[1]
of the “Amended Opposition to Defendant Intersolutions, LLC’s CCP § 391 et
seq Motion to Designate Plaintiff as a ‘Vexatious Litigant,’” filed by
plaintiff Martin Ramirez on March 4, 2024 because, “[e]xcept in a summary
judgment or summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum
may exceed 15 pages.”  (Cal. Rules of
Ct., rule 3.1113, subd. (d).)  The court did
not consider the sur-reply papers filed by plaintiff Martin Ramirez on March 8,
2024 because sur-replies are not authorized under Code of Civil Procedure section
1005, subdivision (b). 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Intersolutions, LLC’s request for judicial notice filed on January 19,
2024.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(d).) 
The court denies defendant
Intersolutions, LLC’s request for judicial notice, filed on March 8, 2024,
because it includes new evidence in reply. 
(Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537 [“The general
rule of motion practice . . . is that new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers”].)
DISCUSSION
Defendant Intersolutions, LLC (“Defendant”) moves the court for an
order (1) deeming plaintiff Martin Ramirez (“Plaintiff”) to be a vexatious
litigant, and (2) dismissing Plaintiff’s Complaint against Defendant with
prejudice, or, alternatively, ordering Plaintiff to post security in an amount
not less than $50,000.  Defendant
contends that Plaintiff’s conduct in Mayendia v. Ramirez (Case No.
21SMCV01968) (the “Mayendia Action”) and in this action establishes that
he is a vexatious litigant pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 391,
subdivision (b)(3).  (Mot., p.
1:22-24.)  
“‘The trial court exercises its discretion in determining whether a
person is a vexatious litigant.’”  (Singh
v. Lipworth (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 813, 828 [citation omitted].)  A vexatious litigant means any person who,
“[i]n any litigation while acting in propria persona, repeatedly files
unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary
discovery, or engages in other tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 391, subd. (b)(3); Morton v. Wagner (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th
963, 971 [“subdivision (b)(3) requires only that a litigant ‘repeatedly file[]
unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other papers, conduct[] unnecessary
discovery, or engage[] in other tactics that are frivolous or solely intended
to cause unnecessary delay’”] [emphasis in original].)  “The vexatious litigant statutes (§§
391-391.7) are designed to curb misuse of the court system by those persistent
and obsessive litigants who, repeatedly litigating the same issues through
groundless actions, waste the time and resources of the court system and other
litigants.”  (Shalant v. Girardi
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 1164, 1169.)   
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to show that the
court should exercise its discretion to determine that Plaintiff is a vexatious
litigant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd.
(b)(3).)
First, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff,
while acting in propria persona, “repeatedly file[d] unmeritorious motions,
pleadings, or other papers” in the Mayendia Action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd. (b)(3).)
The court acknowledges that Defendant (1) has asserted that Plaintiff
“filed an endless parade of frivolous motions and other papers seeking
ridiculous and unsound relief” and has set forth a list of various motions, ex
parte applications, and two opposition briefs that he filed in the Mayendia
Action, and (2) has submitted those motions. 
(Mot., p. 4:5-22; Def. Compendium of Evidence.)  However, Defendant did not explain how each of
those pleadings filed by Plaintiff were unmeritorious within the meaning of
section 391.  “Not all failed motions can
support a vexatious litigant designation. 
The repeated motions must be so devoid of merit and be so frivolous that
they can be described as a ‘ “flagrant abuse of the system,” ’ have ‘no
reasonable probability of success,’ lack ‘reasonable or probable cause or
excuse,’ and are clearly meant to    ‘
“abuse the processes of the courts and to harass the adverse party than other
litigants.” ’  [Citation.]”  (Morton, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th
at p. 972.)  Although Defendant has
identified various pleadings that it contends were unmeritorious, Defendant did
not set forth analysis or argument explaining why those pleadings were “so
devoid of merit” and “so frivolous” “as to come within the meaning of the
vexatious litigant legislation.”  (Ibid.)  
Moreover, to the extent that Defendant relies on the Mayendia Action’s
court docket, the court finds that the docket, unsupported by analysis or other
evidence, is similarly insufficient to show that Plaintiff repeatedly filed
unmeritorious motions and pleadings within the meaning of section 391.  (Mot., p. 6:15-20; Holcomb v. U.S. Bank
Nat. Assn. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1506 [“It is difficult, if not
impossible, to make a determination under subdivision (b)(3) simply by resort
to the docket sheet of a previous case”].) 
Second, Defendant has neither argued nor shown that Plaintiff, while
acting in propria personal, “repeatedly . . . conduct[ed] unnecessary
discovery” in the Mayendia Action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd. (b)(3).)
Third, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff,
while acting in propria persona, “repeatedly . . . engage[d] in other
tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd. (b)(3); Morton,
supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at p. 971.)
The court acknowledges that Defendant contends that Plaintiff, in
dismissing Defendant from his Second Amended Cross-Compliant in the Mayendia
Action and refiling the pending action against it, was engaging in
impermissible judge shopping and other frivolous tactics.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd. (b)(3);
Def. COE Ex. 1 [Pl. Second Amended Cross-Complaint in Mayendia Action].)  However, as set forth above, a vexatious
litigant is one who, while acting in propria persona, “repeatedly . . .
engage[d] in other tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
391, subd. (b)(3) [emphasis added].) 
Even if the court were to conclude that the conduct described by
Defendant in its motion constitutes a frivolous tactic or one solely intended
to cause unnecessary delay, such a finding as to one action would not support a
vexatious litigant designation.  (Ibid.;
Morton, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at p. 971.)  
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that the court
should deem Plaintiff a vexatious litigant and therefore denies Defendant’s
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391,
subd. (b)(3).) 
Finally, the court is concerned about the tone and content of a number
of remarks made by Plaintiff in his amended opposition to Defendant’s motion,
which include personal attacks, disparaging remarks, insults, and threats of
disbarment against Defendant’s attorneys. 
The court finds that such remarks are distracting from the merits of the
issues and arguments presented, are not persuasive advocacy, and have no place
in written or oral submissions, presentations, or communications made to the
court or to other parties or counsel in this litigation.  As the court states in section 1 of its
“Courtroom Information for Department 53” posted on the court’s website (and
which the court previously pointed out and quoted in its February 5, 2024
minute order):  “The court places a very
high value on civility, courtesy, and professionalism in the practice of law
and the judicial process.  The court expects
all attorneys and parties to treat each other, witnesses, jurors, court
personnel, the court, and others with the highest level of civility, courtesy,
and professionalism, both inside and outside the courtroom.”  The court expects all parties, attorneys, and
other participants in this litigation to govern their conduct accordingly.                    
ORDER
            The court denies defendant
Intersolutions LLC’s motion to deem plaintiff a vexatious litigant. 
            The court orders plaintiff Martin
Ramirez to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 18, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


