 Case Number:  23STCV07770    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Helena Vissing’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production, Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set One; Requests for Admission, Set One; Form Interrogatories - Employment Law, Set One; and Form Interrogatories – General, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant Antioch University shall provide code-complaint responses, without objections, to Plaintiff Helena Vissing’s Requests for Production, Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set One; Form Interrogatories - Employment Law, Set One; and Form Interrogatories – General, Set One within twenty (20) days of entry of this order. The matters identified in Plaintiff Helena Vissing’s Requests for Admission, Set One are deemed admitted against Defendant Antioch University as of the date of entry of this order.Plaintiff Helena Vissing’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $900.00. Such sanctions are payable by Defendant Antioch University and defense counsel to Plaintiff Helena Vissing and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Helena Vissing shall pay four (4) additional motion filing fees of $60 within ten (10) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Helena Vissing to give notice. REASONINGAs a preliminary matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff Helena Vissing (“Plaintiff”) has filed five motions as one, that is, a motion to compel Defendant Antioch University (“Defendant”)’s responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set One; a motion to compel Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One; a motion to compel Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories - Employment Law, Set One; a motion to compel Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories – General, Set One; and a motion to deem the matters identified in Plaintiff Helena Vissing’s Requests for Admission, Set One admitted against Defendant Antioch University. Plaintiff Helena Vissing shall pay four (4) additional motion filing fees of $60 within ten (10) days of entry of this order. Plaintiff is advised that additional failures to obtain the proper number of motion hearing reservations will result in a continuance of the hearing on the subject motions.If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)Similarly, where there has been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. (Ibid.) There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) Where the motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required. (Contra Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1) [good cause requirement for motion to compel further responses].)Further, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), a “party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.” The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)Plaintiff served Defendant with her Requests for Production, Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set One; Requests for Admission, Set One; Form Interrogatories - Employment Law, Set One; and Form Interrogatories – General, Set One on December 8, 2023. (Mot., Brandler Decl. ¶ 6.) Responses were due on or before January 12, 2024. (Ibid.) To date, no responses have been received. (Mot., Brandler Decl. ¶¶ 6-7..)Accordingly, Plaintiff Helena Vissing’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production, Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set One; Requests for Admission, Set One; Form Interrogatories - Employment Law, Set One; and Form Interrogatories – General, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant Antioch University shall provide code-complaint responses, without objections, to Plaintiff Helena Vissing’s Requests for Production, Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set One; Form Interrogatories - Employment Law, Set One; and Form Interrogatories – General, Set One within twenty (20) days of entry of this order. The matters identified in Plaintiff Helena Vissing’s Requests for Admission, Set One are deemed admitted against Defendant Antioch University as of the date of entry of this order.If a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or requests for production is filed, the Court may impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c); 2031.300, subd. (c).) If a motion to have requests for admission deemed admitted is filed, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)Plaintiff requests $5,015.00 in monetary sanctions for the motion. The Court finds that monetary sanctions are proper, but the Court reduces the amount to $900.00, representing two hours spent preparing the motion and one hour spent appearing at the hearing on the motion, totaling three hours at the rate of $300 per hour, as this matter and this motion were not particularly complex. Such sanctions are payable by Defendant Antioch University and defense counsel to Plaintiff Helena Vissing and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.