  Case Number:  20TRCV00847    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿  ¿¿  HEARING DATE:                    May 14, 2024 ¿¿  CASE NUMBER:                      20TRCV00847 ¿¿  CASE NAME:                            Drakk  Holdings, LLC v. PSIP SN Vermont LLC, et al.  ¿¿  MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant, PSIP SN Vermont,  LLC ¿¿  RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,  Drakk Holdings, LLC ¿¿  TRIAL DATE:                       May 28, 2024  ¿¿  MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Summary Judgment  ¿  Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED, with areas  for oral argument discussed below         I. BACKGROUND¿¿     A. Factual¿¿  ¿  On November 17, 2020, Plaintiff DRAKK Holdings, LLC  (“DRAKK”) filed this action against Defendant, PSIP SN Vermont, LLC (“PSIP”).  On September 29, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On November  30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”)alleging cases of  action for: (1) Specific Performance/Express Written Contract; (2) Specific  Performance/Promissory Estoppel; (3) Specific Performance/Breach of Implied  Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Promissory Estoppel and Money  Damages; (5) Fraud & Deceit; and (6) Negligent Misrepresentation.¿    This case involves a dispute between Plaintiff DRAKK  (buyer) and Defendant PSIP (seller), regarding a purchase and sale agreement  (“PSA”) for real property. Plaintiff claims in its complaint that Defendant  failed to complete the sale of its subdivided parcel under its PSA. On the  other hand, Defendant asserts DRAKK failed to complete the purchase of the  subdivided property because it did not have the funds in hand to pay the  purchase price on time, and that DRAKK’s claims to “financial ability” to borrow  or sell assets to get the funds at some future time is not legal sufficient to  prove DRAKK was “ready and able” to purchase on time.    Defendant now files a Motion for Summary  Adjudication as to all six of the causes of action asserting that Plaintiff’s  causes of action have no merit, that the necessary elements of each cannot be  established, and there is a complete defense to each. Further, Defendant  contends that because this Court can grant a Motion for Summary Adjudication to  each of the causes of action that Summary Judgment can be granted on the  grounds that the entire TAC has no merit, there are no triable issues of  material fact, and PSIP is entitled to judgment against Drakk as a matter of  law.    B. Procedural¿¿  ¿  On August 15, 2023, Defendant  filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication and Summary Judgment. On March 13,  2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On March 22, 2024, Defendant filed a reply  brief.    This Case was continued to  this current date because the 3 exhibits relied upon by Plaintiff to create a triable  issue of fact were missing from the voluminous evidence packages previously  submitted.  Since then, Plaintiff has filed  a supplemental brief with the missing exhibits from Kennealy’s declaration  referenced in Paragraph 33 of that declaration.    II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS    Plaintiff’s Evidentiary  Objections to The Declaration of Lonnie P. Nadal: Sustain: 28-30   Overrule: 1-27; 31-75   Plaintiff’s Evidentiary  Objection to the Declaration of Alan J. Droste Sustain: 2.   Overrule: 1, 3-13.   Defendant’s Evidentiary  Objections to Declaration of Keith Kenneally Sustain: 1-14, 16-21, 23,  28-29   Overrule: 15, 22, 24 -27   Defendant’s Evidentiary  Objections to Declaration of Bernard Kenneally Sustain: 1-2, 4   Overrule: 3, 5   Defendant’s Evidentiary  Objections to Declaration of O’Donnell Sustain: 1, 3-10, 12   Overrule: 2, 11   Defendant’s Evidentiary  Objections to Declaration of Wendy Moore  Sustain: 1-3, 5-10   Overrule: 4   Defendant’s Evidentiary  Objections to Declaration of Chris Rabenold Sustain: 1-7, 11-18   Overrule: 8-10   Defendant’s Evidentiary  Objections to Declaration of John Gebhardt  Sustain: 1-4, 6   Overrule: 5   Defendant’s Evidentiary  Objections to Declaration of Soo Joon Park  Sustain: 1-16   Overrule: none.   Defendant’s Evidentiary  Objections to Declaration of Randy Aguirre  Sustain: 2-11, 14-46   Overrule: 1, 12-13, 47-48   Defendant’s Evidentiary  Objections to Plaintiff’ Exhibits Sustain: 2   Overrule: 1, 3   Defendants’ Objection and  Request to Strike Drakk’s “Response to Separate Statement” Filed April 16, 2024                 Defendant seeks to strike Drakk’s document filed April  16, 2024 entitled “Response to Separate Statement.” The Court GRANTS this  request, and notes that it did not approve of such a filing at the last hearing  where it continued this motion exclusively for the purpose of Plaintiff filing  the 3 missing exhibits that the Court identified in the March 2024 tentative  ruling..        Defendant’s Objection to Plaintiff’s  Unauthorized “Master Exhibit Index with Supplemental Exhibits attached ISO  Opposition & Notice of Errata on Sean O’Donnell’s Exhibits:               After the previous hearing,  this Court noted that it was missing Exhibits HH, II, and JJ. In response,  Plaintiff provided a supplemental briefing which included these exhibits, but  also included an errata on Sean O’Donnell’s Exhibits. As noted by Defendant,  this was not permitted by the Court. As such, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s objections  as to the errata on Sean O’Donnell’s Exhibits, and looks only at exhibits HH,  II, and JJ.    III. ANALYSIS¿    A. Legal Standard     The function of a motion for summary  judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing  party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an  order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the  trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all  inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other  inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material  fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler  v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function  of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of  the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose  whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the  pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,  citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,  381-382.)¿    As to each claim as framed by the  complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial  burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to  establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)  128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in  support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning  the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)  39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿    Once the defendant has met that burden,  the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more  material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿To  establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must  produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)    B. Discussion    Specific  Performance – First, Second, and Third Causes of Action                       First, Defendant argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to  specific performance because the undisputed facts establish that Defendant did  not breach and that Plaintiff did not have the funds to purchase by the  extended escrow closing date of October 30, 2020, or for months thereafter.  Defendant argues that Plaintiff is barred from seeking specific performance by  not being ready and able to pay the purchase price on time, and also by failing  to tender the purchase price under the PSA. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff  did not have its own funds to purchase the property and had not secured  financing, and thus, Plaintiff was not ready and able to purchase the property  under the terms of the PSA as agreed upon by the partis, or thereafter when  Plaintiff filed its lawsuit for specific performance. Defendant contends that  Plaintiff admitted that it did not have the funds to close on time under the  PSA and that Plaintiff will be unable to prove it had a loan commitment to  close on time under the PSA, which is why it requested more time for testing  and then more time to close. Defendant cites to Am-Cal Inv. Co. v. Sharlyn  Estates, Inc. (1967) 255 Cal. App. 2d 526, 539-540, and notes that “[a] purchaser  without funds of his own may show that he was ready and able to pay the  purchase price because he had made arrangements to borrow the required funds  from a lending institution or from a third party, but if he relies upon the  negotiation of a loan from a third party, the buyer must prove: (1) That the  third party was legally bound by contract to advance the funds . . . .”             Nonetheless, Plaintiff argues that it was ready, willing,  and able to purchase the Property because at all times, Plaintiff’s purchase of  the property was secured by a loan commitment or its financial ability to  obtain its own funds.” (TAC, ¶ 56.) Plaintiff does not argue that it did not  tender payment, but that pursuant to Henry v. Sharma (1984) 154  Cal.App.3d 665, tendered payment is not required to prove ready, willing, and  able. While this is true, the facts of Henry are inherently  distinguishable. In Henry, the court rejected the argument that without  proof of an existing legally enforceable loan contract, a buyer cannot prove he  or she is ready, willing, and able to perform under a real estate purchase  agreement. The Court, instead, noted that proof of ability to perform may be  made by showing the buyer”’ commanded resources upon which he could obtain the  requisite credit.’” (Id. at 671.) Put simply, the “proof needed to show  ability [to perform] depends [not on the existence of a legally enforceable  loan agreement, but] on all the surrounding circumstances.” (Id. at  672.) In Henry, the Second District Court of Appeals noted that the  seller had committed an anticipatory breach, and thus, they saw no purpose in  requiring the buyers to bind themselves to a loan for which they have no  immediate need. (Ibid.) Rather, the Henry Court questioned  whether a lender would make a firm commitment to loan money for the purchase of  property the present owner refuses to sell. (Ibid.) Further, the  circumstances in Henry were that “[b]oth buyers were employed. They  owned a home which they had on the market at the time they contracted to buy  the property at issue here. They proceeded to sell the home and realized  $26,500 from the sale. In addition, buyers owned a six-unit apartment house and  a duplex in Los Angeles. When the deal at issue [in Henry] fell through,  buyers purchased another home on almost identical terms to those in the  [transaction in Henry].” (Ibid.) As such, the Henry Court  found that this evidence led the court to reasonably conclude the buyers had  the ability to perform their end of the bargain. (Ibid.) Lastly, this  Court further notes that the Court in Henry only applied a “reasonable  [amount of] time” when a real estate sales contract does not specify the dates  for performance. (Id. at 669.)             Here, Plaintiff asserts that assuming October 12, 2020  was the closing date (which Plaintiff contends it is not), then the balance of  the Purchase Price, deducting the earnest deposit, dropping to about  $5,941,720. Plaintiff argues that the evidence shows that Plaintiff could have  purchased the property with or without the benefit of this cred because: (1)  Plaintiff was already pre-qualified for a loan from its Bankers to purchase the  Property even prior to executing the Second Amendment/Lease credit, noting on  December 1, 2019, Bank of America had committed to loan Plaintiff $8,260.000;  (2) because of the rent credits and TIs, the Property had an equity cushion by  September 2020, noting by September and October 2020, Plaintiff’s lender  informed Plaintiff it would fund the entire Purchase Price without down payment  because of the TIs plaintiff had constructed; (3) On May 26, 2021, Zions Bank  committed to loaning Plaintiff $8,725,000 for this deal; and (4) Plaintiff  continues to be contracted by lenders asking about the status of the purchase  price.  However,  this Court notes that Plaintiff’s opposition states these four instances as  “evidence,” but provides no actual evidence of any of this. Plaintiff’s  opposition as to this section, cites to zero evidence. Further, this is clearly  distinguishable from Henry. The circumstances analyzed in Henry  involved the selling of a former property, the owning of an apartment complex,  and the purchasing of a similar property. These circumstances are not present  in the case at bar, nor are they even alleged. Instead, Plaintiff attempts to  draw an analogy to Henry despite the conclusory statement that the  evidence will show that they had a other loan opportunities. In fact, this  Court notes that this analysis is in line with the case relied on by Defendant,  Sharlyn Estates, where, as noted above, that “[a] purchaser without  funds of his own may show that he was ready and able to pay the  purchase price because he had made arrangements to borrow the required funds  from a lending institution or from a third party, but if he relies upon the  negotiation of a loan from a third party, the buyer must prove: (1) that the  third party was legal bound by contract to advance the funds.” (Sharlyn  Estates, supra, 225 Cal.App.2d at 539-40.) Here, because Plaintiff has no  proof, that on their own, they had the funds, Plaintiff is required to PROVE  that the third-party banks were legally bound, by contract, to advance the  funds. There is no evidence presented by Plaintiff, besides the Declaration of  Keith A. Kenneally (“Kenneally Decl.”). Paragraph 33 of the Kenneally  Declaration appears to attach Exhibits HH, II, and JJ to support these  allegations.  Plaintiff  has now provided for the Court, in a Supplemental Exhibits Document, such  exhibits. Exhibit HH and II are Loan Amortization Schedule  from lender name: Lextec Components. Plaintiff argues that this shows that as  of December 1, 2019, according to the Keith Kenneally declaration, “Bank of  America committed to loan $4,178,533.94 as a first mortgage and $2,000,000 related  to the TI’s. (Keith Kenneally Decl., ¶ 33.) This Court notes that a Loan Amortization  Schedule is typically used to present a loan repayment schedule based on a  particular maturity date. As such, the Court does not understand how this  evidences that Plaintiff was ready, willing, and able to pay, especially  without the Phase II test. The first payment in Exhibit HH indicates it was set  to begin January 1, 2020, however, after the extensions provided to Plaintiff  by Defendant, the escrow closing date here was October 30, 2020. As such, this  Court is confused what this proves for Plaintiff. If the loans did not issue on  the January 1, 2020 date that it states the first payment would be due, than these  do not in fact show that Plaintiff was willing, ready, and able to pay on  October 30, 2020.  Moreover, with exhibit  JJ, this appears to the Court to be a letter dated May 26, 2021, noting that  although Zions Bank was unable to offer Hapkat Holdings, LLC credit on the  terms requested, Zion did make a counteroffer on several conditions, including  the need for a $1.9M SBA loan and Plaintiff’s injection of nearly $2.4M its own  capital.   It is not clear to the Court whether that  $2.38M injection would or would not be covered by the Tenant Improvement allowance.  Plaintiff will need to address this in oral  argument.   Plaintiff will also need to address in oral argument  how the May 2021 Zion letter creates a triable issue of fact to prove readiness  and ability to pay for the property purchase on October 30, 2020, nearly 7  months earlier.  Moreover,  Defendant has provided evidence that pursuant to the PSA, there was a  definitive deadline for close of escrow – 15 days after map recordation – and  to accommodate Plaintiff, Defendant gave Plaintiff extra time, all to specific  extended dates, first to October 12 and then to October 30, 2020. This fact is  another distinction from the Henry, where the property sale contract did  not have a specified date. Additionally, Plaintiff again tries to draw an  analogy to Ninety-Nine Investments, LTD. V. Overseas Courier Service (Singapore)  Private, LTD. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1118, despite this Court indicating  in its January 31, 2023 ruling on demurrer that the two cases are inherently  factually distinguishable as there is no allegation that PSIP itself caused the  delay in recording the Tract Map or that PSIP breached any of its express  seller’s obligations in the attached PSA.  Now,  Plaintiff is citing to Ninety Nine, noting the reviewing court in Ninety  Nine found that even though the buyer’s ability to fund with a loan was not  a contingency (similar to the facts of this case), the buyer had the right to  fund with a loan as the deal was not an “all cash” deal (also similar to the  facts of this case). (Id. at 1130– 31, see also fn. 7.) However, this Court is  still missing the evidence that would support a finding that triable issues of  fact exist as to whether Plaintiff was ready, willing, and able to purchase the  property as of the last extended closing date in October of 2020. The  supplemented exhibits in the Kenneally Declaration do not create a triable issue  of fact that Zion, the SBA, or any other lending agency had a binding commitment  to Plaintiff to finance the purchase as of October, November, or even December  of 2020.                As such, the Court does not believe that Plaintiff can carry  its shifted burden on an MSA by evidencing it was ready, willing, and able to  pay at any time in calendar year 2020, through or after the extended closing  date. Thus, the Court grants summary adjudication as to the First, Second, and  Third causes of action.   Promissory  Estoppel             Next, Defendant argues that DRAKK cannot prove that there  was a “clear and unambiguous” promise or representation by Defendant to support  promissory estoppel. “The elements of a  promissory estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms;  (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) the reliance must be  both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must  be injured by his reliance.” (Flintco  Pacific, Inc. v. TEC Management Consultants, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 727,  734, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) Defendant contends that it  made no promise or representation, as alleged by Plaintiff, that the County  would record the map within any time frame, or that, contrary to the PSA agreed  upon by the parties, PSIP would agree to a “reasonable time” to close escrow  after map recordation. As evidence, PSIP contends that when it executed the  Second Amendment (Defendant’s Exhibit C), Drakk already had waived its  financing contingency and at that time had no reason to believe it would not  have the funds to perform after map recordation. Thus, Defendant argues that  there was no context for any supposed need by Drakk to want a “reasonable” time  to close escrow.             Exhibit C contains provisions which would allow Defendant  to carry its initial burden. First, section 2 – the closing date -- notes that the  closing date shall be fifteen (15) days after the later of (a) Substantial  Completion of the Seller work and (b) satisfaction of the condition set forth  in Section 7.2.5. Further the Exhibit C further shows this Court that the  parties agreed to, in the Second Amendment, a time is of the essence clause. Such  representations in a contract, along with the ability of the seller, pursuant  to section 7.2.5, to terminate the agreement by delivering written notice to  the other party on or before closing day.                Plaintiff’s opposition appears to address the promissory  estoppel issue in the Opposition memorandum sections D and E. Plaintiff argues  that there are implied terms, other than the implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing. Plaintiff argues that an implied term is that the parties would  reasonably agree to grant mutual extensions and right to update a Phase II for  closing. But such a claimed implied unlimited and open-ended forever extension  is in conflict with the parties’ express contractual “time is of the essence”  clause in the Second Amendment, and the parties express extnsions of the  closing date to two dates certain in October of 2020. This indicates that the  parties agreed to the opposite of this “reasonable extension” time. Plaintiff  offers the declaration of John Gebhardt, who claims that it is customary in the  industry to cooperate with a buyer’s lender requirements. (Gebhardt  Decl., ¶ 4.) Assuming that to be true, industry custom does not raise a triable  issue of fact when counterposed against PSIP’s evidence of a date certain for  closing.                Moreover,  in section E of Plaintiff’s opposition, it argues that it made substantial  improvements in reliance on the PSA. Plaintiff contends that not only did  Plaintiff wait approximately two years for the deal to close and enter into a  temporary lease, but Plaintiff also spent millions of dollars in improvements  with the understanding that Plaintiff would eventually own the property. Plaintiff  thus argues that the principle of avoiding forfeiture necessitates the  Defendant either: (1) cooperate with Plaintiff’s lender request to obtain an  updated Phase II in light of the change in law in order to close; or (2) allow  a short 4-5 week extension for Plaintiff to close the deal with cash. The Court  finds no triable issue of fact raised by these argument. First, as the PSA and  amendments do not contract for such a re-opening of Phase II, and there is  nothing in Plaintiff’s evidence would suggest that even after the argued 4-5  week extension, it would be able to have obtained financing at any time in  calendar year 2020.  Negligent  Misrepresentation              Defendant also argues, for the same reasons listed above,  that Plaintiff cannot provide evidence that Defendant engaged in fraud or  negligent misrepresentation. The Court agrees based on its analysis above.              In opposition, Plaintiff argues that this argument should  be denied on Motion for Summary Judgment based on the Implied Covenant of Good  Faith and Fair Dealing alone. The Court will take oral argument on whether or  not the PSA and Amendments, as written, are evidence of a seller standing in  the way of a buyer’s performance. The Court seeks clarification on whether  including a cut-off date for inspection, despite it being an advanced date far  from when the tract map was approved, would be an unreasonable term as to  disallow performance from a buyer.  III. CONCLUSION¿¿  ¿¿¿  For the foregoing reasons,  Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED in part and requires oral  argument to determine other portions of this ruling.   Moving party is ordered to  provide notice. Tentative Ruling ¿ HEARING DATE:                 May 14, 2024 ¿ CASE NUMBER:                      20TRCV00847¿ CASE NAME:                           Drakk Holdings, LLC
v. PSIP SN Vermont LLC, et al. ¿ MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant, PSIP SN Vermont LLC   ¿ RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs,
Drakk Holdings, LLC¿ TRIAL DATE:                           November 12, 2024 ¿ MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Quash
Deposition Subpoena for Depositions to: (1) Fulcrum Resources Environmental;
and (2) Zions Bank.                                                 Tentative Rulings:                     (1) Motion to Quash
Deposition Subpoena for Depositions to: (1) Fulcrum Resources Environmental;
and (2) Zions Bank is: (1) mooted; and (2) GRANTED.  The Court will hear oral argument as to
whether Plaintiff is seeking to continue the hearing of the MSJ and to extend
the discovery cut-off date for purposes of deposing Zions Bank to provide evidence
bearing on the pending MSJ.   I. BACKGROUND¿ ¿ A. Factual¿  On November 17, 2020, Plaintiff DRAKK Holdings, LLC
(“DRAKK”) filed this action against Defendant, PSIP SN Vermont, LLC (“PSIP”).
On September 29, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On November
30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”)alleging cases of
action for: (1) Specific Performance/Express Written Contract; (2) Specific
Performance/Promissory Estoppel; (3) Specific Performance/Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Promissory Estoppel and Money
Damages; (5) Fraud & Deceit; and (6) Negligent Misrepresentation.¿  This case involves a dispute between Plaintiff DRAKK
(buyer) and Defendant PSIP (seller), regarding a purchase and sale agreement
(“PSA”) for real property. Plaintiff claims in its complaint that Defendant
failed to complete the sale of its subdivided parcel under its PSA. On the
other hand, Defendant asserts DRAKK failed to complete the purchase of the
subdivided property because it did not have the funds in hand to pay the
purchase price on time, and that DRAKK’s claims to “financial ability” to borrow
or sell assets to get the funds at some future time is not legal sufficient to
prove DRAKK was “ready and able” to purchase on time.  Now, Defendant, PSIP seeks to quash the subpoenas
served by Drakk on the grounds that PSIP argues: (1) DRAKK failed
to provide minimum statutory notice required by the Code of Civil Procedure,
and its deposition subpoenas are invalid. For a deposition set on March 5, 2024
– the first of DRAKK’s purported deposition dates – DRAKK was obligated to give
a minimum notice no later than February 22, 2024, to provide the required
notice of 10 days plus 2 court days for electronic service of the notice. (Code
of Civil Procedure §§ 2025.270 and 1013.) Because DRAKK failed to do so, PSIP
argues the depositions cannot proceed, and if they do despite the invalid
notice, no deposition testimony will be admissible in this action; and (2) PSIP
contends the depositions of Fulcrum Resources Environmental and Zions Bank are
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence,
especially in light of this Court’s Minute Order entered February 9, 2024. B. Procedural               On March 1, 2024, Defendant filed
this Motion to Quash. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On April
19, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief.  II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS PSIP’s Evidentiary Objections
to Kenneally’s Declaration: Overrule: 1, 2 Sustain: 3 PSIP’s Evidentiary Objections
to Randy Aguirre’s Declaration: Overrule: all. Sustain: none. PSIP’s Evidentiary Objections
to Sean O’Donnell’s Declaration: Overrule: all Sustain: none. III. ANALYSIS ¿ ¿ A.   
Legal Standard  Code of
Civil Procedure § 1987.1 states, “When a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of [documents], the court, upon motion reasonably
made by the party, the witness or any consumer described in Section 1985.3…may
make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.” “The court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the parties, the witness, or the consumer from
unreasonable or oppressive demands including unreasonable violations of a
witness’s or consumer’s right of privacy.” (Ibid.)   Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (a) authorizes punitive damages in non-contract
cases “where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”
“Malice [is defined as] conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights and safety of
others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” means “despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) The “act
of operating a vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’
under section 3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a conscious
disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892.) Two cases, Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890 and Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82,
illustrate the specificity and gravity required to support a claim of punitive
damages against an allegedly intoxicated driver. B.   
Discussion  First,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s deposition notices are in violation of Code
of Civil Procedure, section 2025.270(a), and are thus, invalid. Section
2025.270, subdivision (a) states, “An oral deposition shall be scheduled for a
date at least 10 days after service of the deposition notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.270(a).) Moreover, as Defendant points out, Code of Civil
Procedure section 1013 adds two (2) days for electronic service. Based on this,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s deposition notices to the Droste Declaration
are void on their face as the deposition was set for March 5, 2024, and minimum
notice plus two days, would require the deposition to be noticed by February
22, 2024. Nonetheless, Defendant notes, and the exhibits reveal
that the depositions were noticed on February 26, 2024.  In
opposition, Plaintiff fails to address this issue at all. In the Defendant’s
reply brief, it notes that on April 16, 2024, Plaintiff served a new Deposition
Notice as to Zions. However, despite this, PSIP argues Plaintiff’s new Notice
of Deposition is also procedurally defective. This Court notes that even
assuming the discovery cutoff is April 29, 2024 (and not April 26, 2024, given
that April 28, 2024 falls on a weekend), Plaintiff’s new notice of deposition
fails to provide minimum statutory notice, requiring at least a 10-day notice
plus two court days for electronic service. Defendant notes that ten days from
April 16, 2024 is Friday, April 26, 2024. Defendant notes that for a valid
notice, adding two court days to a deposition notice electronically served on
April 16, 2024, would require the deposition to be noticed for April 30, 2024
(past the discovery cutoff by any calculation.)  Further,
this Court notes that as for Fulcrum Resources Environmental, Plaintiff has
contended it has retained Fulcrum as an expert, and thus, no longer needs to
conduct the deposition.  Prior
to determining whether the Court should even be required to discuss the merits
of these motions, the Court requires Plaintiff to demonstrate how its
deposition subpoena notices are code-compliant. This Court notes that as to the
Zion deposition subpoenas, its tentative ruling is to GRANT the motion to quash
based on the procedural failure to serve the deposition subpoena, and that the
discovery cut-off date was after the proper notice would have been served. However,
the Court also notes that on April 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a stipulation for
trial continuance. In that stipulation, the parties stipulated that the
discovery cutoff for non-expert discovery shall remain based on the currently
existing trial date. As such, this stipulation, which was granted on April 22,
2024, did not extend the deadline for discovery. The
Court will take oral argument from Plaintiff as to whether it is seeking another
continuance of the MSJ hearing pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
437c(h), and if so a detailed offer of proof as to what the expected testimony
would be from Zions Bank. IV. CONCLUSION  For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s
Motion to Quash is GRANTED. ¿¿ Defendant is ordered to give
notice.        





































































































































































      