 Case Number:  22TRCV01112    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 14, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV01112
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Reza Abolahrar v. PNC Bank, National Association, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 (1) Defendant,
PNC Bank, National Association
                                                
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Plaintiff,
Reza Abolahrar 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production
of Documents 
                                                (2)
Request for Monetary Sanctions
(3) Demurrer 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) MTC is mostly Granted 
                                                (2)
Request for Monetary Sanctions is granted in a lowered amount.
(3) Demurrer SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On November
1, 2022, Plaintiff, Reza Abolahrar (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, PNC Bank, National Association, Joshua Wolfson a/k/a Josh Wolfson
d/b/a Executive Funding Solutions, and DOES 1 through 20. On April 27, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint. On August 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). On December 19, 2023, this Court sustained
PNC’s demurrer to the SAC. 
 
On February
1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging causes of
action for: (1) Fraud; (2) Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Negligence; and (4)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty. 
 
As for the
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents,
Defendant, PNC asserts that in April 2023, it served Plaintiff with its
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. On June 1, 2023, Plaintiff
served responses together with documents labeled as Bates Nos. 000001-000607.
PNC contends that the responses contain six “General Objections” and a
“Preliminary Statement” that are incorporated by reference into each individual
response. However, PNC also argues that the individual responses each also
contain boilerplate objections. PNC contends that the objections make it
impossible to determine whether Plaintiff has withheld responsive documents.
PNC argues that Plaintiff’s pleadings make it clear he was fully aware of the
Broker Agreement as each iteration of his complaint in expressly referenced the
$10,000 fee prescribed under the agreement. Nonetheless, PNC asserts that when
presented with a copy of the signed Broker Agreement, Plaintiff represented
that he only has an unsigned copy of the document. However, PNC contends that
Plaintiff has yet to produce this unsigned copy. 
 
PNC further
argues that regardless of Plaintiff’s representation that he only has an
unsigned copy of the Broker Agreement cannot be squared with the fact that
Wolfson produced a copy of an email he sent to Plaintiff with a signed copy of
the Broker Agreement included as an attachment. Irrespective, PNC asserts that
in light of Wolfson’s email, Plaintiff either: (1) has a signed copy of the
Broker Agreement that he failed to produce; (2) destroyed evidence; or (3)
failed to conduct a diligent search of his records. All of these potential
scenarios represent a discovery abuse. As such, PNC contends that it has been
left with no choice but to bring this motion which seeks an order compelling
Plaintiff to not only further respond to the Requests for Production of
Documents, without objection, and to supplement his production, but to also:
(1) certify the efforts he and his counsel have undertaken to search for
responsive documents and (2) identify all documents that have been destroyed.
PNC also seeks sanctions against Plaintiff for his discovery abuse. This motion
was originally on this Court’s calendar for April 16, 2024. However, this Court
noted that PNC’s separate statement was not Code compliant. As such, the Court
continued the hearing to enable a compliant Separate Statement to be filed. 
 
Further, Defendant,
PNC Bank (“PNC”) filed a Demurrer to the TAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On March 12, 2024, PNC filed a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. On April 3, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On April 9, 2024, PNC filed a reply brief.
This Court continued this hearing on April 16, 2024. On April 30, 2024, PNC
filed an amended separate statement and declaration. 
 
Further, on February 1, 2024, PNC filed a demurrer.
On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On May 7, 2024, PNC filed
a reply brief. 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Along with PNC’s
Demurrer it requested this Court take judicial notice of the following
document: 
 
1.    
Broker Agreement between Joshua Wolfson as an
“independent broker” and Plaintiff for a fee of $10,000; 
2.    
Plaintiff’s Complaint filed in Los Angeles County
Superior Court Case No. 22TRCV01112 on November 1, 2022;
3.    
PNC’s Demurrer to the Complaint filed in Los Angeles
County Superior Court Case No. 22TRCV01112 on March 24, 2023; 
4.    
First Amended Complaint filed in Los Angeles County
Superior Court Case No. 22TRCV01112 on April 7, 2023; 
5.    
Tentative Ruling on Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
issued on July 24, 2023, in Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No.
22TRCV01112; 
6.    
Second Amended Complaint filed in Los Angeles County
Superior Court Case No. 22TRCV01112 on August 24, 2023; 
7.    
Tentative Ruling on Demurrer to Second Amended
Complaint issued on December 19, 2023, in Los Angeles County Superior Court
Case No. 22TRCV01112.
 
The Court grants most of PNC’s request and
takes judicial notice of items 2-7 but does not take judicial notice of an item
of evidence, i.e., the alleged broker agreement or its contents especially because
of the dispute between the parties as to whether a signed agreement exists or
is in Plaintiff’s care, custody or control. 
  
 
Further, with Plaintiff’s
opposition brief to the demurrer, Plaintiff has requested this Court take
judicial notice of the following documents: 
 
1.    
Defendant PNC Bank, National Association’s
Responses to Plaintiff Reza Abolahrar’s Requests For Admission, Set One, Served
on November 20, 2023; 
2.    
Defendant PNC Bank, National Association’s
Responses to Plaintiff Reza Abolahrar’s Special Interrogatories, Set One,
Served on November 20, 2023; 
3.    
Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint for Damages,
Filed on February 1, 2024
 
The Court GRANTS this request and takes
judicial notice of the above. 
 
III. ANALYSIS 
 
A.   
PNC’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses 
 
Legal
Standard 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as relevant
“if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
A motion to compel further responses to a
demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based
on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or
incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the moving party has
shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden is on the
objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95
Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ 
"The court shall limit the scope of
discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that
discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §
2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
Discussion

 
Preliminarily, this Court notes in the previous
tentative ruling instructing PNC about its non-code-compliant separate
statement needed to be refiled and that said revised Separate Statement to be
submitted will contain only the definitions plus the verbatim requests at issue
and the verbatim responses to each request at issue. If a supplemental response
was given, the revised Separate Statement must include that as well immediately
following the initial verbatim language of the response. The Court urges the
parties to take note of this as the Court will not rule on motions to compel
further responses with excessive separate statements, but instead, will send
the issues back to the party to further meet and confer. PNC failed to follow
these instructions, and instead, the separate statement – although shortened –
still contains argument sections. 
 
Despite this failure to follow Court instruction, in
the interest of judicial efficiency, this Court rules as follows: 
 
            Defined Term Objection (RPD Nos. 1-18): objection
overruled
 
            First,
PNC contends that Plaintiff’s “defined term objection” is improper and
baseless. PNC contends that in Plaintiff’s responses to RPD Nos. 1-18, they
contain a variation of the following objection: 
 
Responding Party objects to Propounding
Party’s definition of “you” as impermissibly overbroad as it includes
Responding Party’s “respective agents, servants, employees, attorneys,
insurers, investigators, experts, consultants and any and all other representatives”
violating Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2020.010 and 2031.010. 
 
PNC argues that it did not include the defined term
“you” in any of the RPDs (except for RPD No. 1), but Plaintiff waived this
objection by failing to assert it in his original response. The Court agrees
and overrules that objection. 
 
 
            Equally Available Objection (RPD Nos. 6 and 27):
objection overruled 
 
            Next,
PNC notes that Plaintiff asserted the following objection to RPD Nos. 6 and 27:

Responding Party objects to this request on
the basis that it seeks information or documents equally available to
Propounding Party.
 
            RPD
No. 6 requests: “All emails you sent to or received from PNC
regarding any of the events you allege in your Complaint.” Further, RPD No. 27
requests: “All documents related to PNC’s alleged liability to you for
negligence.” PNC argues that this objection is meritless as Plaintiff does not
identify any specific responsive document that is equally available to PNC, nor
does he state that producing these unidentified documents would require an
unreasonable inquiry such that it can properly be withheld. 
 
            Here, the Court finds that as to RFP
No. 6, this objection is improper and is overruled. The Court acknowledges that
Code of Civil Procedure §2030.220(c) gives a right to object on the ground that
“the information is equally available to the propounding party.”  However, an email “regarding any of the events
you allege in YOUR Complaint” is not equally available to the propounding party
because PNC does not know which emails relate to the alleged events in the pleadings;
rather, whether an email does or does not “relate to” an event is essentially a
contention of the Plaintiff.  RFP No. 6
does not ask for copies of every email between eh parties on a certain date, which
would be equally available to PNC and would be objectionable.  Instead, the RFP asks for a document that
supports the contention and an analysis of that subset of communications between
the parties that relate to an allegation of the Complaint.   If
trial were commencing tomorrow and Plaintiff were required to include all emails
that it will use as evidence in the trial, the Plaintiff would be required to
include any such documents that it intends to use as trial evidence of its
contentions in its trial exhibit binders. 
The motion to compel as to RFP No. 6 is thus granted.  
 
The
Court also agrees that using the “equally available” objection for RPD No. 27
is improper. Once again, the is a contention discovery request where PNC is
questioning what documents Plaintiff contends to relate to PNC’s alleged negligence.
PNC is not responsible for guessing which documents it also may have in its
possession giving rise to the alleged negligent conduct. As such, at minimum,
Plaintiff is required to identify such documents. It is also relevant evidence
that PNC seeks to determine what basis from which Plaintiff is making its
negligence claim, in order for PNC to be able to defend itself in this action.
As such, the motion is GRANTED as to both RFP No. 6 and RFP No. 27. 
 
            Unable to Comply Responses (RFP Nos. 4, 12, 30, 31, 32,
and 33): Further response required
 
            PNC
asserts that in response to RPF Nos. 4, 12, 30, 31, and 33, Plaintiff states he
has been unable to locate responsive documents following a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry. In response to these categories, Plaintiff has stated: 
 
Responding Party, after a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry and effort to comply with the demand for production,
is unable to comply with this request as Responding Party is not in possession
of the requested documents.
 
This
is a partially sufficient response pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure, section 2031.230. However, section 2031.230 also requires a party
who makes this representation of inability to comply to include specifications
of “whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category
has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or
has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.” (Code Civ. Proc.,§ 2031.230.) Moreover, section 2031.230
also notes that “[t]he statement shall set forth the name and address of any
natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have
possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ.
Proc.,§ 2031.230.) 
 
Here,
Because Plaintiff’s response does not contain these two requirements, this
Court GRANTS the motion, and requires Plaintiff to provide a verified further response
that includes the reason or reasons for the inability to comply. 
 
Broker Agreement or Related
Transmittal e-mail: ARGUE
 
Lastly, PNC argues that to date, Plaintiff has not
produced a copy of the Broker Agreement or related transmittal e-mails. PNC
contends that none of the various iterations of Plaintiff’s responses to the
RDs provide an explanation for his failure to produce these documents. Instead,
PNC argues that the responses contain a superficial, unsupported statement that
Plaintiff has conducted a diligent search and reasonable inquiry to locate
responsive documents. However, PNC asserts that ultimately, the Broker
Agreement and transmittal email are responsive to multiple of the RPDs,
including Nos.: 3, 11, and 20-25. 
 
In response to each of these requests, PNC notes
that Plaintiff states (in each iteration of his responses) that he conducted a
diligent search and reasonably inquiry, and would produce all responsive
documents within his possession, custody, or control. PNC, however, has learned
that Plaintiff has either: (1) withheld responsive documents; (2) destroyed
evidence; or (3) failed to conduct a diligent search of his records. PNC notes
that while it received a signed copy of the Broker Agreement from Wolfson, along
with an email that Plaintiff sent to Wolfson with the signed agreement included
as an attachment, Plaintiff refused to produced this email to Wolfson or the
signed Broker Agreement included as an attachment to the email. 
 
Based on this, PNC noted Plaintiff offered to
provide PNC with the due diligence declaration detailing the stops he undertook
to preserve and located documents responsive to the RPDs, but has yet to
produce this offered declaration.  The Court
in oral argument needs to hear from Plaintiff’s counsel regarding PNC’s
accusation of evasive responses or spoliation of evidence, and where is the due
diligence declaration.  
 
            Based
on the above, this Court notes that PNC’s motion is GRANTED in part, and DENIED
in part. To the portions GRANTED, this Court orders Plaintiff to provide Code-compliant,
verified further responses by June 4, 2024. 
 
            Sanctions
 
            As
noted by PNC’s moving papers, it seeks monetary sanctions from Plaintiff in the
amount of $8,700. Here, this Court finds that the attorneys’ hourly rates are
reasonable. However, this Court notes that some of the line items are
unreasonable. In total, PNC’s attorneys contend that they spent 13.30 hours on
the moving papers. This is excessive for a discovery motion, particularly if
all of the hours were allegedly conducted by higher-priced lawyers rather than associates
or paralegals.  Next, PNC’s attorneys’
content an expected 6 hours reviewing an opposition and preparing a reply
brief. Again, this seems excessive for a discovery motion. Further, the
attorney notes that it is anticipated to spent 2.5 hours preparing for and
attending the hearing on the motion, which is double what other counsel charge
in these days or remote appearances. 
 
            As
such, this Court awards monetary sanctions to PNC in the lowered amount of
$2,800, to be paid by Plaintiff or his counsel on or before June 4, 2024. 
                                            
 
B.   
PNC’s
Demurrer 
 
Legal Standard  
 
“The primary function of a pleading is to
give the other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a
defect in a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to
affect substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56
Cal.4th 203, 240.) “A¿demurrer¿tests the legal sufficiency of the factual
allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to whether “the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to state a cause of action or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.)
The Court does not “read passages from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a
ruling on a demurrer, we read the complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in
their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court “assume[s] the truth of the properly
pleaded factual allegations, facts that reasonably can be inferred from
those expressly pleaded and matters of which judicial notice has been
taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The court does
not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or conclusions
of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) 
 
A general demurrer may be brought under Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient facts are
stated to support the cause of action asserted or under section 430.10,
subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the
cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in Section
430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special demurrers.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant to show the
Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)  
 
Finally, Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
“[A]
pleading valid on its face may nevertheless be subject to demurrer when matters
judicially noticed by the court render the complaint meritless. In this regard
the court passing upon the question of the demurrer may look to affidavits
filed on behalf of plaintiff, and the plaintiff's answers to interrogatories .
. . . well as to the plaintiff's response to request for admissions.”  (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)
 
 
 
Discussion 
 
            Preliminarily,
this Court notes that it has already ruled on two other demurrers. As such, it
will consolidate its analysis. PNC demurs to Plaintiff’s TAC on the grounds
that it argues: (1) Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for Negligent
Misrepresentation fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a valid cause
of action against PNC under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e); and (2)
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for negligence fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a valid cause of action against PNC under Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10(e). 
 
            Sham
Pleading Doctrine
 
            PNC
repeats its earlier argument that Plaintiff’s TAC should be dismissed as a sham
pleading, as it did as to the FAC and SAC. More specifically to the TAC, PNC
contends that the TAC still fails to contain any good faith explanation for the
material inconsistencies between Plaintiff’s pleadings in this action. The TAC
has added exhibits of copies of alleged advertisements for Wolfson’s commercial
lending classes and seminars, and also includes various allegations regarding
these classes and seminars, and the benefits PNC purportedly received from
them. The key issues that remain to be the crux of PNC’s argument on this issue
throughout the demurrers is that PNC contends Plaintiff’s original complaint,
Wolfson was exclusively identified as a broker, and the included exhibits showed
that Wolfson conducted himself as a broker (not an MLO) through his own
personal email account. PNC argues that when these allegations proved to not
tie PNC to Wolfson as far as liability goes, Plaintiff amended his claims
(without explanation) by replacing all references to Wolfson as a “broker” with
references to Wolfson as an MLO. However, PNC contends that Plaintiff’s exhibit
still demonstrated that Wolfson was acting as a broker and Plaintiff himself
acknowledged that Wolfson was not acting within the scope of his employment
with PNC.
 
            In
this Court’s last tentative ruling, it explained that Plaintiff’s opposition to
the previous demurrer asserted that his sworn discovery responses were written
prior to Plaintiff’s additional investigation into this matter. This Court
questioned whether Plaintiff had served amended, corrected discovery responses,
and noted that on balance, PNC seemed to have the better of the argument on the
sham pleading doctrine, based on the previous record.  In opposition to the demurrer to the TAC,
Plaintiff argues that his explanation for changes to allegations from
Plaintiff’s first complaint to Plaintiff’s TAC are because of the discovery of
new facts through the limited discovery that has been conducted. Plaintiff’s Opposition
asserts that it was through discovery of Wolfson’s performance reviews by Brian
Love at PNC that Plaintiff allegedly learned of the connection between Wolfson’s
commercial lending classes “as an employee of PNC” (TAC ¶¶32, 33) and PNC’s
alleged encouragement of these seminars to create a “stream of business for PNC
in the form of residential loan business from the attendees of Wolfson’s classes.”

 
            The
Court finds these assertions to be insufficient.  The Opposition concedes that Plaintiff and
PNC have no lender-borrower relationship, which makes if difficult for the
Plaintiff to allege how PNC owes a duty of care to Plaintiff.   Without
making any determination as to the merits of Plaintiff’s claimed basis for evidence
of PNC’s knowledge of and encouragement of what PNC characterizes as “moonlighting”
as a loan broker, a demurrer tests the sufficiency of what a plaintiff alleges.
 The TAC does not allege any facts for the
Court to assess how it is that Wolfson’s seminars / moonlighting was done “as
an employee” of the bank.   Did he wear a badge so identifying himself?  Did he use PNC letterhead for his hand-outs?  Did he place any loan for Plaintiff with PNC?    
 
Negligence
and Negligent Misrepresentation
 
In this Court’s precious minute orders,
it has noted that the prior pleadings failed to contain an allegation that
emailing from one’s personal account is inherent in the PNC work environment or
may be fairly regarded as typical, nor did Plaintiff allege that PNC was aware
or should have reasonably foreseen that its employees might engage in such
activities outside of the scope of his or her employment. Moreover, this Court
previously noted that the SAC did not allege (beyond the asserted allegation
that PNC might benefit from depositary relationships if Plaintiff placed his mortgage
with another financial institution) that Wolfson’s conduct as it applied to
Plaintiff provided some benefit to PNC or was a customary incident of the
employment relationship. Ultimately, this Court found in its previous ruling as
to the SAC that  Plaintiff’s allegations
did not cure the deficiencies the Court identified as to the FAC. 
 
 
The TAC faisl to adequately addresses the
Court’s previous concerns as to this issue. Plaintiff alleges now that his real
estate agent, Teresa Bruno met Wolfson at one of the seminars (TAC, ¶ 11), however,
this fact does not cure the deficiencies laid out by this Court, and there is
no allegation that Ms. Bruno thereafter engaged in any relevant transction with
PNC.  The TAC also contains allegations
of a claimed connection between Wolfson’s commercial
lending classes “as an employee of PNC” and PNC’s alleged encouragement of
these seminars as a claimed ground for vicarious liability.   (TAC ¶¶32,
33)  These allegations are not sufficient
to impose vicarious liability on PNC for anything or everything Wolfson did at
these lending classes.  Nor does the TAC
allege any connection between these classes and the transaction with Plaintiff
here.  Management and supervision of an
employee are duties a lender owes to its borrowers, but there is no
borrower-lender relationship alleged as to PNC. 

 
As this is Plaintiff’s fourth bite at the
apple, the Court’s tentative ruling is to SUSTAIN the demurrer without leave to
amend as against the two claims alleged against PNC. 
 

IV.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons,
this Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part the Motion to Compel Further as
indicated above, and Plaintiff is required to provide code-compliant, verified
responses by June 4, 2024. Further, Plaintiff is required to provide the
monetary sanctions to PNC on or before June 4, 2024, in the amount indicated
above. 
 
For the foregoing reasons,
Defendant PNC’s Demurrer to the TAC is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Moving party is to give
notice. 
 
¿¿¿ 

 
 
 