 Case Number:  23TRCV02090    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 May 14, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02090  CASE NAME:                        Louis  A. Sparks, Jr. V. Willie Bell, et al.    MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Wesslyn L. Hamilton   RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Louis A. Sparks, Jr., in pro  per   TRIAL DATE:                       None  Set.     MOTION:                              (1) Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint  Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED without leave  to amend.  Plaintiff has not remedied the  pleading defects discussed at two prior demurrer hearings and posted on two  prior occasions          I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual  On June 29,  2023, Louis A. Sparks (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants,  Willie Bell, Maura Bell, Maura Sparks, Earl L Coats, Davita Dialysis, Robert  Sparks, Lois Sparks, Dennis Sparks, Wesslyn L. Hamilton, Edward E. Sarks.  Matrae L. Sparks, Marcus O. Sparks, Joyce R. Sparks, Edelberto Ysaguirre, and  Hilberto Ysaguirre (“Defendants”). The Complaint appeared to allege a cause of  action for Murder. On October 3, 2023, this Court sustained the Defendants’  demurrer to the original complaint, having pointed out to the Plaintiff that  “murder” is not a recognized or valid CIVIL claim or causes of action, but  rather is a criminal charge.    On January  11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of  action for: (1) Personal Injury; (2) Property Damage; and (3) Wrongful Death.  This Court also sustained Defendant, Wesslyn L. Hamilton’s (“Hamilton”) demurrer  to the FAC, again explaining that a plaintiff must plead facts to support each  element of a civil cause of action.  The  Court also explained that if the death of Plaintiff’s father occurred over 30  years ago, he would need to explain and allege why the two-year statute of limitations  for wrongful death cases would not bar this belated lawsuit.     On Marh 25,  2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended (“SAC”) alleging that based on  information received, Plaintiff believes Louis A. Sparks, Sr. and Alvin L.  Sparks were both murdered for Life Insurance and Oil, Gas, and mineral Leases  in Cass County, Texas.      Defendant Hamilton  now files a demurrer to the SAC.      B. Procedural    On April 15, 2024, Defendant  Hamilton filed this demurrer to the SAC. On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition brief, in pro per. On May 6, 2024, Hamilton filed a reply brief.    II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS   Defendant Hamilton demurs to Plaintiff’s  SAC on the grounds he argues: (1) the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to  constitute any cause of action; (2) Plaintiff’s allegations conclusory and  impermissibly vague and uncertain; and (3) the lawsuit is time-barred.    III. ANALYSIS   A.     Legal  Standard   A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a  demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of  action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the  plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High  School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the  sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all  material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.  (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,  deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.  (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)   A  pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., §  430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label  the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell  what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition  Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for  uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects  uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery  procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th  612, 616.)¿¿    B.      Discussion     By way of background, this Court previously sustained the demurrer  to the original complaint because on the face of Plaintiff’s Complaint, the Court  was unable to comprehend what causes of action Plaintiff was alleging against  the various Defendants, and even if the Court were to consider the original  Complaint as attempting to state a civil cause of action for wrongful death, there  were insufficient allegations of facts alleged to show the elements of a  wrongful death cause of action.  Several  months later, after Plaintiff amended his suit, this Court sustained a demurrer  to the FAC.  Even though the FAC alleged  cognizable causes of action, Plaintiff still failed to alleged a factual basis for  those causes of action.    Now, Plaintiff has filed  a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) which is attacked by demurrer again.  Plaintiff’s SAC appears to be maintaining  causes of action for: personal injury, property damage, and wrongful death  against Defendants. Of course, a claim of personal injury or property damage alone  is not causes of action. Instead, a plaintiff must alleged a legal basis for  seeking to recover for a personal injury or damage to property such as  negligence, or an intentional tort, or strict liability in tort.  Similarly, the elements of a cause of action for  wrongful death must include a tort, such as negligence or intentional  misconduct, and the resulting death of the plaintiff’s decedent. (Lopez v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 196  Cal.App.4th 675, 685.) The crux of the missing ingredients in the SAC is that  it is still not clear which if any tort Plaintiff is alleging. Is Plaintiff  alleging wrongful death via negligence, intentional misconduct,  conspiracy, etc.? The only basis Plaintiff  makes for these allegations is, yet again, Penal Code § 187(a). Penal Code §  187(a) is not a basic for civil liability.   It is a criminal statute that has its own elements of the crime, as  distinct from a cause of action in a civil court.  As such, the failure to allege civil tortious  conduct in a wrongful death case, makes plaintiff unable to maintain a claim  for damages against Defendants.    As noted in the Court’s  ruling in February on the demurrer to the FAC, one of the attachments to the  FAC and to the SAC indicates that Plaintiff’s father died in 1992, over 30  years before this lawsuit was filed.   Under California Code of Civil Procedure section 335.1, a suit for the  alleged wrongful death of a parent must be brought within two years of the  parent’s death.  While there are some  exceptions to the two-year limitation period, the exception(s) must be alleged  in the lawsuit for it to survive a demurrer.   The SAC does not explain or correct this deficiency, which is a fatal  defect in an attempt to plead a viable civil cause of action for wrongful death  (or personal injury or property damage, although the state of limitations for a  property damage case in three years).  The  SAC also attaches an exhibit regarding the alleged death of Plaintiff’s brother  in 2013, which also would be barred by the statute of limitations.  Regardless of the truth or the assertion that  defendants here benefitted or knew about the death of Plaintiff’s father, there  is no allegation of the elements of a cause of action for wrongful death,  personal injury, or property damage in the SAC that can survive a demurrer.   As this is Plaintiff’s third bite at the  apple, Plaintiff will be required to explain to the Court in detail if and how  he plans to move forward with his claims against Defendant if he were granted an  additional leave to amend. However, if this Court is not convinced, this Court  will sustain demurrer without leave to amend.     IV.  CONCLUSION    For the foregoing reasons, Defendant Hamilton’s demurrer is  SUSTAINED without leave to amend.    Defendant Hamilton is ordered to give notice. 