 Case Number:  21TRCV00654    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 May 14, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  21TRCV00654  CASE NAME:                        Jiali Yan v. Michael  Anthony Forbes dba Forbes Estates, LLC  MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Jiali Yan                                                  RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Michael Anthony Forbes dba Forbes Estates, LLC (No  Opposition)   DISPOSED OF DATE:         April 18, 2023  MOTION:                              (1) Motion to Compel Further  Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One                                                 (2) Request for  Sanctions   Tentative Rulings:                   (1) DENIED                                                 (2) DENIED.    I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual   This case originates from a Complaint filed by  Plaintiff, Jiali Yan (“Plaintiff”) against Defendants, Michael Antony Forbes  dba Forbes Estates, LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges a cause  of action for: (1) Fraud.   A non-jury trial took place in this case between March  15, 2023 and March 17, 2023. A Statement of Decision was filed on April 18,  2023. The Court found that Mr. Forbes had not proved his breach of contract  claim, did not carry his burden to prove that he made a demand for payment of  any specific amount, nor that Ms. Yan refused to pay. Further, as to the Fraud  claims, the Court found that Mr. Forbes did not prove that Ms. Yan acted in bad  faith or breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, but did  prove that Ms. Yan did not advertise or agree to sell the property. Lastly, the  Court held that neither party proved that the other committed any species of  fraud.    Now, Plaintiff seeks to Compel the [turnover of the] Original  Deed that Plaintiff claims Defendant has refused to provide in the progression  of litigation. Plaintiff contends that Defendant only provided a copy of the  deed in court, but now claims he has the original deed but refuses to turn it  over so that Plaintiff can file the quitclaim deed with the Nevada recorder’s  office.                   B. Procedural              On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff, Jaili Yan, filed this  Motion to Compel the Original Deed and Request for Sanctions. To date, no  opposition has been filed.     II. ANALYSIS   A.     Legal  Standard  “Unless otherwise limited by order  of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery  regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter  involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in  that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears  reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code  of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as  relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,  preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los  Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)   A motion to compel further  responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be  brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,  evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or  overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A  motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good  cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court  (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing  that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the  discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to  other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the  moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden  is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct  (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿  "The court shall limit the  scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness  of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought  will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.  Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the  objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective  intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to  respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In  and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such  evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon  v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)   B.     Discussion    Plaintiff asserts that during the trial, it was not  apparent to anyone that the quit claim deed was not the original deed.  (Declaration of Jiali Yan (“Yan Decl.”), ¶ 6.) Yan further notes that when she  took the exact deed that was given to her to the Clark County recorder’s office  on January 16, 2024, the Clerk’s Office in Nevada deemed it as “not an  original” and thus, the deed was not recordable. (Yan Decl., ¶ 7, Exhibit 1.)  Yan further asserts that Mr. Forbes never provided an original wet signature  deed to Plaintiff nor the court. (Yan Decl., ¶ 8, Exhibit 2.) Plaintiff notes  that the original deed is needed to record at the County recorder’s office, which  can be used to make progress on enhancing the property, working with Mr.  Forbes, and either selling or creating a working relationship. (Yan Decl., ¶ 14.)  Yan contends that Mr. Forbes refuses to provide Plaintiff with the original  deed even though he claims to have found it in his home on February 5, 2024. (Yan  Decl., ¶ 15.)   Plaintiff’s  moving papers argue that California Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.230 states  in relevant part, that “[a] representation of inability to comply with the  particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm  that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to  comply with the demand.” Section 2031.230 further states that “[t]his statement  shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular  item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost,  misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession,  custody, or control of the responding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)  Plaintiff contends that this section, along with Code of Civil Procedure  section 2031.310 provide this court the authority to issue an order compelling  further responses to Plaintiff’s discovery demands. However, this Court notes  that Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310 notes that a Motion to Compel Further  Responses to a Demand for Production must be noticed within 45 days of the  service of the verified responses. This case was disposed of over a year ago.  As such, a motion brought under Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310 would not justify  the current motion as it is untimely.    Instead,  when a party discovers new evidence, material to the party making the application,  which he or she could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and  produced at the trial, the party may make a Motion for New Trial pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 657(4).  No such motion has been made here.     Because  this Court is DENYING the Motion, the Court also DENIES the Request for  Monetary Sanctions.   III. CONCLUSION              For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s  Motion to Compel Further Response by providing an original deed is DENIED. The  Request for Sanctions is DENIED as well.               The Court will give notice. 