 Case Number:  20STCV30675    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  KENYCE SMITH, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CODY ARAGHACHI, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV30675  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 20, 2024  I. Background  Plaintiffs Kenyce Smith and Abigail Grey (“Grey”) filed this action against defendant Cody Araghachi for damages arising from an automobile collision.  Defendant Cody Yaraghchi, erroneously sued and served as Cody Araghachi, (“Yaraghchi”) now moves for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff Grey to dismiss Plaintiff Grey’s action on the grounds that Plaintiff Grey failed to abide by the Court’s September 19, 2023 Order to appear for her deposition. Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC and Rasier-CA, LLC (“Uber Defendants”) join the motion.  Plaintiff Grey opposes Yaraghchi’s motion, and Yaraghchi filed a reply.  II. Terminating Sanctions  Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030 gives the court the discretion to impose sanctions against anyone engaging in a misuse of the discovery process.  A court may impose terminating sanctions by striking pleadings of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering default judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030(d).)  A violation of a discovery order is sufficient for the imposition of terminating sanctions.  (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.)   A terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with caution."  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 793.)  "A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction."  (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)  While the court has discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery."  (Deyo, 84 Cal.App.3d at 793.)  "[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his discovery obligations."  (Ibid.)  Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information.  (See Midwife v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971].) Yaraghchi argues Plaintiff Grey appeared for her deposition on August 25, 2023, but did not produce any documents responsive to production of documents request in the deposition notice. Plaintiff’s deposition lasted two hours and forty-two minutes. Because the deposition was not completed, Yaraghchi proceeded with its motion to compel Plaintiff Grey’s deposition, which was granted on September 19, 2023. Thereafter, Plaintiff’s counsel and defense counsel met and conferred, and agreed to November 9, 2023. However, on November 8, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel requested to reschedule the deposition because it was never placed on their calendar. Yaraghchi obtained a certificate of non-appearance on November 9, 2023. Defense counsel conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel once more, and the parties agreed to November 29, 2023. However, on November 29, 2023, Plaintiff Grey failed to appear for her deposition. Yaraghchi argues terminating sanctions are warranted, because Yaraghchi has attempted for over a year and a half to depose Plaintiff Grey, and she has failed to abide by the Court’s order.  In opposition, Plaintiff Grey argues she complied with her discovery obligations by appearing on August 22, 2023 for her deposition, and that Plaintiff agreed to a second deposition on November 29, 2023. Plaintiff Grey contends she was unable to attend the November 29, 2023 deposition because the morning of that date, the Los Angeles Sheriff presented to Plaintiff Grey’s apartment to evict her and her child from their apartment. Plaintiff Grey avers she is available at any time now, that is convenient for defense counsel, for her second deposition.  In reply, Yaraghchi contends Plaintiff has failed to provide admissible evidence justifying her failure to appear on November 9, 2023 and on November 29, 2023, because the Three-Day Notice to quit was not authenticated by Plaintiff Grey. Further, Yaraghchi argues the Three-Day Notice served on November 15, 2023 did not impede Plaintiff Grey’s ability to appear for either the November 9, 2023 or November 29, 2023 deposition dates. Here, the fact that Plaintiff Grey is present in the litigation and has declared she will appear for her second deposition is enough to not justify dismissal of Plaintiff Grey’s action against defendants at this time. There must be an outright refusal to comply with discovery obligations, preceded by a history of abuse. Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.)  Thus far, Plaintiff Grey has disobeyed one Court order, based on a motion filed by Yaraghchi, to appear for her deposition. However, there is no demonstration of willfulness in light of the representation that she will now abide.  Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find terminating sanctions warranted at this juncture. Yaraghchi’s motion for terminating sanctions is therefore DENIED without prejudice.   III. Monetary Sanctions  Yaraghchi did not request any other sanctions aside from terminating in the Notice, and thus the Court will not impose a lesser sanction as it relates to Yaraghchi’s motion. However, the Uber Defendants, who joined the motion, request both terminating sanctions and monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,825. The Uber Defendants contend that, aside from Plaintiff Grey violating the September 19, 2023 Order to appear for her deposition, Plaintiff Grey has failed to timely serve verified responses pursuant to the Court’s December 7, 2023 order. The Court had ordered Plaintiff to serve verified responses, without objections, to the Uber Defendants’ request for production of documents, set one, within fifteen days and to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $873.30. (Min. Order, Dec. 7, 2023.) The Uber defendants aver Plaintiff Grey served late responses on January 9, 2024, and that she has not paid monetary sanctions to date. Plaintiff Grey’s opposition does not address the Uber Defendants’ arguments. Although late, the Uber Defendants concede Plaintiff Grey did comply with the December 7, 2023 Order by serving responses to the outstanding discovery. In terms of the failure to pay owed monetary sanctions, “[d]iscovery sanctions are intended to remedy discovery abuse, not to punish the offending party. Accordingly, sanctions should be tailored to serve that remedial purpose, should not put the moving party in a better position than he would otherwise have been had he obtained the requested discovery, and should be proportionate to the offending party's misconduct.” (Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal. App. 4th 1215, 1223.) To impose terminating sanctions at this time would place the Uber Defendants in a better position, because Plaintiff did serve the requested discovery, and to dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint for failure to pay a monetary sanction would be grossly disproportionate to the type of misconduct here. There is no demonstration that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules.  Therefore, the Court will impose lesser sanctions at this time in the form of the requested additional monetary sanctions.  The Uber Defendants are awarded 1 hour to prepare the motion and reply, and one hour to appear at the hearing, all at the requested rate of $250 per hour, for a total of $750 in attorney’s fees.  Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff Grey and her counsel, jointly and severally. Plaintiff Grey and/or her counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to the Uber Defendants, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $750, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 16th day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  