 Case Number:  22STCV02944    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARIA SANCHEZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  TARGET CORPORATION, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV02944  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER    Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 20, 2024   I. Background Plaintiff Maria Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Target Corporation (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a fall on Defendant’s property.  Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to provide further responses to form interrogatories, set one and special interrogatories, set one. Defendant seeks further responses to special interrogatories nos. 18, 44-45, and form interrogatories nos. 4.1, 6.4, 11.2, and 17.1.  The Court will not consider Plaintiff’s untimely opposition filed on February 14, 2024.  II. Procedural Requirements Meet and Confer A motion¿to compel further responses to requests for production “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(2).)¿ The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)¿  The Court finds that Defendant met the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(2).   Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) Per the Eight Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts effective October 10, 2022 (Filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, “PI Hub Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC). PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery.” Additionally, “Reserving or scheduling an IDC does not extend the time to file a Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses.” (Ibid.) Here, the Court finds Defendant complied with the Standing Order in scheduling and attending an IDC. The issues were not resolved at the September 28, 2023 and November 8, 2023 IDCs. Further, Plaintiff’s counsel failed to appear at the Status Conference Re: Discovery Issues re: photos', video, and medical is scheduled for December 1, 2023. (Min. Order, Dec. 1, 2023.)  Separate Statement A motion to compel further responses requires a separate statement.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).) Defendant properly filed separate statements for its motion to compel further.  III. Motion to Compel Further Responses CCP § 2030.300(a) provides that on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply:   (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.   (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.   (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.     At the IDCs, the Court has already reviewed Plaintiff’s discovery responses. Based upon the Court’s recollection, Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to appear at hearings and has not complied with promises made concerning the responses. Even if the Court were to consider Plaintiff’s untimely opposition, it adds no meaningful value to the issues presented.  Therefore, Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to (1) form interrogatories, set one, as to nos. 18, 44-45, and (2) special interrogatories, set one, as to nos. 4.1, 6.4, 11.2, and 17.1, are GRANTED.¿Plaintiff is ordered to provide further responses to the requests within twenty (20) days.  IV. Sanctions Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response.  (CCP §2031.310(h).)  Defendant requests $5,065.61 for the motion, meet and confer efforts, IDCs, preparation, travel time. The amount sought here represents one-third of the costs incurred, because Defendant is bringing three separate motions related to the discovery dispute. The Court will award 10 hours of attorney time, at the rate of $185 per hour, based on time expended on motion work, meet and confer efforts, and court appearances, for a total of $1,850.00. Sanctions imposed against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally. Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through its attorney of record, in the total amount of $1,850.00, within twenty (20) days.     Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 16th day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   