  Case Number:  22STCV05453    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  W S S v.
DAVID NIKNIA, et al.
 
Plaintiff’s motion
to lift stay
 
Date of Hearing:        October
12, 203                    Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:               W                                               Case No.:        22STCV05453
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 14, 2022, plaintiff
SS (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants David Niknia
(“Defendant”), Panorama Medical Group (“PMG”), and Ray Salari, M.D. (“Salari”).
Plaintiff asserts causes of action for negligence, sexual assault and battery,
sexual harassment in a defined relationship, negligent hiring, training,
supervision, and retention, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant is a licensed physician’s assistant and the
chief financial officer and corporate secretary for PMG, which operates a
medical practice. (Compl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff alleges that on October 14, 2021,
Defendant inappropriately, and for no medical purpose, touched her inner
thighs, buttocks and vagina and his actions constituted a physical and sexual
assault and battery on Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶¶ 27-29.) Plaintiff also alleges
that PMG and Salari failed to properly investigate, screen, train, or supervise
its employees as to prevent sexual harassment and abuse in their business.
(Compl., ¶¶ 18-25.)
 
On May 11, 2022, the instant
action was stayed for a period of six months due to Defendant Niknia’s ongoing
criminal case against him involving Plaintiff and a violation of Penal Code
section 289(D)(3), forcible penetration of a victim with a foreign object. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Lift Stay
is GRANTED
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff SS moves to lift the stay of proceedings on the grounds
Plaintiff SS will be prejudiced if the stay remains and Plaintiff SS cannot
conduct discovery against Defendant Niknia. 
 
“The Constitution does not ordinarily require a stay of civil
proceedings pending the outcome of criminal proceedings [Citations.] …
‘Nevertheless, a court may decide in its discretion to stay civil proceedings
... “when the interests of justice seem [ ] to require such action.” ‘ Id.
at 1375 (quoting United States v. Kordel, 397 U.S. 1, 12 n. 27, 90 S.Ct.
763, 769 n. 27, 25 L.Ed.2d 1 (1970)).” (Keating v. Office of Thrift
Supervision (9th Cir. 1995) 45 F.3d 322, 324.)  
 
The California Court of Appeal adopted this approach in Avant!
Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885. The California
Court of Appeal adopted a five factor test from Keating for evaluating
if the interest of justice requires a stay to a civil action while a criminal
action is proceeding. The tests weighs the following factors: (1) the interest
of the plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any
particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay;
(2) the burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on
defendants; (3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases,
and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not
parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the
pending civil and criminal litigation. (Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court,
supra, 79 Cal.App.4th at p. 885.)  
 
Plaintiff SS argues almost fourteen months have passed since the
first stay of proceedings ordered May 11, 2022. As a result of the stay,
Plaintiff SS has not been able to conduct any written or oral discovery to
Defendant Niknia for over a year. Plaintiff SS further argues the Keating
factors weigh in favor of denying Defendant Niknia’s second motion for stay.
Specifically, Plaintiff SS contends a trial would not be set until 2025 if SS
needs to wait for Defendant Niknia’s criminal proceeding to conclude. As for
the second factor, Plaintiff argues Defendant Niknia would suffer little if any
burden in having to respond to discovery. Defendant Niknia can maintain his
Fifth Amendment rights and can object based upon his Fifth Amendment to
questions that may criminally implicate him. Regarding the third factor, Plaintiff
SS argues there would be little, if any, inconvenience to the court if SS is
entitled to proceed with discovery and litigation. Plaintiff SS does not
address the fourth factor. Lastly, the fifth factor analyzes the interest of
the public in the pending civil and criminal actions. Plaintiff argues the
public has an interest to not only ensure that Defendant Niknia is charged and
convicted for this act, but the public has an interest in ensuring that
plaintiff SS is compensated for her serious physical and emotional injuries.
 
In opposition, Defendant Niknia argues he shouldn’t have to choose
between sacrificing his constitutional rights or sacrificing his opportunity to
defend himself against claims that could result in a significant civil
judgment. Moreover, Defendant Niknia argues the Keating factors weigh in
his favor. Defendant Niknia argues the first factor weighs in his favor as another
six-month stay is not going to unduly prejudice Plaintiff. As for the second
factor, as noted above, Defendant Niknia argues he will be faced with a choice
to either waive his Fifth Amendment rights or defend the civil action. If
Niknia chooses to assert the Fifth Amendment privilege, he will severely
inhibit his defense to Plaintiff’s claims, potentially ceding to a civil
judgment amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars. Regarding the third
factor, Defendant Niknia argues the continued stay will also negate or minimize
the need for extensive disputes and motion practice regarding the boundaries of
Niknia’s rights to invoke his Fifth Amendment privilege. As for the fourth
factor, Defendant Niknia contends criminal authorities have an interest in
allowing the criminal case to proceed, unimpeded by this civil action. Lastly,
Defendant Niknia argues the fifth factor favors a continued stay. Defendant
Niknia contends the interest of the public would undoubtedly weigh in favor of
a continued stay, as the public interest is better served by the completion of
a criminal case unfettered by the inevitable civil discovery disputes that will
impede Defendant's attempt to resolve the criminal case. Defendant Niknia also
argues his age is not a sufficient basis to lift the stay. Specifically,
Plaintiffs are unaware of Defendant Niknia’s health condition and moreover, Plaintiff
offers no authority that this is a sufficient basis to lift a stay. 
 
Based on the arguments put forth, the court finds that it is in
the interest of justice to lift the stay and allow the civil action to
proceed.  As noted above, Defendant
Niknia can invoke his Fifth Amendment privilege if necessary. The court further
notes because of the uncertain, extended timeline in the criminal proceedings
against Defendant Niknia, Plaintiffs will suffer “prejudice resulting from the
loss of evidence, including the inability of witnesses to recall specific
facts, or the possible death of a party.” 
(Clinton v. Jones (1997) 520 U.S. 681, 707-708.) Current
discovery against Defendant Niknia is necessary to look into more witnesses to
Defendant Niknia’s alleged modus operandi of sexually assaulting female
patients. 
 
Therefore, after considering the particular circumstances and
competing interests involved in this case, the court grants Plaintiffs’ motion
to lift the stay.  