 Case Number:  22VECV02109    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  W YVONNE JOHNSON
V. SAFEBUILT INSURANCE COMPANIES, ET AL.
 
DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER WITH AND WITHOUT MOTIONS TO STRIKE 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
12, 2023                              Trial
Date:       N/A  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No:         22VECV02109 
 
Moving Party:            Golden
State Claims Adjusters and United Specialty Insurance Company 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Yvonne Johnson
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Yvonne Johnson brought a
prior action (via a cross-complaint) against defendant United Specialty
Insurance Company’s insured, Arina Builders, who she claimed had damaged her
property.  That action resulted in a
judgment in plaintiff’s favor for $261,120. 
Plaintiff subsequently sought attorney’s fees against the insured, which
were granted.  The judgment and the fees
were not paid.  Plaintiff than brought
the instant suit against the insurance company (United), and Golden State
Claims Adjusters (GSCA), a third party claims administrator, seeking the full
amount of the judgment and attorneys fees. 
The first six causes of action  in
the First Amended Complaint are against United only, for 1) Judgment Creditor’s
action against the Insurer; 2) Failure to Pay a Covered Claim; 3) Unreasonable
Failure to Defend; 4) Bad Faith Failure to Investigate a Claim; 5) Breach of
the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and 6) Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code Section 17200, et seq. 
Plaintiff also stated claims against GSCA and United for Intentional and
Negligent Misrepresentation (the Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action). 
 
Defendant GSCA filed a demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint.  Defendant
United filed a demurrer and motion to strike. 
 
II.
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
Defendant Golden State Claims Adjusters’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is Sustained with Leave to Amend.
 
Defendant United’s Demurrer is Sustained in Part without leave to
amend, overruled in Part and Sustained with leave to amend in part.  The Motion to Strike the First Amended
Complaint is granted in part. 
 
III. DEFENDANT GSCA’s DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
            A. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant Golden State Claims Adjusters
(GSCA) requests judicial notice of the cross-complaint filed by Johnson in
Glendale Acceptance v. Johnson, Case No. BC624204.  The court grants the request for judicial
notice.  
 
            B. 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant GSCA demurs to the 7th and 8th
Causes of Action on the ground that they lack the requisite specificity for a
fraud claim.  GSCA also generally demurs
to the complaint on the grounds that defendant did not owe plaintiff a duty for
inadequate claims handling as a  matter
of law.
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of
other pleadings, i.e., it raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party’s pleading (complaint, petition, answer, or
cross-complaint).  (C.C.P. §§422.10, 589;
see Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [citing
text]; Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388 [citing text].) A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at pg. 994 [citing text].)
 
The elements of a cause of action sounding in fraud include (1) a
false representation;
(2) the speaker's knowledge of the falsity of the representation;
(3) an intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.
(Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324,
1331.) "Every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in
the proper manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be alleged with
sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the nature of the
charge made." (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown & Baerwitz (1976) 57
Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) "This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which 'show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered."' (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.) "The requirement of specificity in a fraud action
against a corporation requires the plaintiff to allege the names of the persons
who made the
allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to
whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or
written." (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th
153, 157.)
 
The court agrees with defendant that the allegations of
intentional and negligent misrepresentation are insufficient.  The FAC fails to allege that the
representations were false, known to be false, that there was an intent to
defraud or that plaintiff justifiably relied to her detriment on any statement,
and how she was damaged by these alleged statements.  The opposition brief, rather than clarifying
these issues, merely highlighted the inadequacy of the pleading and current
theory of the case, 
 
GSCA separately argues that plaintiff cannot allege a breach of
duty claim against it because a third party claims adjuster owes no duty of
care to a third party claimant.  In the
instant case, plaintiff alleges that the claim was provided to GSCA and GSCA
acknowledged its receipt of the claim; that GSCA somehow bungled the
investigation and that “defendants” wrongfully failed to pay the claim and the
attorneys fees, which they apparently deemed not covered by the policy.  The court agrees with defendant that California
law clearly holds that third-party claims handlers are not liable for bad faith
or breach of contract
for failing to pay claims or properly handle claims. (Gruenberg v.
Aetna Ins. Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566, 576; Cooper v. Equity General Ins. (1990)
219 Cal.App.3d 1252, 1258-1260.) There is ordinarily no contractual
relationship between the injured party and the claims administrator.   Because any contractual relationship in the
insurance context lies with the insurer (i.e., the entity that issued the
insurance contract), a cause of action for bad faith can only be asserted against
the insurer, not the third-party claims handler. (Ibid.) Moreover, adjusters
hired by an insurer to investigate and administer a claim cannot be sued for
negligence because third-party adjusters owe no duty of  care to a claimant or anyone other than the
insurance company for whom they are working. (Sanchez v. Lindsey Morden
Claims Services, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 249, 256.)  With these principles in mind, the court
cannot rule out that plaintiff might be able to allege a claim for intentional
misrepresentation against GSCA, but it has not done so in the FAC.  
 
The court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend as to the
Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action.  
 
IV.   DEFENDANT UNITED’s DEMURRER TO THE FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Defendant United demurs to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action on
the grounds that such claims cannot be brought by a third party claimant; they
are personal to the insured and can only be brought by the insured or their
assignee.  Defendant is correct that only
an insured may sue its insurer for bad faith, because such a claim is founded
upon the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing inherent in  the contract of insurance, a contract that
exists only between the insurer and the insured. (Austero v. Nat'l Cas. Co.
(1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 511, 515.)  As a
result, courts have consistently held that "an alleged breach of the
covenant does not give rise to a cause of action by third party claimants"
such as Plaintiff. (Coleman v. Gulf Ins. Group (1986) 41 Cal.3d 782, 795.)
Instead, an "injured claimant may proceed directly against the insurer
only to the extent that the insured party has assigned the claimant his cause
of action . . . ." (Ibid; see also Murphy v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1976) 17
Cal.3d 937, 940-942). There is no assignment alleged here.  The court therefore sustains without leave to
amend the demurrer to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action.  
 
Defendant also demurs to the First and Second Causes of Action on
the ground that plaintiff cannot prevail on claims against it for failure to
pay the judgment because the policy expressly exempted unlicensed contractors
and Arina Builders was previously alleged by plaintiff to be an unlicensed
contractor.  The court does not believe
the issue of coverage can be determined at the demurrer stage and therefore
overrules the demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action.
 
As for defendant United’s demurrer to the Seventh and Eighth
Causes of Action, the court agrees that plaintiff has not adequately alleged a
false statement,  knowledge of its
falsity, intent, detrimental reliance and damages.  The court sustains the demurrer to these two
causes of action with leave to amend.  
 
V.  DEFENDANT UNITED’S
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Defendant United moves to strike all allegations regarding
United’s purported bad
faith conduct that occurred prior to entry of the judgment in the
underlying action. Defendant argues such allegations are irrelevant and
improper because Plaintiff has no standing to pursue claims regarding alleged
bad faith conduct that occurred prior to the entry of the judgment.  Such claims can only be brought by United’s
insured, Arina Builders.   
 
Defendant also seeks to strike three paragraphs of allegations
that United violated the Fair Claims Settlement Practices Act (“FCSPA”), on the
ground there is no private right of action for such violations, and plaintiff
lacks standing to pursue claims regarding any conduct that occurred prior to
entry of the underlying judgment.
 
Finally, United seeks to strike four  paragraphs of allegations that United waived
terms of the policy and is estopped from asserting coverage exclusions. Defendant
argues that such allegations do not conform to California law, as “Plaintiff’s
FAC does not plead, and cannot possibly plead, that USIC intentionally relinquished
rights under the policy, nor is there basis from which Plaintiff could allege
conduct by USIC intended to be relied upon by the insured or detrimental
reliance by the insured.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 435, subdivision (b)(1), provides,
“Any party, within the
time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice
of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .” “The Court may…. (a)
Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading .
. . [or] (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code of
Civ. Proc., § 436.) An “irrelevant matter” is (1) an allegation that is not
essential to the statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is
neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense,
or (3) a demand for judgment requesting relief not support by the allegations
of the complaint. (Code of Civ. Poc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) “The grounds for a
motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)

As noted above, a third party claimant may not bring a claim for
bad faith against an insurance company unless they have been assigned the right
to do so by the insured, which is not alleged here.
 
An exception exists in situations where a third-party claimant has
obtained a judgment
against an insured. When that happens, "[A]n action may be
brought against the insurer on the policy and subject to its terms and
limitations, by such judgment creditor to recover on the judgment." (Ins. Code,
§ 11580, subd. (b)(2).) Insurance Code section 11580 "makes the judgment
creditor a third party beneficiary of the insurance contract between the
insurer and the insured." (Murphy, supra, 17 Cal.3d at 943.) At that
point, the third-party claimant as a third-party beneficiary has a direct right
of action against the carrier. (Hand v. Farmers Ins. Exch. (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1847, 1858.) Accordingly, any allegations that relate to conduct by
the insurer prior to judgment are improper and must be stricken.  Specifically, the court strikes paragraphs
21-30 from the FAC.  
 
With respect to the request to strike the allegations that United
violated the FCSPA, the court agrees that those allegations are irrelevant as
FCSPR
does not create a private civil cause of action, and a third-party action
cannot be premised on purported violations of the FCSPR. (Moradi-Shalal v.
Fireman's Fund Ins. Companies (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287, 304-305.) Accordingly, the
court strikes the following allegations from the FAC:
 
40. DEFENDANTS failed to conduct a full, fair, prompt, and
thorough investigation
of PLAINTIFF’s CLAIM. DEFENDANTS were required to accept or deny
PLAINTIFF’s
CLAIM within forty (40) days of receiving the CLAIM in accordance
with 10 Cal. Code.
Reg. §2695.7(b)(4). PLAINTIFF’s first sent notice of CLAIM to
INSURER on February 25,
2020 and INSURER was required to accept or deny by April 5, 2020.
PLAINTIFF’s last
notice of CLAIM to INSURER on December 7, 2020 and INSURER was
required to accept
or deny by January 16, 2021.
 
65. PLAINTIFF claims that DEFENDANTS acted unreasonably, that is,
without proper
cause, by failing to conduct a proper investigation of her CLAIM.
DEFENDANTS are
obligated to comply with California’s Fair Claims Settlement
Practices Regulations, 10 Cal.
Code. Reg. §2695.7(b) titled “Standards for Prompt, Fair and
Equitable Settlements” which
requires that “[u]pon receiving proof of claim, every insurer,
except as specified in
subsection 2695.7(b)(4), [not applicable to this POLICY] shall
immediately, but in no event
more than forty (40) calendar days later, accept or deny the
claim, in whole or in part. The
amounts accepted or denied shall be clearly documented in the
claim file unless the claim has been denied in its entirety.”
 
66. DEFENDANTS failed to conduct a full, fair, prompt, and
thorough investigation of
PLAINTIFF’s CLAIM. DEFENDANTS were required to accept or deny
PLAINTIFF’s
CLAIM within forty (40) days of receiving the CLAIM in accordance
with 10 Cal. Code.
Reg. §2695.7(b)(4). PLAINTIFF’s first sent notice of CLAIM to
INSURER on February 25,
2020 and INSURER was required to accept or deny by April 5, 2020.
PLAINTIFF’s last
notice of CLAIM to INSURER on December 7, 2020, and INSURER was
required to accept
or deny by January 16, 2021.
 
Finally, defendant seeks to strike all of the allegations that
defendant United has waived or should be estopped from denying coverage for the
attorneys fees sought by plaintiff.  The
court agrees with defendant that the case law does not allow such a claim to be
brought by a third party for any conduct that occurred prior to entry of
judgment.  As currently plead, the FAC
appears to base its waiver and estoppel claims on conduct that occurred prior
to the entry of judgment.   The court
will sustain the demurrer on these grounds, but will grant leave to amend.  Any conduct that allegedly constitutes a
waiver or release must have occurred after entry of judgment, and plaintiff
must also plead all other elements to justify these two theories.   
 