  Case Number:  22STCV14240    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV14240




MOTIONS


1.    
  Motion for Protective Order and/or Appointment of a
  Discovery Referee and Monetary Sanctions against Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s
  Attorney
2.    
  Motion for Protective Order; Request for Sanctions




MOVING PARTIES


1.    
  Defendant David Frey, DDS
2.    
  Plaintiff Michelle Ortiz




OPPOSING PARTIES


1.    
  Plaintiff Michelle Ortiz
2.    
  Defendant David Frey, DDS



 
MOTIONS
 
This case arises from a dispute concerning dental work Plaintiff
Michelle Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) received from Defendant David Frey, DDS
(“Defendant”).  The motions concern  disputes that arose during the May 3, 2024 deposition
of Annie Mai (“Mai”), Defendant’s office manager.  Plaintiff and Defendant have each brought
cross-motions for protective orders and sanctions and have opposed each other’s
motions and replied to each other’s oppositions.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Protective Order
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (a),
“before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other
affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective
order.” “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Pro. §
2025.420, subd. (b).) Section 2025.420, subdivision (b), provides a nonexclusive
list of directions that may be included in a protective order, including orders
directing that the deposition may not be taken at all, that the deposition be
taken at a different time, or that it be taken only on certain specified terms
and conditions. (Id.) “A party seeking the protective order must show by a
preponderance of the evidence that the issuance of a protective order is
proper.” (Stadish v. Superior Court (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1130, 1145.)
 
            Defendant seeks a protective order
precluding Mai from revealing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act (“HIPAA”) protected information about Defendant’s current and past
patients.  In particular, Plaintiff discovered
a negative Yelp review for Defendant’s dental practice that was written by a “Frida”
and indicates that “Frida” felt uncomfortable when Defendant asked her if she
had a boyfriend.  During the deposition,
Plaintiff sought the full identity of “Frida” and also asked Mai general
questions about her understanding of the HIPAA rules and whether the medical
record for “Frida” contains any information protected by HIPAA (without
revealing any such confidential information.) 
(See Ex. C to Richards Decl.)  
 
            Plaintiff contends that Defendant repeatedly
asserted improper Speaking/Coaching objections during the deposition to
questions about whether Dr. Frey asking female patients if they have boyfriends
would violate the company’s sexual harassment policy or constitute sexual
harassment under the California Dental Association’s definition and for
improperly instructing Mai not to respond to any of Plaintiff’s general
questions about Mai’s understanding of HIPAA’s rules or whether the file for
“Frida” contains any such information. 
Plaintiff seeks a protective order preventing Defendant from asserting
these improper objections/instructions.  
 
            Foremost, the Court has read the
excerpts from the Mai deposition submitted by Plaintiff and Defendant, and
finds that both counsel engaged in conduct that ran afoul of the Guidelines for
Civility in Litigation.  No counsel acted
with the level of courtesy and professionalism that is expected during
litigation especially during a deposition. 

 
            The Superior
Court of Los Angeles County, Local Rules, rule 3.26, provides that “[t]he
guidelines adopted by the Los Angeles County Bar Association are adopted as
civility in litigation recommendations to members of the bar, and are contained
in Appendix 3.A.”  Appendix 3.A. provides
in pertinent part that during depositions “while a question is pending, counsel
should not, through objections or otherwise, coach the deponent or suggest
answers,” “counsel should refrain from repetitive or argumentative questions or
those asked solely for purposes of harassment,” “counsel for all parties should
refrain from self-serving speeches during depositions,” “counsel should bear in
mind that most objections are preserved and need be interposed only when the
form of a question is defective or privileged information is sought,” “counsel
should not direct a deponent to refuse to answer questions unless they seek
privileged information or manifestly irrelevant or calculated to harass,” and
“Counsel should not engage in any conduct during a deposition that would not be
allowed in the presence of a judicial officer.” 

 
            For example, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that Defense Counsel engaged in “Speaking/Coaching” objections and Defense
Counsel’s instructions to Mai not to respond to general questions about her
understanding of HIPAA rules were improper. 
On the other hand, the Court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff’s
counsel engaged in what amounts to harassing conduct, for example, including the
protracted colloquy about documentation related to “Frida” obtaining a
consultation from Defendant that were sprinkled with threats from Plaintiff’s
counsel to file discovery motions.  
 
            Further, the Court agrees with
Defendant that the identity of “Frida” as one of Defendant’s former patients is
private and confidential information of a third party, and may also constitute
“Individually identifiable health information” protected under HIPAA (see
C.F.R. § 106.103) and is therefore inappropriate to disclose without first
obtaining “Frida’s” consent.
 
            Discovery Referee
 
            In addition to the motion for a
protective order and sanctions, both parties request that the Court appoint a
discovery referee, but disagree about who should bear the costs of the referee.  
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 639, “[w]hen the parties do not
consent, the court may, upon the written motion of any party, or of its own
motion, appoint a referee in the following cases pursuant to the provisions of
subdivision (b) of Section 640: . . . [w]hen the court in any pending action
determines that it is necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and
determine any and all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in
the action and to report findings and make a recommendation thereon.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (a); see also Cal. Rules of Court, rules 3.922, et
seq.)
 
“Notwithstanding a party's objection, subdivision (e) of section 639
authorizes the appointment of a discovery referee when the court “determines in
its discretion” that such an appointment is “necessary. ” Implicit in the
statutory requirement that the reference be “necessary” is the Legislature's
acknowledgment of a litigant's right of access to the courts without the
payment of a user's fee, and the concomitant notion that there ought to be a
finding of something out of the ordinary before the services of a referee are
forced upon a nonconsenting party. There was no such finding in this case, only
a bare conclusion parroting the words of the statute. That is not enough,
particularly where, as here, it appears that any judge could resolve this
discovery “dispute” in about five minutes.” (Hood v. Superior Court
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 446, 449 [cleaned up].)
 
The court of appeal has held that “[t]he court should not make blanket
orders directing all discovery motions to a discovery referee except in the
unusual case where a majority of factors favoring reference are present. These
include: (1) there are multiple issues to be resolved; (2) there are multiple
motions to be heard simultaneously; (3) the present motion is only one in a
continuum of many; (4) the number of documents to be reviewed (especially in
issues based on assertions of privilege) make the inquiry inordinately
time-consuming. In making its decision, the trial courts need consider the
statutory scheme is designed only to permit reference over the parties'
objections where that procedure is necessary, not merely convenient. Where one
or more of the above factors unduly impact the court's time and/or limited
resources, the court is clearly within its discretion to make an appropriate
reference.” (Taggares v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 94,
105–106 [cleaned up].)
 
Here, the Court disagrees that a discovery referee is warranted.  The final status conference is currently
scheduled for ten days from today, with the jury trial scheduled for July 1,
2024.  Therefore, the deposition of Mai
appears to be the last piece of discovery at issue in this case, and this Order
resolves the parties’ dispute.  
 
Therefore, the Court declines to order a discovery referee at this
very late stage of the litigation.
 
            Sanctions 
 
When a party misuses the discovery process, the court in its
discretion may impose sanction.  (See
generally Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2023.010, 2023.030.)  Misuses of the discovery process include, but
are not limited to:
 
(a) Persisting, over objection and without
substantial justification, in an attempt to obtain information or materials
that are outside the scope of permissible discovery.
 
(b) Using a discovery method in a manner that
does not comply with its specified procedures.
 
(c) Employing a discovery method in a manner or
to an extent that causes unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression,
or undue burden and expense.
 
(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.
 
(e) Making, without substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery.
 
(f) Making an evasive response to discovery.
 
(g) Disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.
 
(h) Making or opposing, unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery.
 
(i) Failing to confer in person, by telephone, or by letter with an
opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve
informally any dispute concerning discovery, if the section governing a
particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration stating facts
showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been made.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)
 
            Here, the Court finds that both
parties misused the discovery process by opposing each other’s motions without
substantial justification.  Given the
mutual misuses of the discovery process, the Court exercises its discretion and
declines to award monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            The Court grants in part and denies
in part both motions for a protective order and orders Mai to appear for a
second session of her deposition limited as follows:  (1) the deposition shall be limited to 4
hours, excluding breaks; (2) the deposition shall be completed on or before June
13, 2024, unless the parties stipulate otherwise; (3) Plaintiff is precluded
from asking any questions about “Frida”; (4) counsel shall adhere to the Guidelines
for Civility in Litigation; and (5) counsel shall meet and confer in a
collaborative fashion forthwith, by telephone or virtual platform, or in person,
to reset Mai’s deposition.  
 
            Further, the Court denies both parties’
requests to appoint a discovery referee and for monetary sanctions.  Further, the Court observes that non-expert
discovery is closed as of June 3, 2024; as such, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
requests that the Court order Defendant to appear for deposition and to
continue the trial.
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s rulings.
 
 
DATED:
June 4, 2024                                                            ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 