 Case Number:  23SMCV04944    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04944




MOTION


Stay




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Rockwell Collins Optronics, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Ivan Robledo



 
MOTION
 
On October 19, 2023, Plaintiff Ivan Robledo (“Plaintiff”) brought the
instant Private Attorney General Act (“PAGA”) representative action against Defendant
Rockwell Collins Optronics, Inc. (“Defendant”). 
Defendant moves to stay the instant action pending the resolution of an
earlier PAGA representative lawsuit filed in San Diego Superior Court, Dvorak
v. Rockwell Collins, Inc., No. 37-2019-00064397-CU-OE-CTL, (hereafter Dvorak)
under the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant
replies.  
 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following:
 
1.    
Exhibit A: the complaint in Dvorak v.
Rockwell Collins, Inc., case no. 37-2019-00064397-CU-OE-CTL in the San
Diego Superior Court
 
2.    
Exhibit B: Exhibit 21 to a 10-K Securities
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filing evidencing that Defendant is a subsidiary of
Rockwell Collins, Inc.
 
3.    
Exhibit C: the October 30, 2020 Order in the Dvorak
action denying Dvorak’s motions to compel further written discovery
responses and to compel the deposition of Rockwell Collins, Inc.’s person most
knowledgeable
 
4.    
Exhibit D: the Complaint in Alvarado v.
Rockwell Collins, Inc., Central District of California case number 2:23-cv-00400-JFW-JC
 
5.    
Exhibit E: the Joint Statement Re: Stay of
Action Pending Completion of Related Actions filed on May 31, 2023 in the Alvarado
action
 
6.    
Exhibit F: the June 7, 2023 Order staying the Alvarado
action.
 
7.    
Exhibit G: the complaint in Robledo v.
Rockwell Collins Optronics, Inc., Los Angeles Superior Court case number
24STCV03366.
 
8.    
Exhibit H: The June 16, 2022 Minute Order
staying the action in Phoung v. Winco Holdings, Inc., Sacramento
Superior Court case number 34-2021-00312030.
 
9.    
Exhibit I: the December 28, 2020 Order Granting
Defendant Winco Holdings Inc.’s Motion to Stay PAGA Action Pending Resolution
of Related Class Action in the case Castanon, et al. v. Winco Holdings, Inc.,
Sacramento Superior Court case number 34-2020-00282233.
 
10.  Exhibit
J: the Notice of Ruling regarding Defendant Marugame Udon USA, LLC’s Motion
to Stay Action and Setting Case Management Conference in Rodriguez v.
Marugame Udon USA LLC, Orange County Superior Court case number
30-2020-01127949-CU-OE-CXC (August 7, 2020.)
 
11.  Exhibit
K: the April 13, 2021 Order on Defendants Inglewood Sportservice, Inc. and
Delaware North Companies Incorporated’s Motion to Stay in Mejia v. Inglewood
Sportservice, Inc., Los Angeles Superior Court case number 20-STCV19450.
 
With respect Exhibits A and C-K, judicial notice may be taken of records of any court in this state or any
court of record of the United States. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1) & (2).)  Because these exhibits are all court records
of courts in this state or of the United States, the Court may take judicial
notice of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
In particular, Exhibit A, the
complaint in the Dvorak matter, Exhibit D, the complaint in the Alvarado
matter, and Exhibit E, the Joint Statement filed in the Alvarado action,
contain hearsay statements and allegations that are reasonably subject to
dispute.  As such, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of these documents, the legal implications
thereof, and the fact that these statements were made, but not the truth of the
hearsay statements and allegations contained therein.  However, to the extent Exhibit F, the Order
staying the Alvarado action, incorporates by reference some of the
statements made in Exhibit E, the Joint Statement filed in Alvarado, the
Court takes judicial notice of those statements as the stated reasoning for
that court’s order.
 
With respect to Exhibit B, Defendant requests judicial notice of the
“facts and propositions” contained therein as “not reasonably subject to
dispute” and “capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy[.]” 
However, Defendant has not provided the Court sufficient information
regarding Exhibit B for such determination. 
Defendant does not indicate whose 10-K filing it is, nor does Defendant
indicate the date it was filed. 
Therefore, the Court declines to take judicial notice of Exhibit B or
the facts and propositions contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Exclusive Concurrent
Jurisdiction
 
“The rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction provides that when two
or more courts have subject matter jurisdiction over a dispute, the court that
first asserts jurisdiction assumes it to the exclusion of the others.”  (Lofton v. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 1050, 1062.)  It
does not matter if the parties or remedies sought are not exactly the same; it
is sufficient “that the issue in both actions is the same and arises out of the
same transaction or events.”  (County
of Siskiyou v. Superior Court (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 83, 89.)
 
Exclusive concurrent jurisdiction “should be raised by demurrer where
the issue appears on the face of the complaint and by answer where factual
issues must be resolved.”  (People ex
rel. Garamendi v. American Autoplan, Inc. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 760,
771.)  If raised by answer, “the party
asserting the application of the rule may obtain a trial court ruling on the
issue by a motion to dismiss or abate or a motion for summary judgment.”  (Ibid.)
            
            PAGA actions are subject to the rule
of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction.  (Shaw
v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 245, 255
(hereafter Shaw).)  “A PAGA claim
is a dispute between an employer and the state, which alleges directly or
through its agents—either the Agency or aggrieved employees—that the employer
has violated the Labor Code.”  (Ibid.)  It “is fundamentally a law enforcement action
designed to protect the public and not to benefit private parties[.]”  (Ibid.)  In a PAGA suit, “the employee plaintiff
represents the same legal right and interest as state labor law enforcement
agencies” and “an aggrieved employee's action under PAGA functions as a
substitute for an action brought by the government itself.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, “[t]he state is always the real party
in interest in a PAGA representative suit.” 
(Ibid.)
 
Timeline of Cases
 
On
December 4, 2019, the Dvorak action was filed in San Diego Superior
Court, alleging PAGA violations against Rockwell Collins, Inc. (See RJN Ex.
A.)  Rockwell Collins, Inc. is the parent
company of the Defendant in this PAGA representative action, Rockwell Collins
Optronics, Inc., Plaintiff’s employer. 
(Riek Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.)  As a
representative PAGA action, the Dvorak action encompasses Plaintiff’s
claims because it includes employee claims from all nine of Rockwell Collins,
Inc.’s facilities, including the Carlsbad facility where Plaintiff worked.  (Riek Decl. ¶¶ 3, 5.)
 
On October
20, 2022, a class action complaint for unfair competition law, predicated on
labor code violations, was filed against Rockwell Collins, Inc. in Los Angeles
Superior Court against Rockwell Collins, Inc., titled Alvarado v. Rockwell
Collins, Inc., case number 22STCV34023 (hereafter Alvarado.)  (RJN Ex. D.) 
That case was removed to the Central District of California as case
number 2:23-cv-00400-JFW-JC in.  (Curley
Decl. ¶ 3.)  On June 7, 2023, the
district court stayed Alvarado, pending the resolution of Dvorak,
under its inherent authority.  (RJN Exs.
E & F.)  
 
On February
21, 2023, the Dvorak action was stayed, pending the arbitration of the representative
plaintiffs’ individual PAGA claims. 
(Curley Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.)  The
representative plaintiffs’ arbitrations are currently scheduled for August 27,
2024 and October 31, 2024.  (Ibid.)  
 
Therefore, Defendant has established that the claims at issue in this
case are a subset of the claims at issue in Dvorak and Alvarado,
and a stay is warranted under the doctrine of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction.
 
Plaintiff
counters that this Court previously found that the Defendant to this action,
Rockwell Collins Optronics, Inc., is a separate entity from the Defendant in
the Dvorak and Alvarado actions, Rockwell Collins, Inc., and
therefore this action should not be stayed. 
Specifically, in ruling on Defendant’s prior demurrer on the basis of
exclusive concurrent jurisdiction, the Court noted that Rockwell
Collins, Inc. is, on its face, a separate entity from Rockwell Collins
Optronics, Inc., the Court could not tell from the face of the respective
complaints that Plaintiff’s PAGA claims were encompassed by the Dvorak
action, and extrinsic evidence was inappropriate to consider on a
demurrer.  However, the Court also noted
in that decision that Defendant may bring an appropriate post-answer motion, supported
by evidence that Rockwell Collins Optronics is a subsidiary of Rockwell
Collins, Inc., and Plaintiff’s claims are encompassed in the Dvorak
action.  (See Minute Order, Feb. 22,
2024.)  Defendant has now done that.
 
Plaintiff also argues that this action should not be stayed because
unlike Plaintiff, the representative plaintiffs in Dvorak each signed
arbitration agreements, and the arbitration process “is being slow and
delayed.”  (Opp. at p. 3.)  The fact that the representative plaintiffs
in Dvorak signed arbitration agreements does not mean that Plaintiff’s
claims are not encompassed within Dvorak, which is brought as a PAGA
representative action.  Moreover, the
arbitration hearings should be completed by October of this year, meaning they
will not cause an unreasonable delay.
 
Finally, Plaintiff argues that he alleges three additional Labor Code
violations not alleged in the Dvorak or Alvarado actions.  In support, Plaintiff points to the initial
complaints filed in each matter. The Court cannot definitively determine
from the initial complaints whether Plaintiff’s additional claims are or will
be encompassed by the Dvorak and/or Alvarado actions.  In any event, it does not matter if the
parties or remedies sought are not exactly the same; it is sufficient “that the
issue in both actions is the same and arises out of the same transaction or
events.”  (County of Siskiyou v.
Superior Court, supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at p. 89.) 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Stay and
stays this case pending the resolution of the earlier-filed Dvorak and Alvarado
actions.  
 
Further, the Court vacates the Status Conference re Discovery, ADR and
Motion Practice set on October 30, 2024, the Final Status Conference set on
August 8, 2025 and the trial set on August 25, 2025.  The Court set a Status Conference re Stay of
Proceedings on December 6, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  The parties shall file a Joint Report no
later than 5 court days before the Status Conference regarding the status of
the Dvorak and Alvarado actions and whether the stay should be
vacated.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  June 4, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court