..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 24STCP01528
Plaintiff's Name: Petitioner
Defendant's Name: None
People-Names: Petitioner
Company-Names: None
Places: Clerk's Office, Room 112
Dates:
  - Hearing Date: July 15, 2024
  - Date of the hearing: July 15, 2024
Events: Name change petition, Hearing
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Grant the petition, ensure legibility and spelling of new name
Facts: Petitioner filed a name change petition
Disputes: None mentioned
Acts:
  - File a corrected proposed decree (if necessary)
  - Obtain a signed decree from the court
  - Review the decree for spelling and legibility
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: None mentioned
Case Citations: None mentioned
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles:
  - Petitioner: filing the petition, reviewing the decree
  - Judge: granting the petition, providing instructions
Significant Statements:
  - "If Petitioner is satisfied with the spelling and legibility of the new name on the proposed decree, NO APPEARANCE IS NECESSARY."
  - "If the new name is not clearly written and correctly spelled on the proposed decree, Petitioner must appear at the hearing to submit a corrected proposed decree."
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling regarding a name change petition. The petition is granted, but the judge requires the petitioner to double-check the spelling and legibility of the new name on the proposed decree. If the name is correct, the petitioner does not need to appear at the hearing. However, if the name is not clearly written and correctly spelled, the petitioner must appear at the hearing to submit a corrected proposed decree. The signed decree will be available in Room 112 of the Clerk's Office seven days after the hearing date. Once the decree is signed, it cannot be amended without a new petition to change name.
