 Case Number:  23SMCV02219    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Prescott v. Thavarajavel, et
al.



Case No.:


23SMCV02219


Complaint Filed:


5-18-23           




Hearing Date:


3-5-24


Discovery C/O:


6-16-25




Calendar No.:


10


Discovery Motion C/O:


6-30-25




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


7-14-25



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Vinotheesan
Thavarajavel
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiffs Tyler
Prescott and Rachele Prescott
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Vinotheesan
Thavarajavel’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages as to Plaintiffs Tyler
Prescott and Rachele Prescotts’ complaint is DENIED. Plaintiffs sufficiently
plead Defendant acted with malice by alleging Defendant drove while under the
influence of alcohol causing injury to Plaintiffs. 
 
            Defendant Vinotheesan
Thavarajavel (“Thavarajavel”) moves to strike the words “willful and wanton”
and the prayer for punitive damages in its entirety from Plaintiffs Tyler
Prescott and Rachele Prescotts’ (“Plaintiffs”) complaint. (See Compl., ¶ 10,
and prayer ¶ 5 at p. 5.)  Defendant
argues punitives must be struck from the complaint because under Taylor v.
Superior Court, Plaintiff has not properly plead “the Defendant’s tendency,
habit, history, practice, proclivity or inclination to drive a motor vehicle
while under the influence of alcohol and that based on those facts, Defendant
was aware of the dangerousness of his driving while intoxicated.” (MTS, p. 6; Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 893.).   
 
            The Court
finds that Thavarajavel has misstates the Supreme Court requirements in Taylor
for pleading punitive damages against an alleged drunk driving Defendant. Taylor
states that Plaintiffs can plead allegations that Defendant was driving
while knowingly under the influence of alcohol to support malice, and thus a
prayer for punitive damages. (See Taylor, supra, 24 Cal.3d at pp. 890–891[“[T]he
act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of
“malice” under Civ. Code, § 3294, which authorizes recovery of punitive damages
in noncontract cases “where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice, express or implied,” if such act is performed under circumstances
which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences . .
. . [T]he essential gravamen of the complaint was that defendant became
intoxicated and thereafter drove a car in that condition, despite his knowledge
of the safety hazard he created thereby, and that, while a history of prior
arrests, convictions and mishaps might heighten the probability and
foreseeability of an accident, such aggravating factors were not essential
prerequisites to the assessment of punitive damages in drunk driving cases.”]
Emphasis added.)
 
            Plaintiffs Complaint
¶¶ 9 and 10 state the following:
 
9. After vacating their vehicle,
plaintiffs discovered that THAVARAJAVEL was severely intoxicated and acting
belligerently. Law enforcement responded to the scene and arrested THAVARAJAVEL
for driving while under the influence of alcohol. The collision was severe,
causing damage to plaintiffs who suffered significant injuries as a result of
the incident, along with significant property damage.
10. As a result, the actions of
THAVARAJAVEL, in the unsafe and willful and wanton conduct of operating his
vehicle while severely intoxicated, legally caused or contributed to causing
the collision and the severe and substantial injuries and damages to plaintiffs.
 
(Compl., ¶¶ 9–10.)
 
            Plaintiffs
do not have to plead any other facts regarding Thavarajavel which might
heighten the probability and foreseeability of an accident. Thus, the Court
finds that Plaintiffs have properly plead a claim for punitive damages under Taylor,
and Thavarajavel’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 