  Case Number:  22VECV00766    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Yang v. Abudalu, et al.   



Case No.:


22VECV00766        


Complaint Filed:


6-7-22 




Hearing Date:


3-5-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


8


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


Not set



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Rand Shalabi,
Elvis A. Ortiz-Wayland, and Housekey Real Estate Corp 
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Henry Shin
Yang 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendants Rand Shalabi, Elvis A.
Ortiz-Wayland, and Housekey Real Estate Corp’s Demurrer to the 2nd, 3rd, 4th,
5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th causes of action of the Third Amended Complaint are
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Defendants Motion to Strike punitive damages
from the Third Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s causes of action fail
for uncertainty pursuant to CCP 430.10(f). Plaintiff failed to cure the inconsistencies
in the third amended complaint’s factual allegations, and thus the Demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend pursuant to CCP § 430.41(e)(1).
 
Defendants Rand Shalabi, Elvis A.
Ortiz-Wayland, and Housekey Real Estate Corp. (“Broker Defendants”) demur to
the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th causes of action of the third
amended complaint (“TAC”) on the grounds that Plaintiff Henry Shin Yang’s
(“Yang”) SAC fails to state a cause of action against the Broker Defendants or are
uncertain pursuant to CCP 430.10(e) and (f). The Broker Defendants argue that Yang’s
own admissions are fatal to the each cause of action. Specifically, in
paragraph 22 Yang alleges:
 
“Although defendant Raad Shalabi
held himself out as plaintiff’s agent, plaintiff has never met with either
Elvis A. Ortiz Wayland or Raad Shalabi regarding the transaction, nor has
plaintiff entered any agency agreement with either Elvis A. Ortiz Wayland
or Raad Shalabi as required by law. As such, plaintiff never consented to
dual agency representation during the leasing transaction between Plaintiff
and defendants Abudalu.”
 
All of Yang’s causes of action against the Broker Defendants
either expressly or implicitly appear to rely on the existence of a duty owed
by the Broker Defendant’s that arises from the contractual agency relationship
between Yang and the Broker Defendants.  Yang
’s denial of the existence of any such agency agreement is inconsistent with any
allegation of the existence of a duty owed to Yang.
 
Yang was granted leave to amend to
file the SAC on 9-28-23. Yang has failed to cure the inconsistent factual allegations
regarding the existence, or lack thereof, of an agency relationship between
Yang and the Broker Defendants in the TAC. Thus, the Court finds the
allegations in the TAC continue to be inconsistent and fail on the grounds of
uncertainty.
 
CCP § 430.41(e)(1) states: 
 
In response to a demurrer and prior to
the case being at issue, a complaint or   cross-complaint shall not be amended more
than three times, absent an offer to  the trial court as to such additional facts to
be pleaded that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to
state a cause of action.


(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd., (e)(1), emphasis added.)
 
Yang has amended his complaint three
times as to the allegations against the Broker Defendants in the 2nd
through 9th causes of action, but has failed to cure to fatally inconsistent
factual allegations. Thus, the Broker Defendants demurrer as to the 2nd, 3rd,
4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th causes of action is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. The motion to strike punitive damages as to the Broker
Defendants is GRANTED. 

 