 Case Number:  24STCV18190    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION
  AUTHORITY 
  
        
  vs.
 
921 EAST 61ST
  STREET, INC., et al.  
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV18190
  
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 6, 2025



 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for prejudgment possession is GRANTED.
 
            On
7/18/2024, Plaintiff Los Angeles Country Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(Plaintiff) filed a complaint in eminent domain against 921 East 61st
Street, Inc., Tacos El Gabilan, LLC, and US Bank Trust Company, N.A. 
 
On 9/5/2024,
Plaintiff moved for an order of prejudgment possession.
            
The motion is
unopposed. 
 
Discussion
 
            In order to avail itself of CCP
section 1255.410, Plaintiff’s motion:
 
… shall describe the property of which
the plaintiff is seeking to take possession, which description may be by
reference to the complaint, and shall state the date after which the plaintiff
is seeking to take possession of the property.  The motion shall include a
statement substantially in the following form: “You have the right to oppose
this motion for an order of possession of your property.  If you oppose this
motion you must serve the plaintiff and file with the court a written opposition
to the motion within 30 days from the date you were served with this motion.”  If the written opposition asserts a hardship, it shall be supported by a declaration signed under
penalty of perjury stating facts supporting the
hardship.
  

            Then, pursuant to section 1255.410,
subdivision (d)(1), if the motion is not opposed within 30 days of service on
each defendant, then the Court shall make an order for possession of the
property if the court finds each of the following:
(A) The plaintiff is entitled to take the
property by eminent domain.
(B) The plaintiff has deposited pursuant to Article 1
(commencing with Section 1255.010) an amount that
satisfies the requirements of that article
 
            Here, Plaintiff’s motion complies
with all CCP section 1255.410 requirements. 
 
Because no opposition was received within 30 days of
service, Plaintiff’s motion will be granted if the Court finds that Plaintiff
is entitled to take the property by eminent domain, and Plaintiff has deposited
an amount that satisfies the requirements of Article 1. (CCP § 1255, subd.
(d)(1).)  
 
I.                  
Entitlement 
 
CCP section 1240.030
provides:
The power of eminent domain may be exercised to acquire
property for a proposed project only if all of the following are established:
(a) The public interest and necessity require
the project.
(b) The project is planned or located in the manner that
will be most compatible with the greatest public good and the least private
injury.
(c) The property sought to be acquired is necessary for
the project.
In establishing whether a
Plaintiff is entitled to take possession of a property by eminent domain, 
It should be noted that the
determination of the plaintiff's right to take the property by eminent domain
is preliminary only. The granting of an order for possession does not prejudice
the defendant's right to demur to the complaint or to contest the taking.
Conversely, the denial of an order for possession does not require a dismissal
of the proceeding and does not prejudice the plaintiff's right to fully
litigate the issue if raised by the defendant.
 
            (Legislative
Committee Comments to CCP §1255.410.) 
 
Here, on 6/27/2024, after a
noticed hearing, and by a vote of not less than two-thirds of its members,
LACMTA adopted a resolution of necessity (Resolution), which sets forth all of
the required findings in order to adopt a resolution of necessity. (Ex. 2 to
RJN.) Because Plaintiff has made the requisite findings prior to adopting the
Resolution, there is a conclusive presumption that LACMTA has the right to
acquire the Property through eminent domain. (See CCP §§ 1240.030, 1245.250.)
 
II.              
Deposit 
 
Here,
Plaintiff submitted a notice of deposit on 8/28/2024 establishing that it had
deposited a total of $18,100.00 with the Treasurer of the State of California.
(See 8/28/2024 Notice of Deposit). Plaintiff submitted a declaration
from appraiser Michael Lahodny providing a basis for the estimated value of the
property sought to be condemned. (See Notice of Deposit, Exh. B.) 
 
Plaintiff has met the requirements imposed by CCP section
1255.410, subdivision (d)(1). Namely, Plaintiff has submitted evidence
establishing it is entitled to take the property by eminent domain, and that it
has deposited required compensation. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for
prejudgment possession is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 