  Case Number:  22STCV21552    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



OSCAR LOZANO 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
G2 GRAPHICS, et al.

 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV21552
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 6, 2025



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to set aside dismissal is GRANTED.
 
            On
7/5/2022, Plaintiff Oscar Lozano filed this action. 
 
            On
3/20/2024, the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s Complaint for failure to prosecute
pursuant to Government Code section 68608(b).
 
            On
9/19/2024, Plaintiff now moves to set aside the dismissal. 
 
Discussion 
                                                     
Plaintiff
seeks relief pursuant Civil Code section 473(b), citing attorney error and
mistake. Section 473(b) provides:
 
The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken. . . 
 
Notwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted
based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay
reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.
 
        Here, Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a
declaration taking responsibility for the dismissal explaining:
 
Due
to counsel Reyes’ mistake, inadvertence, and or excusable neglect, the amended
judgment was not submitted- which was the final document necessary to finalize
the matter. This was my mistake and inadvertence for not submitting the amended
judgment as directed by the court.
 
        (Reyes Decl. para. 4.)
 
        Plaintiff’s motion also includes a proposed
default judgment packet. 
 
         Relief is mandatory where the moving
papers are accompanied by a credible “attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (CCP § 473(b); see
also Cowan v. Krayzman (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 907, 915.)
 
         Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion to set aside dismissal is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                               
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 