 Case Number:  20STCV08577    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CRAIG NELSON
  and STACY NELSON,  
  
         vs.
 
SCOTT
  NORTHERN, et al.


 Case No.: 
  20STCV08577
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 26, 2023



 
Cross-Complainant
Mike Brown Grandstands, Inc.’s motion for summary judgment of its
Cross-Complaint is denied. 
Cross-Complainant
Mike Brown Grandstands, Inc.’s motion in the alternative for summary
adjudication of its 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of action is denied.
 
Cross-Complainant
Mike Brown Grandstands, Inc. (“Mike Brown”) (“Cross-Complainant”) moves
for summary judgment of its Cross-Complaint (“CC”) on the basis that no triable
issue of material fact exists as to the CC or any of the causes of action
alleged therein.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2;
C.C.P. §437c(a).)  In the alternative, Mike
Brown moves for summary adjudication of each cause of action asserted in the
CC on the basis no triable issue of material fact exists.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §437c(f).)
 
Evidentiary Objections
Mike Brown’s 10/20/23
evidentiary objection to Exhibit H (April 19, 2021, correspondence from Mike
Brown to Hollywood Christmas) is overruled as to No. 1.
Mike Brown’s 10/20/23
evidentiary objection to Exhibit I (June 9, 2021, correspondence from Hollywood
Christmas to Mike Brown) is overruled as to No. 2.
Mike Brown’s 10/20/23
evidentiary objection to Exhibit M (January 21, 2021, correspondence from
Plaintiffs’ Counsel) is overruled as to No. 3.
 
Procedural Background
On March
2, 2020, Plaintiffs Craig Nelson (“Craig”) and Stacy Nelson (“Stacy”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed their operative Complaint against Mike Brown
and Scott Northern (“Northern”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging two
causes of action: (1) personal injury; and (2) loss of consortium.  On October 27, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a DOE
amendment to their complaint, naming Associated Entertainment Releasing
(“Associated Entertainment”) as Does 1. 
(10/27/21 Amendment to Complaint.) 
On October 28, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a DOE amendment to their
complaint, naming Hollywood Christmas Parade Television, LLC (“Christmas
Parade”) as Does 2.  (10/28/21 Amendment
to Complaint.)
On
October 21, 2021, Mike Brown filed its operative CC against Christmas Parade
alleging five causes of action: (1) express contractual indemnity; (2) total
implied indemnity; (3) comparative equitable indemnity; (4) equitable
contribution; and (5) declaratory relief.
On August
7, 2023, Mike Brown filed its motion for summary judgment and in the
alternative, motion for summary adjudication of its CC.  On October 12, 2023, Christmas Parade filed
its opposition.  On October 20, 2023,
Christmas Parade filed its reply.
 
Legal
Standard
A
motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.  (C.C.P.
§437c(c).) 
A motion
for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion
for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion
for summary judgment.  (C.C.P. §437c(f)(2).)  A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action if
that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or. A motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of
duty.  (C.C.P. §437c(f)(1).) 
 
Express Contractual Indemnity (1st COA)
The
elements of a cause of action for express contractual indemnity include: (1)
the parties’ contractual relationship; (2) the indemnitee’s performance of that
portion of the contract which gives rise to the indemnification claim; (3) the
facts showing a loss within the meaning of the parties’ indemnification
agreement; and (4) the amount of damages sustained.  (Four Star Electric, Inc. v. F
& H Construction (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1379.)
“Express
indemnity refers to an obligation that arises ‘by virtue of express contractual
language establishing a duty in one party to save another harmless upon the
occurrence of specified circumstances.’ [Citation] Express indemnity generally
is not subject to equitable considerations or a joint legal obligation to the
injured party; rather, it is enforced in accordance with the terms of the
contracting parties’ agreement. [Citation.] In the context of noninsurance
indemnity agreements, if a party seeks to be indemnified for its own active
negligence, or regardless of the indemnitor’s fault, the contractual
language on the point ‘must be particularly clear and explicit, and will be
construed strictly against the indemnitee.’ [Citations.] In this sense, express
indemnity allows contracting parties ‘great freedom to allocate
[indemnification] responsibilities as they see fit,’ and to agree to ‘protections
beyond those afforded by the doctrines of implied or equitable indemnity.’
[Citation.]”  (Prince v. Pacific Gas
& Electric Co. (2009) 45
Cal.4th 1151, 1158, internal citations omitted.)
Civil
Code §2782(a) invalidates an indemnity clause in a construction contract that
purports to create indemnity against liability for damages caused by the sole
negligence of the indemnitee.  (Civ. Code
§2782(a).)
Mike
Brown alleges on or about October 15, 2018, Christmas Parade entered into a
written agreement with Mike Brown for valuable consideration.  (CC ¶4.) 
Mike Brown alleges under the terms of the agreement, it agreed to lease
certain equipment to Christmas Parade and to install said equipment in
connection with the 2018 Hollywood Christmas Parade.  (CC ¶4.) 
Mike Brown alleges Plaintiffs allege in their Complaint herein that
during the term of said agreement, Craig was injured during the set-up of the
Hollywood Christmas Parade when Mike Brown’s employee, Northern, backed up his
forklift over Craig’s foot, thereby injuring him. (CC ¶5.)  Mike Brown alleges Craig seeks damages for
personal injuries, and his wife, Stacy, seeks damages for loss of consortium.  (CC ¶5.) 
Mike Brown alleges on information and belief that Northern was engaged
in the performance of the subject Agreement when the subject accident occurred.  (CC ¶5.)
Mike
Brown alleges said Agreement provides in pertinent part:
All liability including but not
limited to, the use and operations of the above rental equipment is sole
responsibility of the Lessee [Hollywood Christmas Parade Television, LLC].
Lessor [Mike Brown Grandstands, Inc.] is only responsible for the structural
integrity of the installation. Lessee agrees to defend and hold harmless Lessor
in any and all claims, except in the event of structural failure, in connection
with the above rental equipment.
 
(CC
¶6.)  Mike Brown alleges said Agreement
further provides:
1.    
Lessee assumes all risks and liability
for the use and operation of the equipment and for personal injuries and
property damage arising from or incidental thereto; and Lessee shall protect,
defend, indemnify and same harmless Lessor against any and all claims, demands
or causes of action of every kind arising in favor of any person, including but
not limited to Lessee, his guests and employees of Lessor and Lessee, on
account of personal injuries or death, or damage to property arising out of,
incident to or resulting directly, or indirectly from the performance of this
lease agreement, form any cause whatsoever unless such claims, demands or
causes of action arise solely through the negligence of Lessor.
 
(CC
¶6.)  Mike Brown alleges said Agreement
provides:
6.    
If Lessee supplies any labor in
connection with the installation of the equipment, Lessee shall provide
workmen’s compensation insurance for such labor meeting applicable state law
requirements and general liability insurance in amounts reasonably required by
Lessor, Lessee shall hold Lessor harmless from and against any and all claims,
damages, costs and liability of any nature related to the use of such labor
supplied by Lessee.
 
(CC
¶6.)
Mike
Brown alleges on information and belief it was made a party to Plaintiffs’
action by reason of the services it performed under said Agreement; therefore, Christmas
Parade is obligated to indemnify and defend Mike Brown in connection with Plaintiffs’
claims herein.  (CC ¶6.)  Mike Brown alleges on information and belief that
Christmas Parade caused or contributed to Craig’s accident by negligently
failing to provide a safe place to work, by failing supervise and direct the
set-up operations for the Hollywood Christmas Parade of which Christmas Parade
in charge, and by providing labor in connection with the installation of the
leased equipment under the Agreement which further caused or contributed to the
subject accident.  (CC ¶6.)  
Mike
Brown alleges it has performed all duties required to be performed under said
agreement and at all relevant times, said agreement was in full force and
effect.  (CC ¶7.)  Mike Brown denies any liability for any
damages allegedly suffered by Plaintiffs, but in the event Mike Brown is found
liable to Plaintiffs, Mike Brown alleges that Christmas Parade is obligated
under said agreement to fully indemnify and defend Mike Brown in connection
with Plaintiffs’ action herein.  (CC
¶7.)  
Mike
Brown alleges Christmas Parade has failed or refused to indemnify or defend it,
despite being required to do so under the written agreements as set forth above.  (CC ¶8.) 

Mike
Brown seeks an order requiring Christmas Parade to indemnify and defend it in
connection with Plaintiffs’ action herein. 
(CC ¶9.)
Mike
Brown argues the duty of Christmas Parade to indemnify and hold harmless Mike
Brown against Plaintiffs’ claims is clear based on the plain language of the
indemnity provision of the written agreement between Mike Brown and Christmas
Parade (“Agreement”).  Mike Brown argues in
¶1 of the Agreement, Christmas Parade agreed to “protect, defend, indemnify and
same harmless [Mike Brown] against any and all claims, demands or causes of
action of every kind … on account of personal injuries … arising out of,
incident to or resulting directly, or indirectly from the performance of this
lease agreement.”  Plaintiffs allege Craig
was injured while Mike Brown’s employee was installing grandstands.  Plaintiffs’ claim therefore arises out of
Mike Brown’s performance of the Agreement containing the indemnity clause.  Mike Brown also argues Hollywood Christmas
was the undisputed and exclusive controller and possessor of the subject
premises and the Parade setup jobsite, thereby triggering Christmas Parade’s
obligation to indemnify Mike Brown.
Mike
Brown submitted evidence that Christmas Parade was responsible for the safety
of individuals involved in the setup of the Parade, including the set up of the
TV area at the time of Craig’s alleged injury. 
Specifically, Mike Brown submitted evidence from Bradley Dean Thomas’
(“Thomas”) deposition:
Q As Hollywood Christmas Parade Television’s
representative for coordinating the setup, are you responsible for safety in
the area? 
 
A For the most part. 
 
Q Does that involve looking out for
workers to make sure they don’t get in the way of forklifts or bleachers that
are being put down; that they stay out of harm’s way?
 
A I mean I guess. It just depends on what
situation we’re in. I’m not a safety officer, if that’s what you’re asking. 
 
Q Was there a safety officer present
during the setup for the 2018 parade? 
 
A No. That was only Mike Brown for
bleachers, per their request. 
 
(Cross-Complainant’s
Disputed Separate Statement of Fact [“CC-DSSF”] 13; CC-COE Exh. 4 at 39:6-19;
Decl. of Bergsten ¶6.)  Mike Brown
submitted evidence that Christmas Parade did not retain a Safety Coordinator
for the Parade.  (CC-DSSF 14, 21; CC-COE
Exh. 4 at 39:6-19; Exh. 7 at ¶9; Decl. of Bergsten ¶9.)  Mike Brown submitted evidence that Christmas
Parade permitted Craig and Thomas to be on-site when Mike Brown’s workers were
performing services with the use of forklifts. 
(CC-DSSF 16, 22; CC-COE Exh. 5 at 10:21-22, 43:5-13, 50:20-24; Exh. 7 at
¶10.)  Accordingly, Mike Brown met its
burden to demonstrate Christmas Parade has a duty to indemnify it, and that Christmas
Parade was responsible for jobsite safety at the Parade at the time of the
Incident, shifting the burden to Christmas Parade to raise a triable issue of
material fact as to whether it had a duty to indemnify Mike Brown on the basis
of its sole negligence.
          Christmas Parade met its burden to
raise a triable issue of material fact as to whether it had a duty to indemnify
Mike Brown on the basis of Mike Brown’s sole negligence.  Specifically, Christmas Parade submitted
evidence that Northern was driving Mike Brown’s forklift while being supervised
by Mike Brown’s foreman. 
(Cross-Defendant’s Additional Material Facts [“CD-AMF”] 23, 28; CD-COE Exh.
B at 41:1-17, 87:1-8.)  Christmas Parade
submitted evidence that Northern could see adequately at the time of the incident
because the street was illuminated and Northern did not believe the street was
unsafely lit at the time of the incident. 
(CD-AMF 25, 26; CD-COE Exh. B at 44:20-45:7.)  Therefore, Christmas Parade met its burden to
raise a triable issue of material fact as to its duty to indemnify Mike Brown
on the basis of Mike Brown’s sole negligence.
          Accordingly, Mike Brown’s motion for
summary judgment is denied, and Mike Brown’s motion in the alternative for
summary adjudication of the 1st cause of action for express indemnity is
denied.
 
Total Implied Indemnity,
Comparative Equitable Indemnity, Equitable Contribution, & Declaratory
Relief (2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th COAs)
          “Implied
contractual indemnity is applied to contract parties and is designed to
apportion loss among contract parties based on the concept that one who enters
a contract agrees to perform the work carefully and to discharge foreseeable
damages resulting from that breach. [Citation.]” (Sehulster Tunnels/Pre-Con
v. Traylor Brothers, Inc./Obayashi Corp. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1350,
quoting Smoketree–Lake Murray, Ltd. v. Mills Concrete Construction Co.
(1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1724, 1736.)  As a
form of equitable indemnity . . . , the doctrine rests on the equities apparent
from the surrounding circumstances, because contracting parties should share
loss in proportion to their breach.  (Id. at pgs. 1350-1351, citing Smoketree–Lake
Murray, Ltd., 234 Cal.App.3d at pg. 1736-1737.)
“The
elements of a cause of action for [equitable] indemnity are (1) a showing of
fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee
for which the indemnitor is . . . equitably responsible.”  (C.W. Howe Partners Inc. v. Mooradian (2019)
43 Cal.App.5th 688, 700, quoting Bailey v. Safeway, Inc.
(2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 206, 217.)
“Equitable contribution is the right to recover from a co-obligor
who shares a liability with
the party seeking contribution.” 
(Underwriters of Interest Subscribing to Policy Number A15274001 v.
ProBuilders Specialty Insurance Co. (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 721, 728, citing North
American Capacity Insurance Co. v. Claremont Liability Ins. Co. (2009)
177 Cal.App.4th 272, 295.)  “[T]he right
to contribution arises when several insurers are obligated to indemnify or
defend the same loss or claim, and one insurer has paid more than its share of
the loss or defended the action. . . . Equitable contribution permits
reimbursement to the insurer that paid on the loss for the excess it paid over
its proportionate share of the obligation, on the theory that the debt it paid
was equally and concurrently owed by the
other insurers and should be shared by them pro rata in proportion to their
respective coverage of the risk. The purpose of this rule of equity is to
accomplish substantial justice by equalizing the common burden shared by
coinsurers, and to prevent one insurer from profiting at the expense of
others.”  (Fireman’s Fund Insurance
Co. v. Maryland Casualty Co. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1293.) 
“To
qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action
presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,
and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the
party’s rights or obligations.”  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) 
For
the same reasons as stated with regards to Mike Brown’s motion for summary adjudication
of its 1st cause of action, there exists a triable issue of material fact as to
whether Christmas Parade has a duty to indemnify Mike Brown on the basis of
Mike Brown’s sole negligence.
Accordingly,
Mike Brown’s motion for summary adjudication of the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th
causes of action is denied.  
 
          Conclusion
Mike
Brown’s motion for summary judgment is denied.
Mike
Brown’s motion in the alternative for summary adjudication of the 1st, 2nd,
3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of action in its cross-complaint is denied.
Moving
party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  October _____, 2023
                                                                             





  