 Case Number:  22STCV12731    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ROBERTO
  QUINTERO,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
DANIEL
  ANDREW OLIVIER, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 22STCV12731
 
ORDER RE: MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 
 
Dept. 31
1:30 p.m.
March 13, 2024




 
I.          BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Roberto Quintero (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants, Daniel
Andrew Olivier (“Olivier”), City of Compton (“the City”), County of Los
Angeles, State of California, and Enterprise FM Trust for damages arising from
an automobile incident.  The complaint sets
forth four causes of action for (1) general negligence, (2) motor vehicle
negligence, (3) negligent hiring, training, and supervision, and (4) negligent
entrustment of motor vehicle. Trial is set for April 24, 2024. 
The City now moves for judgment on
the pleadings on the grounds that it is not liable for common law torts except
for those set forth by statute. Plaintiff opposes the motion. Any reply was due
on or before March 6, 2024; none was filed. 
 
II.         MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
A.    
Legal
Standard
A defendant may move for judgment
on the pleadings when the “complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”  (C.C.P. §438(b)(1) and (c)(1)(B)(ii).)
“A motion for judgment on the
pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks
only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be
judicially noticed. Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper
on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.” 
(Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 [Citations].)  The standard for ruling on a motion for
judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a
general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with
matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian
v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v.
California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216).)  
 
1.      Timeliness
of the Motion
Plaintiff contends the motion is
untimely because the City is bringing a statutory motion under CCP § 438, as
opposed to a common law motion for judgment on the pleadings. Unless the court
orders otherwise, a statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings cannot be
made after entry of pretrial conference order (CRC Rules 3.720-3.730) or 30
days before the initial trial date, whichever is later.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(e).) Here, Plaintiff
asserts that the matter was initially set for trial on January 19, 2024, but
the motion was filed on December 22, 2023, which is less than 30 days before
the initial trial date. 
The City cites Stoops v. Abbassi
(2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650 for the proposition that “‘[a] motion for
judgment on the pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or
at the trial itself.’” While there are time limits for the motion brought
pursuant to CCP section 438, there are no time limits for non-statutory common
law motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Id. at 650; Sofias v.
Bank of America (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 583, 585-86.) However, as
Plaintiff observes, the City has brought a statutory motion for judgment on the
pleadings pursuant to CCP § 438. The City’s quoted part of Stoops merely
quotes and cites Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d
868, 877 in passing when reciting the standard of review for a motion for
judgment on the pleadings. There is no indication that the motion in Stoops
was a common law motion for judgment on the pleadings, and “ ‘ “cases are not
authority for propositions not considered.” ’ ” 
(B.B. v. County of Los Angeles (2020) 10 Cal.5th 1, 11.) As
cautioned in Tung v. Chicago Title Company (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 734, “Even
if nonstatutory motions for judgment on the pleadings are still viable
postsection 438…trial judges should think twice before becoming ensnared in
addressing them on the merits on the eve of trial where, especially like here,
the operative pleading has never been challenged before.” (Id. at 758-759.)
            In this
case, the City attacks both the legal basis for Plaintiff’s causes of action,
and the sufficiency of the factual allegations for punitive damages. As the
Court of Appeal explained in Cordova v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2005) 129
Cal.App.4th 89, “It has long been the rule in this state that when a
defendant’s motion for summary judgment depends on the untenability of the plaintiff’s
case as pleaded and not on extrinsic evidence negating an element or proving an
affirmative defense it may be treated as a common law motion for judgment on
the pleadings.” In terms of whether the complaint sufficiently pleads a claim
for punitive damages, the Court will not consider the City’s arguments raised
now, on the eve of trial, after the City had ample time to either bring a
demurrer or a timely statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings. However,
because the City’s contention that it is not liable for common law torts goes
to the tenability of Plaintiff’s case, the Court will exercise its discretion
and consider only this portion of the motion for judgment on the pleadings as a
common law motion. Regardless of timeliness, “Granting leave to file an
untimely motion for judgment on the pleadings is a matter in the trial court's
discretion to control litigation before it.” (Sutherland v. City of Fort
Bragg (2000) 86 Cal. App. 4th 13 fn. 4 [citing to Code of Civil Procedure
section 438, subdivision (e)—authorizes the trial court to permit late filings
of such motions and does not specify any grounds which might serve to limit its
power to do so].) The City’s remaining arguments attacking the factual
allegations are untimely, and the Court will not consider those arguments
raised now for the first time on the merits.  
 
2.      Meet
and Confer
“Before filing a motion for
judgment on the pleadings pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet
and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
claims to be raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a).)
Here, the City’s counsel conclusory
declares that he attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel, and the
parties were unable to reach a resolution. (Mot. Westmoreland ¶ 6.) However, Plaintiff
avers that rather than meeting and conferring in good faith, the City’s counsel
emailed on December 20, 2023 that the Complaint’s allegations were
insufficient, and demanded Plaintiff dismiss the action by December 22, 2023,
or that the City would file this motion. (Opp. Jones Decl. ¶ 8; Exh. 2.) Two
days later, the City filed its motion. The Court finds that the City did not
attempt to meet and confer in good faith.
Nonetheless, an insufficient meet
and confer process is not grounds to grant or deny a motion for judgment on the
pleadings. (CCP § 439(a)(4).)
 
B.     Discussion

The City argues Plaintiff has
failed to allege any statutory authority to maintain his causes of action against
it. Except as otherwise provided by statute, “[a] public entity is not liable
for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the
public entity or a public employee or any other person.”  (Gov. Code § 815(a).)  “[T]his section ‘abolished all common law or
judicially declared forms of liability for public entities, except for such
liability as may be required by the federal or state Constitution. Thus, in the
absence of some constitutional requirement, public entities may be liable only
if a statute declares them to be liable’ [Citation.]”  (Becerra v. County of Santa Cruz
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1450, 1457.) 
Consequently, “public entities may be liable only if a statute declares
them to be liable.”  (Tuthill v. City
of San Buenaventura (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1088 (emphasis in the
original). It has been established that there is no liability for California
governmental entities in the absence of an express statute or constitutional
provision creating or accepting liability. (Tolan v. State of California
(1979) 100 Cal.App.3rd 980, 986.)  
 
1.      1st
C/A – General Negligence
Here, the complaint, under this
cause of action, alleges in pertinent part: 
 
“Defendants
owned and operated their vehicle negligently and carelessly, proximately
causing property damage and personal injury to Plaintiff. Defendants owed
Plaintiff a duty to exercise reasonable care in the operation of their vehicle.
Defendant Daniel Andrew Olivier was driving under the course and scope of
employment at the time of the incident.” 
 
(Compl. at p. 5.)
Plaintiff does not allege any
statutory basis to maintain a cause of action for negligence against the City. It
has been recognized that it is impermissible to sue a public entity for common
law negligence. (Torres v. Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 844, 850.) Plaintiff in opposition, avers that Gov. Code
§§ 815 and 815.2(a) and Veh. Code § 17001 are applicable to hold a public
entity liable for an act or omission of its employee, while in the scope of
employment, in the operation of any motor vehicle. The Court agrees with
Plaintiff that this defect is readily capable of cure. 
Therefore, the motion as to the
first cause of action is granted with leave to amend. 
 
2.      2nd
C/A – Motor Vehicle
The form complaint alleges that Olivier
operated the motor vehicle owned by the City of Compton, et al., and that defendants
employed Olivier in the course and scope of his employment, who operated the
vehicle with their permission. (Compl. at p. 6.) No statutory basis for
liability against a public entity was alleged. However, as previously analyzed,
this defect can be remedied. 
Therefore, the motion as to the second
cause of action is granted with leave to amend. 
 
3.      3rd
C/A – Negligent Hiring, Training and Supervision & 4th C/A –
Negligent Entrustment of Motor Vehicle
Aside from not pleading a statutory
basis, the City argues that the third and fourth causes of action are
duplicative of each other and therefore should be dismissed. 
“A claim that an employer was
negligent in hiring or retaining an employee-driver rarely differs in substance
from a claim that an employer was negligent in entrusting a vehicle to the
employee.  Awareness, constructive or
actual, that a person is unfit or incompetent to drive underlies a claim that
an employer was negligent in hiring or retaining that person as a driver.  (See CACI No. 426.)  That same awareness underlies a claim for
negligent entrustment.  (See CACI No.
724.)  In a typical case, like this, the
two claims are functionally identical.” 
(Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148, 1157.)
Here, Plaintiff alleges the City
was negligent and reckless in hiring Olivier, and that Olivier was unfit and
incompetent to perform the work for which he was hired, including but not
limited to competently driving a vehicle within the course and scope of his employment.
(Compl. at p. 7.) In order to impose liability on City for its own negligence,
Plaintiff must allege a violation of a statute imposing a direct duty on City. Even
if the two causes of action for negligent hiring and entrustment are duplicative,
as argued by the City, the Court will not consider the untimely argument. 
Accordingly, the motion as to the
third and fourth causes of action are granted with leave to amend to allow
Plaintiff to plead statutory grounds for liability. 
 
4.      Punitive
Damages
The City contends that it is exempt
from liability for punitive damages, and that the complaint has failed to plead
fraud, malice, or oppression by the City for it to be liable for punitive
damages. The City has been a party to this action since November 29, 2022, yet
failed to challenge the prayer for punitive damages until one year later, with
trial to commence on April 24, 2024. The Court will neither permit nor consider
this late argument.
5.      Service
of Amended Complaint and Time to Answer
Pursuant
to CCP § 128, every court shall have the power to:
(5) To
control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and
of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before
it, in every matter pertaining thereto.
...
(8) To
amend and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and
justice.
 
Because the Court wishes to
preserve the current trial date, defense counsel is ordered to accept electronic
service of the amended complaint.
 
Regarding the request to shorten time on filing an Answer, pursuant to CCP § 471.5:
(a) If
the complaint is amended, a copy of the amendments shall be filed, or the court
may, in its discretion, require the complaint as amended to be filed, and a
copy of the amendments or amended complaint must be served upon the defendants
affected thereby. The defendant shall answer the amendments, or the
complaint as amended, within 30 days after service thereof, or such
other time as the court may direct, and judgment by default may be entered
upon failure to answer, as in other cases. For the purposes of this
subdivision, “complaint” includes a cross-complaint, and “defendant” includes a
person against whom a cross-complaint is filed.
            For the
purposes of preserving the current trial date, the Court directs defendant to
answer the amended complaint within fifteen (15) days of service of the amended
complaint.
 
III.        CONCLUSION
The motion is granted with leave to
amend to allow Plaintiff to plead a statutory basis of liability against the
City. Plaintiff is granted five (5) days leave to amend.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:

Parties
     are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to
     see if they can reach an agreement.
If
     a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must
     send an email to the court at sscdept31@lacourt.org with
     the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
     the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
     information, and the identity of the party submitting.  
Unless all parties
     submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to
     appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You
     should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  
If
     the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the
     motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the
     Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may
     prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 

 
Dated this 13th
day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Michelle
  C. Kim
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 



