 Case Number:  24CHCV01952    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  F51 LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F-51
 

JANUARY 6, 2025
 

DEMURRER WITH
MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 24CHCV01952

¿ 
Demurrer with Motion to
Strike Filed: 8/15/24
¿ 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial
Hospital; and Lu L. Wang, M.D. (collectively, “Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Anahit Dagesyan; Araxi Dagesyan; Lusine Dagesyan; Mesrop Dagesyan; and Nvard
Dagesyan (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: OK
¿ 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants
demur to the second and third causes of action in Plaintiffs’ complaint. Defendants
also seek an order striking Plaintiffs’ prayers for punitive damages and
attorney fees.
¿ 
TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer against Plaintiffs’
third cause of action is sustained, and the motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer
for attorney fees in connection therewith is granted, without leave to amend.
The demurrer against Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is sustained, and the
motion to strike the remaining provisions of Plaintiffs’ complaint is granted, with
30 days leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
This is a wrongful death action
brought by Plaintiffs, individually and as successors-in-interest to their
mother, Azatui Dagesyan (“Decedent”). (Compl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs allege that on 2/13/23,
Decedent was admitted to defendant Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital’s
(“Hospital”) acute care hospital. (Id. at ¶ 19.) Plaintiffs further
allege that on 2/24/23, during her stay at the Hospital, Decedent was seen and
evaluated by defendant Wang. (Id. at ¶ 20.) Plaintiffs allege that
during the overnight hours between 2/24/23 and 2/25/23, “defendants, and each
of them, negligently and carelessly neglected, ignored, or otherwise failed to
monitor DECEDENT’s activities, so as to inflict or otherwise cause DECEDENT to
fall and sustain severe injuries, including but not limited to multiple fractured
ribs and contusions on her back.” (Id. at ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs allege that
on 6/8/23, Decedent died as a result of her injuries. (Id. at ¶ 51.)
 
On 5/23/24, Plaintiffs filed their
complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Wrongful
Death; (2) Dependent Adult Abuse (Survivor Action); and (3) Violation of
Patient’s Bill of Rights Pursuant to Health and Safety Code § 1430.
 
On 8/15/24, the Hospital filed and
served the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On 9/16/24, Wang filed a
notice of joinder to the Hospital’s demurrer and motion to strike. On 12/23/24
and 12/24/24, Plaintiffs filed their oppositions. On 12/30/24, the Hospital
filed its reply.
 
DEMURRER
 
As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading
against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight
enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning
“ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and
(f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿
 
“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence
or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.) 
 
Here,
Defendants¿demur to Plaintiffs’ second and third causes of action on the basis
that the complaint fails¿to allege facts sufficient to¿state¿those causes of
action.
 
A.   
Meet-and-Confer 
 
Here, the Hospital’s counsel declares that on 8/12/24,
8/13/24, and 8/14/24, he emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel in attempts to meet and
confer regarding the issues raised in the instant demurrer and motion to strike
but received no response. (Decl. of Tony Hsu ¶¶ 4–8.) Therefore, the
Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).
//
//
//
B.    
Dependent Adult Abuse
 
Plaintiffs’
second cause of action alleges Dependent Adult Abuse against Defendants, in
violation Welfare and Institutions Code section 15600 et seq. (the Elder Abuse
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, or the “Act”). The Act defines, in
relevant part, abuse of a dependent adult as either “(1) Physical abuse,
neglect, … or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental
suffering;” or “(2) The deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services
that are necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering.” (Welf. &
Inst. Code § 15610.07, subd. (a).)
The Act
defines “neglect” as “the negligent failure of any person having the care or
custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a
reasonable person in a like position would exercise.” (Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.57, subd. (a).) “Neglect refers not to the substandard performance of
medical services but, rather, to the ‘failure of those responsible for
attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults,
regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their custodial
obligations.’” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th
771, 783.) Under the Act, neglect “speaks not of the undertaking of medical
services, but of the failure to provide medical care.” (Ibid.; Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 410.)
 
The
definition of a “care custodian” under the Act includes administrators,
employees, and those who otherwise provide care and services to dependent
adults in facilities including hospitals. (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.17.)
For a healthcare provider to be liable for dependent adult neglect, the claim
requires a caretaking or custodial relationship wherein the defendant assumed
significant responsibility for attending to one or more of those basic needs of
the dependent adult that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would
ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance. (Winn v. Pioneer
Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 155, 158.)¿ A statutory cause of
action such as Dependent Adult Abuse/Neglect must be pled with particularity. (Covenant
Care, 32 Cal.4th at 790; Intrieri v. Superior Court (2004) 117
Cal.App.4th 72, 82.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs
allege the following:
“Defendants
abused and neglected the DECEDENT during the overnight hours of February 24,
2023 – February 25, 2023 through their negligent and careless attempt to
transfer the DECEDENT from the hospital bed to the restroom, during which they
directly and proximately caused the DECEDENT to fall on the floor and sustain
severe injuries. Defendants’ lack of due care and attention during this
process, despite being aware of the DECEDENT’s medical condition and her
heightened risk of falling, contributed to the injuries sustained. It is
evidence that greater caution should have been exercised both in assisting the
DECEDENT out of bed and during her movement to the restroom, given the circumstances.
In addition, it should be emphasized that the hospital should have refrained
from attempting to transport the DECEDENT from her bed to the restroom, as they
were fully aware of the inherent risks associated with such actions given the
DECEDENT’s medical condition.” (Compl. ¶ 25.)
 
Defendants
argue that they cannot be liable to Plaintiffs for dependent adult abuse
because Plaintiffs fail to allege the existence of a caretaking or custodial
relationship between Defendants and Decedent. (Dem. 4:13–15.) Specifically,
Defendants assert that “the Complaint provided no facts for the 3-4 month
period between the incident and her death at Providence Saint Joseph Medical
Center. As such it fails to support the existence of a ‘robust caretaking or
custodial relationship’ between HENRY MAYO and decedent.” (Id. at 7:9–12.)
 
Defendants
further argue that Plaintiffs’ allegations are insufficient to show a failure
to provide medical care to Decedent, as the allegations “describe a
dissatisfaction and/ or disagreement by plaintiffs in the decisions made by
defendants in decedent’s medical care and treatment but at the same time, taken
as true, show that medical care was in fact provided to decedent during the
entire hospital stay rather than a failure to provide medical care.” (Id. at
8:9–12.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they “have plead with specificity to
establish that Decedent was neglected at the hands of HENRY MAYO staff during
her hospitalization.” (Pls.’ Opp. 6:18–19.) “The Complaint, at ¶¶ 19-28, discusses
in detail all facts that give rise to Plaintiffs’ cause of action for elder
abuse against Defendant HENRY MAYO.” (Id. at 8:9–11.) Specifically,
Plaintiffs cite their allegations that “HENRY MAYO and its staff knew that
Decedent was [experiencing] malnutrition, they knew that she had worsening
symptoms of syncope, they knew she was incapable of self-ambulating, they knew
she was a high risk of falling, they knew that she required constant assistance
with bowel and bladder movements, normal hygiene, and cleanup after soiling on
herself in bed. Even though the aforementioned was known by HENRY MAYO and its
staff, they left Plaintiff unattended and failed to monitor Plaintiff during
the overnight hours of February 24, 2023 – February 25, 2023.” (Id. at 10:27–11:6.)
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court disagrees with Defendants that Plaintiffs have
not sufficiently alleged a caretaking or custodial relationship between
Defendants and Decedent. It is clear from Plaintiffs’ allegations that Decedent
required assistance with basic needs, and that Defendants undertook
responsibility for attending to those needs during Decedent’s stay at the
Hospital. (Compl. ¶¶ 14–19.)
 
Plaintiffs
further argue that the Court should apply the “recklessness” standard set forth
in Mack v. Soung (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 96. A plaintiff who can prove by
clear and convincing evidence that (1) the defendant is liable for physical
abuse, neglect, or abandonment as defined by the Act; and that (2) the
defendant acted with “recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission
of this abuse,” can recover heightened remedies under the Act. (Welf. &
Inst. Code § 15657; Winn, 63 Cal.4th at 152.) In Mack, the
Court of Appeal found that “a doctor who conceals the existence of a serious
bedsore on a nursing home patient under his care, opposes her hospitalization
where circumstances indicate it is medically necessary, and then abandons the
patient in her dying hour of need commits neglect within the meaning of the
Act. Further, if it can be proved by clear and convincing evidence that such
acts were committed with recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice, the
heightened remedies of section 15657 will apply.” (80 Cal.App.4th at 973.)
Defendants argue in opposition that “the facts of this case are completely
inapposite to Mack and fail to show the level of recklessness, oppression,
fraud or malice required to support any cause of action for Elder Abuse or
damages associated thereto.” (Defs.’ Reply 5:12–14.)
 
The Court
finds the Court of Appeal’s findings in Mack to be inapposite in the
instant demurrer analysis and is more apt for a discussion of the availability
of heightened damages under the Act. In Mack, the Court of Appeal found
that the defendant physician’s neglect of the elderly decedent was reckless. Here,
the Court agrees with Defendants that the gravamen of Plaintiffs’ allegations,
in that Hospital staff negligently attempted to transfer Decedent from her
hospital bed to the restroom, causing her to fall and sustain injuries, amount
to Defendants’ professional negligence in treating and caring for Decedent
rather than their failure to provide medical care. (Compl. ¶ 25; Covenant
Care, 32 Cal.4th at 783.) Therefore, unlike in Mack, the Court finds
that Plaintiff’s allegations, as pled, do not constitute neglect as defined in
the Act, and the Court need not reach a determination of whether Plaintiffs
have alleged that the purported neglect was reckless.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts to
constitute a cause of action for Dependent Adult Abuse. Accordingly, the
demurrer against Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is sustained.
 
C.   
Violation of Health and Safety Code section 1430
 
Plaintiffs’
third cause of action alleges Violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights Pursuant to
Health and Safety Code section 1430 against Defendants. Section 1430
provides that “a current or former resident or patient, or the legal
representative, personal representative, or successor in interest of a current
or former resident or patient, of a skilled nursing facility, as defined in
subdivision (c) of Section 1250, or intermediate care facility, as defined in
subdivision (d) of Section 1250, may bring a civil action against the licensee
of a facility who violates any rights of the resident or patient as set forth
in Section 72527 or 73523 of Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations, or
any other right provided for by federal or state law or regulation.” (Health
& Saf. Code § 1430, subd. (b)(1).)
 
Here, Defendants
argue that “Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for Violation of Patient’s Bill
of Rights pursuant to Health & Safety Code section 1430 (“Section 1430”)
fails as a matter of law since HENRY MAYO is a general acute care hospital.
Pursuant to Section 1430(b)(1), to allege a cause of action under Section 1430,
defendant would need to be either a skilled nursing facility as defined in
Health & Safety Code section 1250(c), or an intermediate care facility as
defined in Health & Safety Code section 1250(d). Since HENRY MAYO is
neither of these, they would not be subject to a cause of action under Section
1430 for violations of 22 C.C.R section 72527.” (Dem. 5:1–7.) As Defendants
observe, Plaintiffs fail to address Defendants’ arguments against their third
cause of action in their opposition.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Violation of Health and Safety
Code section 1430. Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiffs’ third cause of
action is sustained.
  
A.   
Punitive
Damages
 
Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of
malice, fraud, or oppression by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person
or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the
rights or safety of others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning
Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in
conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise
cause injury. (Ibid.) Punitive damages must be supported by factual
allegations. Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are
insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud
or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)
 
1.     
Wrongful Death/Medical Negligence
 
“In
any action for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health
care provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint
or other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading
that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
425.13.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs pray “for punitive and exemplary damages, according to proof and as
permitted by law” in connection with their first cause of action for wrongful
death. (Compl. p. 18, l. 2, para. 7.) As Defendants observe, that “Plaintiff
has not obtained a court order pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.13 … to allow a prayer for punitive damages against HENRY MAYO for
professional negligence/ wrongful death.” (MTS 4:5–8.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that “in the context of elder abuse causes of
action, a plaintiff may pray for punitive damages against a healthcare provider
without leave of the court, and he is not subject to the limitations imposed by
Section 425.13(a) of the Code of Civil Procedure.” (MTS Opp. 6:17–19.) However,
the Court finds Plaintiffs’ argument misplaced, as it does not address the
applicability of Section 425.13 to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for
wrongful death.
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiffs’
prayer for punitive damages in connection with Plaintiffs’ first cause of
action.
 
2.     
Elder Abuse Act
 
As earlier
discussed, a plaintiff who can prove by clear and convincing evidence that (1)
the defendant is liable for physical abuse, neglect, or abandonment as defined
by the Elder Abuse Act; and that (2) the defendant acted with “recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse,” can recover
heightened remedies under the Act. (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15657; Winn,
63 Cal.4th at 152.)
 
Here,
Defendants argue that “Plaintiffs’ allegations either merely re-state the law
or fail to provide accompanying facts that would support a cause of action for
Elder Abuse. The language in the Complaint is insufficient because plaintiffs
fail to specify what, if any, ultimate facts support an award of punitive
damages against defendant HENRY MAYO.” (MTS 6:22–25.)
 
As
the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Dependent Adult Abuse, it likewise finds that
Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts sufficient to support a prayer for
punitive damages in connection with their second cause of action. Accordingly, the motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive
damages in connection with their second cause of action is granted.
 
B.    
Attorney Fees
 
An award of attorney fees is proper when authorized by
contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1032, subd. (b); 1033.5, subd.
(a)(10).) Here, the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act “does not provide
for an award of attorney fees to the prevailing party in medical malpractice
actions. Accordingly, the ordinary rule, that each party bears the cost of its
own attorney fees, must prevail.” (Salgado v. County of Los Angeles
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 629, 651.) The Elder Abuse Act authorizes a plaintiff who proves
that a defendant is liable for physical abuse, neglect, or abandonment, and
“has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the
commission of this abuse,” to recover reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
(Welf. & Inst. Code § 15657, subd. (a).) Health and Safety Code section
1430 also provides for the recovery of attorney fees. (Health & Saf.
Code § 1430, subd. (b)(1).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have not alleged any basis for the
recovery of attorney fees in connection with their first cause of action. As
the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts sufficient to
constitute their second and third causes of action, it likewise finds that
Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts sufficient to support a prayer for the
recovery of attorney fees in connection with those causes of action. Accordingly, the motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for attorney
fees is granted.
 
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,
LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it
is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada
Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
 
Here, the
Court notes that this is the first demurrer brought against Plaintiffs’
original complaint, and that Plaintiffs have requested leave to amend their
second cause of action in the event that the Court sustains the instant
demurrer. (Pls.’ Opp. 12:11–14.) Under the Court’s liberal policy of granting
leave to amend, Plaintiffs are granted 30 days leave to amend the complaint to
cure the defects set forth above.
 
However, as
to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action, the Court agrees with Defendants that
their “argument in the Demurrer was effectively unopposed by the Opposition and
should therefore be sustained without leave to amend and Motion to Strike
corresponding damages granted accordingly.” (Defs.’ Reply 3:9–11.) Accordingly,
leave to amend is denied as to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action and the prayer
for attorney fees stemming therefrom.
 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The demurrer against Plaintiffs’ third cause of action is
sustained, and the motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for attorney fees in
connection therewith is granted, without leave to amend. The demurrer against
Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is sustained, and the motion to strike the
remaining provisions of Plaintiffs’ complaint is granted, with 30 days leave to
amend.