 Case Number:  22STCV10586    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 3-8-24 c/f 1-18-24
Case # 22STCV10568
Trial Date: 5-28-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, Henghame Abaghi
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
·        
1st Cause of Action: Breach of Duty
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract
·        
Claim for Punitive Damages
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
On February 23, 2021, the home of plaintiff Henghame
Abaghi located at 23910 Stagg St., West Hills, suffered damage as a result of a
“pressurized water supply line located under the concrete slab of a downstairs
bedroom” apparently ruptured. Plaintiff submitted an insurance claim on the
homeowner policy with defendant State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company.
On April 3, 2021, the claim was denied. Plaintiff alleges defendant failed to
adequately investigate the cause of the leak, and therefore improperly denied
coverage under the terms of the policy.
 
On March 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach
of Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and Breach of Contract. Defendant
answered the complaint on May 13, 2022. On December 20, 2023, the court granted
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate trial into the first phase for liability, and
the second part for the punitive damages claim.
 
RULING: Granted
in Part/Denied in Part.
Evidentiary
Objections
·        
Declaration of Jeffrey Nodd, Appendix of
Exhibits, Ex. E, Janaury 28, 2021 Letter: Overruled (Code Civ. Proc., 437c,
subd. (q))
·        
Declaration of Jeffrey Nodd, Appendix of
Exhibits, Ex. G, Declaration of David Spiegel: Overruled.
 
Defendant State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (State Farm) moves for summary
judgment/Summary adjudication on the complaint of Henghame Abaghi as to the Breach
of Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Breach of Contract causes action, and
the claim for punitive damages. State Farm moves for summary judgment/summary
adjudication on grounds of no breach or bad faith arising insufficient payment
of policy benefits. Plaintiff in opposition maintain State Farm improperly
denied the claim due to inadequate investigation and therefore a factually and
legally flawed conclusion. State Farm in reply reiterates compliance with the
policy terms and basis for denial, challenges Plaintiff’s interpretation for
any covered loss, and therefore denies any liability for bad faith. State Farm
also reiterates the lack of any basis for the recovery of punitive damages.
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is
those allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”  (Scolinos
v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD., v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inference that may be drawn
form that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  “An issue of fact can only be created by a
conflict in the evidence.  It is not
created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons
v. Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041
(citation omitted).)  
 
2nd Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
State Farm maintains the loss constitutes a non-covered
event, in that the water leak was the result of normal wear and tear of the
household plumbing water supply system. Plaintiff counters the denial was made
without any independent investigation of the cause, and therefore an erroneous
factual and legal conclusion based solely on the report from on-site plumber.
State Farm in reply maintains its conclusion was based on its own investigation
and determination following review of the plumbing report.
 
“‘While insurance contracts have special
features, they are still contracts to which the ordinary rules of contractual
interpretation apply.’ (Citation.) ‘The principles governing the interpretation of
insurance policies in California are well settled. “Our goal in construing
insurance contracts, as with contracts generally, is to give effect to the
parties' mutual intentions.”’ (Citation.) “‘Such intent is to be inferred, if
possible, solely from the written provisions of the contract. (Citation.) The
“clear and explicit” meaning of these provisions, interpreted in their
“ordinary and popular sense,’ unless ‘used by the parties in a technical sense
or a special meaning is given to them by usage’ (Citation), controls judicial
interpretation. (Citation.)’” (Citation) “‘If contractual language is clear and explicit, it
governs.’”
 
“‘If the terms
are ambiguous [i.e., susceptible of more than one reasonable interpretation],
we interpret them to protect “‘the objectively reasonable expectations of the
insured.’” (Citation.) This rule stems from the principle that “‘[i]f the terms
of a promise are in any respect ambiguous or uncertain, it must be interpreted
in the sense in which the promisor believed, at the time of making it, that the
promisee understood it.’” (Citation.) “‘Only if these rules do not resolve a claimed ambiguity
do we resort to the rule that ambiguities are to be resolved against the insurer....’ The
‘tie-breaker’ rule of construction against the insurer stems from the
recognition that the insurer generally drafted the policy and received premiums
to provide the agreed protection.” (Citation.) “[L]anguage in a contract must be interpreted as a
whole, and in the circumstances of the case, and cannot be found to be
ambiguous in the abstract.... Courts will not strain to create an ambiguity
where none exists. [¶] ‘The insured has the burden of establishing that a
claim, unless specifically excluded, is within basic coverage, while the
insurer has the burden of establishing that a specific exclusion applies.’ (Citation.) The principles of
contractual interpretation, as applied to insurance policies ‘do not include using public
policy to redefine the scope of coverage.’” (Inns-by-the-Sea v. California Mutual Ins.
Co. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 688, 697–698.)
 
The parties
agree the coverage determination was based on a report from the plumber,
whereby a pinhole leak in copper pipe embedded in the slab caused the water
damage. [Declaration of Karen Swenson, Appendix of Exhibits and Evidence, Ex.
10-11.] The “wear and tear” exclusion also remains undisputed. The court quotes the undisputed, relevant
section of the policy:
 
“SECTION I - LOSSES INSURED 
COVERAGE A – DWELLING We insure for accidental direct
physical loss to the property described in Coverage A, except as provided in
SECTION I -LOSSES NOT INSURED. … 
COVERAGE B – PERSONAL PROPERTY We insure for accidental
direct physical loss to property described in Coverage B caused by the
following perils. except as provided in SECTION I – LOSSES NOT INSURED: … 12.
Sudden and accidental discharge or overflow of water or steam from within a
plumbing, heating, air conditioning or automatic fire protective sprinkler
system, or from within a household appliance. ...
 
SECTION I - LOSSES NOT INSURED 
1. We do not insure under any coverage for any loss
consisting of the items in paragraphs 2., 3., 4. or 5. below. This exclusion
does not apply if the loss is caused by a peril which is not otherwise
excluded. 
2. We do not insure for any loss to the property
described in Coverage A which is caused by one or more of the items below,
regardless of whether the loss occurs suddenly or gradually, involves isolated
or widespread damage, arises from natural or external forces, or occurs as a
result of any combination of these: ... g. wear, tear, marring, scratching,
deterioration, inherent vice, latent defect or mechanical breakdown; h.
corrosion, electrolysis or rust; ... However, we do insure for any resulting
loss from items a. through m. unless the resulting loss is itself a Loss Not
Insured by this Section. 
 
The policy endorsement, FE-3422, amends the policy as
follows: 
FE-3422 HOMEOWNERS POLICY ENDORSEMENT (California) Item
4.c. is replaced by the following: 
4. We do not insure under any coverage for any loss which
is caused by one or more of the items below, regardless of whether the event
occurs suddenly or gradually, involves isolated or widespread damage, arises
from natural or external forces, or occurs as a result of any combination of
these: 
c. Water, meaning: (3) water below the surface of the
ground, including water which exerts pressure on, or seeps or leaks through a
building, side-walk, driveway, foundation, swimming pool or other structure;
(5) continuous or repeated seepage or leakage of water or steam from a: (a)
heating, air conditioning or automatic fire protective sprinkler system; (b)
household appliance; (c) plumbing system, including from within or around any
shower stall, shower bath, tub installation, or other plumbing fixture, including
their walls, ceilings or floors. However, we do insure for any direct loss by
fire, explosion or theft resulting from water, provided the resulting loss is
itself a Loss Insured.” [Declaration of Karen
Swenson, Appendix of Exhibits and Evidence, Ex. 3: Policy; Declaration of Sean
Moore.]
 
Wear and tear, and other forms of corrosion exclusions,
remain valid terms for insurance contracts. (Murray v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 58,
63.) Even if the leak constituted a covered event, State Farm offers additional
citation to the language in the policy endorsement regarding continuous or
repeated seepage from a leaking pipe. This type of exclusion also finds
support. (Freedman
v. State Farm Ins. Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 957, 964.)
 
Rather
than challenge the policy terms, Plaintiff squarely frames the dispute as a
battle of experts. State Farm in support of its interpretation of the policy cites
to its expert Michael Clark, as at least part of the basis for the coverage
decision. [Declaration of Karen Swenson,
Appendix of Exhibits and Evidence, Ex. 4: Declaration of Michael Clark.] Clark
reviewed the reports and records provided by State Farm. Clark first determines
that the water supply line was unprotected from the concrete barrier, and the
location of the water supply line in the home slab combined with lack of any
signs of external force applied to the pipe, precludes any finding of a sudden
event causing the damage. Clark concludes that the existence of the unprotected
pipe within the concrete barrier caused a potential corrosive reaction over
time, thereby leading to the leak. The subsequent water damage was the result of
systematic and continuous leaking. [Id., ¶¶ 5-11.] For purposes of summary
judgment, the court finds State Farm shifts the burden of proof in regards to
the lack of coverage for the event based on the determination of the cause of
the loss. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Plaintiff
contests the conclusion of wear and tear. Plaintiff seeks to establish triable
issues of material fact on the cause of the leak, as one potentially caused by
a covered event, rather than the single determination of corrosion and
systematic leakage by Clark. Factual support for the challenge comes from the counter
declaration of David Spiegel. The declaration relies on both independent
determinations, as well as disagreement with the methods and information relied
upon by Clark. [Declaration of Jeffrey Nodd, Appendix of Exhibits and Evidence,
Ex. G: Declaration of David Spiegel.]
 
Spiegel,
a restoration expert, with multiple licenses, including a general contractors
license, like Michael Clark [Clark Decl., ¶ 2], concurs with the water pipe
source of damage, but addresses other possibilities for the cause of the
pinhole leak. Spiegel identifies potential manufacturing defects, fluctuating
pressures from municipal water supply causing stress, and/or chemicals in the
water supply. Spiegel concedes to the necessity of shielding for copper pipes
coming into contact with concrete, but offers no specific response to the
claimed use of unprotected pipe in the Clark declaration. [Spiegel Decl., ¶
13.] Spiegel additionally challenges the underlying evidence relied upon by
Clark, due at least in part, the lack of personal inspection or forensic
testing determining the actual cause of the pinhole leak to appear. [Id., ¶¶ 14,
18, 36, 41.] Spiegel also notes the lack of other extrinsic factors such as
mold and decay indicating, thereby indicating a more systematic leak. [Id., ¶¶
15-17, 34.] The Spiegel directly disagrees with the conclusions of Clark.
[Spiegel Decl., ¶¶ 23-24, 26-33, 37-40, 42-43.]
 
The qualified, admissible expert disagreements over the
origin, and basis of the water intrusion supports a finding of triable issues
of material fact on the breach of contract claim. [Clark and Spiegel Decl.;
Policy.] Argument in reply regarding the definition of continuous or repeated
lacks support within the plain language of endorsement. The existence of a
“sudden” event versus a continuous, systematic outpouring remains within the
domain of the experts, rather than a temporal event determined by definition as
a matter of law in the instant motion. (Brown v. Mid-Century Ins. Co.
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 841, 852.) 
 
 The motion for
summary judgment is therefore denied in that total relief cannot be accorded on
the action, and the motion for summary adjudication as well.
 
1st Cause of Action: Breach of Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing
State
Farm depends on the breach of contract cause of action for the argument that
Plaintiff also lacks a valid bad faith claim in that the denial of the claim on
the interpretation of contractual terms and determination of the cause
constituted a reasonable decision. (Love v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1151.) Plaintiffs counter that the disputed
investigation, as documented in the Spiegel declaration, in and of itself
supports triable issues. To the extent Sate Farm unsuccessfully
challenges the breach of contract cause of action on the basis of both the
cause and duration of the leak, the court also finds a lack of support for the
argument against a valid bad faith claim. (Carma Developers (Cal.), Inc. v. Marathon
Dev. California, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 342, 373; Chateau Chamberay Homeowners
Ass'n v. Associated Intern. Ins. Co.
(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 335, 347; McMillin Scripps North Partnership v. Royal Ins. Co. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1222; Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. California Dept. of Parks & Rec. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026,
1031-1032; Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395; Love v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1153.) Triable issues of material fact on the
same basis as the breach of contract claim.
 
Punitive Damages
State Farm lastly challenges the basis of punitive damages.
Plaintiff counters that the circumstances demonstrate support for punitive
damages.
 
Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (c) authorizes punitive damages upon a showing
of malice, oppression, or fraud, which are defined as follows:
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person’s rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
“[Simple breach of contract, no matter how willful and hence
tortious, is not a ground for punitive damages. Such damages are accessible
only upon a showing that the defendant ‘act[ed] with the intent to vex, injure,
or annoy.’” (Citation.) [¶] Punitive damages for
failure to pay or properly administer an insurance claim are ordinarily, as in
this case, based on ‘malice’ or ‘oppression,’ rather than on the third possible
ground for the award, ‘fraud.’ Both ‘malice’ and ‘oppression’ are defined in
Civil Code section 3294 as involving ‘despicable conduct, which in the case of
malice ‘is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others,’ and as to oppression is ‘conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person's rights.’” [¶] “[I]t is significant that the Legislature amended Civil
Code section 3294 in 1987 to add the requirement that punitive damages be
proved by ‘clear and convincing evidence.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269,
1286–1287; Shade
Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847,
909–910.)
 
While triable
issues remain on the bad faith claim, the circumstances fail to meet the
demonstrate oppressive or malicious conduct under heightened factual standard
required for punitive damages. State Farm clearly demonstrates its reasonable
reliance on the conclusions of the investigation. Delays were partially the
result of Plaintiff’s own failure to earlier provide information, which in no
way reflects on State Farm handling practices. [Clark Decl., Spiegel Decl.,
Swenson Decl., Declaration of JoAnna Moore.] Again the dispute between the
experts on the cause of the subject claim demonstrates a genuinely valid
dispute over the origin of the damage on otherwise undisputed contractual terms
and circumstances both constituting covered or uncovered events. The motion for
summary adjudication on the punitive damages claim is therefore granted. 
 
In summary, the motion for summary judgment, and alternative
motions for summary adjudication on the breach of contract and bad faith causes
of action are DENIED. The motion for summary adjudication on the punitive
damages claim is GRANTED.
 
Motion to Quash scheduled for March 20,
2024. Trial remains set for May 28, 2024.
 
State Farm to give notice.
 