 Case Number:  21SMCV01978    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  I This is a very troubling case.  Not for its facts.  The court has seen cases like this before and
they get sorted out either by settlement, motion, or trial.  But because of the way the parties are
handling it.  It is troubling due to the
parties’ behavior.  
This is the first of two motion sets.  This one is brought by the plaintiffs against
defendants contending that defendants acted improperly in responding to
discovery.  It was the subject of an IDC
that was unsuccessful.  Coming up next
week is defendants’ motion against plaintiffs, essentially alleging the same
thing.  Spoiler alert: both motions are
right.  Defendants’ responses included
boilerplate objections that the court views as being in bad faith.  But plaintiffs’ responses, as will likely be
seen next week, are not really much better and also appear to be in bad faith.
The court will CONTINUE this motion until 9:00 am January
23, 2024, to be heard with defendants’ motion to compel.  The court warns all parties that the
sanctions are likely to flow liberally and could well be imposed against the
parties and their counsel.  It ill
behooves plaintiff in this motion to complain that defendants were not
forthcoming as to their position and raised improper privilege objections to
basic discovery (like, how did you calculate the amount you paid plaintiffs
under the contract) while at the same time raising the same claim themselves
(to questions like, on what do you base your damage calculation).  The parties would be extremely well advised
to resolve their differences between now and then.  
Not to put too fine a point on it, but if defendants’
position is that it has no idea how it calculated the amount it paid plaintiff
under the contract and that only an expert looking at it in hindsight can make
that determination (hard to believe as that is), then it will need to say so
and see how a jury reacts.  Similarly, if
plaintiffs’ position is that defendants owe them $7 million but how one arrives
at that number is a secret that even plaintiffs do not know without the aid of
an expert looking at things in hindsight (hard as it is to believe), then they
need to say that and see how a jury reacts to that one.  The court has been around enough trials to be
able to predict the jury’s reaction and it is unlikely to go well for anyone.
The court is also not convinced that an adequate meet and
confer has taken place.  If that is the
court’s conclusion next week, the parties should be prepared for the court to
order a meaningful meet and confer.  That
will involve lead counsel’s physical presence for a number of hours while each
and every discovery dispute is discussed in detail with meaningful proposals to
compromise being offered.  The court may
also require a detailed joint submission of the results of the meet and
confer.  The court is unlikely to be
willing to engage in a further IDC.
There is a trial coming up in about a month.  The court is confident that neither party is
ready for trial, and the parties should also expect the trial date to be
vacated at the hearing on January 23, 2024. 
However, no deadlines (other than for FSC materials) will be
extended.  That means that the parties
have a whole lot to do in order to complete the fact and expert discovery in a
timely fashion.  
 