  Case Number:  19SMCV02145    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion by cross-complainant to add Primex as a new
cross-defendant.  The case was filed on
December 13, 2019.  A number of
cross-actions have already been filed and this one is beyond the stipulated
date to add cross-defendants of right. 
Therefore, cross-complainant seeks leave of the court to so add.  Trial is currently set for September 3, 2024.  Preliminarily, the court has considered
Primex’s opposition and the response thereto. 
It would have been better for Primex to seek leave for the late filing,
but given that this motion gave rise to a conflict where none existed before,
the court will, in its discretion, consider the additional filings by both
sides.
This is a construction case. 
The moving party, Channel, was the general contractor who allegedly is
responsible for the problems with the project. 
Primex, the proposed new cross-defendant, was a construction manager or
owner’s representative.  Primex’s
contract was with the owner, not with Channel. 
Primex did have a contractual obligation to manage the construction
including some supervisory duties but it had no duty to build anything or
direct how things were to be built. 
Primex was never identified as the contractor, Primex did not choose the
subcontractors, and Primex did not contract with the subcontractors.
According to Channel, it did not learn of Primex’s liability
until the Majd deposition was taken—he was the owner’s PMK.  That deposition was taken on February 15,
2023, and only after that did the contract between the owner and Primex get
produced.  (The motion for leave to
amend, however, was not filed until September 11, 2023.)  Channel contends that it was Primex that had
certain managerial duties and that the mismanagement alleged was actually
Primex’s fault, not Channel’s fault.
The court’s first question, though, is what Primex’s alleged
duty is to Channel.  They did not
have a contractual relationship, as Primex’s contract was with the owner and
Channel’s contract was with the owner. 
The court cannot see that Primex had any duty to Channel that was
allegedly breached.  It appears that what
is really going on is a cause of action for equitable indemnity or
contribution. 
To the extent that Channel wants to argue at trial that in
fact it is Primex’s fault, it is free to do so whether Primex is a party or
not.  To the effect Channel is successful
in convincing a jury that Primex, not Channel, is the responsible party,
presumably that will be reflected in the verdict.  But there is a potential problem if the jury
concludes that both Channel and Primex are jointly responsible, and that is
where the potential issue lies.  If the
jury so concludes, and if Primex is not a party now, Channel will have to file
a separate suit first against Primex to establish Primex’s fault, and then to
establish the amount of contribution. 
The reason fault will have to be proven is that if Primex is not a party
to the instant case, then it will not be collaterally estopped by the jury’s
finding.  The court agrees that such a
situation is unfair to Channel (because it could lead to inconsistent verdicts
and cause Channel to be found overly-liable) and inefficient.  The court will therefore inquire of Primex
whether it will agree to be bound by the jury’s verdict in the instant
case.  If so, the court would be inclined
to deny the motion given that this seems like it is not a compulsory
cross-complaint and given the closeness of the trial and the potential effect
this addition could have on the trial calendar.
If Primex refuses to be bound, the court will inquire as to
what the practical effect would be on the trial.  Right now, the trial date is still eight
months away.  Much discovery has already
been done, and it is not clear to the court that adding Primex will result in a
significant change in the CMO, although that is far from certain in the court’s
mind.  On the other hand, the court is
hardly overwhelmed by Channel’s showing of diligence here (for example, the
Majd deposition was taken in February but the motion was not filed until much
later), and the case is already over four years old.
For now, if Primex will agree to be bound by the jury’s
verdict, the court would be inclined to deny the motion for leave to amend.