 Case Number:  23SMCV03744    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  I This is a demurrer by defendants Hudson and Millennium Dance
Studios (Millennium).  The complaint
seeks declaratory relief and damages for breach of fiduciary duty.  The demurrer is to the breach of fiduciary
duty cause of action only.  The major
theory of the demurrer is that this is really a derivative case and no demand
was made on the entity (which ought to be a nominal defendant only).  Plaintiff contends that the cause of action
is direct, not derivative.  Hudson also
alleges that she has no fiduciary duty to plaintiff.  She is not Millennium’s manager and as a 50%
owner, she owes no duties to other owners. 
Plaintiff opposes.
A derivative claim is one belonging to the entity; an
individual claim is one belonging directly to the shareholder.  (There is a whole body of law on this that
the court is woefully abbreviating here.) 
Thus, for example, paying too high a bonus is derivative in nature; the
argument is that the corporate treasury was depleted by the defendants’ bad act
and the money ought to be given back to the entity.  The individual shareholder has no right to
the money directly.  In contrast, a cause
of action that the board wrongfully refused to declare a dividend is a direct
claim.  The dividend would go directly to
the shareholder, and the wrongful failure to declare one deprived the
shareholder of the money; the corporation was not harmed at all.  The general rule of thumb is whether, if the
cause of action succeeds, will the money go to the shareholder directly or will
it go to the entity and benefit the shareholder only indirectly through the
shareholder’s ownership interest.  The
former is direct; the latter is derivative.
Usually, the entity’s governing body owes (whether a group
or an individual) a fiduciary duty to the entity, not to each individual
shareholder.  The entity comes
first.  Indeed, individual shareholders
might have competing interests.  There
can be exceptions; there are some duties that are owed directly to
shareholders, including some limited fiduciary ones.  But not all. 
Further, unless the governing documents require the distribution of
profits, there is no fiduciary duty to the members to distribute profits as
opposed to using them in some other way (such as to expand the business or keep
in reasonable reserve).  Whether it is
best to hold the profits in the entity or distribute them is left to the
board’s discretion.  However, where the
governing documents require a distribution, then a duty can arise.  Where there is a right to a distribution, the
cause of action to force the distribution is direct, not derivative.  (Using the above rule of thumb, the proceeds
from the distribution would not go to the entity; they would go to the
shareholder or shareholders.)
In the instant case, originally the parties owned the studio
50/50.  But in 2016, plaintiff signed a
stock redemption agreement, which is not attached to the complaint or any of
the moving or opposing papers.  As such,
the court does not know its terms other than as are alleged in the
complaint.  Further, Millennium’s
governing documents—such as the Operating Agreement—are not in the papers.  Without that information, it becomes hard to
resolve this motion.
The problem the court has is that the complaint as drafted
does not say enough.  For example, the
complaint alleges that plaintiff has no stock in the company because he sold
it.  If he is claiming that the
redemption contract is no good, then he needs to be specific about the ground
for revoking it and what flows from that. 
If he is claiming that notwithstanding the redemption agreement he still
owns half of the company, then he needs to be specific about that because it is
hardly intuitively obvious that, having redeemed his stock, he still owns half
of the company.
If plaintiff is alleging that the redemption contract
provides an entitlement to money that he has not received, then the cause of
action would seem to sound in breach of contract, not in tort or by way of
breach of fiduciary duty.  Two
contracting parties do not generally owe each other fiduciary duties, although
they might depending on the contract. 
The complaint alleges that in the agreement, plaintiff “purported” to
“divest” his “ownership interest in [Millennium] in return for the payment of
$13,250/month and 50% of the entity’s profits. 
(Compl., par. 26.)  But what the
means here is simply unknown.
And it gets more complicated.  In 2019, plaintiff sued the entity for breach
of contract.  The Millennium and Hudson
cross-complained for defamation and other causes of action.  Plaintiff contends that his poor lawyer led
to his complaint being stricken and a default judgment entered against him on
the cross-complaint.  (Id., par.
28-29.)  That might give rise to res
judicata or collateral estoppel problems, or not.  The court cannot tell because no one attached
enough papers.  (Demurring parties
attached the docket as well as a motion, but not any substantive court
orders.  Plaintiff attached the actual
judgment, but again no ruling that explains what specific issues were
adjudicated or why.)
The problem here is that the court cannot tell whether
plaintiff even has an ownership interest in the entity.  He might, but then again, if he redeemed his
stock, he might not.  If he is not an
owner, then he might well have a contractual right, and that right might well
require that the defendants act in good faith consistent with the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing.  But it
would not be a fiduciary right.  On the
other hand, the Redemption Agreement might still give plaintiff an ownership
interest.  As an owner, plaintiff does
have rights.  However, to determine
whether what he seeks in the second cause of action is a right he personally
has or is the entity’s right requires the allegation of more facts.  
If the cause of action is derivative, then plaintiff has not
made a demand upon the entity’s managers for relief, as is required by the
Corporations Code, nor has he alleged that doing so would be futile (although
it takes no great leap of imagination to assume that he could at least attempt
to allege futility).  As to Hudson’s
liability, the court agrees that there are instances in which a controlling
shareholder owes duties to the non-controlling shareholders, that will be fact
specific and will be determined by whether the controlling shareholder was
exercising control as a shareholder or in some other capacity.  One cannot tell from this complaint.
The long and short of it is that more needs to be
alleged.  Plaintiff will be given 30
days’ leave.  In the amended complaint,
plaintiff ought to attach the Redemption Agreement, attach the judgment from
the 2019 case, and state specifically what he claims his relationship to the
entity is now—is it contractual, ownership, or something else.  Plaintiff will also need to allege with some
particularity exactly what he claims was done and by whom that was in violation
of whatever rights he is alleging.  The
court had considered overruling the demurrer and dealing with this at summary
judgment.  But it is not right to allow
plaintiff to escape demurrer by eliding the facts in a pleading.
When a proper complaint is filed, the court ought to be able
to sort out whether the complaint is derivative or direct and whether anyone
owes him a fiduciary duty as opposed to a contractual one.  The court also ought to be able to determine
whether all or some of the complaint is foreclosed by the earlier suit. 
Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 30 DAYS’ LEAVE TO
AMEND.  The motion to strike is MOOT. 