 Case Number:  21SMCV00857    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  I The court has a number of questions.
First, this case was filed in 2021—almost 3 years ago.  The court is somewhat surprised that it took
until just last month for defendants to get to depose anyone on damages.  It would have seemed that the basis for the
claimed damage to property would have been elicited in written discovery early
on.  Yet, at least according to the
defense, they had no information until literally fall 2023.
Second, the court does not understand why plaintiffs are
resisting discovery of information submitted to the carrier.  The court understands that communications
with the carrier can be privileged, but underlying information (like receipts
or estimates to repair) would not be privileged.  Nor would any confidentiality agreement bar
that production.  If plaintiffs are
resisting that sort of thing, the court is puzzled as to why.  On the other hand, if the defense purpose is
to show that plaintiffs have been fully compensated because they were insured,
the court is not sure how that would be relevant.  The fact that a party has insurance is no
defense to a tortfeasor causing the damage. 
Relatedly, defendant complains that the earliest date that could be
reserved for the discovery motion to compel discovery from the carrier is the
same day as trial.  The court will take
defendant at his word that such is the case. 
But the motion has not even been filed yet.  If it were filed today, the earliest it could
be heard would be February 9, 2024.  The
fact that it will be heard one court day later is hardly the stuff of undue
delay.
Third, the court is puzzled as to the apparent bait and
switch between plaintiffs.  One plaintiff
said she did not know anything about damages; her husband did.  But her husband said that he could present a
spreadsheet showing damages, but his wife prepared it.  Of course, it is possible that the wife
prepared the spreadsheet after her deposition, which would explain the apparent
contradiction.  But it appears that the
party who prepared the spreadsheet offered to sit for an additional deposition
to discuss it further.
The court also does not understand the nature of the
complaint.  The court would assume that
receipts, invoices, estimates, and similar documents related to repairing
damages were produced long ago.  If so,
then the court is not really sure why the continuance is needed.
The fact that the parties want to mediate is really not
pertinent.  The parties had years to
mediate.  It is too late now unless they
can do it very quickly.
The court also does not know why this motion was brought at
the last minute rather than earlier.
The best argument is that the cross-defendant, who is the
one who both sides agree caused the damage about which plaintiffs complain, has
only recently been served and has not yet even answered.  That alone will likely force the court to
continue the trial unless he just defaults. 
But again, defendant falls short. 
The cross-defendant was named on August 10, 2022—about 17 months ago.  The fact that he was not served until last
month is hardly a reason to continue the trial unless there has been a showing
of diligence.  In other words, it is one
thing if the cross-defendant has been impossible to find but, by fortuitous
chance, his whereabouts were discovered only recently and quite another to say
that the defendant has sat on the cross-complaint for months.  And if the cross-defendant could not be found
with diligence, why did the cross-complainant not seek alternative means of
service as the trial got closer?  In the
opposition, plaintiff claims that the cross-defendant was served in February
and then (for no apparent reason) re-served. 
If so, the re-service is of no moment and justifies nothing.
These questions will all have to be adequately explained or
the application will be denied.  The
court notes that it wrote this before reviewing the opposition except the part
about the second day of deposition and the earlier service of cross-defendant.