  Case Number:  23CMCV02040    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT    VIOLETA DEL CARMEN LOPEZ , Plaintiff,  vs.    AVALON DELAMO INC. ,  Defendant. ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO:  23CMCV02040   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY AND TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS  DATE: December 24, 2024 TIME: 8:30 A.M.  DEPT.: A  COMPLAINT FILED: 12/15/2023 TRIAL: None set   Background This is a wage and hour action. Plaintiff Violeta Del Carmen Lopez (“Plaintiff”) alleges in the complaint that she was employed by defendant Avalon Delamo Inc. (“Defendant”) and, while employed, was not given lunch or rest breaks and was made to continue working past her scheduled shift without being paid overtime. The complaint alleges causes of action for failure to pay overtime wages; failure to provide rest and meal breaks; waiting time penalties; violation of Labor Code sections 201 and 202; failure to permit inspection of personnel and payroll records; and violation of Business and Professions Code sections 17200 et seq. Motions to Compel Further Responses and Deem Request for Admissions Admitted Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories – General, Set One; Form Interrogatories – Employment, Set One; Request for Production of Documents, Set One; and Special Interrogatories, Set One, and to deem Request for Admissions, Set One admitted or in the alternative compel further responses to Request for Admissions, Set One. Plaintiff requests such on the grounds that Defendant’s discovery responses were due on November 1, 2024, and Defendant served only unverified placeholder objections by the deadline. Plaintiff’s counsel subsequently made multiple attempts to contact Defendant but did not receive any response. (Saavedra Decl. ¶¶ 5-9.) Plaintiff additionally requests an order imposing monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,650 against Defendant and its counsel for each of the five discovery motions. On December 13, 2024, Defendant filed a consolidated opposition to the instant motions, contending that Plaintiff’s motions are moot because, since the filing of the motions, Defendant has served verified code-compliant substantive responses without objections, along with production of documents. Defendant also argues that the motions were filed in violation of Plaintiff’s counsel’s agreement to extend time for Defendant to provide responses. Defendant’s counsel, Kousha Berokim, states in his declaration that he spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel, Walter Saavedra, on November 15 and that Mr. Saavedra was completely uninformed about the case, and that during this call Mr. Berokim and Mr. Savedra agreed to extend Mr. Saavedra’s time to compel by a month. (Berokim Decl. ¶¶ 5-11.) Mr. Berokim also states in his declaration that he shortly thereafter called Mr. Saavedra again, and Mr. Saavedra had fully forgotten the facts of the case. (Berokim Decl. ¶ 13.) On December 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply, providing phone records demonstrating that there were no calls from Mr. Berokim’s area code on the dates on which Mr. Berokim states that he contacted Mr. Saavedra. Plaintiff contends that Defendant never responded to Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts and that there was no agreement to extend the time to respond to discovery beyond November 1, 2024. Motion to Compel Discovery Standards Any party may obtain any discovery of information, documents, land, property or electronically stored information so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) ¿Responses to a request for production of documents must constitute a statement that the party will comply with the particular request, a representation that the party lacks the ability to comply with that request, or an objection to that request. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210.)  The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling¿is directed shall sign the response under oath unless the response contains only objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.250, subd. (a), emphasis added.) “On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that … [a] statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete[;] … [a] representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive[; or] … [a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Id., at subdiv. (b)(1).)  With respect to requests for admission, each response to requests for admission shall answer the substance of the requested admission or set forth an objection to the particular request.  (Code Civ. Proc., §2033.210, subdiv. (b).)  The party to whom the requests for admission are directed shall sign the response under oath, unless the response contains only objections.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §2033.240, subdiv. (a), emphasis added.)   “On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that… [a]n answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete [; or]… [a]n objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a).)  Code of Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subdiv. (b) allows a requesting party to move for an order that matters specified in requests for admission be deemed admitted only where the responding party fails to timely respond.  The party to whom interrogatories are directed shall sign the response under oath unless the response contains only objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.250, subd. (a).) When responses to interrogatories are deficient, the propounding party may file a motion to compel further responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300.) A motion to compel further responses to interrogatories may be brought when an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete, or an objection is without merit or too general. (Ibid.)  Discussion Plaintiff’s Meet and Confer Efforts are Inadequate A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.  (Code of Civ. Proc. §2016.040.) The Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he or she has made a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution of each issue.  This rule is designed to encourage the parties to work out their differences informally so as to avoid the necessity for a formal order…’ “Argument is not the same as informal negotiation” (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1293-1294, citing Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431 1435, 1437.)  Attempting informal resolution means more than the mere attempt by the discovery proponent “to persuade the objector of the error of his ways.” (Townsend, supra at p. 1435).  A reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution entails something more than bickering with [opposing] counsel.... (Id.)  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.” (Id. at p. 1439.)  Even assuming defense counsel’s version of events is incorrect and there was no agreement to further extend Defendant’s deadline to serve supplemental responses, and assuming Plaintiff is correct and defense counsel simply failed to respond to Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts, Plaintiff’s attempts to meet and confer were grossly inadequate and failed to comply with the above referenced authorities. Specifically, Plaintiff’s counsel’s November 2, 2024 email, November 9, 2024 email and November 15, 2024 letter are each inadequate attempts to meet and confer pursuant to the governing standards set forth above.  Thus, any failure by Defendant to meet and confer was of no consequence in light of Plaintiff’s own failure to adequately meet and confer in the first instance. Moreover, Plaintiff filed the discovery motions at issue contending that Defendant’s unverified objections were tantamount to no response at all.  Plaintiff is incorrect and this contention is frivolous.  As referenced above, responses consisting of objections only do not require verifications.  In addition, Plaintiff’s reliance on the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure is also frivolous and misguided, because this action was filed in state court, and the FRCP do not apply.   Based on Plaintiff’s declarations and supporting “meet and confer” communications, at no point did Plaintiff’s counsel attempt to meet and confer in good faith with respect to the substantive issues presented by the discovery requests and Defendant’s objections.  Instead, Plaintiff incorrectly asserted that Defendant’s objections were not code compliant, and demanded verified responses to all requests.  This is particularly troubling in light of Defendant’s communication expressing a willingness to serve substantive responses should settlement communications break down, and subsequent service of verified, substantive responses.  These developments compel a conclusion that despite Defendant’s initial failure to respond, had Plaintiff engaged in a good faith meet and confer effort as was required, this dispute could have and likely would have been resolved without the need for court intervention. In summary, even assuming Defendant failed to engage in any meet and confer in good faith, Plaintiff had the same burden and failed to meet it prior to filing the motions. Plaintiff’s Separate Statements Do Not Conform with CRC 3.1345. Plaintiff failed to separately file separate statements of items in dispute in support of each motion to compel as required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, instead filing them as attachments to each motion.  More importantly, each separate statement fails to comply with rule 3.1345, subdiv. (c)(3), by failing to set forth a “statement of the factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses, answers, or production as to each matter in dispute.” (Emphasis added.) ¿In¿Mills v. U.S. Bank¿(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893 (Mills), the court held that it is within the court’s discretion to deny a motion to compel further discovery containing a noncompliant factual statement. In¿Mills, plaintiff submitted a separate statement that “repeatedly grouped together several discovery requests, and then stated ‘in relevant part’ U.S. Bank’s response to the group as a whole,” as well as failing to indicate which specific discovery requests the provided factual and legal reasons to compel further responses related to. (Mills,¿supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at 893.) The court denied the discovery motion on those grounds. (Ibid.)  Here, for each of the five motions Plaintiff failed to file separate statements individually indicating the factual and legal reasons to compel further responses to each specific discovery request.  Instead, in each separate statement Plaintiff set forth all requests, followed by all responses, followed by one description of the generalized and conclusory reasons why further responses should be compelled to the entire set of discovery requests at issue in each motion.  As a result, the separate statements are non-compliant, and the court therefore has discretion to deny the instant motions. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (c) [stating that “for each discovery request (e.g., each interrogatory, request for admissions, deposition question, or inspection demand,” a statement of the factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses is required.) Defendant’s Subsequent Verified Discovery Responses Defendant submitted verified supplemental responses to discovery after the filing of the motion. Defendant has attached these responses as exhibits to its opposition. Defendant’s opposition was filed on December 13, 2024, one date later than the 9-court day deadline to file an opposition. Plaintiff requests that the motions be deemed unopposed based on Defendant’s untimely opposition. A trial court has broad discretion to accept or deny late-filed papers. (Jack v. Ring LLC (2023) Cal.App.5th 1186, 1210.)   As discussed infra, the court will deny each of the motions.  However, it does not do so on the ground that Defendant served verified supplemental responses, although that would likely be sufficient to render the instant motions moot with the exception of the issue of monetary sanctions.  Instead, the court exercises its discretion to evaluate Defendant’s supplemental responses submitted with Defendant’s consolidated opposition for the purpose of evaluating whether any further law and motion practice appears to be warranted.  Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions, Set One, Admitted Plaintiff concedes Plaintiff served objections to her Requests for Admissions, Set One.  As a result, a motion to deem the requests admitted is frivolous and improper, as that procedure is only available when no response has been served.  The motion is denied on that ground. Moreover, the motion is also denied to the extent it seeks to compel further responses to the Requests for Admissions due to Plaintiff’s failure to adequately meet and confer in good faith, as well as due to her failure to file a conforming separate statement in support of the motion stating the reasons why a further response to each discovery request was warranted notwithstanding Defendant’s original objections.  Defendant includes its verified supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One as Exhibit 3 to its consolidated opposition to the instant motions.  Defendant’s supplemental responses consist of one-word “Admit” or “Deny” responses. Unequivocal one-word “Admit” or “Deny” responses are code-compliant. (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 780.) Defendant’s supplemental responses are, in some cases, contradictory with one another. However, this does not render Defendant’s supplemental responses not code-compliant.  As Defendant’s supplemental responses are code-compliant, Plaintiff’s motion is moot and any future motion to compel further responses to these requests would be frivolous. The court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion to deem Requests for Admissions, Set One admitted, and will deny the motion to the extent it seeks to compel further responses.   Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories – General, Set One The court denies the motion as a result of Plaintiff’s failure to adequately meet and confer in good faith as set forth above, as well as her failure to file a conforming separate statement in support of the motion stating the reasons why further responses to each discovery request were warranted over Defendant’s original objections. However, Defendant includes its verified supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories – General, Set One as Exhibit 2 to its consolidated opposition to the instant motions.  The court exercises its discretion to consider the substance of Defendant’s supplemental responses. Several of Defendant’s responses are incomplete, and do not contain an adequate statement of inability to comply. For example, Defendant’s responses to the following interrogatories are inadequate as described: 3.7, 12.1, 12.4, 15.1, and 17.1.  Therefore, the motion is denied, without prejudice to Plaintiff bringing a subsequent motion as to the supplemental responses if, following a good faith effort to meet and confer in a manner consistent with this order, Defendant does not further supplement these responses.  Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories – Employment, Set One The court denies the motion as a result of Plaintiff’s failure to adequately meet and confer in good faith as set forth above, as well as her failure to file a conforming separate statement in support of the motion stating the reasons why further responses to each discovery request were warranted over Defendant’s original objections. However, Defendant includes its verified supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories – Employment, Set One as Exhibit 1 to its consolidated opposition to the instant motions.  The court exercises its discretion to consider the substance of Defendant’s supplemental responses.  Several of Defendant’s responses are incomplete and fail to adequately state any inability to comply. For example, Defendant’s responses to the following interrogatories are inadequate as described: 200.1, 200.3, 200.4, 201.1, 201.4, 201.5, and 201.6. Additionally, Defendant did not respond to interrogatory 201.7. Therefore, the motion is denied, without prejudice to Plaintiff bringing a subsequent motion as to the supplemental responses if, following a good faith effort to meet and confer in a manner consistent with this order, Defendant does not further supplement these responses. Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One The court denies the motion as a result of Plaintiff’s failure to adequately meet and confer in good faith as set forth above, as well as her failure to file a conforming separate statement in support of the motion stating the reasons why further responses to each discovery request were warranted over Defendant’s original objections.  However, Defendant includes its verified supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One as Exhibit 4 to its consolidated opposition to the instant motions.  The court exercises its discretion to consider the substance of Defendant’s supplemental responses.  Several of Defendant’s responses are incomplete and do not adequately state any inability to comply.  For example, Defendant’s responses to the following interrogatories are inadequate as described: 29, 30, and 31.  Therefore, the motion is denied, without prejudice to Plaintiff bringing a subsequent motion as to the supplemental responses if, following a good faith effort to meet and confer in a manner consistent with this order, Defendant does not further supplement these responses. Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production, Set One The court denies the motion as a result of Plaintiff’s failure to adequately meet and confer in good faith as set forth above, as well as her failure to file a conforming separate statement in support of the motion stating the reasons why further responses to each discovery request were warranted over Defendant’s original objections. In addition, the motion is denied due to Plaintiff’s failure to comply with the statutory requirement set forth above that Plaintiff establish in the motion specific facts demonstrating that good cause exists for each of the categories of documents requested. Defendant includes its verified supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One as Exhibit 5 to its consolidated opposition to the instant motions.  The court exercises its discretion to consider the substance of Defendant’s supplemental responses.  Defendant’s responses constitute clear and complete statements of compliance or of inability to comply. Defendant’s supplemental responses are therefore code-compliant. Thus, any motion to compel further responses to these supplemental responses would be frivolous. Sanctions “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response…, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (d); Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) Other misuse of discovery procedures is also sanctionable. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) Misuse of discovery procedures includes failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; or making an evasive response to discovery. (Id., subds. (d)-(f).)  Failing to confer with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery if the section governing a particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration stating facts showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been made constitutes a misuse of the discovery process pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subdiv. (i). Because the court denies each of the motions, Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions are also denied.   Conclusion  Based on the foregoing, the court DENIES each of Plaintiff’s motions in its entirety. DATED: December 24, 2024   Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley Judge of the Superior Court 