  Case Number:  24NNCV03291    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 12/04/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 24NNCV03291
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: TAYA LYNN JONES by and through her mother Terri Milner v. LOS
ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
TENTATIVE
RULING ON DEMURRER
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendant, Los Angeles Unified School
District (Defendant or District)
Responding Party: No Opposition by Plaintiff
Moving Papers: Demurrer; Proposed Order
Opposing Papers: No Opposition by Plaintiff
Reply Papers: Reply
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT (“District”) will and hereby does demur
generally and specially to the Complaint of Plaintiff TAYA LYNN JONES, BY AND
THROUGH HER MOTHER TERRI MILNER (“plaintiff”).
 
This general and special
demurrer is made on the following grounds:
 
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S
ENTIRE COMPLAINT 
 
The entire Complaint is
subject to demurrer and barred as a matter of law at this juncture because this
lawsuit cannot be brought by Terri Milner pro se on behalf of minor Taya Lynn
Jones as Terri Milner is not an attorney, and prosecuting this case on her
daughter’s behalf would constitute unauthorized practice of law, and Terri
Milner does not have the legal capacity to sue as her daughter’s attorney, in
violation of Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(b). 
 
DEMURRER TO ALL CAUSES OF
ACTION 
The entire Complaint and
the causes of action alleged against the District are subject to demurrer and
are barred because plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action in violation of Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10 (e), (f).
Plaintiff did not file a government tort claim pertaining to the June 7, 2023,
incident in violation of Government Code § 911.2(a) and Plaintiff’s causes of
action are untimely in violation of the statute of limitations set forth in the
Government Tort Claims Act, which plaintiff does not allege that she timely
complied with, in violation of Government Code §§ 901, 905, 911.2(a), and
945.4.
 
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NEGLIGENCE 
Plaintiff’s single cause
of action for negligence alleged against the District is subject to demurrer
because it fails to set forth sufficient statutory authority and therefore
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, in violation
of Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10 (e) and (f) and Government Code § 815.
Additionally, Plaintiff failed to plead sufficient facts to establish the
elements of negligence, including duty, breach, causation, and damages.
Plaintiff merely plead that a school administrator was directed by Principal
Robyn Friedman to follow Plaintiff on school grounds, and she vaguely stated
that Friedman was “aware that the act of following has racial connotations and
is a form of harassment.” Plaintiff has failed to establish that the District
had a duty to Plaintiff, that there was a breach, and that any alleged breach
caused plaintiff to suffer damages.
 
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NEGLIGENCE
Plaintiff’s single cause
of action for negligence alleged against individual Defendants Blakely Graham,
Robyn Friedman, Angela Langham, and Miranda Tijerina is subject to demurrer
because these individuals are immune from liability pursuant to discretionary
immunity statutes set forth in Government Code §§ 815.2, 820.2, 820.8, which
completely bar the negligence cause of action alleged in the Complaint against
these individual Defendants.
 
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR AN INTENTIONAL TORT
Plaintiff’s cause of
action against the District based on an intentional tort is subject to demurrer
as it is uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, in violation of Code of Civil Procedure Section 430.10 (e), (f). The
law is clear that public entities cannot be directly or vicariously liable for
intentional torts for acts or omissions that fall outside the scope of
employment. Gov. Code § 815; See Duarte v. San Jose, 100 Cal.App.3d 648,
653 (1980). Here, plaintiff fails to plead that an intentional act or omission
of a District employee within the scope of employment caused plaintiff’s
damages and as such, fails to state facts sufficient to constitute the
intentional tort cause of action against the District. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 430.41, counsel for Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District
met and conferred with Terri Milner on November 1, but the parties were unable
to come to an agreement as to the issues outlined in the instant demurrer.
Shaheen Decl., ¶ 4, Exhibit B. 
 
The Demurrer will be
based upon this Notice, the attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the
Declaration of Michael E. Shaheen, Esq., the complete file and records in this
action, the exhibits attached hereto, and on such other oral and documentary
evidence which may be presented at the hearing of this Motion.”
 
(Def. Dem. p. 1-3.)
 
PROCEDURAL
Meet
and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).)
Defendant’s
counsel, Michael E. Shaheen, alleges that he met and conferred with Terri
Milner and sent a meet and confer correspondence on November 1, 2024. (Shaheen
Decl. ¶ 4.)
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The court
“treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) The
only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it
stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed
Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) Demurrers do not lie as to
only parts of causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must
dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “Generally it is an
abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is
any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.)
Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for
uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained
where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e.,
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
ANALYSIS
Preliminary Note
Analyzing
several of the arguments presented by Defendant’s counsel is difficult because
this demurrer is not a model of clarity. On many occasions, Defendant’s counsel
cites case law/statutes and fails to explain how those cases/statutes are
applicable to the instant scenario. 
Additionally, on several occasions Defendant’s counsel
brings up issues that the Court is not entirely clear how the issues brought up
by Defendant’s counsel are relevant to the instant motion.
Further, on many occasions Defendant’s counsel
presents arguments that are not fully fleshed out and leaves the Court with
many unanswered questions that would be directly relevant to Defendant’s
arguments. 
Lastly, this demurrer is hard to analyze because
Plaintiff did not submit an Opposition.
Allegations in the Complaint
Plaintiff,
Taya Lynn Jones by and through her mother Terri Milner, filed the instant
action against Defendant, Los Angeles Unified School District, on 8/2/2024. The
proof of service for the summons and complaint was filed on 10/4/2024 and
indicates personal service on 10/3/2024.
The Complaint is a form complaint, and the page
numbers are not consecutively numbered. For purposes of this demurrer, the
Court will refer to the numbering of the Compliant as if the seven total pages
in the Complaint were consecutively numbered.
The Complaint indicates that Plaintiff is a minor (see
p. 1, ¶ 3), and that Defendant is a public entity.
The Complaint contains four causes of action. The
first two causes of action indicate a date of injury of 6/7/2023, and the
second and third causes of action indicate a date of injury of 6/9/2023.
The first cause of action (labeled General Negligence)
alleges that Defendant Los Angeles Unified, Blakley Graham, Robyn Friedman,
Angela Langham, and Miranda Tijerina was the legal cause of damages to
Plaintiff for acts/omissions at Walter Reed Middle School for acts/omissions on
6/7/2023 wherein “Principal Robyn Friedman directed Ms. Langham to follow and
watch Taya Jones as she walked through the parking lot and the school. Ms.
Friedman is aware the act of following has racial connotations and is a form of
harassment.” (Compl. p.4.)
The second cause of action (labeled Intentional Tort)
alleges that Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District was the legal cause
of damages to Plaintiff for acts/omissions at Walter Reed Middle School for
acts/omissions on 6/7/2023 wherein “Ms. Friedman directed Ms. Langham to follow
Taya Jones. Ms. Langham watched Taya in the staff parking lot. When Taya
started walking through the parking lot Ms. Langham waited for Taya to pass and
then proceeded to follow behind Taya Jones through the school. This act of
following and watching has racial connotations. This form of harassment was
intentional to cause harm due to the administration being aware Taya Jones was
uncomfortable and scared.” (Compl. p. 5.)
The third cause of action (labeled General Negligence)
alleges that Defendant Los Angeles Unified, Blakley Graham, Robyn Friedman,
Angela Langham, and Miranda Tijerina was the legal cause of damages to
Plaintiff for acts/omissions at Walter Reed Middle School for acts/omissions on
6/9/2023 wherein “Principal Robyn Friedman and Assistant Principal Blakley
Graham removed Taya Jones from her classroom under duress. Multiple times Taya
Jones stated she didn’t want to go. Ms. Graham and Ms. Friedman continued to
make Taya walk with them. Taya indicated verbally and non-verbally that she
didn’t want to go to Ms. Friedman and Ms. Graham and both administrators
ignored Taya Jones.” (Compl. p. 6.)
The fourth cause of action (labeled Intentional Tort)
alleges that Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District was the legal cause
of damages to Plaintiff for acts/omissions at Walter Reed Middle School for
acts/omissions on 6/9/2023 wherein “Principal Robyn Friedman and Assistant
Principal Blakley Graham removed Taya Jones from her classroom under duress.
Multiple times Taya Jones stated she didn’t want to go. Ms. Graham and Ms.
Friedman continued to make Taya walk with them. Taya indicated verbally and non-verbally
that she didn’t want to go to Ms. Friedman and Ms. Graham and both
administrators ignored Taya Jones. Ms. Graham and Ms. Friedman intentionally
harassed and caused emotional harm as both administrators knew Taya Jones was
uncomfortable.”
On 8/20/2024, this Court signed the “Order Appointing
Guardian Ad Litem” wherein Terri Milner sought appointment of a guardian ad
litem of Taya Lynn Jones.
Service of Moving Papers
Proof
of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Yes, if the moving papers were actually
served on Plaintiff.
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Uncertain – See below.
It is not entirely clear how Defendant served the
moving papers (demurrer and proposed order). Both moving documents contained an
“X” next to “BY ELECTRONIC SERVICE,” and “BY OVERNIGHT DELIVERY.”
As far as delivery of the moving papers by electronic
service, Defendant does not appear to comply with the proof of service rules
for electronic service.
In relevant part:
Proof of electronic service shall include
all of the following:
(1) The electronic service address
and the residence or business address of the person making the electronic
service.
(2) The date of electronic service.
(3) The name and electronic service
address of the person served.
(4) A statement that the document was
served electronically.
(CCP § 1013b(b)(1)-(4).)
Defendant’s proof of service does not comply with CCP
§ 1013b(b)(3) because there is no electronic service address listed of the
person served. No electronic service address is listed at all on the proof of
service. Thus, the Court cannot tell where the moving papers were served with
respect to electronic service. 
Further, the Court notes that no email address is
listed for Plaintiff on eCourt.
With respect to the fact that the proof of service
also indicates service via “overnight delivery,” the Court will hear argument.
There are several issues with respect to the “Service
List” that is attached to Defendant’s proof of service for the moving papers.
First, Defendant should be prepared to come forward
with the appropriate authorities that explain what proof of service by
“overnight delivery” is considered.
CCP § 1013 and CCP § 1013a discuss the requirements of
service by mail and express mail, and if “overnight delivery” is considered
service by mail, Defendant should be prepared to discuss how it met the
requirements of one of the subsections of 1013 or 1013a. The Court has its
concerns because it cannot find sections in the CCP that discuss what must be
done to comply with “overnight delivery.”
Further, if Defendant is planning to argue that
“overnight delivery” can be completed via electronic service, Defendant should
be prepared to come forward with the appropriate authorities; however, even if
“overnight delivery” can be done electronically, the Court notes that Defendant
did not comply with CCP § 1013b(b)(3).
Second, if Defendant plans to argue that Plaintiff was
served via overnight delivery by means of mail/express mail, the Court notes
that the “Service List,” states:
Terri Milner, In Pro Per
5416 Fair Avenue, #2305 
North Hollywood, CA 91601 
Tel: (909) 659-8474
(Def. Dem. p. 13.)
One problem that the
Court points out is that it does not appear as if Defendant served the actual
Plaintiff in this matter. 
The proof of service
lists Terri Milner, in Pro Per, but Terri Milner is not the Plaintiff. 
As indicated on the
Complaint, the Plaintiff is Taya Lynn Jones by and through her mother Terri
Milner. Or to phrase it differently, Terri Milner is not the Plaintiff, yet
Terri is the one who was allegedly served. The proof of service does not
indicate that Taya was served.
Additionally, on the
Order Appointing Guardian Ad Litem that was granted by this Court on 8/20/2024,
Terri Milner was appointed guardian ad litem of Taya Lynn Jones. Again, it does
not appear as if Terri Milner is the Plaintiff, and the “Service List” for
Defendant’s demurrer lists only “Terri Milner, in Pro Per,” when Terri is not
the Plaintiff. 
Further, the Court notes
that on eCourt both for Plaintiff (Taya Lynn Jones) and for Guardian Ad Litem
(Terri Milner), the mailing address is noted as: 5416 Fair Ave., North Hollywood,
CA 91601. This mailing address on eCourt does not mention #2305; however, the
Service List indicates #2305.
Further, for overnight delivery, CCP § 1013(d) states,
“The copy of the notice or other paper served by Express Mail or another means
of delivery providing for overnight delivery pursuant to this chapter shall
bear a notation of the date and place of deposit or be accompanied by an
unsigned copy of the affidavit or certificate of deposit.” (CCP § 1013(d).)
Here, there is no unsigned copy of the affidavit or
certificate of deposit. Additionally, as to bearing a “notation of the date and
place of deposit,” this proof of service does not indicate the place of
deposit. The individual that signed the proof of service indicates their
business address, but nothing on the proof of service indicates the place of
deposit of the moving papers.
Capacity
Defendant
argues that this demurrer should be sustained on grounds that Terri Milner does
not have the capacity to sue on her daughter’s behalf as her attorney. 
Defendant cites to CCP § 430.10(b) which states, “The
party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of the following grounds: (b) The person who filed the pleading does
not have the legal capacity to sue.” (CCP § 430.10(b).)
As an initial matter, with respect to CCP § 430.10(b),
Defendant’s argument is unclear. Defendant’s main argument is that the
Complaint is barred because Terri Milner does not have the capacity to sue on
her daughter’s behalf as her daughter’s attorney because Terri Milner does not
have a license from the California State Bar. Or to phrase it another way,
Defendant’s main argument is that Terri cannot represent the interests of her
daughter as her guardian ad litem without an attorney. With respect to
Defendant’s main argument here, Defendant cites to six cases, but none of those
cases has anything to do with CCP § 430.10(b). Therefore, the Court is entirely
unclear if a demurrer under 430.10(b) is the proper procedural basis to argue
that Terri cannot be Plaintiff’s attorney because all of the cases that
Defendant cited on pages 6-7 of its demurrer have nothing to do with CCP §
430.10(b).
Second, to the extent that Defendant is arguing that
Terri cannot represent her daughter as guardian as litem without an attorney,
the Court has several concerns. 
Defendant’s motion argues that the entire Complaint is
barred because:
…Terri Milner does not have the capacity
to sue on her daughter’s behalf as her daughter’s attorney without a license
from the California State Bar. As indicated in the caption on the very first
page of the Complaint, Terri Milner brings this lawsuit “Pro Se” and on behalf
of Taya Lynn Jones.
(Def. Dem. p. 6.)
At the hearing, the Court
would like Defendant to show the Court where on the Complaint that this action
is brought “Pro Se,” because the Court does not see where on the Complaint that
this action is brought “Pro Se.”
At the hearing, the Court
would like Defendant to also address the following issue: Defendant is arguing
that Terri Milner cannot bring this action on behalf of her daughter because
Terri is not an attorney. The Court would like Defendant to show, or prove, or
explain how Defendant is arriving at the conclusion that Milner is not an
attorney. 
Third, to the extent that
Defendant is arguing that Terri Milner cannot represent the interest of her
daughter in this action simultaneously as guardian ad litem and act as
Taya’s attorney when Terri is acting in propria persona, Defendant’s argument
appears to have some merit. 
Defendant cites six
cases, and J.W. v. Superior Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 958 and Mossanen
v. Monfared (200) 77 Cal.App.4th 1402 appear to be the two that are the
most on point. 
As held in J.W. v. Superior Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 958:
We hold that in a paternity action under
the Uniform Parentage Act, a nonattorney mother cannot represent her minor son
as guardian ad litem in propria persona, even though she cannot afford
counsel and her son is a necessary party to the proceeding. We reach this
conclusion because in California, as in other jurisdictions, absent specific
statutory authorization, a nonattorney who represents another person in court
proceedings violates the prohibition against unauthorized practice of law. The
result is that the mother in this case, a party in her own right, may represent
herself and may serve as guardian ad litem for her minor child, but she may not
function as his attorney. We also consider how legal representation may be
afforded to the minor.
(J.W. v. Superior
Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 958, 962.)
While Movant here concedes that J.W. involved
an analysis under the Uniform Parentage Act, and this action is not under the
Uniform Parentage Act, the Court notes that before the court in J.W. considered
the application of the Uniform Parentage Act, the Court concluded, “We conclude
that neither the common law nor guardianship statutes sanction an exception to
the State Bar Act prohibition against the unauthorized practice of law in favor
of guardians acting for their wards.” (J.W. v. Superior Court (1993) 17
Cal.App.4th 958, 968.)
Therefore, the Court finds it persuasive that Milner
here cannot represent her minor daughter as guardian ad litem in propria
persona, assuming Milner is acting in propria persona. The Court notes that if
Milner is actually a member of the California Bar as a licensed attorney, its
analysis may be different.
The Court will hear argument with respect to if Milner
can represent her daughter when Milner is allegedly not a licensed attorney.
The Court will hear argument as to if this issue is appropriately addressed on
demurrer because the cases that Defendant cited do not pertain to demurrers or
430.10(b).
Timeliness/Time-Barred
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s causes of action are time barred. 
Whether Defendant’s argument has merit is difficult to
determine because Defendant wrote its argument in an incomprehensible manner.
On pages 7-8 of the demurrer, Defendant argues:
No suit for money or damages, including
claims arising from negligence, may be maintained against a public entity or
public employee unless a formal claim has been presented to the entity, and the
claim has been rejected. Gov. Code §§ 905, 945.4; Martinez v. County of Los
Angeles (1978) 78 Cal.App.3d 242. A person who wishes to sue a public
entity or public employee for personal injury damages must first present a
claim to the public entity within six months of the date the cause of
action accrues. Gov. Code §§ 901, 911.2(a). In a suit against a public entity,
“compliance with the [Tort Act] is an element of a cause of action against a
public entity.” State v. Super. Ct. (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1240.
Failure to timely present a claim for money or damages to a public entity bars
a plaintiff from bringing state law claims for personal injuries against that
entity. Id. at 1239. Compliance with the statute is mandatory, and failure to
file a claim is fatal. City of San Jose v. Superior Court (1974) 12
Cal.3d 447, 454; Wood v. Riverside General Hospital (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 1113, 1119. After the claim is presented, the public entity must
respond, or may be deemed to respond by operation of law. The
time to sue is either six months from the notice or two years from accrual of
the cause of action, depending on how the public entity responds. Gov. Code §§
911.3, 911.6, 945.6.
Here, the Complaint filed on August 2,
2024, was not filed timely for the alleged incidents that occurred in March and
June 2023 because Plaintiff did not file a government tort claim for the June
2023 incident, and Plaintiff failed to bring this lawsuit within six months
after the Defendant rejected the government tort claim submitted for the March
2023 incident, which was rejected on January 26, 2024. Ultimately, Terri
Milner’s failure to allege timely compliance with the claim presentation
requirements set forth above is fatal to his Complaint for damages.
(Def. Dem. p. 7-8.)
As can be seen from pages 7-8 of the demurrer,
Defendant’s argument on this issue is difficult to decipher because Defendant clumps
several cases and statutes together on page 7 and then on page 8 (lines 3-8)
Defendant reaches a conclusion without explaining how Defendant’s conclusion is
supported by the authority it cited.
Further, Defendant’s argument contains inaccuracies
and at least one contradiction.
As a preliminary matter, Defendant argues that this
Complaint seeks recovery for two incidents that occurred on March 27, 2023 and
June 7, 2023. (See Def. Dem. p. 4.)
The Court notes that this Complaint does not appear to
seek recovery for an incident that occurred on March 27, 2023. The Complaint
appears to seek recovery for incidents that occurred on 6/7/2023 (first and second
causes of action) and 6/9/2023 (third and fourth causes of action).
Also, the Court is not entirely clear as to how
Defendant is arguing that the instant action is time-barred.
To the extent that Defendant is arguing that Plaintiff
failed to bring this lawsuit within six months after the Defendant rejected the
claim on January 26, 2024, this argument makes little sense to the Court. 
In the Shaheen Declaration at ¶5, Defendant states, “On
January 26, 2024, the District rejected plaintiff’s tort claim in a written
correspondence, which is attached hereto as Exhibit C.” (Shaheen
Decl. ¶ 5.)
Problematic with the argument that Plaintiff did not
bring the lawsuit within six months of claim rejection is that the claim
rejection in Exhibit C that Defendant attaches does not appear to be based on
the claims presented in the instant lawsuit. The instant lawsuit is based on
incidents on 6/7/2023 and 6/9/2023. However, the rejection at Exhibit C states
that the “DOI” is for 4-21-2023, not incidents on 6/7/2023 and 6/9/2023. Therefore,
if this rejection in Exhibit C applies for a 4-21-2023 date of injury, the
Court fails to see how it pertains to the instant lawsuit. 
Further, if Exhibit C does not pertain to a 4-21-2023
DOI, it is entirely unclear if the rejection at Exhibit C pertains to the 6/7/2023
and 6/9/2023 incidents alleged in the lawsuit. 
To add further confusion to Defendant’s argument is
that Defendant argues a tort claim was never filed for the June 2023 incident. Aside
from the fact that this lawsuit pertains to two incidents, and not just one
June 2023 incident, Defendant’s argument seems contradictory to argue that the
lawsuit wasn’t filed within six months of the claim rejection when Defendant is
simultaneously arguing that a claim was never presented in the first place for
Defendant to reject.
Defendant cited State of California v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1240. “Similarly, some Courts of Appeal have
expressly stated that compliance with the claim presentation requirement is an
element of a cause of action against a public entity” (Id.) “In light of
this overwhelming case law and history, we conclude that a plaintiff must
allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with the claim presentation
requirement. Otherwise, his complaint is subject to a general demurrer for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Id.
at 1243.)
Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint on page 2 alleged,
“Plaintiff is required to comply with a claims statute and has complied with
applicable claims statutes.” (Compl. p. 2, ¶ 9.)
Nothing in the cases that Defendant cites explains
what level of specificity is required at the pleadings stage with respect to
complying with the claims statute. 
To the extent that Defendant is arguing that Plaintiff
did not present a claim to the Defendant, the Court will hear argument. 
As stated in State of California v. Superior Court (2004)
32 Cal.4th 1234:
Under section 911.2, “[a] claim
relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to personal
property ... shall be presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing
with Section 915) of this chapter not later than six months after the
accrual of the cause of action.” Section 945.4 then provides that “no
suit for money or damages may be brought against a public entity on a
cause of action for which a claim is required to be presented in accordance
with Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing
with Section 910) of Part 3 of this division until a written claim
therefor has been presented to the public entity and has been acted upon by the
board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the board, in accordance with
Chapters 1 and 2 of Part 3 of this division.”5 (Italics
added.) Thus, under these statutes, failure to timely present a claim for money
or damages to a public entity bars a plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against
that entity.6
(State of California v. Superior Court (2004)
32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239. Footnote 5 states, “Section 910 describes the
mandatory contents of such a claim, and section 915 describes the
manner by which the claim should be presented to the public entity.” Footnote 6
states, “Section 905 lists the claims that are exempt from the claim
presentation requirement. None of these exceptions apply here.”)
Therefore, the case law does seem to indicate that
failure to timely present a claim for money damages to a public entity bars a
plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that entity. However, if Defendant is
arguing that the Plaintiff did not present a claim at all, the Court is
uncertain what to do based on the authorities that Defendant cited because
those authorities don’t address the issue here – here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleged
that Plaintiff complied with applicable claims statutes. To the extent that
Defendant is arguing that a claim was never presented for the 6/7/2023 and
6/9/2023 incidents, the Court realizes that Defendant would have to prove the
nonexistence of something, which as a practical matter seems difficult.
Further, Plaintiff did not oppose this motion and come forward with the claim
it may or may not have presented to the public entity. Additionally, Defendant
faces the issue that the facts alleged in the pleading are assumed to be true
for pleading purposes, and Defendant does not come forward with a declaration from
Defendant itself, the District, stating that a claim was never presented.
Further, the Defendant’s attorney’s declaration does not state that a claim was
not presented. 
Further, even if the Court assumes the truth of
Defendant’s argument – that Plaintiff did not present a claim – whether or not
the claim was presented within six months after the accrual of the cause of
action is unclear. 
“A claim
relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to personal
property or growing crops shall be presented as provided in Article 2
(commencing with Section 915) not later than six months after the accrual of
the cause of action. A claim relating to any other cause of action shall be
presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later than
one year after the accrual of the cause of action.” (Gov. Code § 911.2(a).)
“For the purpose of
computing the time limits prescribed by Sections 911.2, 911.4, 945.6, and
946.6, the date of the accrual of a cause of action to which a claim relates is
the date upon which the cause of action would be deemed to have accrued within
the meaning of the statute of limitations which would be applicable thereto if
there were no requirement that a claim be presented to and be acted upon by the
public entity before an action could be commenced thereon. However, the date
upon which a cause of action for equitable indemnity or partial equitable
indemnity accrues shall be the date upon which a defendant is served with the
complaint giving rise to the defendant’s claim for equitable indemnity or
partial equitable indemnity against the public entity.” (Gov. Code § 901.)
Defendant’s demurrer does not even attempt to explain
when the date of the accrual would be based on the requirements in Gov. Code §
901. 
No Statutory Authority for Liability
“Except
as otherwise provided by statute: (a) A public entity is not liable for an
injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public
entity or a public employee or any other person.” (Gov. Code § 815(a).)
Defendant cites to Munoz v. City of Palmdale
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 367, 369 to argue that to bring a cause of action or
lawsuit against a public entity, a plaintiff must have statutory authority to
do so. Defendant then argued that Plaintiff failed to cite to a statute
authorizing liability against the District and that the common law negligence
claim is subject to demurrer. 
Here, the Court will hear argument. 
The Court notes that Gov. Code § 815.2(a) appears as
if it could be a statutory basis to hold Plaintiff liable; however, Plaintiff
did not allege that statutory basis in the Complaint or any other statutory
basis to hold Defendant liable.
As Defendant argues, Plaintiff did not allege
the statutory basis for Defendant’s liability. While Defendant is correct that
Plaintiff did not allege the statutory basis for Defendant’s liability,
problematic with Defendant’s argument is that Defendant cites to the Munoz
case, and that case does not address what must be alleged at the
pleading stage. While the Court agrees that there must be a statutory basis to
hold Defendant liable, Defendant’s demurrer is entirely unhelpful with respect
to citing to authority as to what must be alleged at the pleading stage
for government tort liability.
Plaintiff’s Complaint Does Not Otherwise
Adequately State a Claim for Relief Against Defendant
Defendant
asserts an argument in its demurrer on page 8, lines 27-28, through page 9,
lines 1-13. 
It isn’t entirely clear what this argument as
asserting. 
Defendant appears to be arguing that the individual
Defendants are immune from liability under the discretionary immunity statute. 
What the Court fails to understand here is that the
Complaint only appears to be naming a singular, entity Defendant, the District,
and the Complaint does not appear to be naming individual defendants.
While the first and third cause of action names
individuals, Page 2 of the Complaint appears to indicate that the only
Defendant is an entity defendant. Further, no proofs of service were ever filed
with respect to service of the summons and complaint as to individual
defendants. The proof of service of summons and complaint only lists Los
Angeles Unified School District as the Defendant served in this action.
Argument on Page 9
Defendant
argues:
The District is not directly or
vicariously liable under plaintiff’s intentional tort cause of action. Under
California law, a public entity is not vicariously liable for the intentional
acts of its employees committed outside the scope of their employment. Gov.
Code § 815.2; C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 865. Plaintiff did not plead an intentional tort based on an act
or omission of a District employee that was within the scope of employment. As
such, the District cannot be held liable for an intentional tort in this action
as a matter of law.
(Def. Dem. p. 9.)
As to this argument, like
several other arguments, Defendant cites a statute and a case and fails to
explain how its conclusion is supported by the authorities that Defendant
cites. The Court will not attempt to decipher Defendant’s arguments and make
Defendant’s arguments for Defendant.  
Punitive Damages
Under
Government Code § 818, “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a public
entity is not liable for damages awarded under Section 3294 of the Civil Code
or other damages imposed primarily for the sake of example and by way of
punishing the defendant.” 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
cannot recover for punitive damages based on Government Code § 818.
Problematic with
Defendant’s argument is Defendant fails to explain how this is a proper basis
for a demurrer. Defendant did not file a motion to strike. 
Under CCP § 430.10:
The party against whom a complaint or
cross-complaint has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in
Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:
(a) The court has no jurisdiction of
the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.
(b) The person who filed the pleading
does not have the legal capacity to sue.
(c) There is another action pending
between the same parties on the same cause of action.
(d) There is a defect or misjoinder
of parties.
(e) The pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
(f) The pleading is uncertain. As
used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible.
(g) In an action founded upon a
contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is
written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.
(h) No certificate was filed as
required by Section 411.35.
(CCP § 430.10(a)-(h).)
Here, Defendant filed a
demurrer. The Court does not understand the basis on a demurrer to strike
punitive damages, and as Defendant has previously done throughout its Demurrer,
Defendant fails to cite legal authority for what it asks the Court to do.
Reply
In
Reply, Defendant cites to CRC, Rule 8.54(c) which states, “A failure to oppose
a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.” (Id.)
Problematic with
Defendant’s citation to CRC, Rule 8.54(c) in Reply is that this rule is located
in Division 1, Rules Relating to the Supreme Court and Courts of Appeal. This
rule does not state it is applicable for trial courts. 
Further, Defendant’s
citation to CRC, Rule 3.1113(a) is not on point as it applies to the moving
party.
Further, Defendant cites
to Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410 to argue
that due to plaintiff’s failure to oppose Defendant’s Demurrer, all arguments
presented in the motion should be viewed as meritorious, and plaintiff should
be precluded from presenting any oral argument at the hearing to the contrary.
The Court notes that it
is not entirely clear as to exactly what on page 1410 of Sexton that
Defendant is relying on. However, the Court notes that Defendant does not
appear to fully cite Sexton, which states:
In pertinent part rule 9.15 provides: “A
party who has not timely filed written opposition to a motion or demurrer may
not be afforded an opportunity to offer oral argument at the hearing. The
failure to file opposition creates an inference that the motion or demurrer is meritorious.
In such cases, the court may hear argument limited to a request for a
continuance of the hearing in order to afford an opportunity for written
opposition.”
(Sexton v. Superior
Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
TENTATIVE RULING
The
Court will hear argument as discussed above in its Analysis. Defendant should
be prepared to address the service issues and all other substantive issues. 
 
 
 
 
 
  