

 
            Plaintiff Anne Heiting (Plaintiff) alleges that she accessed the website of Postable, LLC
(Defendant), used the site’s chat box feature, and that Defendant invaded her privacy
by allowing a third-party company, Intercom, to secretly “eavesdrop” and “record”
the data she furnished. The Complaint alleges a single cause of action for violations
of the California Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA), Penal Code section 631, subdivision
(a). 
 
On December 20, 2023, Defendant demurred
to the Complaint. Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer. 
 
            The Court sustains the demurrer and grants leave to amend.  
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading,
the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a
matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
. . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally construes the
complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton
v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Cause
of Action for Violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act (Penal Code
section 631, subdivision (a):
 
             Defendant argues the this cause of
action fails to allege facts sufficient to state a claim.
 
            Penal
Code section 631, subdivision (a), provides that a person who does any of the
following has acted in violation of California’s Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA):
 
“Any person
who, by means of any machine, instrument, or contrivance, or in any other
manner, intentionally taps, or makes any unauthorized connection, whether
physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any
telegraph or telephone wire, line, cable, or instrument, including the wire,
line, cable, or instrument of any internal telephone communication system, 
 
or 
 
who
willfully and without the consent of all parties to the communication, or in
any unauthorized manner, reads, or attempts to read, or to learn the contents
or meaning of any message, report, or communication while the same is in
transit or passing over any wire, line, or cable, or is being sent from, or
received at any place within this state; 
 
or 
 
who uses, or
attempts to use, in any manner, or for any purpose, or to communicate in any
way, any information so obtained, 
 
or 
 
who aids,
agrees with, employs, or conspires with any person or persons to unlawfully do,
or permit, or cause to be done any of the acts or things mentioned above.”
(Pen. Code, § 631, subd. (a) [line breaks added].)  
 
            The
statute “prescribes ... penalties for three distinct and mutually independent
patterns of conduct: intentional wiretapping, willfully attempting to learn the
contents or meaning of a communication in transit over a wire, and attempting
to use or communicate information obtained as a result of engaging in either of
the two previous activities.” (Tavernetti v. Super. Ct. (1978) 22 Cal.
3d 187, 192.) 
 
            More
specifically, the first clause creates a violation if a person “by means of any
machine, instrument, or contrivance, or in any other manner, intentionally taps
or makes any unauthorized connection with any telegraph or telephone wire,
line, cable, or instrument ....” (Swarts v. Home Depot, Inc. (N.D. Cal.,
Aug. 30, 2023, No. 23-CV-0995-JST) 2023 WL 5615453, at *5.) The second clause
creates a violation where a person “willfully and without consent of all
parties to the communication, or in any unauthorized manner reads or attempts
to read, or to learn the contents or meaning of any message, report, or
communication while the same is in transit.” (Id.) The third clause
creates a violation where a person “uses, or attempts to use, in any manner, or
for any purpose, or to communicate in any way, any information so obtained” as
outlined in the first two clauses. (Id.) 
 
Finally, in
addition to these three clauses, section 631 also contains an aiding and
abetting provision, which imposes liability on anyone who “aids, agrees with,
employs, or conspires with any person or persons to unlawfully do, or permit,
or cause to be done any of the acts or things mentioned above.” (Id.)
 
Here, the
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff
was browsing Defendant’s website, postable.com, and interacted with a chat box on
the site. (Compl., ¶¶ 5, 8.) The Complaint further alleges that Defendant
recorded Plaintiff’s conversation and employs a third-party company, Intercom,
to eavesdrop in real time, harvest and commoditize Plaintiff’s personal
information through her interaction with a chat box. (Compl., ¶¶ 9-14.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s
failure to disclose its use of Intercom as a service provider violates CIPA,
because “Defendant did not obtain Plaintiff’s express or implied consent to
wiretap or allow third parties to eavesdrop on visitor conversations.” (Compl.,
¶ 15.)
            
            Defendant
argues these allegations fail as matter of law. The statue has four clauses; the first three clauses are premised
on direct liability while the last is premised on derivative—or aiding and
abetting—liability. 
 
            With
respect to the first three clauses, Plaintiff’s claims of liability fail
against Defendant under the “party exception” rule. 
 
            CIPA
contains an exemption from liability for a person who was a “party” to a
communication. (Ribas v. Clark (1985) 38 Cal.3d 355, 359; Warden v.
Kahn (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 805, 811 [“[S]ection 631 ... has been held to
apply only to eavesdropping by a third party and not to recording by a
participant to a conversation.”].) 
 
            Here,
the Complaint alleges that that “[d]uring a browsing session” on Defendant’s website
she “utilized the chat box feature” and she “was not informed that her
conversations were being recorded and exploited for commercial surveillance
purposes without her consent.” (Compl., ¶ 8.)
 
Plaintiff insists
that the party exception rule does not apply here but merely argues that the “aiding and abetting” clause
could apply to Defendant. But this elides the point that, based on the
Complaint, Defendant was a party to the communication. 
 
Defendant
argues that none of the of the direct liability clauses of Section 631 apply because
Defendant cannot eavesdrop on its own conversation. 
 
            Defendant
also argues the derivative liability for “aiding and abetting” does not apply. The
Complaint fails
to allege a CIPA violation because the allegations show only that Intercom was
a third-party tool that was utilized by Defendant as a mere extension of its
own operations. 
 
            The
allegations do not show that Intercom was anything other than a third-party tool that was
utilized by Defendant as a mere extension of its own operations.  
 
            Numerous
courts that have held that the statute requires plaintiffs to allege facts
indicating that the third party is recording the customers’ information “for
some use or potential future use beyond simply supplying this information back
to Defendant.” (Cody v. Boscov's, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2023) 658 F.Supp.3d
779, 782 [dismissing with leave to amend claim for aiding wiretapping where
Plaintiff's only allegation related to the software providers was that they
“harvest valuable data from such [customer] communications for the benefit of
their clients like Defendant”].) “One is not considered a third-party
eavesdropper when they merely provide a tool that allows another party to
record and analyze its own data.” (Nora Gutierrez v. Converse Inc. (C.D.
Cal., Oct. 27, 2023, No. 223CV06547RGKMAR) 2023 WL 8939221, at *3.)[1]

 
            Here,
the Complaint alleges that Defendant “collects a wide range of personal information from website
users and consumers, including personal identifiers, device information,
browser information, operating system information, location details; such as
GPS address and IP address, and may deduce additional demographic details like gender
and age; various details about website usage such as date and time the user
accessed the website; social media information, inferences and other
information.” (Compl., ¶ 12.)[2]
The Complaint alleges that Intercom “shares the data it collects and stores
with [Defendant] who adds the data to the existing profiles it has
surreptitiously collected from its users.” (Compl., ¶ 12.)
 
            These allegations
are inadequate to show that Intercom was recording the information for its own
benefit. 
 
            The Complaint
also alleges that Intercom “stores [the data] for its own purposes.” (Compl., ¶
10.) However, this allegation is entirely conclusory and lacking in any ultimate
facts. (See e.g., Cody v. Boscov's, Inc. (C.D. Cal.
2023) 658 F.Supp.3d 779, 782–783 [“Here, Plaintiff's sole relevant allegation
that Webex and Customer use the code embedded in the chat program to “harvest
valuable data from such [customer] communications for the benefit of their
clients like Defendant” [Dkt. 12 at ¶ 11] is too vague and conclusory to meet
this standard.”]; see also Byars v. Hot Topic, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2023) 656
F.Supp.3d 1051, 1067.)
 
            Paragraph
14 of the Complaint avers that Plaintiff believed she was communicating with Defendant.
 Parties to a conversation cannot
eavesdrop on their own conversation. (Heiting v. Taro Pharmaceuticals USA,
Inc. (C.D. Cal. Dec. 26, 2023, No. 2:23-cv-08002-SPG-E) 2023 WL 9319049 at*1-2
[“Plaintiff alleges that she used the chat feature on Defendant’s website believing
that she was chatting with Defendant. Therefore, any recording by Defendant directly,
as opposed to vicariously …would fall squarely within the party exception”].)  
 
            Additionally,
Plaintiff has failed to allege ultimate facts that the third-party chat provider had
the capability to use the customer chat information for some independent
purpose. (See Valenzuela v. Super Bright LEDs Inc. (C.D. Cal.,
Nov. 27, 2023, No. EDCV2301148JAKSPX) 2023 WL 8424472, at *7 [following the
analysis in Javier v. Assurance IQ, LLC (N.D. Cal. 2023) 649 F.Supp.3d
891, 900].)
 
            The Complaint
fails to demonstrate that Defendant used third-party vendor, Intercom, as a
“third-party eavesdropper.” Rather, the allegations show nothing more than
Defendant using Intercom to aid Defendant’s business and not for some
other purpose – which makes the Intercom a mere “extension” of Defendant's
website. (Byars v. Hot Topic, Inc., supra, 656 F.Supp.3d at 1068 [“Plaintiff
does not allege a single fact that suggests the third-party ‘intercepted and
used the data itself.’”].)
 
            Defendant also demurs to this cause
of action on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to allege a CIPA violation
because Intercom was not reading customer chats – like Plaintiff’s chat – in
real time.
 
            As noted
above, the second clause of section 631, subdivision (a), requires that
messages be intercepted while in transit. (Licea v. American Eagle Outfitters,
Inc. (C.D. Cal.
2023) 659 F.Supp.3d 1072, 1084-1085.) Courts under the CIPA have interpreted “in
transit” to mean the party intercepted the communication during its transmission,
rather than once it was placed in electronic storage. (Id.  at 1084.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff only alleges that the Intercom “intercepts” inquiries made by
customers and diverts them to Intercom, allowing to the to eavesdrop “in real
time.” (Compl., ¶¶ 9, 13.) These conclusory allegations are insufficient to
state a claim. (Licea v. American Eagle Outfitters, Inc., supra, 659
F.Supp.3d at 1084 [“Plaintiff's bare allegations that “the third party ...
secretly intercept[s] (during transmission and in real time)” is conclusory and
does not allege specific facts as to how or when the interception takes place,
which has been found to fall short of stating a plausible claim under section
631(a).”].)
 
            Plaintiff
Heiting’s Complaint – long on hyperbole and short on facts – fails to plead a cause
of action under section 631. The demurrer is sustained. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is sustained. Plaintiff
shall have leave to amend. The amended complaint shall be served and filed on
or before March 1, 2024.


