 On March 20, 2023, a Complaint was filed in this matter for (1) violations of the ICRAA, (2) invasion of privacy, and (3) declaratory relief.  Demurrer Defendant TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions, Inc. now demurs to the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Defendant argues that “[w]hile TURSS is a consumer reporting agency, it is not a ‘landlord’ as alleged in Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action and is therefore not an entity that ‘requests an investigative consumer report’ nor is it a ‘person procuring or causing the request [for an investigative consumer report] to be made.’ (Compl. ¶ 44.); (See Armbruster Decl. ¶ 3.) TURSS never ‘procures’ nor ‘causes requests to be made’ of investigative consumer reports.”Plaintiffs argue that “[t]he ICRAA applies to both landlords and investigative consumer reporting agencies, as plaintiffs properly alleged, and despite TransUnion’s suggestions to the contrary, the ICRAA applies to it.”The Complaint phrases the first cause of action as violations pertaining to Defendants acting as landlords, which the Defendant is not.  Because there are no actual facts pleaded as to TranUnion’s violations of the ICRAA, the Demurrer is sustained as to the first cause of action, with twenty days leave to amend.The Demurrer is likewise sustained, with twenty days leave to amend, as to the derivative second and third causes of action. In sum, the Demurrer is sustained, with twenty days leave to amend.Motion to StrikeGiven the ruling on the Demurrer, Defendant’s Motion to Strike is denied as moot. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 