On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff Chauncey Richmond filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) unfair and deceptive business practices; (4) deceit; (5) fraud; (6) fraudulent conveyance; (7) civil conspiracy; (8) violation of Civil Code § 1185; (9) constructive fraud, (10) conversion, (11) declaratory relief, (12) accounting, (13) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”), and (14) abuse of disabled person.“This action arises because Plaintiff disputes the title and ownership of the real property, which is the subject of this action, because Plaintiff was tricked and taken advantage o[f] by the Defendants to have unlawfully sold, assigned and/or transferred his ownership an[d] security interest in the Deed of Trust over to his sister, one of the Defendants. Thus, Plaintiff is challenging her right as sole owner of the real property.”  (SAC ¶ 1.)Plaintiff now seeks to compel Defendant Giesel L. Richmond, his sister, to produce  Clinton Richmond Jr., their father, at trial.  Plaintiff contends that it has been extraordinarily difficult to serve his father with a trial subpoena because Defendant, along with their other brother, controls their father’s whereabouts and has intentionally sought to preclude service of the subpoena.  Plaintiff explains that multiple attempts were unsuccessful, and it took great expense and effort to serve two prior trial subpoenas, which are now non-operative because the trial date has been continued.  Plaintiff contends that he should not have to continue expending time and money for further service attempts, which will likely again be thwarted.  Among other things, Plaintiff points to his brother’s statement at the time of service of the prior trial subpoena at a breakfast restaurant to the effect that a doctor’s appointment would be scheduled for the trial date so that their father would not have to appear for trial.  Defendant argues only that there is no authority to compel Defendant to produce their adult father at trial and that two prior trial subpoenas have ultimately been served on their father successfully.  The Court inherently has the authority to control the proceedings before it.  What is notable about the Opposition is that Defendant never denies that she controls her father’s whereabouts or that she has sought to preclude service of the subpoenas.The Court finds Plaintiff’s showing of numerous prior failed attempts at service to warrant some remedial action by the Court.  There are three alternative options for Defendant: either (1) produce her father at trial; (2) reveal his location to Plaintiff so Plaintiff can serve their father and/or bring their father to Court himself; or (3) accept an order akin to an evidentiary sanction—specifically, the parties’ father will be deemed to have testified wholly in favor of Plaintiff and against the Defendants.  The Motion is granted as set forth herein.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 