 Case Number:  24VECV00152    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  T ROSEN V MALKA 24VECV00152
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant David Malka’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the First Cause of
Action for Breach of Oral Contract and OVERRULED as to the Second, Third,
Fourth, and Fifth causes of action. 
Leave to amend is limited to curing the pleading defects identified and
not to add new causes of action.   The
Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
Introduction 
The Demurrer and Motion to Strike
were filed by Defendant David Malka (Defendant) against the Complaint filed by
Plaintiff Aaron Rosen dba RA Construction (Plaintiff).  Defendant demurs the entire Complaint and
each cause of action (i.e., the first cause of action for breach of oral
contract, second cause of action for common counts, third cause of action for
common count, fourth cause of action for unjust enrichment, and fifth cause of
action for promissory fraud).  Defendant
also moves to strike exemplary damages allegations in the Complaint. 
Demurrer Discussion 
Res Judicata
The Court takes judicial notice
of the documents attached to the Demurrer: Complaint (Exhibit A), Notice of
Settlement of Entire Case (Exhibit B), and Request for Dismissal (Exhibit C)
from Los Angeles Superior Court case Aaron Rosen dba RA Construction v. Van
Nuys Lofts, LLC, et al., Case Number 22VECV00735 (the “Prior Lawsuit”).  (Evid. Code, 452, subd. (d) [stating that a
court may take judicial notice of court records].)
Those documents show that
Plaintiff settled and then dismissed the Prior Lawsuit “without
prejudice.”  (Hardie v. Nationstar
Mortgage LLC (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 714, 718, fn. 3 [stating that a court “may
take judicial notice of the existence, facial contents, and legal effect of …
court records [citations] …”].)  
“A dismissal with prejudice
following a settlement constitutes a final judgment on the merits. ‘A dismissal
with prejudice is the modern name for a common law retraxit.  [Citation.] ... Dismissal with prejudice is
determinative of the issues in the action and precludes the dismissing party
from litigating those issues again.’ 
[Citations.]”  (Estate of Redfield
(2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1526, 1533.) 
On the other hand, “[i]t is
established in California that a voluntary dismissal without prejudice is not a
judgment on the merits, and, as such, has no claim-preclusive effect upon a
later suit.”  (Gray v. La Salle Bank,
N.A. (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 932, 950.)
Since Plaintiff’s voluntary
dismissal of the Prior Lawsuit without prejudice has no preclusive effect,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the entire Complaint based on res judicata is
OVERRULED. 
First Cause of Action – Breach of
Oral Contract
The Court agrees with Defendant
that the first cause of action for breach of “oral” contract fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  Specifically, the Complaint does not allege
consideration.  “‘Consideration consists
of either a benefit to the promisor or a detriment to the promisee.  It is enough that something is promised,
done, forborne, or suffered by the party to whom the promise is made as consideration
for the promise made to him.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Speirs v. BlueFire
Ethanol Fuels, Inc. (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 969, 987.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges the following.  After Plaintiff provided general contractor
services pursuant to a written agreement with nonparty Van Nuys Lofts, LLC, and
the nonparty refused to pay Plaintiff in breach of the written agreement,
Defendant “assume[d] [the] responsibility to pay Plaintiff  [$100,000] … in a written text message.”  (Compl., ¶ 10.)  Defendant’s agreement to pay Plaintiff was
based on Defendant’s interest in the property where the construction project
took place and the benefit the Defendant received from Plaintiff’s work.  (Compl., ¶ 10.)  Defendant never paid Plaintiff the amount he
had promised to pay.  (Compl., ¶
11.)  However, those facts do not show
what consideration was provided in exchange for Defendant’s alleged promise to
pay Plaintiff $100,000.  Plaintiff cannot
rely on its past performance to show consideration because “[p]ast
consideration cannot support a contract.” 
(Passante v. McWilliam (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1240, 1247.)
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
first cause of action for breach of oral contract is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
Second, Third, and Fourth Causes
of Action – Common Counts, Account Stated, and Unjust Enrichment
Defendant demurs the second,
third, and fourth causes of action, arguing that they are barred by the
doctrine of res judicata. 
The Court has found that res
judicata argument unpersuasive. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
second, third, and fourth causes of action is OVERRULED.
Fifth Cause of Action –
Promissory Fraud
Defendant demurs the fifth cause
of action, arguing that the Complaint has not alleged intent to defraud.  
“[I]n a promissory fraud action,
to sufficiently alleges defendant made a misrepresentation, the complaint must
allege (1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some future
action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did not
really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.) 
“[F]or the second requirement, the falsity of that promise is
sufficiently pled with a general allegation the promise was made without an
intention of performance.”  (Ibid.)  In other words, “‘the only necessary averment
is the general statement that the promise was made without the intention to
perform it, or that the defendant did not intend to perform it.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)  
Here, the Complaint alleges that
Defendant made a promise to Plaintiff to pay $100,000 for Plaintiff’s work, but
“did not intend to perform the promise when he made it to Plaintiff.”  (Compl., ¶¶ 22, 23.)  That allegation is sufficient to allege
“intent to defraud.”
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
fifth cause of action for promissory fraud is OVERRULED.
Demurrer Conclusion
Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED
WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the First cause of action, and OVERRULED as
to the Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth causes of action.
Motion to Strike Discussion
Defendant moves to strike the
exemplary damages allegations, arguing that “Plaintiff’s entire Complaint
relies on alleged breach of contract.  As
such, Plaintiff’s prayer for exemplary damages is not supported by law.”  (Motion, p. 5:3-5.)  However, “[t]he words ‘oppression, fraud, or
malice’ in Civil Code section 3294 being in the disjunctive, fraud alone is an
adequate basis for awarding punitive damages.” 
(Glendale Fed. Sav. & Loan Assn. v. Marina View Heights Dev. Co.
(1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 101, 135.)  Here,
the Court has found that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute
the fifth cause of action for promissory fraud. 
Accordingly, the Motion to Strike
is DENIED. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.