 Case Number:  24VECV01043    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  T BECKER V GHC 24VECV01043
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Defendants GHC of Canoga Park, LLC
dba Canyon Oaks Nursing and Rehabilitation Center’s Demurrer to the Complaint
is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the First and Second Causes of
Action.  Leave to amend is limited to
curing the pleading defects identified and not to add new causes of
action.   The Motion to Strike is DENIED
without prejudice. 
Introduction 
The Demurrer and Motion to Strike
were filed by Defendants GHC of Canoga Park, LLC dba Canyon Oaks Nursing and
Rehabilitation Center (erroneously sued as GHC of Canoga Park, LLC) and Life
Generations Healthcare LLC (collectively, “Defendants”) against the Complaint
filed by Plaintiff Geraldine Becker (Plaintiff).  Defendants demur the first cause of action
for elder abuse and neglect and the second cause of action for violation of
Health and Safety Code section 1430, subdivision (b).  Defendants also move to strike the prayer for
punitive and exemplary damages (Compl., p. 10:23-25) and prayer for attorney’s
fees and costs (Compl., p. 10:25-27). 
Demurrer Discussion 
First Cause of Action – Elder
Abuse and Neglect
Defendant demurs the first cause
of action, arguing it is uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action because it does not allege facts demonstrating the
specific act or omission that Defendants took with malice, oppression, or
fraud. 
“The Elder Abuse Act defines
abuse as ‘[p]hysical abuse, neglect, financial abuse, abandonment, isolation,
abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental
suffering’ [citation]; or “[t]he deprivation by a care custodian of goods or
services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering’
[citation].”  (Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 404 (“Carter”), citing Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subds. (a) & (b) [italics removed].)  
“[W]hen the medical care of an
elder is at issue, ‘the statutory definition of “neglect” speaks not of the
undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to provide medical
care.’  [Citations.]”  (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at pp.
404–405 [italics removed].)  “To recover
the enhanced remedies available under the Elder Abuse Act from a health care
provider, a plaintiff must prove more than simple or even gross negligence in
the provider’s care or custody of the elder. 
[Citations.]  The plaintiff must
prove ‘by clear and convincing evidence’ that ‘the defendant has been guilty of
recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of’ the
neglect.  (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15657.)”  (Id. at p. 405.)  “Oppression, fraud and malice ‘involve
“intentional,” “willful,” or “conscious” wrongdoing of a “despicable” or
“injurious” nature.’  [Citation.]  Recklessness involves ‘“deliberate disregard”
of the “high degree of probability” that an injury will occur’ and ‘rises to
the level of a “conscious choice of a course of action ... with knowledge of
the serious danger to others involved in it.”’ 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  “In short, ‘[i]n order to obtain the Act’s
heightened remedies, a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially equivalent to
conduct that would support recovery of punitive damages.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)
“[S]everal factors … must be
present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse
Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the Act.”  (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p.
406.)  
“The plaintiff must allege (and
ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the
defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or
dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care
[citations]; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult
unable to provide for his or her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or
withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s
basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to
befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud
or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury
(if the plaintiff alleges recklessness) [citations].”  (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at pp.
406-407.)  “[4] The plaintiff must also
allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the neglect
caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental
suffering.”  (Id. at p. 407.) “[5]
Finally, the facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link
between the neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in
accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.”  (Ibid.) 
Here, the Complaint alleges the
following.  “Upon admission [at
Defendants’ nursing facility], PLAINTIFF had a history of chronic abdominal
pain, chronic back pain, chronic constipation, hypertension and was bedbound
secondary to chronic disease.”  (Compl.,
¶¶ 2, 15.)  “Based on PLAINTIFF’S
medical, mental and psycho-social conditions, all of which were known to the
DEFENDANTS upon PLAINTIFF’S admission to the FACILITY on November 26, 2022,
PLAINTIFF was a high risk for fall injuries if appropriate interventions,
including frequent monitoring and adequate assistance were not provided to
protect PLAINTIFF from avoidable injury.” 
(Compl., ¶ 19.)  “Notwithstanding
the high likelihood of serious injury to PLAINTIFF, DEFENDANTS chose not to
implement several necessary interventions, including safe transfers, to protect
PLAINTIFF from fall injuries.”  (Compl.,
¶ 20.)  “Consequently, PLAINTIFF was
injured when DEFENDANTS recklessly failed to exercise the degree of care that a
reasonable person in a like position would have exercised.”  (Compl., ¶ 20.)  “The unfortunate and predictable outcome of
the FACILITY’S operational practices was serious injury to PLAINTIFF, including
fall injuries wherein she sustained bilateral ankle fractures and experienced
severe pain.”  (Compl., ¶ 20.)
The Court agrees with Defendants
that those facts are insufficient to claim elder abuse; they do state a claim
for professional negligence.  (See
Worsham v. O’Connor Hospital (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331, 338 [“According to the
second amended complaint, O’Connor was required to maintain specific
staff-to-patient ratios to address the needs of patients and to ensure
compliance with state and federal law. 
O’Connor was chronically understaffed, and did not adequately train the
staff it did have.  The allegations
include the fact that O'Connor was aware that Ms. Worsham had a risk of
falling, and failed to have the proper staffing in place to prevent Ms.
Worsham's fall. As a result of O'Connor's insufficient staffing, Ms. Worsham
suffered a fall that resulted in a broken arm and a rebreak of her right
hip.  ¶ The allegations in the second
amended complaint are not sufficient to render O’Connor’s conduct in failing to
provide adequate staffing anything more than professional negligence”].)
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
first cause of action for elder abuse is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Second Cause of Action –
Violation of Health and Safety Code  §
1430(b)
The Court agrees with Defendants
that in the second cause of action, Plaintiff only lists several statutes and
then alleges that the Defendants “failed to prevent mental and physical abuse
and neglect” to Plaintiff without specifying how Defendants violated those
statutes or failed to prevent the abuse or neglect of Plaintiff. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
second cause of action for violation of Health and Safety Code § 1430(b) is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Motion to Strike Discussion
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is
DENIED as moot in light of the Court sustaining the demurrer, with leave to
amend. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.