  Case Number:  23TRCV04253    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
KAYLEE
  J. MARTINEZ, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04253




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          August 13,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Kaylee J. Martinez and Juan J. Martinez
(1)  
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The Court considered the moving and opposition
papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fifth
cause of action in the FAC.  The motion
to strike is DENIED.  Defendant is
ordered to file an answer within twenty days.
BACKGROUND
            On December 20, 2023, Kaylee J. Martinez
and Juan J. Martinez filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
for (1) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(d), (2) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b);
(3) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3); (4) breach of implied warranty of
merchantability; and (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment.
            On May 17, 2024, plaintiffs filed a
FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant American Honda demurs to the
fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement-concealment in the FAC on the
ground that it fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action.
The FAC alleges that on April 16, 2021,
plaintiffs entered into a warranty contract with defendant Honda regarding a certified
pre-owned 2018 Honda CR-V.  FAC, ¶6.  The warranty contract contained various
warranties, including bumper-to-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, emission
warranty.  Id., ¶7.
            As to repair history, plaintiffs
allege that on July 30, 2021, with 38,551 miles, plaintiffs presented the
subject vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair facility with various
concerns, including sensing system, electrical system, transmission, and/or the
engine.  Id., ¶23.  On December 13, 2021, with 44,008 miles,
plaintiffs presented the vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair facility with
various concerns, including same.  Id.,
¶24.  Thereafter, the vehicle continued
to experience symptoms of the sensing defects despite defendant’s
representation that the defects were repaired. 
Id., ¶25.
5th cause of action for
fraudulent inducement - concealment
“’The required elements for fraudulent
concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a
defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant
intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing
the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as
he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of
fact.’”  Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162 (citation
omitted).
“[T]o establish fraud through
nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant
‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” 
OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835, 845. 
Nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud when:  (1) there is a fiduciary relationship between
the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals a material fact
from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial representations but
also suppresses some material facts.  Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.
App. 4th 803, 831.
Rules of specifically pleading how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated,
is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations, and not to concealment.  See Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th
1356, 1384.
Under this cause of action, the FAC
alleges that the subject vehicle contains a defective computerized
driver-assisting safety system, which includes adaptive cruise control, lane
departure warnings and steering inputs, and autonomous braking (meant to avoid
front-end collisions by detecting vehicle speed and the speed of other vehicles
and objects on the road – and can automatically deploy the brakes to avoid a
front-end collision).  Honda calls this
computerized driver-assisting safety system, “Honda Sensing.”  It relies on a radar sensor, an interior
camera, along with computers and other technology.  The autonomous braking system within Honda
Sensing is called Collision Mitigation Braking System (or CMBS).  FAC, ¶63. 
The Sensing system suffers from a defect that causes the various
subsystems within it to malfunction dangerously while the vehicles are
driven.  This defect impedes the systems’
ability to reliably and accurately detect and appropriately respond to
conditions on the roadway, causing malfunctions of the adaptive cruise control,
the lane-departure system, and CMBS. 
Id., ¶64.  As a result of the
Sensing defect, Honda vehicles brake abruptly even though there is nothing
around that risks a collision, warning lights display without explanation,
brakes deploy seemingly randomly, and parts of the system malfunction.  These malfunctions pose a safety risk.  Additionally, the speed of the vehicle may
abruptly change and warnings may distract the driver.  Id., ¶65. 
Honda’s response has been that no repairs are available.  Id., ¶66.
Defendant argues that plaintiffs fail
to plead that it concealed or suppressed a material fact regarding the Sensing
Defect that plaintiffs relied on in purchasing the subject vehicle.  Also, defendant argues, plaintiffs fail to
establish a duty to disclose, as no fiduciary relationship exists, and
defendant did not have “exclusive knowledge” nor engage in active concealment.  Defendant further argues that plaintiffs fail
to plead defendant’s intent to deceive plaintiffs.  Also, defendant contends, plaintiffs “cannot
plausibly claim to be unaware of the ‘concealed’ fact as the operative facts
underlying the alleged sensing defect were publicly available through multiple
sources.  Defendant further asserts that
the claim is barred by the economic loss doctrine.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they have pled all the elements sufficiently.  They also argue, citing to Dhital v.
Nissan North America, Inc., that the economic loss rule does not bar the
claim and arises from conduct wholly distinct from Song-Beverly Act violations.  Plaintiffs further contend that the Sensing Defect
is a material fact, which poses safety risks. 
Also, plaintiffs assert, defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts.  Plaintiffs further argue that a
“transactional relationship” is not required under California law for the
manufacturer to have a duty to disclose.
The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that the allegations are
sufficient to support the elements at the pleading stage for fraudulent
concealment.  Plaintiff alleges that
defendant concealed or suppressed a material fact.  See FAC, ¶¶71, 74, 81, 82.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant had a duty
to disclose the fact.  See FAC, ¶80.  See OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P.
v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835, 859
(“Under California law, a vendor has a duty to disclose material facts not only
to immediate purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers when the vendor has
reason to expect that the item will be resold.”); see also Khan v. Shiley
Inc. (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 848, 858 (“[A] manufacturer of a product may
be liable for fraud when it conceals material product information from
potential users.”).  Plaintiff alleges
that defendant intentionally concealed the fact with an intent to defraud.  See FAC, ¶81. 
The Court can infer that defendant placed the vehicle into the stream of
commerce, presumably for profit.  Plaintiff
was unaware of the fact and he would not have purchased the vehicle, had he
known of such defects and sustained damages. 
See FAC, ¶82.
The Court also finds that the
economic loss rule does not bar the cause of action.  “[W]here a purchaser’s expectations in a sale
are frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly, his
remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has suffered only 'economic'
losses.'  This doctrine hinges on a
distinction drawn between transactions involving the sale of goods for
commercial purposes where economic expectations are protected by commercial and
contract law, and those involving the sale of defective products to individual
consumers who are injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied by
resort to the law of torts.  The economic
loss rule requires a purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss
due to disappointed expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and
beyond a broken contractual promise.  Quite
simply, the economic loss rule 'prevent[s] the law of contract and the law of
tort from dissolving one into the other.” 
Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979,
988 (citations omitted).  “[W]hen one
party commits a fraud during the contract formation or performance, the injured
party may recover in both contract and tort.” 
Harris v. Atlantic Richfield (1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th
70, 78 (citation omitted).  See also Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal. 4th 543, 552 (“Tort damages have been
permitted in contract cases where . . . the contract was fraudulently induced.
. . . The duty that gives rise to tort liability is either completely
independent of the contract or arises from conduct which is both intentional
and intended to harm.”) (citations omitted) and Fassberg Construction Co. v.
Housing Authority of City of Los Angeles (2007) 152 Cal. App. 4th
720, 757 (“A plaintiff seeking to recover damages for economic loss caused by
fraud must show that the plaintiff actually relied on the defendant’s
misrepresentation or nondisclosure, that the reliance was reasonable, and that
the plaintiff suffered damages as a result.”) (citations omitted).  Thus, tort damages are permitted in contract
cases where the contract has been fraudulently induced, which is what plaintiff
alleges.  Plaintiff alleges that had the
true facts been disclosed, he would not have entered into the contract at all,
which is not the same as a mere breach of contract.
Accordingly, the demurrer is
OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant requests that the Court
strike the prayer for punitive damages.
The motion is DENIED in light of
the ruling on the demurrer to the fraudulent concealment cause of action.
 
ORDER

            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment in the FAC.
            The motion to strike is DENIED.
            Defendant is ordered to file an
answer within twenty days.
            As this demurrer and motion to
strike addressed non-Song-Beverly claims, the Court orders Plaintiff’s counsel
to make an appropriate notation that the time spent addressing these motions is
not for the Song-Beverly claims.  This
may become necessary information should there be a claim for Song-Beverly
attorneys fees.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of ruling.