  Case Number:  23CHCV01661    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  F51  SEPTEMBER 16,  2024    MOTION FOR SUMMARY  JUDGMENT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV01661    Motion Filed: 5/29/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants/Cross-Defendants  Les R. Barabas; and Tina Barabas (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Weston Middleton;  and Laurie Middleton (collectively, “Plaintiffs”);  Defendants/Cross-Complainants/Cross-Defendants Benjamin Thursby; and Shawn  Palmer (collectively, “Responding Defendants”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: An  order granting summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication  in favor of Moving Defendants and against Plaintiffs on Plaintiffs’ complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied.   EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS: Responding Defendants’ evidentiary objections 1–2 are overruled; 3-6 are sustained.   BACKGROUND This is a property action in which Plaintiffs own a  residential property located at 24546 Golden Oak Lane, Newhall, California  91321. (Compl. ¶ 1.) Moving Defendants Les R. Barabas and Tina Barabas  allegedly own a residential property located at 24506 Golden Oak Lane, Newhall,  California 91321. (Id. at ¶ 2.) Responding Defendants Benjamin Thursby  and Shawn Palmer allegedly own a residential property located at 21166  Placerita Canyon Rd., Santa Clarita, California 91321. (Id. at ¶ 3.) Both  of the Defendants’ homes are located upslope from Plaintiffs’ home. (Id. at  ¶¶ 6–7.)   Plaintiffs allege that on 2/24/23–2/25/23, due to heavy  downpours of rain in the area, “the interconnected drainage swale system on  defendants’ properties failed, including the collapse of a portion of the  interconnected drainage swale, resulting in a very substantial mudslide onto  plaintiffs’ property.” (Id. at ¶ 9.) “Plaintiffs are informed and  believe and on that basis allege that prior to the February 25, 2023 mudslide,  defendants negligently, carelessly and unreasonably allowed soil build-up in  the interconnected drainage swales located on defendants’ respective  properties, preventing the swales from directing storm water off the subject  slope and away from plaintiffs’ property.” (Id. at ¶ 10.)   On 6/7/23, Plaintiffs filed their complaint, alleging  against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Continuing Private  Nuisance; (2) Continuing Trespass; and (3) Negligence.    On 7/17/23, Responding Defendants filed their answer and  cross-complaint, alleging against Moving Defendants the following causes of  action: (1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Negligence; (3) Private Nuisance; (4)  Trespass; (5) Negligent Trespass; (6) Indemnity; and (7) Contribution.   On 8/17/23, Moving  Defendants filed their answers to Plaintiffs’ complaint and Responding  Defendants’ cross-complaint. On 8/17/23, Moving Defendants filed their  cross-complaint, alleging against Responding Defendants the following causes of  action: (1) Equitable Indemnification; (2) Comparative Contribution, Partial  Indemnification; (3) Apportionment of Fault; and (4) Declaratory Relief.   On 5/29/24,  Moving Defendants filed the instant motion for summary judgment, or, in the  alternative, summary adjudication. On 9/3/24, Responding Defendants filed their  opposition. On 9/4/24, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On 9/12/24, Moving Defendants  filed their reply.   ANALYSIS   The function of a motion for  summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an  opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to  enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v.  Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure  section 437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary  judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably  deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or  evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that  the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.  Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of  the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the  issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether  there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the  pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 65,  citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,  381–382.)    As to each claim as framed  by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the  initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or  to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D.  B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519–1520.)     Once the defendant has met  that burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable  issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a  defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party  opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally  construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and  resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.  Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)   A.     Private  Nuisance   Plaintiffs’ first cause of  action alleges against all Defendants Continuing Private Nuisance. In an action  for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an interference with his  use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of the plaintiff’s  interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, that is,  that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the  interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it  must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or  amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of  the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3  Cal.App.5th 248, 262–263.)   Here, Moving Defendants  argue that they “have established they have never altered the watercourse and  surface water runoff from their property and have never performed any  activities that have increased the surface water runoff to the Lower Property,”  whereas “Plaintiffs are unable to establish that any conduct of Defendants,  Les and Tina Barabas directly interfered with the Lower Property or created a  condition that interfered with the Lower Property.” (MSJ  3:24–26, 8:19–21.)    Moving Defendants’  contentions are supported solely by the declaration of moving defendant Les  Barabas, which states that “Declarant has acted reasonably to protect”  Plaintiffs’ property “from surface water runoff,” “has never altered the  watercourse and surface water runoff from the Upper Property to the Lower  Property,” and “has never performed any activities to the Upper Property that  have increased the surface water runoff to the Lower Property.” (Decl. of Les  Barabas ¶¶ 3, 5–6.) Barabas further declares that Responding Defendants, in  contrast, “have not acted reasonably to protect the Lower Property from surface  water runoff” prior to the subject incident, including allowing “the concrete  swales on their property to fall into a state of disrepair as they were broken  and clogged,” removing “all the landscaping including brush and trees from  their property,” and failing to “eradicate the gophers on their property, which  resulted in hundreds of feet of gopher tunnels which left the hill more  susceptible to water absorption including loss of erosion and mud slides.” (Id.  at 7–10.)   As Responding Defendants argue,[1]  the Barabas declaration is insufficient to show that no triable issue exists  because “merely asserting a conclusion of law or fact without presenting  admissible evidence does not meet the burden of proof for summary judgment.” (Defs.’  Opp. 4:9–10.) The Court agrees with Responding Defendants that “the Declaration  of Defendant Les R. Barabas is replete with speculation, conclusory statements,  and impermissible lay opinions on matters beyond his personal knowledge.” (Id.  at 5:17–18.) Specifically, “Mr. Barabas’ Declaration makes no mention as to  how he has personal knowledge of the condition of the concrete swales on the  Thursby-Palmer Defendants’ property or their maintenance. Similarly, the  declaration does not address how Mr. Barabas has personal knowledge that ‘all’  the landscaping was removed from the Thursby-Palmer Defendants’ property.  Additionally, in his declaration, Mr. Barabas attempts to offer inadmissible  lay opinions to support his conclusory statements regarding whether the  property could effectively absorb rainwater or was susceptible to erosion.” (Id.  at 4:24–5:2.) Plaintiffs also argue in opposition  that “no foundation was laid in Declaration that Mr. Barabas has any special  knowledge concerning drainage and geotechnical issues.” (Pls.’ Opp. 2:23–25.)  The Court agrees.   Based on the foregoing, the  Court finds that Moving Defendants have failed to meet their initial  evidentiary burden to establish a defense to liability for private nuisance. As  such, the Court finds that triable issues remain as to whether Moving  Defendants exercised reasonable care in their conduct, use, and maintenance of  their property. Even if, assuming arguendo, the evidentiary burden was shifted  to Plaintiffs and Responding Defendants, the Court finds that the opposing  parties have met their burden to show that triable issues remain, based on  their presentation of sworn declarations by their retained engineering experts  suggesting that Moving Defendants’ conduct was a substantial factor in causing  the slope failure on which Plaintiffs’ claims are based. (Ex. K to Defs.’ Opp;  Decl. of William J. DeBerry; Decl. of Joe Azar.) While the Court notes Moving  Defendants’ concerns with the reasoning contained within each expert  declaration, the Court finds that these arguments further affirm the Court’s  finding that triable issues remain. Accordingly, the motion is denied as to  Issue No. 1.   B.      Trespass   Plaintiffs’  second cause of action alleges against all Defendants Continuing Trespass. “The  elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or control of the  property; (2) the defendant’s intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto  the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of  permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor  in causing the harm.”  (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants,  Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.) A defendant’s “failure to remove from  land in the possession of another a thing which he has tortiously ... placed on  the land constitutes a continuing trespass.” (Mangini v. Aerojet-General  Corp. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 1125, 1148–1149.)   Here, Moving Defendants again rely on the Barabas  declaration to argue that “Plaintiffs are unable to  establish that any conduct of Defendants, Les and Tina Barabas directly  interfered with the Lower Property or created a condition that interfered with  the Lower Property.” (MSJ 8:19–21.) As the Court finds the Barabas  declaration insufficient and inadmissible, as discussed above, it finds that  Moving Defendants have failed to meet their initial  evidentiary burden to establish a defense to liability for trespass.  Accordingly, the motion is denied as to Issue No. 2. // // C.     Negligence   Plaintiffs’ third cause of  action alleges Negligence against all Defendants. To state a claim for  negligence, a plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a  legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause  resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228  Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)   Here, Moving Defendants argue that “Plaintiffs fail to show  any breach of duty by Defendants to Plaintiffs, misstate their own duty, and  fail to show any change made by Defendants to the natural system of drainage  that would cause Defendants to bear liability for the injury.” (MSJ 5:3–5.)  Moving Defendants again rely on the Barabas declaration to support their  contentions. The Court reiterates its findings above and finds that Moving  Defendants have failed to meet their initial  evidentiary burden to establish a defense to liability for negligence.  Accordingly, the motion is denied as to Issue No. 3.     Based on the foregoing, the  Court denies Moving Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, or, in the  alternative, summary adjudication. The Court notes Responding Defendants’  arguments that discovery remains ongoing but need not reach them in light of  its findings.   CONCLUSION   The motion is denied.       