  Case Number:  22NWCV00271    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  C SENIOR OPERATIONS, LLC
v. CERTIFIED RECORDS MANAGEMENT, LLC
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00271
HEARING:  08/01/24
 
#1
 
Defendant’s
Motion for Issue, or in the alternative, Evidentiary Sanctions against Plaintiff
is DENIED. The request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Opposing
Party to give notice. 
 
This
breach of contract action was filed by Plaintiff SENIOR OPERATIONS, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) against Defendant CERTIFIED RECORDS MANAGEMENT, LLC (“Defendant”)
on April 8, 2022. Trial is currently scheduled for December 20, 2024. 
 
Defendant
moves for an order imposing issue sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, and/or
monetary sanctions in the amount of $7,500.00 against Plaintiff and/or its
counsel of record, Riley Safer Holmes & Cancila LLP for Plaintiff’s
violation of the Court’s February 22, 2024 Order compelling Plaintiff to
provide further responses and documents to Requests for Production of Documents
(set one) Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, and 12 by no later than March 25, 2024. This
Motion was filed on April 14, 2024. 
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Motion should be denied because: (1)
Plaintiff complied with this Court’s February 22, 2024 Order; (2) Defendant
filed this motion without meeting and conferring, and despite knowing the cause
for Plaintiff’s delayed document search and production; (3) Plaintiff has
produced all responsive records and privilege logs; and (4) Plaintiff produced
responsive records in a time similar to Defendant’s production of records. (See
Ntc. of Opp. 2:6-12.) Plaintiff maintains that issue, evidentiary, and monetary
sanctions are not warranted because Plaintiff
produced Amended Responses on March 25, 2024, and Second Amended Responses on
July 18, 2024. Moreover, Plaintiff explains that timely and fully compliant
responses could not be produced earlier because “Senior Aerospace’s records
were only returned to it by Certified Records in March 2024, just prior to the
date of the responses.” (Opp. 4:7-9.) 
 
In Reply, Defendant concedes that responsive documents were
produced prior to this hearing, but insists that sanctions should still be
granted because “Certified should not have to file motions in order for Senior
to comply with its basic discovery obligations.” (Reply 2:11-12.) 
 
CCP
§2023.010 includes: “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.” CCP §2023.030 provides, in part: “To the extent
authorized by this chapter governing any particular discovery method or any
other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected party,
may impose the [sanctions] against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse
of the discovery process, including monetary and issue and terminating
sanctions.” Failing to respond to an authorized method of discovery and
disobeying a court order to provide discovery are both misuses of the discovery
process.” (CCP §§2023.010 (d) and (g).) Sanctions which may be imposed for a
misuse of the discovery process include “terminating sanctions.” 
 
It
is a commonly stated axiom that discovery sanctions “should be appropriate to
the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978)
84 Cal.App.3d 771, 793.) However, a court is empowered to apply the ultimate
sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with
discovery obligations. The refusal to reveal material evidence is deemed to be
an admission that the claim or defense is without merit. (Id. at
794-795.) 
 
The
Court does not find that issue and/or evidentiary sanctions are required to
protect Defendant’s interests in obtaining discovery.  Moreover, the Court finds that issuing
monetary sanctions for Plaintiff’s untimely supplemental responses would be
unnecessarily punitive. It is undisputed that two sets of responsive documents
were served prior to the date of this hearing.  Plaintiff maintains that 4,000 of its boxes
were not returned by Defendant until March 2024, and Plaintiff needed time to
search the records before updating its responses. (Hickey Decl., ¶ 13.)  Defendant counters that a number of its
discovery requests did not require a search of historical records, and those
responses should have been provided earlier. 
Defendant argues that it should not have to file motions in order for
Plaintiff to comply with its basic discovery obligations.  Defendant’s position is undermined, however,
by its failure to meet and confer before filing the instant motion.  While there is no meet and confer requirement
for a motion brought under CCP § 2023.010, the Court has previously stressed
the importance of meeting and conferring to resolve the discovery disputes in
this case. (Minute Order, February 2, 2024.) The Court considers the fact that
Defendant maintained possession of a substantial amount of Plaintiff’s records
until March 2024.  This is not a complete
excuse for Plaintiff’s untimely responses, but it does amount to substantial
justification.  Under the circumstances
of this case, Defendant has not demonstrated that continued, good faith meet
and confer efforts would have been ineffective in obtaining responses from
Plaintiff.  
 
Accordingly,
the Motion is DENIED.