 Case Number:  23NWCV03207    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  C COLON v. LEUNG
CASE NO.: 23NWCV03207
HEARING:  08/01/24
 
#6
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed Demurrer to Defendant AMY T. LEUNG’s
Answer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed Motion to Strike Defendant AMY T.
LEUNG’s Answer is MOOT.  
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
No Opposition filed as of July 29, 2024.
 
This action for
breach of lease was filed by Plaintiff RAYMOND COLON (“Plaintiff”) against
Defendant AMY T. LEUNG (in pro per) (“Defendant”) on October 9, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges that this case arises from uninhabitable living conditions. 
 
On November 3, 2023,
Defendant filed the subject Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. In the Answer,
Defendant asserts a general denial, and thirteen affirmative defenses. 
 
Plaintiff specially
and generally demurs to Defendant’s first through thirteenth affirmative
defenses. 
 
The Answer sets
forth a general denial. However, a general denial is only effective to
controvert all material allegations of an unverified complaint. (CCP
§431.30(b)(1).) Here, it is undisputed that Plaintiff’s Complaint is verified.
Plaintiffs unopposed Demurrer to Defendant’s general denial is SUSTAINED.
 
CCP §430.20(a) states that a demurrer to an Answer is
properly sustained where, “[t]he answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense.” Here, Defendant’s first through thirteenth affirmative
defenses consist of legal conclusions, devoid of factual support. No facts are
alleged to support any Defendant’s the first through thirteenth affirmative
defenses. Rather, “the allegations are proffered in the form of terse legal
conclusions, rather than as facts ‘averred as carefully and with as much detail
as the facts which constitute the cause of action and are alleged in the
complaint. [Cite.]” (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 367, 384.) 
Defendant did not file an Opposition to the Demurrer. Therefore, the
Court knows of no basis to grant leave to amend.  
 
The Demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
The Motion to Strike is rendered MOOT by the Court’s ruling on the
Demurrer above. 
 
 