 Case Number:  22NWCV01467    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  C LEVY v. KERTENIAN
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01467
HEARING:  10/10/24
 
#4
 
Defendants MAGIC LAUNDRY SERVICES, INC. and HRAIR
KERTENIAN’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED in
part and SUSTAINED with 15 days leave to amend in part. 
 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This action was filed by Plaintiffs YAAKOV LEVY (“Y. Levy”);
MOSHE LEVY; (“M. Levy”); and LAUNDRY LOS ANGELES, INC. (“Laundry Los Angeles”)
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) on December 1, 2022. The initial Complaint
contained eight causes of action for: Trespass to Land; Trespass to Chattels;
Conversion; Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; Interference with
Contractual Relations; Alter Ego Theory; Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress; and Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
A First Amended Complaint was filed on March 21, 2023, as of
right. The First Amended Complaint omits the initially asserted fourth through
eighth causes of action, and contains only three causes of action for: Trespass
to Land; Trespass to Chattels; and Conversion.  
 
The operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) filed on
April 10, 2024, re-asserts the five causes of action that were omitted in the
First Amended Complaint.  
 
The SAC alleges the following operative facts: “On or about
November 4, 2020, at or near 6032 Shull St., Bell Gardens, California 90201
(‘Subject Property’), Laundry Los Angeles’ facility was vandalized and
destroyed, causing extensive property damage and substantial harm to the
business in excess of 3 million dollars (‘Subject Incident’). Defendant Armen
Gassyan was discovered red-handed by the police at the scene and placed under
arrest for 459 PC-Commercial Burglary and 594(B)(1) PC – Felony Vandalism. He
refused to disclose his motives or talk to the officers, pleaded the Fifth, and
was later released without bail, pursuant to Los Angeles zero-bail policy.”
(SAC ¶9.) “Shockingly, very soon after the Subject Incident, and even before
Plaintiffs’ landlord had been informed of what had happened, the owner of
Defendant Magic Laundry Services, Defendant Kertenian, mysteriously already
knew of the vandalism and called Laundry Los Angels’ commercial landlord and
offered to take over the lease. Plaintiffs’ landlord was, thus, contacted by
Defendant Kertenian before the police report had been completed and before any
information about the vandalism was publicized, meaning that Defendant had
advance knowledge beyond the general public or even the owner of the subject
property that enabled Defendant to improperly solicit Plaintiffs’ landlord
immediately after the subject vandalism.” (SAC ¶12.) “Furthermore, within a
short period of time after the vandalism, Magic Laundry Services, Inc.
conveniently took over at least 24 of Laundry Los Angeles’ mega hotel accounts,
seizing major clients, top managers, and employees, capitalizing on the
destruction, and greatly increasing its market share at the expense of its
direct and previously highly profitable competitor.” (SAC ¶13.) “Plaintiffs are
informed and believe, and thereon allege that their competitor Defendants Magic
Laundry Services and Mr. Kertenian, CEO of Magic Laundry Services, possessing
the motive, the means, and the opportunity, conspired with Armen Gassyan to disrupt
and destroy Plaintiffs’ business, or at the very least, cause it to suffer
significant disruption to its ability to fulfill business contracts. Plaintiffs
are informed and believe that Defendants’ intent was to put Plaintiffs out of
business and/or acquire Plaintiffs’ business to increase their market share in
the commercial laundry market….” (SAC ¶15.) 
 
The SAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Trespass
to Land; 
(2) Trespass
to Chattels; 
(3) Conversion;

(4) Interference
with Prospective Economic Relations; 
(5) Interference
with Contractual Relations; 
(6) Alter
Ego Theory (Piercing the Corporate Veil); 
(7) Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress; and 
(8) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendants MAGIC LAUNDRY SERVICES, INC. and HRAIR KERTENIAN
(collectively “MLS Defendants”) generally demur to the fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, and eighth causes of action. Defendants also demur to the fourth,
fifth, seventh, and eighth causes of action on the grounds that they are barred
by the statute of limitations. 
 
Statute of Limitations as to the Fourth, Fifth, Seventh,
and Eighth Causes of Action 
 
The Demurrer is not sustained on statute of limitations
grounds.
 
As argued in Opposition, the COVID emergency order tolled
all statutes of limitation for a period of 6 months. 
 
In Reply, the MLS Defendants state: “Defendants will concede
the Statute of Limitations for purposes of demurrer, given the COVID emergency
order which extended the statute for an additional 6 months.” (Reply 1:14, fn.
1.)  
 
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action as to Plaintiff Yaakov Levy

 
The MLS Defendants argues that the Demurrer to the fourth
and fifth causes of action should be sustained as to Plaintiff Yaakov Levy in
his individual capacity because “these claims are not applicable to him in his
individual capacity[,]” arguing that “Plaintiffs SAC fails to allege the most
basic of facts; namely, that there exists any contract at issue to which Plaintiff
Levy, personally, is a party.”  (Dem.
5:19-20; Dem 6:14-16.)  
 
To prevail on a cause of action for intentional interference
with prospective economic advantage, a plaintiff must plead: (1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of
the relationship; (3) the defendant’s intentional acts designed to disrupt the
relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm
to the plaintiff proximately caused by the defendant’s acts. (Reeves v.
Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1152, fn. 6.) A plaintiff that chooses to
bring a claim for interference with prospective economic advantage has a more
rigorous pleading burden since it must show that the defendant’s conduct was
independently wrongful. (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134; Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
(1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 393.) 
 
The elements for intentional interference with contractual
relations are: (1) that a valid contract existed between plaintiff and a third
party; that (2) defendant knew of the existence of the contract; and (3)
defendant intentionally engaged in conduct which induced the third party to
breach the contract with plaintiff; (4) defendant intended to induce a breach
of the contract; and (5) the acts or conduct of the defendant caused plaintiff
damages. (See Dryden v. Tri-Valley Growers (1977) 65 Cal.App.3d 990,
995.) 
 
¶17 alleges
Plaintiffs Laundry Los Angeles and Yaakov Levy leased, occupied and controlled
the Subject Property. ¶36 alleges that Plaintiffs were in an economic
relationship with third parties whom they contracted with to provide commercial
laundry services. ¶52 alleges that Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ clients were in
an economic relationship that would have resulted in an economic benefit to
Plaintiff and each of them. ¶53 alleges that there was a contract between
Plaintiffs and each of their clients for Plaintiffs to perform commercial
laundry services in exchange for payment. These allegations are sufficient to
withstand demurrer. The arguments raised by the MLS Defendants raise factual
determinations improperly resolved at this juncture. The demurrer to the fourth
and fifth causes of action as to Plaintiff Yaakov Levy is OVERRULED.
 
Sixth Cause of Action – Alter Ego Theory 
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED. “A
claim against a defendant, based on the alter ego theory, is not itself a claim
for substantive relief, e.g., breach of contract or to set aside a fraudulent
conveyance, but rather, procedural, i.e., to disregard the corporate entity as
a distinct defendant and to hold the alter ego individuals liable on the
obligations of the corporation where the corporate form is being sued by the
individuals to escape corporate liability, sanction a fraud; or promote
injustice.” (Hennssey’s Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co. (1988)
204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1359.) “Whether a party is liable under an alter-ego
theory is normally a question of fact.” (Zoran Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 799, 811.) 
 
Although the Court agrees that alter ego is not a
stand-alone cause of action, Plaintiffs’ allegations do not present a
stand-alone claim for alter ego. Rather, Plaintiffs incorporate the allegations
contained in their substantive causes of action against Plaintiffs on the
theory that Defendant Kertenian is Defendant Magic Laundry Services, Inc.’s
alter ego. The Court can disregard the heading of the cause of action. “If the
complaint states a cause of action under any theory, regardless of the title under
which the factual basis for relief is stated, that aspect of the complaint is
good against a demurrer.” (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 48.) As such, Plaintiffs’ substantively unchallenged
factual allegations pertaining to Defendants’ alter ego liability should
remain. 
 
Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action – NIED and IIED 
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent infliction
of emotional distress are as follows: (1) legal duty to use due care (direct
victim or bystander); (2) breach of such legal duty; (3) damage or injury
(serious emotional distress); and (4) cause of the resulting damage or injury.
(Huggins v. Longs Drug Stores California, Inc. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 124,
129; Bogard v. Employers Casualty Co. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 602,
618.)  
 
“A prima facie case [of IIED] requires: (1) outrageous
conduct by the defendant, (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing emotional distress, (3) severe emotional suffering, and
(4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress. [Citations.]” (Kelly
v. General Telephone Co. (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 278, 287.) 
 
The demurrer to the seventh and eighth causes of action is
SUSTAINED with 15 days leave to amend. 
 
Intentional conduct, such as the authorization of vandalism
and destruction of a competitor’s business, cannot support a claim for
negligence. (See Semore v. Pool (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1087, 1105.) 
 
Moreover, the corporate entity plaintiffs lack standing to
pursue IIED. (See Huntingdon Life Scis. Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal
Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1260 [business entity lacks
standing to bring claims based on IIED.].) Leave to amend is permitted to
enable Plaintiffs the ability to clarify their allegations. 