  Case Number:  21NWCV00133    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  C SAADIA SQUARE LLC
v. ALL-WAYS PACIFIC, LLC
CASE NO.:  21NWCV00133
HEARING:  10/10/24
 
#1
 
     I.       
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant SAADIA SQUARE LLC’s
Motion for Summary Judgment and/or Summary Adjudication against all Causes of
Action remaining in the First Amended Cross-Complaint and/or remaining in the
Second Amended Cross-Complaint of Rialto Pacific, LLC; Rialto Merrill Holdings,
LLC; Rialto Distribution, LLC; and RD Real Estate Holdings, LLC is DENIED.  

    II.       
Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ Motion for
Terminating Sanctions, or in the Alternative, for Evidentiary; Issue; and
Monetary Sanctions is OFF-CALENDAR pursuant to the Joint Stipulation and
Order for the Appointment of a Discovery Referee entered on April 17, 2024. 
  III.       
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Motion to Vacate
the April 17, 2024 Stipulation and Order Appointing the Discovery Referee is DENIED.
The Request to Compel Saadia to Pay Outstanding Discovery Referee Fees in 3
Days is MOOT. 
 
Opposing Party(s) to give notice. 
 
The Court notes that it has received and reviewed: (1)
Cross-Complainants Objection to and Motion to Strike Saadia Square LLC’s
Supplemental Opposition to Application to Terminate Reference; (2)
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Objection to Cross-Complainant’s October 3, 2024
Reply Re: Motion for Summary Judgment; and (3) Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
Opposition to Objection to Request to Strike. 
 
The parties objections are OVERRULED. The Court exercises
its discretion to review and consider all documents filed as of the close of
business on October 8, 2024. 
 
I.            
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION 
 
          BACKGROUND

 
This action concerning a right of first offer to purchase a
property (“ROFO”) was filed by Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant SAADIA SQUARE LLC
(“Saadia”) on March 5, 2021. 
 
On May 22, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants ALL-WAYS
PACIFIC, LLC; ALL-WAYS FAR EAST LLC; ALL-WAYS FORWARDING INTERNATIONAL INC.;
RIALTO MERRILL HOLDINGS, LLC; RD REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS, LLC; and RIALTO
DISTRIBUTION LLC filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint.
 
On January 30, 2024, this Court ORDERED the “All-Ways”
parties to file and serve a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SAXC”). 
 
The remaining Cross-Complainants, RIALTO PACIFIC LLC; RIALTO
MERRILL HOLDINGS LLC; RD REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS, LLC; and RIALTO DISTRIBUTION LLC’,
(collectively “Rialto”) operative SAXC was deemed filed on March 21, 2024. 
 
The subject and operative SAXC alleges the following
relevant facts: “In 2018, Saadia Square LLC and SM Logistics Member LLC (‘SM’)
formed SM Logistics Holdco LLC (‘SM Holdco’) as a joint venture to acquire,
develop, lease, and eventually sell warehouse facilities formerly owned by Toys
R Us. [¶] Throughout 2019 and into early 2020, SM negotiated a long-term lease
with an option to buy the real property located at 1110 West Merrill Avenue,
Rialto, California (the ‘Property’) with two prospective tenants: Chic Home
Design LLC (‘Chic’) and All-Ways. [¶] Yakoub Saadia (known as ‘Jack’), a
principal of Saadia Square LLC, negotiated and advocated for the lease on
behalf of Chic. [¶] At the same time, Jack Saadia also met with All-Ways, representing
himself as having the ability to facilitate All-Ways’ lease negotiations for
the Property. During this meeting, Jack Saadia withheld the fact that he had
prepared, submitted ,and was in the process of negotiating a lease with an
option to purchase the Property on behalf of Chic. In reality, Jack Saadia
never intended to advocate for All-Ways lease. [¶] Jack Saadia also withheld
the fact that Saadia Square LLC held an unrecorded right of first offer
(‘ROFO’) in the Property that was contained int eh SM Holdco operating agreement.
[¶] On February 16, 2020, Jack Saadia informed SM that ‘Chic [was] no longer
interested] in the Property. With Jack Saadia’s full knowledge, SM proceeded to
negotiate a final lease and option with All-Ways’ affiliates, with an option
price of $123,353,000. The lease and option agreements were finalized on March
11, 2020.” (SAXC ¶¶1-6.) “Then, as All-Ways proceeded to purchase the Property
pursuant to its option in late 2020, Jack Saadia realized that the Property had
increased significantly in value. Regretting his decision to pull Chic’s bid
for the Property and driven by greed, Jack Saadia decided to weaponize the ROFO
he had long since abandoned to capitalize on the Property’s increased value.”
(SAXC ¶8.) “[K]nowing that SM was proceeding to sell the Property to All-Ways –
Jack Saadia sent SM an email contending that he ‘[w]anted to just give you a
heads up/Reminder that we [Saadia] have [a] first right of refusal for both
Rialto and mount olive site’ to interfere and frustrate All-Ways purchase of
the Property. [¶] Jack Saadia succeeded. By asserting his abandoned ROFO, SM
Logistics Rialto, LLC (‘SM Rialto’) could not deliver clean title to the
Property as promised to All-Ways under the option, delaying the closing of the
transaction by several months and causing All-Ways to incur millions of dollars
in increased costs to purchase the Property.” (SAXC¶¶10-11.) 
 
The SAXC asserts one sole claim against Saadia for:
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations. 
 
Saadia/Cross-Defendant now moves for summary judgment,
and/or summary adjudication. Saadia bases its Motion on the following grounds:
(1) Saadia has a complete affirmative defense under the Litigation Privilege;
(2) Saadia has a complete affirmative defense under the Rival-Claimant
Privilege; (3) Rialto cannot prove that Saadia engaged in conduct intended or
known to cause disruption; (4) Saadia has a complete affirmative defense under
the Noerr-Pennington doctrine; (5) Rialto cannot demonstrate causation or
damages arising from any actionable conduct by Saadia; and (6) Saadia has a
complete affirmative defense under the economic-loss rule.   
 
In Opposition, Rialto/Cross-Complainants argue that all of
Saadia’s arguments fail and that summary judgment/adjudication should be
denied. Rialto also argues that good cause exists to deny the subject Motion
because there is essential discovery relevant to the Opposition that was not
completed prior to the date the Opposition was due, and that facts essential to
justify opposing the Motion may exist.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The purpose of a
motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“On a motion for
summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a
prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Id.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr.
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
“When deciding
whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence
set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an
objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that
evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.”  (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see
also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
“The elements which a
[cross-complainant] must plead to state the cause of action for intentional
interference with contractual relations are (1) a valid contract between
plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3)
defendants’ intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damages.” (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v.
Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126.) 
 
          DISCUSSION

 
                   Economic
Loss Rule
 
As argued in Opposition, it is unclear what the
applicability of the economic loss rule is to the facts of this case. Under the
economic loss rule tort claims based on contract breaches are generally barred,
thereby limiting contracting parties to contract damages. (United Guar.
Morg. Indemn. Co. Countrywide Financial Corp. (2009) 660 F.Supp.2d 1163,
1180.) 
 
Here, it is undisputed that the parties are not in a
contractual relationship, and no contractual damages are being sought. 
 
Noerr-Pennington
Doctrine
 
Saadia argues that the tortious interference claim is barred because the
Noerr-Pennington doctrine shields all communications “incidental or
reasonably related to an actual petition or actual litigation or to a claim
that could ripen into a petition or litigation.” (Tichinin v. City of Morgan
Hill (2009) 117 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1064-1065.) Saadia argues that
Rialto has not met its burden under the Noerr-Pennington doctrine to
prove that Saadia’s lawsuit is a “sham,” and all communications between Saadia
and SM Logistics necessarily fall within the protected “breathing space” of the
right of petition. (Id. at 1065-66.) 

 
The Noerr-Penington doctrine is a broad rule of statutory
construction, under which laws are construed so as to avoid burdening the
constitutional right to petition. (Tichinin v. City of Morgan Hill, supra,
117 Cal.App.4th at 1064.) Under the doctrine, the protection for
petitions extends to conduct “incidental to” a petition, unless the petition
itself is a sham. (Id. at 1065 (citing Freeman v. Lasky, Haas
& Cohler (9th Cir. 2005) 410 F.3d 1180).) A sham petition is
one that is “ostensibly directed toward influencing governmental action” but
that “is a mere sham to cover … an attempt to interfere directly with the
business relationships of a competitor …” (Id. at 1065, fn. 8.)
There are two elements to a sham petition. 
One element is objective: a petition (or litigation) must be baseless,
in that no reasonable person could expect to succeed on the merits; the second
element is subjective, in that the petition was subjectively motivated by a
concealed wrongful purpose to use the judicial process itself to harm the other
party. (Ibid.)  This
purposely overbroad protection “is necessary to assure to the freedoms of
speech and press that ‘breathing space’ essential to their fruitful exercise. (Id.
at 1066.) 
 
Here, Saadia argues Rialto cannot demonstrate that Saadia’s lawsuit is a
“sham” because it is objectively reasonable for Saadia to enforce the plain
meaning of the contract.  In making this
argument, Saadia misapplies the Noerr-Pennington doctrine to the facts
of this case.  The notion of a “sham
petition” is an exception to the general rule that protection for
petitions extends to conduct “incidental to” a petition.  A party claiming protection under the Noerr-Penington
doctrine must first establish that its conduct is incidental to a
petition.  If it does so, the burden
shifts to the opposing party to prove that the petition is a “sham.”  Here, in opposing Saadia’s motion for summary
judgment, Rialto is not required to prove that Saadia’s lawsuit is a sham
because Rialto raises a triable issue of material fact regarding whether
Saadia’s conduct is incidental to the right of petition.  Rialto accomplishes this by presenting
evidence that “[a]s Rialto prepared to purchase the Property pursuant to the
Option in late 2020, Jack Saadia began to contact his co-investors (including
SM) in January 2021, to inquire about ways to manufacture defaults under the
Option in an effort to create “hold up value” and prevent SM Rialto from
honoring its contractual obligations to Rialto.” (ADF No. 36, Ex. 50, Kollander
Depo., pp. 46:6-47:2.) Because Rialto raises a triable issue of material fact
regarding whether Saadia’s conduct was incidental to a petition, the Court need
not determine whether the sham exception applies or whether Saadia’s conduct
otherwise falls within the “breathing space” of the right of petition.  
 
Thus, the motion for summary judgment on the basis of the Noerr-Pennington
doctrine is DENIED.  
 
                   CCP §437c(i)
 
CCP §437c(i) provides that “[i]f, after granting a
continuance to allow specified additional discovery, the court determines that
the party seeking summary judgment has unreasonably failed to allow the
discovery to be conducted, the court shall grant a continuance to permit the
discovery to go forward or deny the motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication.” 
 
On August 28, 2024, the Court posted its tentative ruling to
continue the instant motion to October 10, 2024, to allow Cross-Complainant
additional time to obtain evidence from Jack Saadia’s cell phone.  The Court explained, 
 
“Cross-Complainant argues that “[o]n July 2, 2024, Judge
Beckloff (the jointly appointed discovery referee) issued a report and
recommendation finding that Saadia ‘has [not] fully complied with [Rialto’s]
production request.’…. Since then, the parties have participated in multiple
hearings with Judge Beckloff to discuss and arrange for Saadia’s submission of
Jack Saadia’s cellular device(s) for forensic inspection…. Saadia has not
turned Jack Saadia’s cellular device(s) over for forensic expert as of the date
of this Opposition…. On the eve of Rialto’s opposition being due, Saadia’s
counsel proposed removing its rival claimant and priority arguments.” (Opp.
19:25-20:8.)  
 
Consequently, on August 16, 2024, Judge Beckloff issued
Discovery Referee Report No. 6, which was adopted by this Court in whole on
September 3, 2024. (See 09/03/24 Order). Discovery Referee Report No. 6 states,
in pertinent part: “The cellphone protocol requires Jack Saadia’s cellphone be
delivered to a forensic examiner by August 9, 2024, and that all responsive
data be delivered from the examiner to Plaintiff’s counsel by August 16, 2024.
Thereafter, the cellphone protocol requires a rolling production of responsive
non-privileged text messages beginning August 23. The entire production, as
agreed to by the parties, requires the rolling production to conclude no later
than August 30….[¶] It is undisputed that Jack Saadia’s cellphone has not been
delivered to a forensic examiner as of today’s date. There is no question
therefore that Plaintiff’s counsel will not have all responsive data from the
forensic examiner for review on today’s date as agreed to in the cellphone
protocol. Whether Plaintiff may nonetheless be able to proceed with a rolling
production one week from today is unclear. It is clear, however, the cellphone
protocol’s schedule has not been maintained.” (Disc. Ref. Rep. No. 6. 3:11-23.)

 
In the Supplemental Opposition filed on September 17, 2024, Rialto
argues that the Motion should be denied under CCP §437c(h) and (i), because
Saadia failed to comply with the aforementioned cellphone protocol, failed to
produce Jack Saadia’s cellphone until September 10, 2024, and that as of
October 10, 2024, Saadia has yet to produce text messages/responsive documents
pursuant to the ordered protocol. (See XC 10/03/24 Reply Supp. Brief 3:14-19.) Rialto
argues that the Court should deny the instant motion outright because a
continuance would serve no purpose in light of Saadia’s refusal to submit Jack
Saadia’s cell phone to the forensic examiner.  

 
In Supplemental Reply papers, Saadia admits that “production of text
messages remains to be completed….” (Further Brief of Saadia Square in Support
of MSJ 8:16.) 
 
The Court concludes that CCP §437c(i) is applicable here. On September
3, 2024, this Court continued this subject Motion under CCP §437c(h) stating
“that facts essential to justify opposition to the instant motion may exist but
cannot, for the reasons stated, be presented at this time. [¶] The Discovery
Referee’s Cell Phone Search Protocol sets forth specific procedures and a
timeline for production of non-privileged data collected from Jack Saadia’s
cell phone. The extent to which Plaintiff has complied with the Protocol is a
factor the Court will consider in determining whether, and for how long, any
further continuance should be granted to allow Cross-Complainants to obtain
that information.” (09/03/24 Order.)  Indeed,
the text messages contained in Jack Saadia’s cellphone include facts and
evidence pertaining to Saadia’s knowledge and/or intention to cause the breach
or disruption of an existing contractual relationship. 
 
It is undisputed that Saadia has failed to fully and timely comply with
the Cellphone Protocol, as ordered by this Court. The failure to comply, to
date, is unreasonable and unnecessarily frustrates Rialto’s ability to oppose
this Motion. 
 
Accordingly, pursuant to CCP §437c(i), as to the remainer of Saadia’s
arguments, the Court DENIES the Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication. 
 
                   Rialto’s
Evidentiary Objections in Support of Opposition 
 
1-5. Overruled 
6. Sustained 
7-10. Overruled
 
Rialto’s Evidentiary Objections
to Plaintiff’s Declaration Submitted in Support of Supplemental Briefing 
 
1-3. Sustained
 
                   Requests
for Judicial Notice 
 
The parties’ Requests for Judicial Notice are GRANTED as to
the existence of the documents, but not as to any hearsay statements contained
therein. 
 
II.           
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
 
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions is OFF-CALENDAR
pursuant to the Joint Stipulation and Order for the Appointment of a Discovery Referee
entered on April 17, 2024. (See below).
 
III.         
MOTION FOR WITHDRAWAL 
 
The parties entered into a Joint Stipulation for the
Appointment of a Discovery Referee, which was Ordered by this Court on April
17, 2024.
 
Rialto now moves for an Order vacating the April 17, 2024
Stipulation and Order Appointing the Discovery Referee; and Compelling Saadia
to pay the outstanding Discovery Referee fees in three (3) days. 
 
In Opposition, Saadia argues that the Motion must be denied
due to Rialto’s failure to comply with the filing and notice requirements
required by CRC Rule 3.906, and because Saadia is now current on its account
with Signature Resolution. Moreover, Saadia indicates that the Referee offered
to resolve Rialto’s Motion for Sanctions on October 2, 2024, but Rialto
declined. (Lesches Decl., ¶4.) 
 
“A motion to withdraw a stipulation for the appointment of a
referee must be supported by a declaration of facts establishing good cause for
permitting the party to withdraw the stipulation.” (CRC Rule 3.906(a).) “Notice
of the motion must be served on all parties and the referee and filed with the
court…. If the motion is granted, the case must be transferred to the trial
court docket.” (CRC Rule 3.906(b).) 
 
The request to pay the outstanding Discovery Referee Fees is
MOOT. It is undisputed that Saadia paid all outstanding invoices on September
30, 2024. (Lesches Decl., ¶4, Ex. A. ) 
 
The Motion to Vacate the April 17, 2024 Stipulation and
Order Appointing the Discovery Referee is DENIED. 
 
Procedurally, the Motion is defective. The POS attached to
the Ex Parte Application does not indicate that Judge Beckloff and/or Signature
Resolution  were served with notice of
this Motion, as required by CRC Rule 3.906(b). 
 
On the merits, the Court does not find good cause to
withdraw the parties’ stipulated order. Saadia is now current on its account
with Signature Resolution. The parties have four discovery motions scheduled in
this Court, in addition to the Motion for Sanctions on calendar today. Trial is
scheduled to begin on November 8, 2024. The Discovery Referee is available to
resolve the parties’ discovery issues more expeditiously than this Court’s
docket permits.  Moreover, any violations
of the Discovery Referee’s Recommendations that are adopted by this Court, will
be deemed violations of Court Order(s), which could potentially amount to the
imposition of sanctions—which include terminating, issue, and/or evidentiary
sanctions. Therefore, neither party would be without recourse for the other
party’s failure to comply with the Discovery Referee’s recommendations adopted
by this Court. 
 