 Case Number:  24NWCV00084    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  C B.A. v. VALDIVIA
CASE NO.:  24NWCV00084
HEARING:  10/10/24
 
#2
 
Defendants EFREN MARTINEZ AND GRACIELA ORTIZ’s Demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint is  OVERRULED
in part and SUSTAINED without leave to amend in part. 
 
Opposing party to give notice. 
 
This action was filed by Plaintiff B.A. on January 9, 2024. 
 
The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed on
May 10, 2024. 
 
The operative facts, as alleged, are as follows: “Billy
Valdivia entered a plea of nolo contendere and was convicted, April 8, 2021…of
Penal Code section 647.6(A)(1) (annoying or molesting a child under 18 years of
age) and section 25850(A) (carrying a loaded firearm on the person or in a
vehicle).” (FAC ¶1.) “The crimes occurred in connection with the commercial
space that was turned into a political campaign office during late 2020 and
early 2021, in Huntington Park, California. The entity ‘Yvote!’… was utilized
to mobilize youth volunteers, some of whom were under-age, as political
campaign workers in support of the political campaigns of Efren Martinez and
Graciela Ortiz.” (FAC ¶2.) “According to law enforcement records and testimony
of the Yvote! participants Efren Martinez was running for office, hired Billy
Valdivia, and he entrusted his vehicle to Billy Valdivia—which same vehicle was
the location of some of the unlawful sexual conduct with a minor in Huntington
Park.” (FAC ¶3.) “Graciela Ortiz operated or utilized the Yvote! entity
including recruiting of young people from the public schools to work on her
campaign, and the campaigns of Efren Martinez. She was at the campaign
headquarters giving instructions for canvassing and other activities on a daily
basis during the time that Plaintiff was being groomed for abuse and sexually
molested in and around Huntington Park.” (FAC ¶4.) Plaintiff alleges that Billy
Valdivia “arranged to be alone in the vehicle with B.A., and sexually assaulted
and battered her there. He went so far as to create pictures and video of his
sexual battery. He brought her to his home which was in a building close to the
campaign office on multiple occasions.” (FAC ¶10.) 
 
The FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Sexual
Assault and Battery against Defendant Billy Valdivia; 
(2) Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention as to Defendants Graciela Ortiz and Efren
Martinez; 
(3) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress as to Defendant Billy Valdivia;
(4) Breach
of a Duty to Protect the Minor Student Volunteer that was Created by Virtue of
a Special Relationship as to Graciela Ortiz; 
(5) Concealment
as to all Defendants; and 
(6) Concealment:
ex post facto Cover Up of Wrongdoing as to all Defendants 
 
Second Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring, Supervision,
and Retention
 
Defendants argue that the second cause of action is subject
to demurrer because they did not owe Plaintiff a legal duty to protect her from
the unforeseeable criminal activity of another. 
 
The elements of a claim for negligent hiring, supervision,
or retention are set forth in CACI 426. The elements are: (1) employer
defendant hired/supervised/retained an employee; (2) the employee was or became
unfit or incompetent to perform work for which the employee was hired; (3)
employer defendant knew or should have known that the employee was or became
unfit or incompetent and that this unfitness or incompetence created a
particular risk to others; (4) that the employee’s unfitness or incompetence harmed
plaintiff; and (5) employer defendant’s negligence in hiring, training,
supervising, or retaining the employee was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm. (See CACI 426.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that “[i]t was known among those on the
campaign staff that Billy Valdivia has a reputation for being overly friendly
and flirtatious with the volunteers. He would hang out with some of them after
hours and purchase alcoholic beverages for them even though almost all of them
were under 21. Billy Valdivia gave special attention to vulnerable young women
and groomed them to be victims of sexual molestation.” (FAC ¶21.) “Although
B.A. was not informed of incidents of sexual harassment regarding other
females, on information and belief Mr. Martinez had been informed of such
incidents, and was aware that Billy Valdivia was having sex with young women
associated with the political campaigns. Whether not such other sexual contacts
were consensual, or with people who were old enough to consent in the legal
sense, any such awareness on the part of Martinez should have triggered concern
for his liability in allowing such activity to go on at a campaign office, with
his staff.” (FAC ¶22.) 
 
The FAC alleges that Martinez knew that Valdivia had sex
with “young women associated with the political campaigns….” (FAC ¶22.)
Construing the allegations in a light most favorable to the opposing party, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to withstand demurrer
as to Defendant Martinez. Plaintiff sufficiently alleges that Martinez had
knowledge that Valdivia engaged in sexual acts with young women working on the
campaign. Where many of the women working on the campaign were minors, a
reasonable trier of fact could find that this alleged knowledge should have led
Martinez to conclude that Valdivia was unfit to supervise/work with minor
females. The demurer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED as to Martinez.

 
However, As pled, it is unclear whether Ortiz knew or should
have known that Valdivia had engaged in sexual acts with young women/minors.  The FAC does not sufficiently allege that Ortiz
was on notice of the actions alleged against Valdivia in this action.  The demurrer to the second cause of action is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to Ortiz. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action – (Negligence) Breach of a Duty to
Protect the Minor Student Volunteer that was Created by Virtue of a Special
Relationship as to Graciela Ortiz 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to allege the
existence of any a special relationship which would give rise to the existence
of a duty owed by Ortiz to Plaintiff. 
 
“Generally, a greater degree of care is owed to children
because of their lack of capacity to appreciate risks and avoid danger.
Consequently, California courts have frequently recognized special
relationships between children and their adult caregivers that give rise to a
duty to prevent harms caused by the intentional or criminal conduct of third
parties. Recognized special relationships include an operator of a preschool or
daycare center to the children in attendance, a school district to a mother whose
child was sexually molested by a mother student because the school stood in
loco parentis while the child was in attendance; and the wife of a sexual
offender to children she invited to play in her home because being of tender
years they were particularly vulnerable to this sort of misconduct and not
fully able to protect themselves against it.” (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of
America (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 410.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges: “B.A. was interested in doing political
work in the community. While Plaintiff was attending Linda Marquez High School
during the 2018-2019 school year, she met Graciela Ortiz in the capacity of a
school counselor who was the faculty advisor of the Key Club, of which
Plaintiff was a member….. [¶] [I]n late 2020 she got reconnected with Ms. Ortiz
through other volunteer opportunities such as toy drive…. Because of the
position of authority and trust that Ms. Ortiz had at B.A.’s public school,
Plaintiff reasonably believed she would be protected.” (FAC ¶¶33-35.)
“Plaintiff had a ‘Special Relationship’ with Graciela Ortiz which gave rise to
an affirmative duty for Ortiz to protect Plaintiff from attacks of the kind
that occurred.” (FAC ¶37.) 
 
Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to withstand
demurrer. Whether a special relationship exists between Plaintiff and Ortiz is
a question of fact improperly decided at this stage in the litigation. The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action – Concealment  
 
“In an action [for recovery of damages suffered as a result
of childhood sexual assault], a person who is sexually assaulted and proves it
was as the result of a cover up may recover up to treble damages against a
defendant who is found to have covered up the sexual assault of a minor, unless
prohibited by another law.” (CCP §340.1(b)(1).) 
 
The demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action is
OVERRULED. Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to withstand demurrer. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants engaged in a concerted effort to cover up the conduct
of Valdivia. “Based on the circumstantial evidence, including the fact that the
local police who arrested Billy Valdivia were fired after he told them that he
would have them fired, and since Graciela Ortiz and Efren Martinez are local
politicians in Huntington Park with influence, Plaintiff alleges that all
Defendants agreed to a common plan or design to cover up the conduct of Billy
Valdivia and suppress and silence those who would report or prosecute him.” (FAC
¶¶46; see also, ¶¶47-49.)  