 Case Number:  24TRCV00122    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered defendants’ moving papers, plaintiff’s oppositions, and defendants’ reply, the court rules as follows: the demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety, with twenty (20) days leave to amend. The motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to amend.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn January 12, 2024, Plaintiff, Tyree Green (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Debbie McAlphine, Thomas Eisner, and DOES 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; (2) General Negligence; (3) Violation of Vehicle Code section 20001(a); and (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.On May 16, 2024, Defendants filed a Motion to Strike.On May 17, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer to the second, third, and fourth causes of action in the Complaint.On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs to the demurrer and Defendants filed reply briefs on June 14, 2024.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis case is based on Plaintiff’s claim that she was lawfully operating her vehicle at or near 190th St. and CA-1 when Defendant collided into Plaintiff’s vehicle and fled the scene. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was aware, at the outset, that the probable consequences of her conduct and willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences, an act or omission with conscious disregard for the safety of others. Plaintiff asserts that because of Defendant’s conduct, Defendant engaged in negligence, violated Vehicle Code section 22350, Vehicle Code 20001(a), and has intentionally inflicted emotional distress upon Plaintiff. As such, Plaintiff argues that she is entitled to damages, including punitive damages.III. LEGAL STANDARDA. DemurrerA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)B. Motion to StrikeThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed inconformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id., § 436(b).)  The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  (Id., § 436.)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Id., § 437.)  “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”  (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Parties’ ArgumentsDefendants contend that Plaintiff’s Second, Third, and Fourth causes of action fail to allege facts sufficient to state causes of action against them for punitive damages and are uncertain.Responding Party’s OppositionPlaintiff argues that the Complaint pleads sufficient facts to constitute causes of action for general negligence, Violation of Vehicle Code section 20001(a), and intentional infliction of emotional distress.Moving Parties’ ReplyOn reply, Defendants argue that the Complaint fails to allege any actual substantive facts to support a cause of action against them.Merits of the DemurrerA. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)This Court finds that Defendants have met and conferred in good faith prior to the filing of this demurrer. Defense counsel notes that he attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel on May 2, 2024 and on May 9, 2024, by way of email, but that Plaintiff’s counsel responded that he believed the claim for punitive damages was properly pled and did not engage in further attempts to meet and confer on that issue. (Declaration of Robert S. Miller (“Miller Decl.”), ¶¶ 3, 4.)B. Second Cause of Action for General NegligenceFirst, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for general negligence fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against them for punitive damages and isuncertain. In order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiffs must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)Here, plaintiff has alleged a cause of action for negligence that is apparently the same as that alleged in the first cause of action, albeit with greater factual detail. Nonetheless, as a restatement of the same elements of the first cause of action, it is subject to demurrer.Therefore, the demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.D. Third Cause of Action for Violation of Vehicle code section 20001(a)Next, Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot maintain their cause of action for Violation of Vehicle Code section 20001(a) – Misdemeanor Hit and Run. “A violation of a state statute does not necessarily give rise to a private cause of action. Instead, whether a party has a right to sue depends on whether the Legislature has ‘manifested an intent to create such a private cause of action’ under the statute.” Lu v. Hawaiian Gardens Casino, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal. 4th 592, 596. A review of the relevant Vehicle Code section suggests no such right of action. The Court agrees. First, a misdemeanor violation of a vehicle code is not its own cause of action.Therefore, the demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.E. Fourth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional DistressLastly, Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds they argue Plaintiff may not maintain a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress against them. “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.) Further, “[i]n order to avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must allege with ‘great [ ] specificity’ the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. [Citation.]” (Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 160-61.)Specifically, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged specific facts that Defendants acted with the intention of causing emotional distress, nor has she pled facts to establish severe or extreme emotional distress. This Court agrees. While Plaintiff has alleged the elements in a conclusory way, Plaintiff has failed to do so as to each element in a specific way. Generally, a cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress is limited to egregious conduct that is directed at the plaintiff and proximately caused by defendant (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 905). However, there is one exception “when the defendant isaware, but acts with reckless disregard, of the plaintiff and the probability that his or her conduct will cause severe emotional distress to plaintiff. Where reckless disregard of the plaintiff’s interests is the theory of recovery, the presence of the plaintiff at the time the outrageous conduct occurs is recognized as the element establishing a higher degree of culpability which, in turn, justifies recovery of greater damages by a broader group of plaintiffs than allowed on a negligent infliction of emotional distress theory.” (Id. at 905-906.)Here, plaintiff’s allegations are wholly conclusory and allege no specific facts, not even who was driving the vehicle. Without more, Plaintiff is unable to sufficiently allege this cause of action.Thus, the demurrer is SUSTAINED as to Plaintiff’s cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. Plaintiff is granted twenty (20) days leave to amend.Merits of the Motion to StrikeHere, because the Motion to Strike seeks to strike: (1) Prayer for punitive damages at Page 3, paragraph 14(a)(2); (2) Paragraph 2 of the Second Cause of Action – General Negligence; (3) Entire Third Cause of Action (Violation of Vehicle Code 20001(a) – Misdemeanor Hit and Run Against Defendants DEBBIE MCALPHINE); and (4) Entire Fourth Cause of Action – INTENTIONAL INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (Against Defendants DEBBIE MCALHPINE), this Court notes that the analysis in Defendants’ demurrer is similar, if not the same, to that in the demurrer.Plaintiff contends that fleeing the scene after the collision amounts to intentional, willful, and despicable conduct. However, in Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, the court held that a hit and run cannot give rise to damages unless the fact that the defendant fled the scene was “a proximate cause of further injury or death” beyond the accident itself. (Id. at 679.) In Brooks, the Supreme Court found that a hit and run instruction to the jury was warranted because there was no evidence in the record that the decedent died before the defendant drove away from the scene. (Id. at 680.) Therefore, the jury was in the best position to decide if fleeing the scene was a cause of further harm. (See id.) Brooks did not consider the issue of whether punitive damages can be imposed based on a hit and run. It did, however, hold that fleeing an accident scene only constitutes a tort if the act itself causes the plaintiff additional injury above and beyond the damages caused by the collision that preceded flight. (Id.)Here, Plaintiff fails to allege any facts that fleeing the scene caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries. Thus, the Complaint is devoid of any facts to show that the act of hitting and then fleeing was in fact tortious conduct. If the act of hitting and then fleeing, in and of itself, does not give rise to a tort, then it logically follows that the act cannot give rise to a claim for punitive damages.Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike in its entirety and will allow twenty (20) days leave to amend.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer in its entirety, and allows Plaintiff twenty (20) days leave to amend. Further, Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to amend.Defendants are ordered to provide notice.