  Case Number:  21TRCV00245    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a supplemental complaint, defendant and cross-complainants’ opposition, and plaintiffs’ reply brief, the court rules as follows: the Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File Supplemental Brief is tentatively GRANTED.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn April 1, 2021, Plaintiffs, James Atkins and Margaret G. Walker, individually, and as trustees of the Atkins-Walker Family Trust (collectively “Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Karyn Chamberlain, Gutierrez & Sons Tree Service & Landscaping, Inc., and DOES 1 through 20. On June 17, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Willful Trespass; (2) Declaratory Relief; and (3) Elder Abuse.On May 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Leave to File a Supplemental Complaint.On June 10, 2024, Defendant and Cross-Complainants, Karyn Chamberlain and Michael Chamberlain filed an opposition brief.I. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs have brought this case alleging that their property is adjacent to the Defendant’s property. Plaintiff notes that Defendant, Guiterrez & Sons Tree Service & Landscaping’s corporate officers, directors, supervisors and/or foreman ratified and approved the wrongful conduct alleged in the Complaint, including willful trespass, declaratory relief, and elder abuse.Plaintiff contends that on March 2, 2021, Defendant Chamberlain hired Gutierrez landscaping to perform landscaping work. Plaintiffs allege that Gutierrez began cutting trees as directed by Defendant Chamberlain, but that they were on Plaintiffs’ property, cutting Plaintiffs’ trees and vegetation. (FAC. ¶¶ 10-11.)Now, Plaintiffs wish to file a supplemental complaint.II. LEGAL STANDARDCode of Civil Procedure section 464, subdivision (a) provides, “[t]he plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint or answer, alleging facts material to the case occurring after the former complaint or answer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 464, subd. (a).) A supplemental pleading is a mechanism used in order to assert facts which occur after the filing of the original complaint or cross-complaint. (Ibid.) A supplemental complaint does not supersede the original complaint, but merely adds new allegations in conjunction with the original complaint. (Hebert v. Los Angeles Raiders, Ltd. (1991) 23 Cal.App.4th 414, 426.) Thus, a supplemental pleading cannot allege facts to constitute an entirely new cause of action. (Flood v. Simpson (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 644, 647.) Denial of a motion may be proper on the basis that the supplemental pleading attempted to introduce new causes of action.  (Ibid.)  Leave to amend to file a supplemental complaint is addressed to the sound discretion of the court and will not be disturbed absent manifest abuse of that discretion. (Ibid.)III. DISCUSSIONMoving Parties’ ArgumentsPlaintiffs argue that they may make a supplemental complaint in order to allege facts material to the case occurring after the former complaint. Plaintiffs note that on September 15, 2023, Chamberlain once again trespassed on their property and cut, trimmed, and destroyed Plaintiffs’ foliage, simply because she felt the vegetation was “blocking her view.”Responding Party’s OppositionDefendant Chamberlain’s opposition brief argues this motion should be denied since Plaintiffs delayed more than eight (8) months to bring the motion. Further, Defendant Chamberlain contends that if this Court does grant the motion, it should vacate the jury trial set for August 20, 2024 and re-open discovery to allow Defendant the opportunity to conduct discovery based on the allegations in the proposed supplemental complaint.Merits of the Motion for Leave to File Supplemental ComplaintPursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the following:“(1) the effect of the amendment;(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”Here, the Court finds, as Defendant Chamberlain pointed out, that although the supplemental allegations are consistent with the original complaint and do not add any new legal theories or causes of action, Plaintiffs nonetheless waited eight (8) months to file this motion from when Defendant Chamberlain allegedly committed the same acts she is alleged to have commit in the original complaint. However, the declaration of Charles Peterson (“Peterson Decl.”), counsel for Defendant Chamberlain, indicates that supplementation is necessary and proper because at the time the operative complaint was filed, the misconduct at issue in the supplemental complaint could not have been alleged, as it had yet to occur, and that although this alleged misconduct took place in September 2023, it was not confirmed until November until November 30, 2023. The court finds substantial compliance with the Rules of Court.Here, the factual allegations are functionally the same as those in the original complaint and the complaint does not state any new causes of action. Therefore, the proposed Second Amended Complaint is consistent with Code of Civil Procedure section 464(a).V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File a Supplemental Complaint.Moving party is ordered to provide notice.