 Case Number:  23TRCV02565    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered defendant’s motion to strike, plaintiff’s opposition, and defendant’s reply, the court rules as follows: the motion to strike portions of plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED with leave to amend.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn August 9, 2023, Plaintiff, Daimel Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, Walmart, Inc., and DOES 1 through 100. On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Assault and Battery; and (3) Premises Liability.On December 8, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint .On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.On April 29, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis action involves a personal injury allegedly arising out of an incident that occurred on July 13, 2023, when Plaintiff was shopping at the Walmart located at 22015 Hawthorne Blvd., Torrance, CA 90503 when he was allegedly stopped and assaulted by loss prevention andsecurity employees of Defendants. (FAC, ¶ 16.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant, Walmart owed a duty of reasonable care toward Plaintiff and others based on Defendants’ ownership of the property, their right to exercise control over the premises, their management and maintenance of the property, their contractual obligations, custom and practice in the industry, and the commission of affirmative acts that resulted in injury to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 19.)Plaintiff contends that Walmart breached its duty to Plaintiff individually, and by the acts of its agents and employees, they negligently, carelessly, and recklessly allowed loss prevention to engage in a physical fight with Plaintiff while on the subject premises. (FAC, ¶ 20.) Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that Walmart were aware or should have been aware of the dangerous and violent nature of the said personnel at the subject premises. (FAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff contends that the duties owed by Defendant include, but are not limited to: the duty to operate and manage the subject premises in a careful manner as to protect the physical safety and well-being of the persons and invitees; exercising due care in hiring managers and employees, including loss prevention and security; properly training and supervising staff responsible for such care; and taking whatever special actions and precautions required to maintain the safety of those persons at the subject premises. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Moreover, Plaintiff notes that Walmart also performed acts that affirmatively contributed to the creation of the unsafe situation or otherwise failed to remediate such circumstances. (FAC, ¶ 23.)III. LEGAL STANDARDThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.) “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Parties’ ArgumentsDefendant argues that portions of Plaintiff’s FAC relating to punitive damages should be stricken as they do not adequately allege malice, oppression, or fraud. Further, Plaintiff contends that Plaintiff has failed to allege any specific allegations that any such behavior was ratified by Defendant’s officers, directors, or managing agents.Responding Party’s OppositionPlaintiff argues that sufficient facts are pled for Defendant and Mr. Ewing to be liable for punitive damages, but also, that Plaintiff has enough evidence that Defendant authorized and/or ratified the malicious batter/assault on Plaintiff.Moving Parties’ ReplyOn reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s opposition fails to present any facts pled in the FAC to satisfy the requirement imposed on Plaintiff by Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a).Merits of the Motion to StrikePreliminarily, this Court notes that Plaintiff, in his opposition brief, cites to deposition transcript and evidence to show that he is able to maintain a claim for punitive damages against Walmart. However, this Court notes that a motion to strike, like a demurrer, tests the sufficiency of the pleading on its face – that is, allegations contained in the four corners of the FAC. Plaintiff has not made any allegations referencing the deposition transcripts in his FAC, nor does he request this court take judicial notice of such. Thus, the Court will not be taking into consideration any reference to outside evidence not contained within the FAC.A. Meet and ConferCalifornia Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5 requires that, before filing a motion to strike, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject of the motion for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the issues to be raised in the motion. The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(2).) The party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)Here, counsel for Defendant, Walmart, filed a declaration indicating that on November 14, 2023, she met and conferred with Casey Kilday Esq., counsel for Plaintiff, both over the phone and by email on the dame day. (Declaration of Sayyora Badalbaeva (“Badalbaeva Decl.”), ¶ 4.) Having seen no argument in Plaintiff’s opposition brief, or a declaration from counsel for Plaintiff arguing otherwise, this Court finds that the parties have sufficiently met and conferred in good faith prior to Defendant bringing this action.B. Punitive DamagesHere, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s language and prayer for punitive damages should be stricken as it is not specifically pled pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a), which authorizes punitive damages in non-contract cases “where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” As such, Defendant is moving to strike the following from Plaintiff’s FAC: (1) Page 3 – Factual Allegations, paragraphs 11-3; (2) Page 4 – Factual Allegations, paragraphs 14-15; (3) Page 8 – Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action, paragraphs 34 and 36; and (4) Page 11 – Prayers for Relief, paragraph 5.“Malice [is defined as] conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights and safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is “anintentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth. In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.)To plead a “willful and conscious disregard of the rights of others,” a plaintiff need only allege, “that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1211.) However, the definition of malice also requires that the conduct be despicable. “'Despicable conduct' has been described as conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as '[having] the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.”' (American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1050.) In cases involving conduct performed without intent to harm, a finding of malice requires proof by clear and convincing evidence that defendant's tortious wrong amounted to despicable conduct and that such despicable conduct was carried on with a ‘willful and conscious disregard’ of the rights or safety of others.” (See College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)Specifically, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s FAC fails to assert allegations that any managing agent, officer, or director of Defendant authorized or ratified any act of oppression, fraud, or malice. Defendant asserts that although Plaintiff has alleged the Walmart security personnel assaulted the Plaintiff, there are no specific allegations of oppression, fraud, or malice alleged. Moreover, Defendant asserts that there are no specific allegations that in-store security employees qualify as managing agents for Walmart Inc.This Court notes that “[a]n employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages. . . based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others, or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded, or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”(Civil Code, § 3294,subd.(b).) “[T]he imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon its own fault. It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.”(City Products Corp. v.Globe Indemnity Co.(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)“Corporations are legal entities which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or deceive. An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees. But the law does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation. Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the ‘officer[s], director[s], or managing agent[s].’”(Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [citation omitted].) As to ratification, “[a] corporation cannot confirm and accept that which it does not actually know about.’”(Id.) (citing College Hospital, supra, at p. 726 [for ratification sufficient to justify punitive damages against corporation, there must be proof that officers, directors, or managing agents had actual knowledge of the malicious conduct and its outrageous character.].)Here, Plaintiff’s FAC, as pled, alleges that Walmart’s owners, officers, managers, and shareholders had knowledge of the violent and dangerous nature of its employees because they were provided authority to exercise substantial professional judgment in the care of the subject premises and its patrons. (FAC, ¶¶ 13, 15, 24, 45.) While this is the language used to allege a claim for punitive damages, it is merely conclusory. Allegations supporting a request for punitive damages must be alleged with specificity; conclusory allegations without sufficient facts are not enough. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-42.) Plaintiff attempts to make up for this deficiency by arguing that Walmart failed to discipline any of their employees or to provide additional training to prevent violent encounters after the alleged harm done to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 15.) However, this does not speak to actual knowledge of Walmart as to the alleged violent nature of its employees and is insufficient to support the claim for punitive damages.Therefore, the Motion to Strike is GRANTED with twenty (20) days leave to amend by Plaintiff.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Walmart’s motion to strike with twenty (20) days leave to amend.Moving Party is ordered to provide notice.