 Case Number:  23TRCV02952    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered defendants’ demurrer, plaintiff’s opposition, and defendants’ reply, the court rules as follows: the Demurring Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth, Eighth and Ninth causes of action with twenty (20) days leave to amend. Further, the motion to strike is moot.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn September 5, 2023, Plaintiff, Michelle Anaya (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Verne Becker, South Bay Management Services, LLC, and DOES 1 to 5. On March 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (3) Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (4) Civil Code section 1942.4; (5) Negligence; (6) Negligent Misrepresentation; (7) Constructive Eviction; (8) Retaliatory Eviction; (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (10) Private Nuisance; and (11) Business and Professions Code section 17200.On May 15, 2024, Defendants, South Bay Management Services, and Mary E. Colin now file a Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of Plaintiff’s FAC.On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs to both motions.On June 14, 2024, Defendants, South Bay Management Services and Mary E. Colin filed reply briefs to both oppositions.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis case is based on Plaintiff’s allegations that on August 17, 2018, she entered into a written lease for the subject property for a term of one year, and thereafter continued on a month-to-month basis up until she vacated the subject property on May 4, 2022. (FAC, ¶14.) Plaintiff asserts that throughout her tenancy at the subject property, her requests for repairs were either ignored, denied, or completed in a sub-standard manner and without the appropriate permits from the City of Manhattan Beach. (FAC, ¶ 16.)III. LEGAL STANDARDA. DemurrerA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.(Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)B. Motion to StrikeThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.) “When thedefect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Parties’ ArgumentsDefendants contend that Plaintiff’s First, Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth, Eighth, and Ninth causes of action fail to allege facts sufficient to state causes of action against them and are uncertain.Responding Party’s OppositionPlaintiff, in her opposition, concedes that Defendants’ demurrer to the First and Second causes of action are warranted and requests that the demurrer be sustained as to both of those causes of action with leave to amend. As to the Third, Fourth, Sixth, Eighth, and Ninth causes of action, Plaintiff argues that they are sufficiently plead.Moving Parties’ ReplyOn reply, Defendants argue that the FAC fails to allege any actual substantive facts to support a cause of action against them.Merits of the DemurrerA. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)This Court finds that Defendants have met and conferred in good faith prior to the filing of this demurrer. Defense counsel notes that on November 7, 2023, he met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel about a planned demurrer and motion to strike, but that the parties were unable to reach any agreements.B. Allegations against Landlord versus Property ManagersDemurring Defendants argue that at least five (5) of Plaintiff’s causes of action can only be pled against a landlord, not against property managers Mary E. Colin and South Bay Management Services, and thus argue the demurrer should be sustained as to those counts.Plaintiff argues, in her opposition, that the case of Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903 is directly on point and shows that not only a landlord can be liable in a tort action, but so can his/her agent in the management of the landlord’s property.In Stoibert the Court recited the following factual allegations in that plaintiff’s complaint to show that the rental agents acting for the owner assumed a duty toward her. (Stoiber, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d at 930.) The complaint in Stoiber alleged: “As agent of defendant [OWNER] (sic), defendant [PRINCIPAL OF RENTAL AGENCY], [RENTAL AGENCY] has assumed in the course of its agency, functions, duties, and responsibilities of defendant [OWNER] (sic), who resides in Connecticut. These duties, responsibilities, and functions include, but are not limited to, the following: 1. Collection of rental payments from the plaintiff; 2. Maintenance and management of the premises...” (Ibid.)The court applied these facts to the test laid out in J’Aire Corp. v. Gregory (1979) 24 Cal.3d 799, which set forth the criteria to be considered by courts in determining whether a defendant stands in such a position to a plaintiff that he owes him an affirmative duty: “…(1) the extent to which the transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff, (2) the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, (3) the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, (4) the closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, (5) the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct and (6) the policy of preventing future harm.” (J’Aire Corp., supra, 24 Cal.3d at 804.)In finding that a property manager may be liable in tort, the court noted, “the rental agents owed a duty of ordinary care towards the tenant because the transaction between the rental agent and the landlord was clearly intended to affect the tenants, and because harm would be foreseeable to the tenants if the rental agent did not properly perform his duty.” (Stoiber, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d at 930-31. It reasoned that “[w]hen the owner is located at some distance from the rental property as in the [Stoiber] case (Connecticut), the tenant’s only practical recourse is to complain to the rental agent. Imposition of a duty on the rental agent would as a matter of public policy encourage the agent to pass the complaints along to the owner or to take action to properly maintain the property, if this is party of his responsibilities as agreed with the owner.” (Id. at 931.)In the case at bar, plaintiff makes no attempt to differentiate between the Defendants alleged – owner, rental agency, or principal of rental agency otherwise. In fact, Plaintiff’s FAC only makes mention of South Bay Management Service, LLC and Mary E. Colin by themselves when introducing them. Thereafter, Plaintiff combines three defendants, South Bay Management Services, LLC (“SBMS”), Mary E. Colin (“COLIN”), and landlord, Verne Becker (“BECKER”) into a combined Defendant listed throughout the FAC as “SBMS/COLIN/BECKER” or “Defendants.” There are no allegations that SBMS or COLIN stepped into the role of landlord for BECKER because the landlord was out of town, etc. As such, as pled, the FAC does not adequately allege that SBMS or Colin owed Plaintiff a duty independent from Becker.This allegation deficiency is enough to rule the entire FAC as uncertain. As such, the demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety. Plaintiff is granted twenty (20) days leave to amend.Merits of Motion to StrikeBecause this Court has sustained the demurrer in its entirety, and the motion to strike relies on the same arguments made in the demurrer, and the motion to strike is made moot by this Court’s ruling on demurrer. The motion to strike as it relates to causes of action not sustained on demurrer is moot.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer in its entirety, but grants Plaintiff twenty (20) days leave to amend. Defendants’ motion to strike is moot as it relates to the causes of action sustained on demurrer.Demurring Defendant are ordered to provide notice.