 On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff Joshua Saeta filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) (case no. 24STCV04306) against Defendants West Hills Hospital and Medical Center and HCA Healthcare, Inc. for (1) dependent adult neglect, (2) dependent adult neglect (enhanced remedies), (3) violation of the Health Care Decisions Law, (4) medical battery, (5) fraudulent concealment, and (6) negligence.  Defendant West Hills Hospital and Medical Center now seek summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication of all causes of action. The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Defendant first argues that the necessary custodial relationship does not exist under the dependent adult abuse act: “there is no evidence that plaintiff was ‘particularly vulnerable and reliant’ at the time he arrived at the hospital. (Winn, supra, 63 Cal.4th at 160.) Further, plaintiff presented at West Hills Hospital for medical care, not custodial care. (See UMFs 22, and 23.) He sought ‘competent professional medical attention,’ which could only be provided by a health care provider. (See Oroville, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at 405.) An able-bodied person cannot diagnose and treat the symptoms plaintiff presented with. (Ibid) This means the type of relationship at issue here should not be covered by the Act.”There must be a “robust caretaking or custodial relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain party has assumed a significant measure of responsibility for attending to one or more of an elder's basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.”  (Winn v. Pioneer Med. Grp., Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 158.)  The Court believes there are triable issues on this point as Plaintiff’s health deteriorated quickly, he needed fluids intravenously, needed a catheter, needed assistance with breathing, was described as being in a “critical” state and in risk of multiorgan failure, his acuity was described as “very unstable”, and he needed considerable supervision.   Defendant next argues that this is not a case in which there was a lack of medical care provided so as to constitute neglect—rather, this is a case about professional negligence, which is the subject of another suit.  Defendant argues that “Plaintiff received extensive professional services that included ED evaluation and care by Cynthia Pfeiffer, M.D. (UMFs 7-9) and Anh T. Nguyen, M.D. (UMF 11-12); a CT scan and interpretation of that CT by radiologist Bruce Shragg, M.D. (UMF 8); admission to West Hills under Dr. Nasim (UMF 12); laboratory studies (UMF 10); nursing care (UMFs 14, 15, 16, 19 and 20); response to and care in response to cardiopulmonary arrest (UMFs 20 and 21); and subsequent physician care on and after February 3,2017 through discharge (Exh. F-9 and F-10).” For the purposes of the Welfare & Institutions Code, neglect refers to “the failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.”  (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 34.)  Defendants may only be held liable under Welfare & Institutions Code § 15657 where the misconduct alleged is reckless, oppressive, fraudulent or malicious in nature.  (Id. at p. 31.)  Recklessness may be inferred from the Defendant’s failure to follow a medical care plan and make basic observations about the patient.  (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 90 [“[W]e easily conclude that there is a triable issue as to whether [defendant’s] employees acted with recklessness, oppression or malice. A trier of fact could find that when a care facility's employees ignore a care plan and fail to check the skin condition of a resident with Huntington's Chorea, such conduct shows deliberate disregard of the high degree of probability that she will suffer injury.”].)  The following are a few examples of when courts have found liability: • A skilled nursing facility: (1) failed to provide an elderly man suffering from Parkinson's disease with sufficient food and water and necessary medication; (2) left him unattended and unassisted for long periods of time; (3) left him in his own excrement so that ulcers exposing muscle and bone became infected; and (4) misrepresented and failed to inform his children of his true condition. (Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 778 [11 Cal.Rptr.3d 222, 86 P.3d 290].)• An 88–year–old woman with a broken ankle “was frequently left lying in her own urine and feces for extended periods of time”; and she developed pressure ulcers on her ankles, feet and buttocks that exposed bone, “despite plaintiff's persistent complaints to nursing staff, administration, and finally, to a nursing home ombudsman.” (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at pp. 27, 41 [82 Cal.Rptr.2d 610, 971 P.2d 986].)• A facility caring for a dependent adult with a known condition causing progressive dementia, requiring nutrition and hydration through a gastrostomy tube, and subjecting her to skin deterioration, ignored a medical care plan requiring the facility to check the dependent adult's skin on a daily basis and failed to notify a physician when pressure ulcers and other skin lesions developed. (Sababin, supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at pp. 83–87, 90 [50 Cal.Rptr.3d 266].)(Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley (1986) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405-406.) The Court believes there is, at the very least, a triable issue as to whether there was reckless understaffing.  The Opposition chronicles a wealth of evidence indicating that Defendant was dangerously understaffed, leading to Plaintiff suffering a severe and unwitnessed ischemic attack that left him in a vegetative state.  It’s not even clear how long Plaintiff was left on the verge of death by himself.  One RN testified: “I kept saying over and over something bad is going to happen. Someone is going to die or worse. And worse is right. This, right now, what happened to Josh. . . We were working with bare minimum. Bare minimum equipment, staff. We were all at risk. Every nurse, every staff member, every patient. Every day.”  Further, Defendant fails to carry its burden on the issue of whether a director, officer, or managing agent ratified the staffing conditions.  The moving papers inappropriately focus on the care Plaintiff did receive, which is not dispositive.      Defendant next argues that the abuse claims are barred by the statute of limitations, but this argument is a mere continuation of Defendant’s unilateral proclamation that this a medical malpractice suit such that CCP § 340.5 applies.  This has already been rejected. Defendant further argues that “Even if plaintiffs claims sounded in dependent adult neglect, the limitations period is not tolled by Code of Civil Procedure section 352 under these facts. Section 352 is intended to toll the statute of limitations where the plaintiff lacks the capacity to make decisions. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 352.) But here plaintiffs interests have been protected by the conservatorship, which filed the Original Case on plaintiffs behalf more than six years ago, within the limitations period. (Exh. A and C; UMFs 1 and 3.) The conservatorship has had six years to investigate and evaluate the care provided to plaintiff by West Hills and, consequently, to determine which legal claims to assert against which defendants. (Exh. C.) It was only when new counsel was substituted in that plaintiff opted to assert the new causes of action.” As Plaintiff points out, however, the conservatorship does not preclude tolling as demonstrated by Tzolov v. International Jet Leasing (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 117.  Defendant’s attempt to distinguish this case by indicating that it relates to a guardian ad litem rings hollow.  Moreover, tolling would also apply to Plaintiff’s other claims. Defendant also argues that “Plaintiffs claim for violation of the Health Care Decisions Law fails because there is no evidence that any employee of West Hills intentionally refused to comply with a health care instruction of plaintiff. Indeed, the undisputed evidence reflects that the team responding to the Code did not know at that time that he was listed as ‘No Code.’ (UMF 48-49.) There was therefore no intentional violation of plaintiffs health care instruction.”  Defendant argues the medical battery claim fails for the same reason.The elements for medical battery under these circumstances are: “1. That [name of defendant] performed a medical procedure without [name of plaintiff]’s consent . . . ; 2. That [name of plaintiff] was harmed; and 3. That [name of defendant]’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing [name of plaintiff]’s harm.”  (CACI no. 530A.) The Motion is denied as to these claims because there is evidence that Plaintiff orally requested a “no code” from a nurse; that nurse failed to obtain a written order according to policy; and that same nurse participated in the subsequent unconsented code blue.  Intent here is a matter best left for the jury. The last cause of action at issue is concealment.  “The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact. [Citation.]”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606.)The Court will grant the Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the claim for concealment because Plaintiff has failed to raise triable issues with respect to fraudulent intent. The final issue is punitive damages.  There are triable issues as to malice or oppression.  Indeed, “[m]alice does not require actual intent to harm. (Id. at p. 895, 157 Cal.Rptr. 693, 598 P.2d 854.) Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences. (Id. at pp. 895–896, 157 Cal.Rptr. 693, 598 P.2d 854.) Malice may be proved either expressly through direct evidence or by implication through indirect evidence from which the jury draws inferences.”  (Angie M. v. Superior Ct. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228.)In sum, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted as to the fraud claim, but is otherwise denied.  The objections are overruled. Moving party to give notice.