On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff Elat Properties, Inc. filed the operative Complaint against Defendants 801 SOUTH GRAND AVENUE (LA), INC., 801 SOUTH GRAND AVENUE (LA) HOLDINGS, LLC,  801 SOUTH GRAND AVENUE (LA) OWNER, LLC, CIM GROUP, L.P., JONATHAN TAO, and CIM SMA I INVESTMENTS, LLC for (1) fraud and (2) negligent misrepresentation.  Plaintiff alleges that it purchased a building from Defendants on a short timeline so as not to pay the “mansion tax” and that during the transaction Plaintiff relied on a spreadsheet presented by Defendants that falsely stated that the obligation amount for future tenant improvements for two units was $0 when it was actually $250,000.Demurrer All Defendants now demur to the Complaint for uncertainty and failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) Defendants first argue that the claims are not specifically pleaded and that reliance has not been shown.  Defendants’ arguments merely raise factual issues.  The Complaint adequately alleges that Plaintiff relied on the statements in the spreadsheet because the purchase was on a short timeline and that Defendants were aware that some improvements could not be reasonably discovered.  It is further alleged that had Plaintiff known about the improvements, it would have negotiated the purchase price down as was done for a handful of other improvements it did discover.  Factual issues remain. Defendants next argue that Plaintiff’s claims were waived via provision in the purchase agreement: “[Plaintiff] hereby expressly waives, relinquishes and releases any right or remedy available to it at law, in equity or under this Agreement to make a claim against [801 South Grand] for damages that [Plaintiff] incurs or may incur, or to rescind this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, as the result of any of [801 South Grand]’s representations or warranties being untrue, inaccurate or incorrect when made if (1) [Plaintiff] had knowledge or is “deemed to have known” at the time of the Close of Escrow that such representation or warranty was untrue, inaccurate or incorrect when made and [Plaintiff] nevertheless consummates the purchase of the Property hereunder, or (2) [Plaintiff]’s damages as a result of such representations or warranties being so untrue, inaccurate or incorrect are, in the aggregate, less than the Threshold. [Plaintiff] shall be ‘deemed to have known’ at the time of the Close of Escrow that a representation or warranty was untrue, inaccurate or incorrect when made if any [801 South Grand], the PTR and the recorded documents identified therein, any estoppel certificates delivered to [Plaintiff] pursuant to Section 5.1, or any other information or materials obtained by [Plaintiff] prior to the Close of Escrow contains any information which contradicts such representation or warranty by [801 South Grand], or if [801 South Grand] shall notify [Plaintiff] in writing that such representation or warranty was untrue, inaccurate, or incorrect when made. [801 South Grand]’s representations and warranties contained in Section 8.1, as reaffirmed and restated by [801 South Grand] at Closing, shall survive the Close of Escrow for the Survival Period, unless [Plaintiff] asserts a breach of any such representation or warranty in a written notice delivered to [801 South Grand] prior to the expiration of the Survival Period, in which case such applicable representation or warranty shall survive until [Plaintiff]’s claims set forth in such written notice have been resolved.”  Defendants argue that, given the above provision, the estoppel certificates provided to Plaintiff would preclude any liability.  Defendants argue that the Court should take judicial notice of such estoppel certificates.  The Court declines to do so as it is generally not appropriate to take judicial notice of a contract or its components unless there is no objection and the document is undisputed.  That is not the case here as Plaintiff has levied an objection.  Therefore, Defendants’ argument is premature. The Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days.Motion to Strike  Defendants also seek to strike the Complaint’s references to punitive damages.Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)Because the fraud claim has survived, the Motion to Strike is denied.Moving parties to give notice.