 Case Number:  22STCV26613    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
Hearing Date: 10/30/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV26613 MOSES KWOK vs
BANK OF AMERICA, et al.
Moving Party: Cross Defendant M. Arthur Gensler Jr. & Associates, Inc.
Responding Party: Cross Complainant Bank of America and Jones Lang LaSalle
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS
GRANTED IN PART
 
Background
This action arises from an incident on or about
October 21, 2020, in which Plaintiff Moses Kwok allegedly tripped and fell on a
curb near the entrance of a Bank of America (“BofA”) location at 300 N.
Atlantic Boulevard in Monterey Park, California. Plaintiff filed this lawsuit
against defendants, including BofA and Jones Lang LaSalle (“JLL”), seeking
damages for his alleged personal injuries. M. Arthur Gensler Jr. &
Associates, Inc. (“Gensler”), as the architect responsible for the curb
improvements where the Incident occurred, had an agreement with BofA and JLL
that included an indemnity provision. In response to Plaintiff’s complaint,
BofA and JLL filed cross-complaints against Gensler for implied indemnity,
equitable indemnity, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief to enforce
the indemnity provision. Gensler now moves the Court for summary adjudication
on each cause of action in BofA and JLL’s cross-complaints.
 
Legal Standard 
 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294.) 
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry
its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied. (See Id.;
see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.) 
 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point
out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting evidence can be in
the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
The court
must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.” (Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing
the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary
function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues. [Citation.] Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v.
Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true. [Citation.] Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
Evidentiary Ruling 
The Parties did not make any
objections to evidence that were material to the Court’s ruling. (CCP §
437c(q).)  
 
Discussion
 
Duty to Defend
Standard comprehensive
liability insurance policies provide that the insurer must both indemnify and
defend the insured against claims within the scope of the policy coverage. The
insurer's duty to defend is broader than its duty to indemnify. The latter duty
runs only to claims that are actually covered by the policy, while the duty to
defend extends to claims that are merely potentially covered. (Crawford v.
Wearther Shield Mfg. Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 546.) 
"The [insurer's]
defense duty is a continuing one, arising on tender of defense and lasting
until the underlying lawsuit is concluded [citation], or until it has been
shown that there is¿no¿potential
for coverage. . . ." (Montrose Chemical Corp. v. Superior Court,
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 287, 295.) “An insurer may owe a duty to defend its insured in
an action in which no damages ultimately are awarded." (Horace Mann
Ins. Co. v. Barbara B. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1076, 1081.) The insurer’s
duty to defendant is not unlimited. (Waller v. Truck Ins. Exchange, Inc.
(1995) 11 Cal.4th 1, 19.) It extends beyond claims that are actually covered to
those that are merely potentially so — but no further. (Ibid.) “The
insurer need not defend if the third party complaint¿can
by no conceivable theory raise a single issue¿which
could bring it within the policy coverage."¿(Gray
v. Zurich Ins. Co. (1996) 65 Cal.2d 263, 276, fn. 15.)  
        "The
determination whether the insurer owes a duty to defend usually is made in the
first instance by comparing the allegations of the complaint with the terms of
the policy. Facts extrinsic to the complaint also give rise to a duty to defend
when they reveal a possibility that the claim may be covered by the policy.” (Gray,
supra, 65 Cal.2d at 276.) Any doubt as to¿whether
the facts establish the existence of the defense duty must be resolved in the
insured's favor. (Montrose Chemical Corp. v. Superior Court, (1993) 6
Cal.4th 287, 299.) 
               The
duty to indemnify arises immediately upon a proper tender of defense by the
indemnitee, and thus before the litigation to be defended has determined
whether indemnity is actually owed. This duty, as described in the statute,
therefore cannot depend on the outcome of that litigation. The duty to defend
encompasses all claims, at the time of tender, that allege facts that would
potentially give rise to a duty of indemnity unless the indemnity agreement
specifies otherwise. Crawford v. Wearther Shield Mfg. Inc., (2008) 44
Cal.4th 541, 558.
The Parties’ indemnity
provision provides as follows: 
To the fullest extent
permitted by applicable law, Consultant [Gensler] shall defend, indemnify and
hold harmless Owner [BofA] and Manager [JLL] and their respective officers,
directors, employees, partners, joint ventures, affiliates, successors and assigns
from and against any and all claims, demands, losses, expenses, damages,
liabilities, fines, and penalties (each a “Claim”) which arise out of, are
alleged to arise out of, or relate to the following: 
(a) Consultant’s
negligent performance of (or failure to perform) the Services; 
(b) A breach in a
representation, covenant or obligation of this Agreement by Consultant or any
of its affiliates, subcontractors, agents or employees; 
(c) Any negligent act
or omission or willful misconduct by Consultant or its affiliates,
subcontractors, agents or employees;
Gensler’s core argument
against the cross-complainants’ breach of contract claim is that the indemnity
provision requires Gensler to indemnify JLL and BofA only “when there is proof
that Gensler negligently performed its services” and since the court found
Gensler was not negligent, Gensler therefore has no duty to indemnify the
cross-complainants.
However, Gensler’s
contention that its duty to defend JLL and BofA arises only “when there is
proof that Gensler negligently performed its services” is unsupported by the
plain language of the indemnity provision. The provision specifically states
that Gensler must “defend, indemnify, and hold harmless” JLL and BofA from
claims that “arise out of, are alleged to arise out of, or relate to” three
specific situations: (a) Gensler’s negligent performance or failure to perform
services, (b) a breach of any representation, covenant, or obligation under the
agreement, or (c) any negligent act, omission, or willful misconduct by Gensler
or its affiliates. The language of the indemnity clause clearly and plainly
states that it covering claims that "are alleged to arise out of"
Gensler’s services. This imposes a duty to defend upon Gensler at the point of
allegations, not at the point of proven negligence.
Furthermore, the
clause’s language, including the phrase “To the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law,” reflects standard terms designed to create broad indemnity and
defense obligations, consistent with Cal. Civ. Code § 2778 and California law
regarding the duty to defend (Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg. Inc.
(2008) 44 Cal.4th 541.) Therefore, Gensler's interpretation of the provision
contradicts both the contract's intent and California law, which establishes
that the duty to defend extends to all claims that, at the time of tender,
allege facts potentially giving rise to a duty of indemnity, unless otherwise
specified in the indemnity agreement. (Id. at 558.)
For Gensler to prevail
on a motion for summary adjudication on the breach of contract cause of action,
Gensler must demonstrate that when BofA tendered its defense, Plaintiff’s
claims—that the curb where he fell, designed by Gensler, was a dangerous condition
and non-compliant with ADA and other government regulations—were not
potentially covered by the indemnity clause. Plaintiff failed to do so in the
moving papers. 
The duty to defend “is
a continuing one, arising on tender of defense and lasting until the underlying
lawsuit is concluded, or until it has been shown that there is no potential for
coverage…” (Montrose Chemical Corp. v. Superior Court, (1993) 6 Cal.4th
287, 295). Gensler did not present any evidence when Cross Complainants tendered
its defense. Although the Court recently granted BofA and JLL’s motions for
summary judgment, finding Gensler was not negligent in causing Plaintiff’s
injuries, these rulings were issued in August 2024. Until that point, Gensler’s
potential negligence remained in question. Defendant needed to demonstrate
that, at the time of tender, there was no potential for coverage. However,
without indicating when the tender occurred, this burden was not met. Gensler’s
MSA as to breach of contract cause of action and declaratory relief cause of
action are denied.
In fact, the
cross-complainants demonstrated that they tendered their defense of Plaintiff’s
claims to Gensler on July 29, 2021 (Declaration of Adam Popkowski ¶ 3, 6, 7),
more than a year before Plaintiff filed the case and three years prior to the
Court’s finding that Gensler was not negligent. The 2021 tender and subsequent
2023 tenders were rejected by Gensler. (Id.)
Negligence/
Apportionment
Gensler has
demonstrated that it was not negligent in designing the curb and ramp where the
alleged incident occurred and is, therefore, not liable for apportionment of
fault. Gensler introduced evidence showing the following: 
·       
Gensler was retained by JLL to provide
architectural design services for the curb where Plaintiff’s incident took
place (Exhibit “2” to JLL’s Cross-Complaint, Exhibit “B” to Evidence). 
·       
Gensler designed a code-compliant curb
(Joelson Dec. ¶¶ 17-19E, Exhibit “F” to Evidence; Gibbens Dec. ¶¶ 14-16,
Exhibit “G” to Evidence). 
·       
The wheelchair access ramp and adjoining
curbs were clearly delineated and compliant with all ADA standards and
regulations (Joelson Dec. ¶ 17, Exhibit “F” to Evidence; Gibbens Dec. ¶ 14,
Exhibit “G” to Evidence). 
·       
JLL/BofA’s expert consultant confirmed
that Gensler “neither failed to use reasonable care to prevent harm to others,
nor did any condition of the property create a dangerous condition or an
unreasonable risk of harm” (Joelson Dec. ¶ 19, Exhibit “F” to Evidence).
·       
On August 21, 2024, the Court granted
BofA’s MSJ, finding that the wheelchair access ramp and curb, where Plaintiff
fell, were constructed in compliance with the California Building Code (CBC)
and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) (Supplemental RJN, Exhibit “I”;
Loera Dec. to Supplemental Brief ¶ 5).
Gensler has met its
initial burden. The cross-complaints do not dispute the aforementioned facts
alleged by Gensler, nor do they challenge Gensler’s lack of negligence.
Therefore, summary adjudication as to the cause of action for apportionment is
granted.
Implied Contractual
Indemnity and Equitable Indemnity
Implied contractual
indemnity is now considered “a form of equitable indemnity.” (Prince v.
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1157.) “Where . . .
parties have expressly contracted with respect to the duty to indemnify, the
extent of that duty must be determined from the contract and not by reliance on
the independent doctrine of equitable indemnity.” (Regional Steel Corp. v.
Superior Court (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 525, 529.) Here, the parties do not
dispute the existence of the indemnity clause; thus, implied and equitable
indemnity are inapplicable. Accordingly, summary adjudication is granted as to
these two causes of action.
Conclusion
MSA as to
cross-complainants BofA and JLL's causes of action for breach of contract and
declaratory relief are denied. MSA as to cross-complainants' causes of action
for apportionment, equitable indemnity, and implied contractual indemnity are
granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 