 Case Number:  22STCV33162    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
5, 2023                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Samantha Rosales, et al. v. Marissa
Aguilera
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV33162

 
DEMURRER
TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:  
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): 
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      
Demurrer
to the second, sixth, seventh, and ninth causes of action for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action;
2.      
Motion
to Strike various portions of the SAC pertaining to punitive damages.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      
Demurrer
to the second, and ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED;
2.      
Demurrer
to the fifth and sixth cause of action is OVERRULED;
3.      
Motion
to Strike is GRANTED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On October 11, 2022, Plaintiffs Samantha Rosales and Sergio
Benitez (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendant Marissa Aguilera
(“Defendant.”) The complaint alleged 10 causes of action: (1) Breach of
Warranty of Habitability, (2) Private Nuisance, (3) Breach of Covenant and
Right to Quiet Enjoyment and Possession of Premises, (4) Negligence, (5)
Violation of Los Angeles County Eviction Moratorium- Failure to Pay Relocation,
(6) Violation of Los Angeles County Eviction Moratorium- Harassment, (7)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (8) Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress, (9) Violation of Civil Code § 1940.2, and (10) Violation of
Business & Professions Code § 17200, et seq.
 
The complaint alleges that Plaintiffs were tenants of the
Subject Property, which is owned by Defendant. During their tenancy, Plaintiffs
experienced various issues with the premises, including uneven flooring, water
damage, faulty electrical system resulting in fire, unpermitted plumbing, and
insect problems. Moreover, Plaintiffs also allege that Defendant attempted to
intimidate them to leave the premises on various occasions.
 
On March 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) with the same causes of action as the Complaint. 
 
On August 25, 2023, the court SUSTAINED Defendant’s demurrer
with leave to amend as to the second, fifth, seventh, and tenth causes of
action, but OVERRULED Defendant’s demurrer as to the first, third, fourth,
sixth, eighth, and ninth causes of action. Additionally, the court GRANTED in
part Defendant’s motion to strike.
 
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint (SAC). Additionally, Plaintiffs filed Fictitious/Incorrect Name
Amendments as to DOE 1 (Gregorio Alvarez), DOE 2 (Maria C. Alvarez), DOE 3
(Maria Alvarez), and DOE 4 (Carlos Alberto Gomez). The SAC has nine causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Warranty of Habitability, (2) Private Nuisance, (3)
Breach of Covenant and Right to Quiet Enjoyment and Possession of the Premises,
(4) Negligence, (5) Violation of Los Angeles County Eviction Moratorium –
Harassment, (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (7) Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress, (8) Violation of Civil Code Section 1940.2,
and (9) Violation of Business & Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq.
 
On October 16, 2023, Defendants Marissa Aguilera, Maria
Alvarez, Maria C. Alvarez, Gregorio Alvarez, and Carlos Alberto Gomez
(Defendants) filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On November 22,
2023, Plaintiffs filed oppositions.[1] Defendants timely
filed a reply on November 28, 2023. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states
a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect
which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow
leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
(CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) &
(3).¿The meet and confer requirement also applies to motions to strike. (CCP §
435.5.) 
Here, there is no meet and confer
declaration. Still, failure to meet and confer
is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer, or grant or deny a motion to
strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Differentiate
between Named Defendants

Defendants contend that Plaintiffs do not mention the specific acts by each
defendant to contribute to Plaintiffs’ damages. Defendants cite no authority
supporting this position. Plaintiffs argue that this argument fails because
they allege numerous facts in the FAC (paragraphs 1-13) pertaining to each
Defendant.[2]
 
Upon reviewing the SAC, the court agrees with Plaintiffs
that the SAC is not uncertain as to the Defendants. The SAC alleges that the
Defendants either owned the property or held themselves out as property
managers for the property. The court is not otherwise persuaded by Defendants’
argument.
 
Second Cause of
Action – Private Nuisance
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs did not address the
court’s concerns at the demurrer to FAC because they changed their allegation
from “These conditions constituted” to “These conditions continue to
constitute.” Additionally, Defendants contend that Plaintiffs did not allege
facts stating how they were damaged or injured, aside from restating Civil Code
Sec. 3479. Plaintiffs argue they sufficiently alleged facts supporting private
nuisance because they alleged electrical and plumbing issues were not addressed,
Defendant harassed Plaintiffs, Defendant failed to provide a habitable
dwelling, there were cameras pointed solely at Plaintiffs’ unit, mail and
packages missing, and evidence that at least one Defendant entered Plaintiffs’
unit without permission or notice. 
 
The elements for a private nuisance cause of action
are:  
 
First, the
plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of its
property. Second, the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and
enjoyment of the land must be substantial, i.e., it caused the plaintiff to
suffer substantial actual damage. Third, the interference with the protected
interest must not only be substantial, it
must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or
amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of
the land. 
 
(Today's IV, Inc. v.
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176, reh'g denied (Oct. 25, 2022), review denied (Jan. 18,
2023).)  
Upon reviewing the SAC, the court agrees with Defendants. Critically,
the SAC, like the FAC, does not allege substantial actual damages, but states
damages will be proved at trial. (SAC ¶ 10.) Additionally, the SAC fails to
describe that the interference was of a “nature, duration, or amount to
constitute unreasonable interference” to allow the court to determine whether
the allegations meet the standard. This is unchanged from the FAC.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the
second cause of action.
 
Fifth Cause of
Action – Violation of LA County Eviction Moratorium-Harassment[3]
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs renamed the harassment
claim to relocation violations, 
improperly squeezed in the prior Seventh Cause of Action to the Sixth
Cause of Action, removed various requirements of the eviction moratorium rules,
added incorrect paraphrasing of the moratorium requirements, and removed
damages. Defendants additionally contend that Plaintiffs failed to allege facts
of Defendants’ conduct that violated the moratorium section Plaintiffs did
include. Plaintiffs argue that the FAC allegations for the fifth cause of
action are now irrelevant and that the SAC must be read in its entirety.[4]
Plaintiffs additionally argue that Defendants cannot demurrer to this cause of
action again since the court previously overruled the demurrer.[5]

 
Upon reviewing the SAC, the court agrees with Plaintiffs
that it has already overruled Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action. The
Fifth Cause of Action here is the Sixth Cause of Action from the FAC. The
allegations are verbatim.
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the Fifth
Cause of Action.
 
Sixth Cause of
Action – IIED[6]
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs provided no new facts
supporting extreme or outrageous distress. Additionally, Defendants contend
Plaintiffs’ fraud allegations are not specifically plead. Plaintiffs argue they
sufficiently alleged facts supporting this cause of action. 
 
Intentional infliction of emotional distress requires the
Plaintiff to show “(1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant's
intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant's outrageous conduct. Conduct, to be ‘ “outrageous”
’ must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.” ’ [Citation.] In order to avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must allege
with ‘great[ ] specificity’ the acts which he or she believes are so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford,
Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 160.)  
 
Generally, conduct will be found to be actionable where the
recitation of the facts to an average member of the community would arouse his
resentment against the actor, and lead him to exclaim, “Outrageous!” (Ess v. Eskaton Properties, Inc. (2002)
97 Cal. App. 4th 120, 130.)  
 
Although emotional distress may consist of any highly
unpleasant mental reaction such as fright, grief, shame, humiliation,
embarrassment, anger, chagrin, disappointment or worry [citation], to make out
a claim, the plaintiff must prove that emotional distress was severe and not
trivial or transient.” (Wong v. Tai Jing
(2010) 189 Cal. App. 4th 1354, 1376.)  Such distress must be “of such
substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable person in civilized
society should be expected to endure it.”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 965,
1004.) 
 
Upon reviewing the SAC, the court agrees with Plaintiffs
that they have sufficiently alleged facts supporting a claim for IIED. In
particular, the SAC alleges that Defendants created fake social media accounts using
Plaintiff Rosales’ name and likeness to impersonate her, that they pointed
cameras at the property that captured Plaintiff Rosales in her underwear on
more than one occasion, coupled with threatening to negatively interfere with
Plaintiff Rosales’ custody proceedings should she file suit against Defendants
concerning the property. (SAC ¶¶ 13(c), (g), and (i).) An average member of the
community would likely exclaim “Outrageous!” upon hearing such alleged conduct.

 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Sixth
Cause of Action.
 
Ninth Cause of
Action – Violation of B&P Code Sec. 17200, et seq.
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs have made no changes
between the FAC and the SAC as to these allegations. Specifically, Plaintiffs
have not alleged which specific portions of the code Defendants allegedly
violated and the conduct that constituted such violations. Additionally,
Defendants contend Plaintiffs did not specifically allege fraud. Plaintiffs
argue the court already overruled Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action
and that they did allege specific conduct that violates the code.
 
California Business and Professions Code section 17200
prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v.
Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.)¿ “An unlawful business practice
or act is an act or practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that is
at the same time forbidden by law.” (Klein
v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) A violation of
other laws is deemed independently actionable under the UCL. (See Law Offices of Mathew Higbee v. Expungement
Assistance Services (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 544, 554.) “‘Virtually any
law—federal, state or local—can serve as a predicate for a section 17200
action.’” (Id. (quoting Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1305, 1335).)¿ 
 
“A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these
statutes must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the
statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619).  
 
After a review of the SAC, the Court agrees with Defendants
that Plaintiffs have failed to sufficiently allege a violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200. Indeed, the allegations are identical to the FAC.
Therefore, Plaintiffs did not allege what specific provisions of the code
Defendants violated and the cause of action contains conclusory allegations.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the ninth
cause of action.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike various portions of the SAC
referring to punitive damages. Specifically:
1.      Reference
to punitive damages in Paragraph 6, Page 7;
2.      Reference
to punitive damages in Paragraph 11, Page 8;
3.      Reference
to punitive damages in Paragraph 15, Page 9;
4.      Reference
to punitive damages in Paragraph 23, Page 10;
5.      Reference
to punitive damages in Paragraph 33, Page 11;
6.      Reference
to punitive damages in Paragraph 40, Page 12; and
7.      Paragraph
5 of the prayer for relief.
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs not sufficiently allege
facts supporting a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiffs argue that they did
and point to the allegations of Paragraph 13 in the SAC.
 
CCP §3294 states that “(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” Here, the FAC
does not allege any conduct that would be considered oppressive, fraudulent, or
malicious. For punitive damages to be applied, the defendant’s conduct must
have been oppressive, malicious, or fraudulent. (Civil Code § 3294). CCP §3294
(c) defines malice as “(1) conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” Under CCP §3294(c) oppression is defined as “(2) despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person's rights.” 
 
The Court agrees with Defendants that, except for the sixth
cause of action, the SAC does not have allegations that would allow for
punitive damages. The conduct may be troubling and wrong, but it would not be
the type considered under Civil Code § 3294 as malicious, oppressive, or
fraudulent. The conduct was not so despicable or so vile.  
 
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is GRANTED, except as
to paragraph 33 and prayer for damages five.. 

 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      
Demurrer
to the second, and ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend;
2.      
Demurrer
to the fifth and sixth cause of action is OVERRULED;
3.      
Motion
to Strike is GRANTED in part and denied in part.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             December
5, 2023                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


