  Case Number:  21STCV06984    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
5, 2023                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Ana Gonzalez v. ADB Global Trade LLC,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                21STCV06984

 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS

 
MOVING PARTY:  Specially-Appearing
Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Ana Gonzalez,
individually and as Successor-in-Interest to Victor Gonzalez
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order Quashing Service of Summons.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On September 23, 2021, Plaintiffs Victor Gonzalez and Ana
Gonzalez (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint with six causes of action for: (1)
Negligence, (2) Strict Liability – Warning Defect, (3) Strict Liability –
Design Defect, (4) Fraudulent Concealment, (5) Breach of Implied Warranties,
and (6) Loss of Consortium.
 
On March 22, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint.
 
On November 21, 2021, the court appointed Ana Gonzalez as
the Successor-In-Interest of her deceased husband Victor Gonzalez.
 
On November 1, 2022, Plaintiff Ana Gonzalez, individuals and
as Successor- In-Interest to Decedent Victor Gonzalez (Plaintiff) filed a
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) for survival, wrongful death and loss of
consortium and also for five causes of action: (1) Negligence, (2) Strict
Liability – Warning Defect, (3) Strict Liability – Design Defect, (4)
Fraudulent Concealment, and (5) Breach of Implied Warranties.
 
According to the SAC, Decedent Victor Gonzalez (Decedent)
was exposed to products at work that contained silica, metals and other toxins
which caused his silicosis and his death. Decedent worked with granite, marble,
stone, and artificial stone counters from 1988 to 2019. Decedent died on
September 13, 2021. 
 
On October 12, 2023, Specially-Appearing Defendant
Consentino Group, S.A. (Moving Defendant) filed the instant motion with an
original hearing date of January 3, 2024. 
 
On October 24, 2023, the court GRANTED Moving Defendant’s ex parte application to advance the
hearing date to November 9, 2023.
 
On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff timely filed an opposition.
 
On November 2, 2023, Moving Defendant timely filed a reply.  
 
On November 9, 2023, the court ordered supplemental briefing
concerning the Hague Service Convention. Plaintiff’s supplemental opposition
brief was not to exceed 7 page and was to be filed no later than November 22,
2023. Any reply brief was not to exceed 7 pages and filed no later than
November 30, 2023.
 
Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief, two requests for
judicial notice, and a notice of lodging federal cases on November 27, 2023. Moving
Defendant filed a supplemental reply on November 30, 2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
This court is unaware of any legal
authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a motion,
except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication [CCP § 437c (q)] or
a special motion to strike [CCP § 425.16 (b)(2); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019)
6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.] As such, this court respectfully declines to rule
on any of these objections.  This Court is well aware of the rules of
evidence, and to how much weight, if any, should be given to any of the
proposed evidence.
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice as to Exhibits A (Canadian Law), Exhibits A - D. (Evid.
Code § 452(f); See Kalnoki v. First
American Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.)
However, the court only takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only
as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records and other
specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the
factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿
 
Motion to Quash
 
A defendant may serve and file a notice of motion to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over
it.  (Code Civ. Proc. (CCP) § 418.10,
subd. (a).)  CCP § 418.10 provides the
exclusive procedure for challenging personal jurisdiction at the outset.  (Roy v.
Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 337, 342.)  Although the defendant is the moving party,
the burden of proof is on the plaintiff to defeat the motion by establishing
that jurisdictional grounds exist.  (Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985) 169
Cal.App.3d 703, 710.) 
 
CCP § 413.10, subdivision (c) states “[e]xcept as otherwise
provided by statute, a summons shall be served on a person: . . . Outside the
United States, as provided in this chapter or as directed by the court in which
the action is pending, or, if the court before or after service finds that the
service is reasonably calculated to give actual notice, as prescribed by the
law of the place where the person is served or as directed by the foreign
authority in response to a letter rogatory. These rules are subject to the
provisions of the Convention on the “Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents” in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service
Convention).”  Spain is a signatory to
the Hague Service Convention. 
(Convention Done at the Hague November 15, 1965; (Feb. 10, 1969) 20
U.S.T. 361, T.I.A.S. No. 6638.)   
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Motion to Quash –
Hague Service Convention
 
Moving Defendant is a Spanish company headquartered in Spain
and contends that Plaintiff did not comply with the Hague Service Convention
because Plaintiff first tried to personally serve an officer while he was
visiting Canada and Plaintiff’s second attempt via Federal Express was not
valid service under California law.[1]
 Plaintiff argues that she served Moving
Defendant personally, via Federal Express, and via U.S. Mail with return
receipt requested.[2]
In supplemental briefing, Plaintiff argues that the Hague Service Convention
does not apply because they served Eduardo Cosentino personally in Canada in
compliance with California law and in compliance with the laws of Canada and in
the state of British Columbia such that they satisfied due process requirements.
 
“The Hague Service Convention states each signatory nation
shall designate a central authority through which service of process may be
effected. (Hague Convention, art. 2.) That authority receives documents and
serves them in accordance with either the internal law of the receiving state
or a compatible method requested by the sender. The authority then provides the
sender with a certificate of service. (Hague Convention, arts. 5, 6.)” (Kott v. Superior Court¿(1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 1126, 1134.)  
 
“Failure to properly serve a party who resides outside the
country under the Hague Service Convention renders all subsequent proceedings
void as to that person. [Citation] This is true even when the party indisputably
had notice of the action.”  (In re Alyssa F. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th
846, 852.)  “Failure to comply with the
Hague Service Convention procedures voids the service even though it was made
in compliance with California law. . . .” (Kott
v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1136 (Kott).)  “In cases governed
by the Hague Service Convention, service by mail is permissible if two
conditions are met: first, the receiving state has not objected to service by
mail; and second, service by mail is authorized under otherwise-applicable
law.” (Inversiones Papaluchi S.A.S. v.
Superior Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1065-66 (Inversiones).) The validity of a service method “must come from
California law.” (Id. at 1066
[referring to service by Federal Express.])
 
As a threshold matter, the court is not persuaded by
Plaintiff’s arguments that the Hague Service Convention does not apply. Plaintiff
provided no authority supporting her position that CCP § 413.10 does not apply
to corporate entities and that CCP § 416.10 allows for service of a corporate
entity without geographic restriction. Indeed, Plaintiff’s own proof of service
indicating personal service on Mr. Cosentino states “pursuant to CCP § 413.10.”
Accordingly, the court rejects this argument. Similarly, Plaintiff’s argument
that the documents were not transmitted to Canada because they were printed
there is not well taken. As the case authority indicates, transmittal occurs unless service of process occurs within
the United States – such as on a domestic agent. (See e.g., Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. v. Superior Court
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 264.)
 
Here, the court agrees with Moving Defendant that service
did not comply with the Hague Service Convention. First, Plaintiff’s authority does
not support her position that personal service on Mr. Cosentino in Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada complied with the Hague Service Convention.[3]
Plaintiff’s reliance on Supreme Court Civil Rules of British Columbia Reg
168/2009 Rule 4-3 is not enough to indicate compliance. Plaintiff contends Mr.
Cosentino is an officer of Cosentino Group and was in Vancouver, British
Columbia for official business of Cosentino Group by attending a ribbon cutting
ceremony where he was personally served. Rule 4-3 provides that “if the chief
place of business of the corporation is outside British Columbia, every person
who, within British Columbia, transacts or carries on any of the business of,
or any business for, that corporation is deemed to be an agent of the corporation”
and that service on a corporation may be effected “by leaving a copy of the
document with the president, chair, mayor or other chief officer of the
corporation.” (Rule 4-3(2)(b)(i).) Similarly, Canada’s Central Authority and
practical information concerning the Hague Service Convention indicate that
personal service on a corporation occurs “by handing a copy of the document to
the individual, or to an officer, director or agent of the corporation at its
place of business.” (Plaintiff’s RJN Hague Documents, Exhibit 2.) However, the
court has more questions than answers. Does Rule 4-3 apply to international
corporation when it refers to corporations “outside British Columbia” or to
corporations that are Canadian from other provinces? Does the “place of
business” indicated in the Canadian Hague Certificate apply to a ribbon cutting
ceremony? Plaintiff has provided rules, but no authority explaining how those
rules have been applied to comparable situations. The court does not have
access to such and is not in a position to interpret Canadian law. 
 
Additionally, Plaintiff’s reliance on Denlinger v. Chinadotcom Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1396 (Denlinger), Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. v. Superior Court (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 264
(Yamaha), and Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154 (Lebel) is misplaced to support her position that either the Hague
Service Convention does not apply or that service in Canada was proper.[4]
Denlinger concerns service by mail of
a foreign corporation in its home country. That case does not apply here
because mail service is not at issue – personal service in Canada is. Yamaha concerns service of a foreign
corporation via its “general manager in this state” (i.e., in California).
Again, this case does not apply here because Plaintiff did not serve Mr.
Cosentino in California, but in Canada.[5]
Finally, Lebel concerns whether the
Hague Service Convention applied (it did) when the plaintiff knew the defendant
resided in England but attempted to serve his mother (as a purported agent) in
California.[6]
Lebel does not apply here, either,
because the purported service was effected in California, not in Canada. In
sum, Plaintiff provided no authority that personal service in Canada was
effective.[7]
 
Second, Plaintiff does not contend that she ever transmitted
the summons and complaint to Spain’s central authority, under Article 6 of the
Hague Service Convention, for service on Moving Defendant.[8]

 
Third, California does not allow service of the summons and
complaint by Federal Express. In Inversiones,
the Plaintiff served a Columbian defendant by Federal Express and via email. (Inversiones, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at 1061.) The Court found that
Federal Express service did not comply with the Hague Service Convention because
“service by Federal Express did not constitute valid service of process under
California law.” (Id. at 1067.) As in
Inversiones, here, Spain does not
object to service by mail and Plaintiff attempted to serve Moving Defendant by
Federal Express at its corporate headquarters in Spain.[9]
(Metzger Decl., Exhibit 7, FedEx Confirmation.) Accordingly, service did not
comply with the Hague Service Convention and is therefore invalid.[10]
 
Therefore, the court GRANTS Moving Defendant’s motion to
quash service of summons.
 
Personal
Jurisdiction
 
The court declines to develop this argument as moot.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED.
 
Moving  party is to
give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             December
5, 2023                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


