  Case Number:  23TRCV03999    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 January 6, 2025  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV03999  CASE NAME:                        Rosalie Fierro v. Stadco LA, LLC dba Sofi  Stadium, et al.   MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendant, Stadco LA, LLC, Pincay RE, LLC, and  Hollywood Park  RESPONDING PARTY:       (1)  Plaintiff, Rosalie Fierro                                                  TRIAL DATE:                        August 25, 2025   MOTION:                              (1) Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED.     I. BACKGROUND  A.     Factual  On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff, Rosalie Fierro  (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Stadco LA, LLC dba Sofi  Stadium, Stadco LA Manager, LLC, Pincay RE, LLC, Hollywood Park Management  Company, LLC, Hollywood Park Management Company II, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50.  The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Negligence; and (2) Premises  Liability. The complaint asserts allegations that on January 30, 2022,  Plaintiff was an attendee and ticketholder of the NFC Championship game of the Rams  vs. 49ers game at Sofi Stadium, when – during the second quarter of the game –  Plaintiff felt a blunt force impact to the back of her head and neck, which  allegedly propelled her out of her seated position, and directly into the back  of a stadium seat directly ahead of where she was seated. (Complaint, ¶¶ 11,  12, & 16.)    Plaintiff further alleges that just prior to being  struck, she is informed and believed, that an intoxicated individual, John Doe  1, lost their balance and fell into the rows of people ahead of them.  (Complaint, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff asserts that she is informed and believes that  John Doe 1 through his fall, fell over seats and onto rows ahead of him,  resulting in John Doe 1 ultimately impacting the back of Plaintiff, resulting  in the incident. (Complaint, ¶ 18.) Plaintiff contends that the impact of her  face and body with the stadium seat ahead of her caused serious injuries to  Plaintiff, including, but certainly not limited to, a concussion, bruising, and  severe head, neck, and back pain. (Complaint, ¶ 19.) Moreover, Plaintiff  alleges that event staff and emergency personnel failed to notice or tend to  Plaintiff after impact despite Plaintiff being in considerable pain from the  incident. (Complaint, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff argues that instead, she had to proceed  to leave her seat and seek help and was required to walk all over the premises  before finding event staff to assist her. (Complaint, ¶ 20.) As a result of the  incident, Plaintiff asserts that she suffered severe injuries to her body and  nervous system as a result of the incident, and Plaintiff continues to suffer  from these injuries to the present day. (Complaint, ¶ 21.)    Defendants, Stadco LA, LLC, Pincay RE, LLC, and Hollywood Park Management  Company, LLC (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion to compel arbitration. Moving  Defendants assert that Plaintiff expressly agreed to their Stadium Seat License  Agreement Terms and Conditions. Moving Defendants state that section 11 of the  License Agreement Terms included an arbitration provision which mandates that  all disputes must and will be settled by binding arbitration and that both the  Defendant and Plaintiff were each waiving the right to trial by judge or jury.  As such, Moving Defendants have brought this motion to compel arbitration.      B.     Procedural                                                 i.             Motion to Compel Arbitration    On September 3, 2024, over 6  months after filing their Answer to the Complaint in this action, Moving Defendants  filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration. On September 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition brief. On October 16, 2024, Moving Defendants’ filed a reply brief.    This Motion to Compel was  initially heard on October 23, 2024, but with the new matters raised in Moving  Defendants’ reply briefs and a then recently issued California Suprem Court  decision bearing on waiver of the right to arbitrate, this Court continued the hearing  to allow Plaintiff to file a sur-reply addressing those new matters. On  December 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed her sur-reply brief.    II.  ANALYSIS               In Moving  Defendants’ reply brief, they argued that Plaintiff had not met the burden to  argue waiver under Quach v. California Commerce Club, Inc.  (2024) 16 Cal.5th 562 (“Quach”). Moving Defendants’ reply brief asserted  that while the assertion of a right to arbitrate a dispute and then  subsequently delaying on enforcing that right may be a factor evidencing a step  that is “inconsistent with an intent to invoke arbitration,” no case in  California held that a failure to plead it as an affirmative defense, without  more, is sufficient to find waiver. Second, Moving Defendants state that  although they did serve discovery, this discovery was precisely the kind of  exchange of information specifically provided for in AAA’s rules. Moving  Defendants also maintain that they did respond to Plaintiff’s discovery by  raising objections, one of which being that there was a binding arbitration  clause. Additionally, Moving Defendants argue that as stated in the  concurrently filed declaration of their counsel, at the moment counsel became  aware of the SSL agreement, he took immediate steps to: (1) advise Plaintiff of  the arbitration provision; and (2) begin preparing the paperwork for the  arbitration petition. Based on this, Moving Defendants assert that, on balance,  they did not waive their right to arbitrate.    The California Supreme Court in Quach,  after careful analysis of the CAA, found there was no basis for an  arbitration-specific prejudice rule under California law. (Quach, supra,  16 Cal.5th at 576.) The Court also turned to the question of how to analyze a  waiver issue without the St. Agnes prejudice requirement, finding “[i]n  ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, a court should separately evaluate  each generally applicable state contract law defense raised by the party  opposing arbitration. It should not lump distinct legal defenses into a  catch-all category called ‘waiver.’” (Id. at 583-84.) The Quach Court  found that “[a]mong the factors we identified as relevant to a ‘waiver’  determination in St. Agnes are some that are relevant to other defenses,  such as forfeiture, estoppel, laches or timeliness, but not to waiver.  [Citation.]…[Citations.] Instead, a court should be careful to consider only  those factors that are relevant to the specific state law defense the party  resisting arbitration has raised.” (Id. at 584.)  As in Quach, the defense  raised by Plaintiff in this case was waiver. (Ibid.) “The waiver inquiry  is exclusively focused on the waiving party’s words or conduct; neither the  effect of that conduct on the party seeking to avoid enforcement of the  contractual right nor that party’s subjective evaluation of the waiving party’s  intent is relevant. [Citations.] This distinguishes waiver from the related  defense of estoppel, ‘which generally requires a showing that a party’s word or  acts have induced detrimental reliance by the opposing party.’ [Citations.] To  establish waiver, there is no requirement that the party opposing enforcement  of the contractual right demonstrate prejudice or otherwise show harm resulting  from the waiving party’s conduct.” (Id. at 585.)  In Quach, the Plaintiff had  worked for California Commerce Club casino, for almost 30 days when his  employment was terminated. His complaint alleged wrongful termination, age  discrimination, retaliation, and harassment. Prior to the filing of Quach’s  complaint, Commerce Club gave him the signature page of a form arbitration he  had allegedly signed in 2015, which provided for binding arbitration of  employment-related disputes. (Id. at 570-71.) Commerce Club did not  immediately file a motion to compel arbitration, instead asserting the right to  arbitrate as an affirmative defense in its answer. Commerce Club then  propounded and answered discovery. In the form it completed prior to the first  case management conference, it requested a jury trial, did not check the box  indicating it was open to participating in private arbitration, and did not  list a motion to compel arbitration in the space provided for listing  anticipated motions. It indicated only that it intended to file a dispositive  motion. As the case management conference, a trial date was set, and Commerce  Club continued to participate in discovery, at one point providing a copy of  the arbitration agreement’s signature page to Quach. Thirteen months after  Quach filed his lawsuit, Commerce Club filed a motion to compel arbitration,  asserting it has “just located a complete copy of Quach’s arbitration  agreement.” (Id. at 571.)  The California Supreme Court in Quach  found these facts constituted clear and convincing evidence of waiver. The same  is true here. This Court finds the following factors to be evidence of Moving  Defendants’ waiver: (1) in the Moving Defendants’ answer, they did not list  arbitration as an affirmative defense; (2) Moving Defendants’ case management  statement, filed on June 10, 2024 states that they are requesting a jury trial  in section 5; (3) In section 10c of the case management statement, Moving  Defendants check the boxes for mediation and settlement conference, but do not  check boxes for arbitration; (4) As noted by Plaintiff, Moving Defendants  served Plaintiff with written discovery on February 26, 2024, and (5) if the  arbitration agreement is contained in the seat licenses for every license in a  stadium with a seating capacity of 70,000 or more spectators, it is of no  moment that the lawyer for defendant may not have been aware of the language of  the seat license much before the arbitration motion was field, since the waiver  is by the client not by the lawyer.  The Court places little weight on Moving  Defendants’ argument that the initial discovery they served would be akin to  the kind of informational exchange in the rules of AAA.  As noted in Plaintiff’s sur-reply such an  exchange would be directed or decided by an arbitrator, and Plaintiff would  have also been afforded answers from Moving Defendants instead of objections  based in part on the existence of an arbitration agreement. Plaintiff argues  that this argument shows “gamesmanship” on the part of Moving Defendants, but the  Court discounts that assertion.  Instead,  the Court focuses on the fact that seat licenses and the impact of language  contained in them should be known by the stadium and if officers and manager,  even if the lawyer may lack personal knowledge of the same.   If all  seat licenses at SoFi stadium contain arbitration agreements, it would be  incumbent on the client to provide that information and documentation at the  outset of litigation if the value of arbitrating disputes arising from the use  of the seat license were important to the client, especially given a series of  appellate rulings in recent years regarding the importance of raising  arbitration as a defense at the earliest opportunity to avoid an argument as to  the waiver of the right to arbitrate.     The Court’s tentative ruling is to  DENY the motion to compel arbitration based on Moving Defendants’ waiver of the  right to arbitrate by failing to raise that defense at the earliest opportunity  and by taking positions in the instant litigation inconsistent with a claimed  contractual arbitration agreement.  III. CONCLUSION    For the foregoing reasons, Moving Defendants’ Motion to Compel  Arbitration is DENIED.      Plaintiff is ordered to provide  notice.   