 Case Number:  22STCV29067    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 7, 2022, Plaintiff Richard Martinez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Nasser Mohamad and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and
general negligence. 
On
July 27, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Rola Nasser
as Doe 1.  On November 27, 2023, the
Court dismissed Defendant Rola Nasser without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
November 9, 2023, Mohamad Nasser, erroneously sued
as Nasser Mohamad (“Defendant”), filed an answer. 
On March 8, 2024, Defendant filed motions to compel Plaintiff’s
responses without objections to (1) demand for identification and inspection of
documents, set one, (2) special interrogatories, set one, and (3) form
interrogatories, set one.  Defendant also
requested sanctions.  The motions were
set for hearing on April 2, 2024.  On
March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions. 
On March 25, 2024, Defendant filed replies. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 5, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to compel Plaintiff to serve verified responses without
objections to (1) Defendant’s demand for identification and inspection of
documents, set one, (2) Defendant’s special interrogatories, set one, and
(3) Defendant’s form interrogatories, set one. 
Defendant also requests sanctions. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to continue the hearing on the motions for 30 days. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Inspection demand 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 provides: 
“If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order
compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent exceptional
circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or any attorney
of a party for failure to provide electronically stored information that has
been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of the routine, good
faith operation of an electronic information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) 
B.   Interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 provides: 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and
2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) 
DISCUSSION 
On November
9, 2022, Defendant served a demand for identification and inspection of
documents, set one, special interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories,
set one.  On February 7, 2024, Defendant
received Plaintiff’s unverified responses to the discovery.  Arguing that an unverified response is the
equivalent of no response, Defendant asks the Court to order Plaintiff to
provide verified code-compliant responses without objections.  (See L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:1113, p. 8F-54 (Cal.
Practice Guide) [“Where a verification is required [citation], an unverified
response is ineffective; it is the equivalent of no response at all”].) 
Plaintiff
does not dispute that Defendant is entitled to verified responses.  Plaintiff asks the Court to continue the
hearing on the motions for 30 days to give Plaintiff additional time to obtain
the verifications. 
In
addition, Plaintiff argues that “an unverified response containing both
answers and objections, which Plaintiff made here, is effective to preserve
those objections.”  Plaintiff relies on Food
4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651 (Food
4 Less), where the Court of Appeal held that when a party serves a timely
response to a request for production of documents that includes both objections
and fact-specific responses, “[t]he omission of the verification in the portion
of the response containing fact-specific responses merely renders that portion
of the response untimely and therefore only creates a right to move for orders
and sanctions under [former] subdivision (k) of [Code of Civil Procedure] section
2031 as to those responses but does not result in a waiver of the objections
made.”  (Food 4
Less, supra, 40 Cal.App.4th at pp. 657-658, fn. omitted.)  However, the statute “could result in a
waiver of objections if the party fails to file any response within the
statutory time period.” [1]
(Id. at p. 658.) 
In Food
4 Less, the Court of Appeal concluded that the defendants served timely
discovery responses.  As a result, “[t]he
lack of verification did not render their objections untimely” and the trial
court “erred in finding defendants had waived their objections and in imposing
monetary sanctions upon defendants.” (Food
4 Less, supra, 40 Cal.App.4th at p. 658.) 
Here,
the parties do not squarely address whether Plaintiff’s February 9, 2024
discovery responses were timely.  Defendant
states that he “granted discovery extensions to Plaintiff on five separate
occasions, for a total of more than eight weeks.”  (Defendant also states that he gave Plaintiff “4+
months.”)  But Defendant does not contend
or show that Plaintiff served his unverified discovery responses
after the extended deadline to which Defendant agreed. 
The
Court finds that Defendant has not carried his burden of proving that Plaintiff’s unverified discovery responses were untimely.  As a result, Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff
waived his objections to the discovery requests.  
The
Court grants Defendant’s motions to compel in part and orders Plaintiff to
serve verifications to his discovery responses by May 1, 2024.  The Court denies Defendant’s request for an order
that Plaintiff has waived his objections to the discovery and denies Defendant’s
request for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS in part Defendant Mohamad Nasser’s
motion to compel verified responses to the demand for identification and
inspection of documents, set one, and orders Plaintiff Richard Martinez to
serve a verification to his response by May 1, 2024.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the
motion. 
The Court GRANTS in part Defendant Mohamad Nasser’s
motion to compel verified responses to special interrogatories, set one, and
orders Plaintiff Richard Martinez to serve a verification to his response by
May 1, 2024.  In all other respects, the
Court DENIES the motion. 
The Court GRANTS in part Defendant Mohamad Nasser’s
motion to compel verified responses to form interrogatories, set one, and
orders Plaintiff Richard Martinez to serve a verification to his response by
May 1, 2024.  In all other respects, the
Court DENIES the motion. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Richard Martinez’s
request for a 30-day continuance. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of these rulings. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of these rulings with the Court
within five days._____________________________________________________________________________________[1]  The Court of
Appeal stated:
“What
then is the appropriate procedure if a party tenders a hybrid response
containing objections and fact-specific responses? Given our analysis, there is
no need to verify that portion of the response containing the objections. Thus,
if the response is served within the statutory time period, that portion
of the response must be considered timely notwithstanding the lack of
verification. The omission of the verification in the portion of the response
containing fact-specific responses merely renders that portion of the response
untimely and therefore only creates a right to move for orders and sanctions
under subdivision (k) of section 2031 as to those responses but does not result
in a waiver of the objections made.  The
only situation in which lack of verification could both render the response
untimely and result in a waiver of objections under subdivision (k) is when the
initial unverified response contains no objections. And in a different factual
vein, subdivision (k) could result in a waiver of objections if the party fails
to file any response within the statutory time period.” 
(Food 4 Less, supra,
40 Cal.App.4th at pp. 657-658, fns. omitted, emphasis added.)

