 Case Number:  21STCV43814    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  November 30, 2021, Plaintiff Rosemarie Paradis Gross (“Plaintiff”) filed this  action against Defendants Macerich Cerritos, LLC, Macerich Cerritos Holdings,  LLC, Manager Nick, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability.  On  May 26, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Macerich Cerritos, LLC, Macerich Cerritos  Holdings, LLC, Manager Nick, Macerich Property Management Company, LLC, The  Macerich Company, Interstate Cleaning Corporation, and Does 1-50 for general  negligence and premises liability.  On  November 3, 2022, Defendants Interstate Cleaning Corporation,  Macerich  Cerritos, LLC (for itself  and erroneously sued and served as Macerich Cerritos Holdings, LLC), and Macerich  Management Company (erroneously sued and served as Macerich Property Management  Company, LLC, and The Macerich Company) (“Defendants”) filed an answer  to the first amended complaint.  On  February 27, 2024, Defendant Macerich Cerritos, LLC (“Macerich Cerritos”) filed  motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to requests for production of  documents, set one, special interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories,  set one, and for sanctions.  The motions  were set to be heard on April 2, 2024.    Plaintiff did not file oppositions.  On  March 4, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to continue the trial and related dates.  The motion was set to be heard on April 2, 2024.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition.  Trial  is currently scheduled for August 21, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Macerich  Cerritos asks the Court to compel Plaintiff’s responses to requests for  production of documents, special interrogatories, and form interrogatories and to award sanctions.  Defendants  ask the Court to continue the trial and related dates.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Inspection demand  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 provides:  “If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,  testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the  following rules shall apply:  “(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,  copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,  including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under  Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve  that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following  conditions are satisfied:  “(1) The party has subsequently served a response that  is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,  2031.240, and 2031.280.  “(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response  was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  “(b) The party making the demand may move for an order  compelling response to the demand.  “(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court  shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or  opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,  testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction  acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the  imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order  compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including  the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in  addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).  “(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent exceptional  circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or any attorney  of a party for failure to provide electronically stored information that has  been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of the routine, good  faith operation of an electronic information system.  “(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter  any obligation to preserve discoverable information.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.)  B.   Interrogatories  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 provides:  “If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails  to serve a timely response, the following rules apply:  “(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are  directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under  Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including  one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4  (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that  party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following  conditions are satisfied:  “(1) The party has subsequently served a response that  is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and  2030.240.  “(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response  was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  “(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may  move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.  “(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling  answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition  of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that  sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing  with Section 2023.010).”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.)  C.      Motion to continue trial  California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides:  “(a) Trial dates are firm  “To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the  dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard  the date set for trial as certain.  “(b) Motion or application  “A party seeking a continuance of the date set for  trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must  make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte  application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting  declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as  reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.  “(c) Grounds for continuance          “Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each  request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may  grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the  continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:  “(1)  The  unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,  or other excusable circumstances;  “(2)  The  unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;  “(3)  The  unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;  “(4)  The  substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing  that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  “(5)  The  addition of a new party if:  “(A)  The new  party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for  trial; or  “(B)  The other  parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;  “(6)  A party's  excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material  evidence despite diligent efforts; or  “(7)  A  significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of  which the case is not ready for trial.  “(d) Other factors to be considered  “In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,  the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to  the determination. These may include:  “(1)  The  proximity of the trial date;  “(2)  Whether  there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to  any party;  “(3)  The length  of the continuance requested;  “(4)  The  availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the  motion or application for a continuance;  “(5)  The  prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;  “(6)  If the  case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status  and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  “(7)  The  court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending  trials;  “(8)  Whether  trial counsel is engaged in another trial;  “(9)  Whether  all parties have stipulated to a continuance;  “(10)  Whether  the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the  matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  “(11)  Any other  fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or  application.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1332.)  DISCUSSION  A.   Macerich Cerritos’s motions to compel discovery responses On November  3, 2022, Macerich Cerritos served requests for production of documents, set  one, special interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories, set one, on Plaintiff.   On January 25, 2023, Plaintiff served  unverified responses to the requests for production of documents and form  interrogatories.  Plaintiff has not served responses to the special interrogatories. In Food  4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651 (Food  4 Less), the Court of Appeal held that when a party serves a timely  response to a request for production of documents that includes both objections  and fact-specific responses, “[t]he omission of the verification in the portion  of the response containing fact-specific responses merely renders that portion  of the response untimely and therefore only creates a right to move for orders  and sanctions under [former] subdivision (k) of [Code of Civil Procedure] section  2031 as to those responses but does not result in a waiver of the objections  made.”  (Food 4  Less, supra, 40 Cal.App.4th at pp. 657-658, fn. omitted.)  However, the statute “could result in a  waiver of objections if the party fails to file any response within the  statutory time period.”  (Id. at p. 658.)  The Court of Appeal concluded in Food 4 Less that the defendants served timely  discovery responses.  As a result, “[t]he  lack of verification did not render their objections untimely” and the trial  court “erred in finding defendants had waived their objections and in imposing  monetary sanctions upon defendants.” (Food  4 Less, supra, 40 Cal.App.4th at p. 658.)  Here, Macerich Cerritos does not squarely address whether Plaintiff’s January 25, 2023 responses to the requests for production of documents and form interrogatories were timely.  The  Court finds that Macerich Cerritos has not carried its burden of proving that Plaintiff’s January 25, 2023 unverified responses to the requests for production of documents and form interrogatories were untimely.  As a result, Macerich Cerritos has not shown that Plaintiff  waived her objections to these discovery requests.  Macerich Cerritos has shown that Plaintiff did not serve a response to the special interrogatories.  Therefore, Plaintiff has waived her objections to the special interrogatories.  The  Court grants Macerich Cerritos’s motions to compel in part and orders Plaintiff to  serve verifications to her responses to the requests for production of documents and form interrogatories by April 15, 2024.  The Court denies Macerich Cerritos's request to order  that Plaintiff has waived her objections to the requests for production of documents and form interrogatories.   The Court grants Macerich Cerritos's motion to compel responses to the special interrogatories and orders Plaintiff to serve verified, code-compliant responses to the special interrogatories, without objections, by April 15, 2024. B.   Macerich Cerritos’s sanctions requests  Citing  Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, Macerich Cerritos asks the Court to  award $720.00 on its motion to compel responses to requests for production of  documents, $1,440.00 on its motion to compel responses to special  interrogatories, and $720.00 on its motion to compel responses to form  interrogatories.  Under  Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.290 and 2031.300, sanctions are available  against parties, persons, and attorneys who unsuccessfully make or oppose a  motion to compel a response to interrogatories or requests for production.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c)  [interrogatories], 2031.300, subd. (c) [demand for inspection].)  Plaintiff has not made or opposed a motion to  compel responses to interrogatories or requests for production.  Therefore, sanctions are not available under  these statutes.  Macerich  Cerritos also relies on the statutory definition of misuse of the discovery  process.  (Code Civ. Proc, §  2023.010.)  However, “[Code of Civil  Procedure section 2023.010 is] ‘definitional’ and monetary sanctions may not be  imposed based solely on [the statute].   Monetary sanctions may be imposed only if authorized by some other  provision of the Discovery Act.”  (Cal.  Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:1900, p. 8M-2; see Code Civ. Proc., §  2023.030 [court may impose sanctions for misuse of the discovery process “[t]o  the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method  or other provision of this title”]; City of Los Angeles v.  PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 498-504.)  The  Court denies Macerich Cerritos’s request for monetary sanctions.  C.   Defendants’ motion to continue trial and related dates  The Court  has considered Defendants’ motion to continue the trial and related dates and  finds good cause to continue the trial for two months, not six months as  Defendants request.  The Court continues  the trial to October 21, 2024.  The final  status conference, discovery, and related dates will be based on the new trial  date.  CONCLUSION   The Court GRANTS IN PART Defendant Macerich Cerritos, LLC’s  motion to compel Plaintiff Rosemarie  Paradis Gross’s responses to requests for production of documents,  set one, and orders Plaintiff Rosemarie Paradis Gross to serve a verification by April 15, 2024.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Macerich Cerritos, LLC’s  motion to compel Plaintiff Rosemarie Paradis Gross’s responses to special  interrogatories, set one, and orders Plaintiff Rosemarie Paradis Gross to serve  verified code-compliant responses to the special interrogatories without  objections by April 15, 2024.  The  Court GRANTS IN PART Defendant Macerich Cerritos, LLC’s motion to compel Plaintiff  Rosemarie Paradis Gross’s responses to form interrogatories, set one, and  orders Plaintiff Rosemarie Paradis Gross to serve a verification by April 15, 2024.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion.  The  Court DENIES Defendant Macerich Cerritos, LLC’s requests for sanctions.  The  Court GRANTS in part the motion of Defendants Interstate Cleaning Corporation, Macerich Cerritos, LLC, and Macerich  Management Company to continue the trial and related dates.  The Court continues the trial to October 21,  2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The Court continues the Final Status Conference  to October 7, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street  Courthouse.  Discovery and related dates  will be based on the new trial date.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of these rulings.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of these rulings with the  Court within five days.