 Case Number:  22STCV31690    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposing papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 28, 2022, Plaintiff Kamyar Khorshidi (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Laci Rae Buller (“Defendant”) and Does 1-25 for motor
vehicle tort. 
On
June 14, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
October 19, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Bastoli Auto Body and Paint and Roes 1-50 for for complete indemnity, partial
indemnity, and declaratory relief.  On
November 22, 2023, Defendant amended the complaint to replace the incorrect
name Bastoli Auto Body and Paint with the correct name Bastoli Auto Body Inc. (“Bastoli”).  On February 8, 2024, Bastoli filed an answer
to the cross-complaint. 
On
January 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to strike Defendant’s cross-complaint
and summons, to be heard on April 2, 2024. On March 18, 2024, Defendant filed
an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 18, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to strike Defendant’s cross-complaint and summons. 
Defendant
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 436 provides: 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
“The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on
the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)  “Where the
motion to strike is based on matter of which the court may take judicial notice
pursuant to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be
specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities,
except as the court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
“In
passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.)  
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
          The complaint alleges that on October 31, 2021, at the intersection
of Clifton Way and North Crescent Drive in Beverly Hills, Defendant negligently
operated a motor vehicle, injuring Plaintiff. 
B.   Cross-Complaint 
The cross-complaint
alleges that on October 31, 2021, Bastoli negligently caused Plaintiff’s alleged
damages.  
C.   Motion to strike cross-complaint and summons 
Plaintiff argues the cross-complaint is untimely, is “devoid of substance,” and “lacks factual allegations of
any kind.” 
In
response, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s motion is improper, Plaintiff did
not meet and confer, and the cross-complaint does not violate the statute of
limitations. 
D.   Ruling 
A
party who files a motion to strike “shall file and serve with the motion to
strike a declaration stating either of the following: 
“(A) The means by which the moving party met and
conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion to
strike, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised by the motion to strike. 
“(B) That the party who filed the pleading subject to
the motion to strike failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the
moving party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,
subd. (a)(3).)  
Plaintiff’s
motion does not include a declaration. 
While “[a] determination by the court that the meet and confer process
was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion to strike”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4)), the
statute does not prevent the Court from denying a motion to strike based on the
moving party’s failure to provide the declaration required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a)(3). 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Kamyar
Khorshidi’s motion to strike Defendant Laci Rae Buller’s cross-complaint. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.