  Case Number:  23STCV21002    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  39   TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


December 4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV21002




MOTION


Special Motion to Strike




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Rolling
  Hills Covenant Church, Clyde League, Sam Tabari, Craig Knickerbocker, Sam
  Evans, and John Thill




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Daniel A. Burgoyne



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Daniel
A. Burgoyne (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Rolling Hills Covenant Church
(“Rolling Hills”), Clyde LaGue, Sam Tabari, Craig Knickerbocker, Sam Evans, and
John Thrill (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging Defendants wrongfully
terminated his employment as pastor at Rolling Hills.  Defendants
filed this special motion to strike Plaintiff’s complaint.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
In ruling on a
defendant's special motion to strike, the trial court uses a two-step
process.  First, the defendant must show the
act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken in furtherance of the
defendant's right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitutions in connection with a public issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(b)(1).)  If the defendant carries that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of
prevailing on the claim.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(3).)  
In the instant
case, Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action are based on claims Defendants
posted statements “online for the entire world to see.”  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 408, 429.)  Claims based on “any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest” are subject to a special motion to strike.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(3).) “The Internet is a classic public
forum . . . .” (Chaker v. Mateo (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1146.) As
Plaintiff’s claims are based on Defendants’ online posts, Plaintiff’s claims
are based on Defendants’ statements in a public forum. However, Defendants have
not shown that Defendants’ statements were in connection with a public issue.
 
“At a sufficiently
high level of generalization, any conduct can appear rationally related to a
broader issue of public importance.  What
a court scrutinizing the nature of speech in the anti-SLAPP context must focus
on is the speech at hand, rather than the prospects that such speech may
conceivably have indirect consequences for an issue of public concern.” (Rand
Resources, LLC v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 625.)  Conceivably, the issue of improper conduct by
clergy or the termination of members of the clergy could be a matter of public
concern.  However, no evidence before the
Court suggests the issue of Plaintiff’s conduct is a matter of public concern.  Defendant advances evidence Plaintiff
maintains a website and has 1,500 followers on Facebook.  (See Declaration of Robert A. Hufnagel,
Exhibits E, F.)  That Plaintiff maintains
a modest internet following does not make Plaintiff a public figure such that
his termination is a matter of public concern. 
Accordingly, Defendants fail to show Defendants’ online statements fall
within the special motion to strike statute. 
Plaintiff’s other
claims are based on his termination from Rolling Hills.  Claims based on “conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a
public issue or an issue of public interest” are subject to a special motion to
strike.  (Civ. Proc. Code § 425.16, subd.
(e)(4).)  Defendant contends the First
Amendment bars Plaintiff’s claims.  Generally, nonprofit religious associations or
corporations are not employers for purposes of the Fair Employment and Housing
Act.  (Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (d); Cal.
Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11008, subd. (d)(5); Henry v. Red Hill Evangelical
Lutheran Church of Tustin (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1041, 1049.)  This doctrine is called the ministerial
exception.  
“The ministerial
exception protects religious organizations from the normally attendant adverse
consequences of employment discrimination. 
The exception is constitutionally compelled and arises out of the
establishment and free exercise clauses of the First Amendment.  [¶] 
The ministerial exception doctrine is based on the notion a church's
appointment of its clergy, along with such closely related issues as clerical
salaries, assignments, working conditions and termination of employment, is an
inherently religious function because clergy are such an integral part of a
church's functioning as a religious institution.  Therefore, secular courts will not attempt to
right wrongs related to the hiring, firing, discipline or administration of
clergy.  Implicit in this statement of
the rule is the acknowledgment that such wrongs may exist, that they may be
severe, and that the administration of the church itself may be inadequate to provide
a remedy.  The preservation of the free
exercise of religion is deemed so important a principle as to overshadow the
inequities which may result from its liberal application.  In our society, jealous as it is of
separation of church and state, one who enters the clergy forfeits the protection
of the civil authorities in terms of job rights.”  (Henry v. Red Hill Evangelical Lutheran
Church of Tustin (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1041, 1053-1054, internal
quotations and citations omitted.)  
However, the Court
need not reach the issue of whether the ministerial exception bars Plaintiff’s
claims, as Defendants fail to show Plaintiff’s termination was in connection
with a public issue.  The Court notes Defendant
argues for the first time in its reply brief Plaintiff’s termination received
news coverage.  Defendant’s purported
evidence of this fact does not show any such news coverage.  (See Hufnagel Decl.,
Exhibit F.)  In any event, the Court
cannot consider this argument because Plaintiff has not had an opportunity to
respond to it.  (In re Marriage of
Hoffmeister (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d 1163, 1171.)  As such, the special motion to strike is
denied.
Plaintiff is ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 