 Case Number:  23STCV23228    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


December 4, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV23228




MOTION:  


Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Rosa Hernandez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants Henry Shahery, an individual and as trustee of
  the H&N Shahery Revocable Trust, Niloufar Shahery, Shason Inc., and HSH
  Management Group, Inc.



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiff
Rosa Hernandez (“Plaintiffs”) moves to compel further responses from Defendants
Henry Shahery, an individual and as trustee of the H&N Shahery Revocable
Trust, Niloufar Shahery, Shason Inc., and HSH Management Group, Inc. (“Defendants”)
to Special Interrogatories, set two, No. 8 (“SROG”).  Defendants oppose the motions.
ANALYSIS
If the propounding
party deems responses to interrogatories unsatisfactory, the propounding party
may move to compel further responses. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300.)  
Plaintiff’s SROG,
which are the subject of Plaintiff’s motions, require Defendants to identify documents
and individuals with knowledge pertaining to Defendants’ financial condition.  Defendants served objections to the SROG.  As Plaintiff timely filed these motions to
compel further responses, Defendants have the burden to justify their
objections.  (Fairmont Insurance Company.
v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  In opposing the motions, Defendants argue the
SROG improperly seek information about their financial conditions.    
Civil Code section
3295 (section 3295), subdivision (c) provides, in pertinent part, “[n]o pretrial
discovery by the plaintiff shall be permitted with respect to evidence of [the
defendant’s profits or financial condition] unless the court enters an order
permitting such discovery. . . . However, the plaintiff may subpoena documents or
witnesses to be available at the trial for the purpose of establishing
the profits or financial condition . . . and the defendant may be required to
identify documents in the defendant’s possession which are relevant and
admissible for that purpose and the witnesses employed by or related to the
defendant who would be most competent to testify to those facts. . . . the
court may at any time enter an order permitting the discovery otherwise
prohibited . . . if the court finds, on the basis of the supporting and
opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has established that there is
a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim
pursuant to Section 3294.”  (Cal. Civ.
Code, § 3295, subd. (c) (emphasis
added).)
Plaintiff has
pleaded she is entitled to punitive and exemplary damages.  However, under section 3295, subdivision (c),
before this Court may order the pretrial discovery Plaintiff seeks, the Court
must find Plaintiff “has established that there is a substantial probability” Plaintiff
will prevail on her punitive damages claim. 
Based on the record before this Court, Plaintiff has not satisfied that
requirement at this stage in the litigation. 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s request for pretrial discovery compelling
Defendants to further respond to the subject SROG is unsupported.  Section 3295, subdivision (c) certainly permits
Plaintiff to subpoena documents and witnesses “to be available at the trial”;
but Plaintiff’s request through her motions is for Defendants to provide
specific information pertaining to their financial condition now, rather than such
information being available at trial.[1]  
Despite Plaintiff’s
conjecture seeking profit and financial condition information after she has
established Defendants’ liability may be too late for purposes of being awarded
punitive damages, such supposition is not a sufficient basis under the statute
for the Court to order Defendants to identify documents in their possession at
this time versus having such documents available at the trial of this action.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motions to compel
further responses to the SROG are denied.
Under the circumstances,
the Court declines to impose sanctions because such an award would be unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd.
(d).) 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motions
to compel further responses to the SROG are denied.  
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 


