  Case Number:  23PSCV00355    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant City of Claremont’s Motion for Summary  Judgment, or, in the Alternative. Summary Adjudication Respondent: Plaintiff  Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club TENTATIVE RULING Defendant City of Claremont’s Motion for Summary  Judgment is GRANTED. BACKGROUND This  is an action for dangerous condition of public property and inverse  condemnation. Plaintiff Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club (IEAC) is  an insurance provider who provided insurance coverage for Juan Cervera, Jr.,  the owner of a residential property in Claremont. After a tree fell onto  Cervera’s Claremont property in January 2022, IEAC made payments in excess of  $100,000 to Cervera for the damages. IEAC alleges the tree that fell onto  Cervera’s property belonged to Defendant City of Claremont (the City). On  February 6, 2023, IEAC filed a complaint against the City and Does 1-10,  alleging causes of action for (1) dangerous condition of public property and  (2) inverse condemnation. On December  27, 2023, the City filed the present motion. At the hearing on March 20, 2024,  the requested additional briefing from the parties on the issue of public  policy aspects of the issues raised by Plaintiff in its opposition to the  motion for summary judgment.  A hearing  on the motion is set for April 18, 2024, with a post-mediation status  conference/trial setting conference set for June 24. ANALYSIS The  City moves for summary judgment or adjudication of IEAC’s claims on the grounds  that it cannot establish all the elements of its causes of action. For the  following reasons, the court GRANTS the City’s motion. Legal Standard A  motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism  to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite  their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted  “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from  the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that  there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the opposing party must produce  substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if  it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim  for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Inverse Condemnation (Second Cause of Action) The  City argues it is entitled to summary judgment because IEAC cannot establish  the City planted or directed the planting of the subject tree that fell onto  Cervera’s property. The court agrees. Legal Standard Inverse  condemnation arises from the constitutional prohibition on taking private  property for public use without compensation. (San Diego Gas & Electric  Co. v. Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 939.) It allows the property  owner of taken or damaged property to obtain compensation from the state in the  form of damages. (Regency Outdoor Advertising, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2006)  39 Cal.4th 507, 516; Lafayette Bollinger Development LLC v. Town of Moraga (2023)  93 Cal.App.5th 752, 777.) To succeed on a claim for inverse condemnation  against a public entity, the property owner must establish that the public  entity “substantially participated in the planning, approval, construction, or  operation of a public project or improvement which proximately caused injury to  plaintiff’s property.” (Wildensten v. East Bay Regional Park Dist. (1991)  231 Cal.App.3d 976, 979-980.) “A  public project or improvement is a ‘use which concerns the whole community or  promotes the general interest in its relation to any legitimate object of  government.’” (Mercury Casualty Co. v. City of Pasadena (2017) 14  Cal.App.5th 917, 926 (Mercury Casualty), quoting Bauer v. County of  Ventura (1955) 45 Cal.2d 276, 284.) “[A] tree constitutes a work of public  improvement for purposes of inverse condemnation liability if the tree is  deliberately planted by or at the direction of the government entity as part of  a planned project or design serving a public purpose or use, such as to enhance  the appearance of a public road.” (Id., at p. 928.) Discussion In  this case, the Complaint alleges the subject tree was a public improvement  because it was planted and maintained by the City. (Complaint, ¶ 28, 32.) The  City argues there is no evidence to establish the subject tree was planted by  or at the direction of the City. In support of this argument, the City points  to a declaration by Brad Johnson, the City’s Director of Community Development.  After conducting a search of the City’s records, Johnson was unable to  determine when and by whom the subject tree was planted. (Johnson Decl., ¶  8-9.) Johnson was also unable to locate any documents showing that the City  planted the subject tree as part of a public improvement project. (Johnson  Decl., ¶ 9.) According to Johnson, the area where the subject tree was located  was annexed into the City from unincorporated Los Angeles County in 1980.  (Johnson Decl., ¶ 8.) Johnson also stated that based on a review of aerial  photographs from that same time period, the subject tree appeared to have been  planted prior to the City’s annexation of the area. (Johnson Decl., ¶ 10.) Next,  the City points to IEAC’s discovery responses. In a supplemental response to a  special interrogatory requesting all facts that supports IEAC’s contention that  the City “inspected, maintained, owned, and exercised dominion and control over  the subject tree,” IEAC stated the “[t]he tree at issue was planted in the  public right of way within a uniform pattern equidistant from  trees of the same species and size along the relevant street in front of  multiple different private properties.” (Oren Decl., Ex. B, p. 5:24-26, 6:21-24.)  The court notes that IEAC failed to identify, however, any facts establishing the  City or its predecessor-in-interest actually planted or directed the planting  of the subject tree. Based on these facts, the court finds the City met its  burden as the moving party by establishing there are no facts to suggest the  City or its predecessor-in-interest planted or directed the planting of the  subject tree at issue. In  opposition, IEAC does not dispute the lack of evidence establishing the City  planted or directed the planting of the subject tree. (Plaintiff’s Separate  Statement (PSS), ¶ 4.) IEAC does dispute the fact that there is no evidence to  suggest the subject tree was planted as part of a planned project or design  serving a public purpose. (PSS, ¶ 5.) In support, IEAC points to the following  facts. First, IEAC states the subject tree was planted as part of an original  subdivision development that was constructed in 1961. (PSS, ¶ 11.) But while  IEAC cites the declaration of Johnson for this contention, the court does not  find Johnson’s declaration provides any support for this fact. Johnson stated  the subdivision where the subject tree was located was built in 1961. (Johnson  Decl., ¶ 8.) While Johnson states the subject tree was planted as part of the original  subdivision in 1961 based on aerial photographs from 1980, it is unclear on  what foundation or basis Johnson is making this assertion. (Johnson Decl., ¶  10.) Johnson’s unsupported speculation neither provides the proper evidentiary  support for the claim that the subject tree was planted in 1961, nor does it create  a triable issue of fact. Second,  IEAC states the subject tree was one of at least twenty Canary Island pines that  were planted along the same street at roughly the same time. (PSS, ¶ 12.) In  support, IEAC provides a screenshot of a Google Maps street view. (Kraemer  Decl., Ex. A.) But while this evidence shows how some of the trees looked in  June 2018, it fails to establish when the trees were planted. IEAC also points  to the declaration of Richard Hecker, the City’s landscape maintenance  supervisor, who stated that six other Canary Island pines fell on the same  street and roughly twenty were removed following storm damage. (Hecker Decl., ¶  11.) But Hecker fails to state how many trees were located along the street in  total and when they were planted. Thus, there is no evidence to support this  contention. Third, IEAC states the Canary Island pines that included the  subject tree were planted in a uniform pattern within the right-of-way and were  roughly of the same size. (PSS, ¶ 14.) In support, IEAC also points to the same  Google Maps screenshot. (Kraemer Decl., Ex. A.) But while the screenshot  appears to a show a handful of pine trees with similar heights and placements,  it does not establish when the pines were planted. While  IEAC admits there is no written evidence establishing who planted the subject  tree, IEAC claims there is no reasonable argument that it was planted for any  purpose other than a planned project or design. During the hearing on March 20,  2024, and in supplemental briefing, IEAC also suggests that the design of the  right of way and the landscape planting areas suggest that the tree was part of  a public improvement. But even so, IEAC failed to introduce any facts that  establish the project or design was a public improvement initiated or directed  by a public agency. Although  IEAC argues a factfinder could infer from the design of the trees that they were  planted by or at the direction of a public agency, this speculation is insufficient  to establish a triable issue of fact as a designed planting of the trees could  have easily been done by a private developer seeking to improve the  marketability of the subdivision. “An issue of fact can only be created by a  conflict of evidence. It is not created by ‘speculation, conjecture,  imagination or guess work.’” (Sinai Memorial Chapel v. Dudler (1991) 231  Cal.App.3d 190, 196, quoting O’Neil v. Dake (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 1038,  1044-1045.) In Mercury  Casualty, the court held a tree was not a work of public improvement where  there was no record of who planted the tree or for what purpose the tree was  planted. (Mercury Casualty, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 929.) IEAC  argues Mercury Casualty is distinguishable from the present action because  the holding in that case was not premised solely on the question of who planted  or directed the planting of the tree. Here, IEAC argues the subject tree itself  was not a public improvement but rather part of the public improvement. But Mercury  Casualty is not distinguishable. If, as IEAC suggests, the decision of Mercury  Casualty was limited to the specific facts of that case, the Court of  Appeal would have stated so. It did not. Instead, it unambiguously stated “a  tree constitutes a work of public improvement for purposes of inverse  condemnation liability if the tree is deliberately planted by or at the  direction of the government entity as part of a planned project or design  serving a public purpose or use.” (Mercury Casualty, supra, 14  Cal.App.5th at p. 928.) In  arguing inverse condemnation liability may arise from a tree that is part of a  public improvement, IEAC also relies on Souza v. Silver Development Co. (1985)  164 Cal.App.3d 165 (Souza). There, the Court of Appeal held a natural  creek became a public improvement when it was utilized by a public entity as  part of a storm drainage system. (Id., at p. 170.) The court stated that  “[e]ven though a part of the system was not man-made, the entire system was a  public improvement or project which might subject the City to liability in  inverse condemnation.” (Ibid.) But that decision is distinguishable. Unlike  Souza where the public entity incorporated a creek into its storm  drainage system, there is no evidence here that suggests the City or Los  Angeles County incorporated the tree into their construction of the roadway.  Instead, the only fact established is that the tree was planted sometime before  1980. Finally,  IEAC argues requiring specific evidence of who planted a tree would result in  arbitrary results where the outcome depends on the existence of public records  that may be lost or destroyed. In cases of inverse condemnation liability, “the  purposes of the constitutional clause, rather than the limits established by a  rule of statutory or common law allocating rights and responsibilities between  private parties, must fix the extent of a public entity's responsibility.” (Holtz  v. Superior Court (1970) 3 Cal.3d 296, 302.) In “[b]alancing the  constitutional purposes of the taking clause with the ‘competing considerations  which caution against an open-ended, absolute liability rule of inverse  condemnation,’ [our supreme court] held that ‘any actual physical injury to  real property proximately caused by the improvement as deliberately designed  and constructed is compensable under article I, section 14, of our  Constitution, whether foreseeable or not.’” (Belair v. Riverside County  Flood Control Dist. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 550, 563, quoting Holtz, supra,  3 Cal.3d at p. 302-304, then Albers v. Los Angeles County (1965) 62  Cal.2d 250, 261-262.) While  it is well-established that inverse condemnation only arises when damage is  caused by the government’s deliberate action, IEAC seeks to expand this rule to  include a presumption that the government deliberately designed the improvement  when public records are lacking. But this policy argument by IEAC constitutes  the very type of open-ended liability that our supreme court cautioned against  and flies in the face of the rule requiring the government’s deliberate action.  Ultimately, as acknowledged in Mercury Casualty, IEAC is not without a  remedy as the City could have been held liable for the tree as a dangerous  condition. (Mercury Casualty, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 932.)  But where IEAC has failed to establish such liability and instead seeks to hold  the City strictly liable through inverse condemnation, IEAC must meet the  higher burden of establishing the fallen tree was a public improvement planted  by or at the direction of the City or its public agency predecessor. Here, IEAC  fails to present any material facts that meet this burden beyond hypotheticals  or speculations. Accordingly,  because there are no facts to establish that the subject tree was a public  improvement, the City’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED as to this cause of action. Dangerous Condition of Public Property (First Cause of  Action) The  City contends it is entitled to summary judgment because IEAC cannot  establish the City created or had notice of a dangerous condition. The court  agrees. Legal Standard Pursuant  to Government Code section 835, “a public entity is liable for injury caused by  a dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the  property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the  injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous  condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was  incurred, and that either: (a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public  entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or (b)  The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition  under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken  measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” A  “‘[d]angerous condition’ means a condition of property that creates a  substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of  injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a  manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” “The  existence of a dangerous condition is ordinarily a question of fact but ‘can be  decided as a matter of law if reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion.’”  (Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1340, 1347, quoting Bonanno  v. Central Contra Costa Transit Authority (2003) 30 Cal.4th 139, 148.) Discussion In  this case, the Complaint alleges the subject tree constituted a dangerous  condition because it “it was dead or dying, was not properly planted, possessed  an advanced insect infestation, was malnourished, existed in soil that had come  to be in a poor condition, had appreciable root rot, appreciably shallow roots,  and/or was not properly pruned/maintained to withstand expected winds.”  (Complaint, ¶ 20.) The City contends there is no evidence to support the claim  that the tree was in a dangerous condition. (DSS, ¶ 7-8.) In support, the City  points to the declaration of Hecker who states the subject tree was last  inspected by the City on March 21, 2019. (Hecker Decl., ¶ 7.) The inspection  included searching for signs of distress and indications that the tree was at a  risk of falling. (Hecker Decl., ¶ 7.) Hecker states the inspection did not show  any signs of distress or indication of root structure compromise. (Hecker  Decl., ¶ 7-8.) Based on these facts, the City has met its burden as the moving  party of establishing there are no facts to suggest the subject tree  constituted a dangerous condition. In  opposition, IEAC does not dispute these facts and fails to provide any  additional facts that establish a triable issue of material fact regarding  whether the subject tree constituted a dangerous condition. Accordingly,  because there are no disputed facts upon which a reasonable factfinder could  determine the subject tree was a dangerous condition, the City’s motion for  summary judgment as to this cause of action is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the  court GRANTS the City’s motion for summary judgment.