 Case Number:  23PSCV03555    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants E*TRADE  Securities LLC and John Edward Bersin’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to  Dismiss Case or in the Alternative, Stay Proceedings Pending Arbitration Respondent: Jose Guzman  Salcedo Defendants  E*TRADE Securities LLC and John Edward Bersin’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’  Complaint Respondent:  NO OPPOSITION Defendant Bank of America,  N.A.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint Respondent: Jose Guzman  Salcedo TENTATIVE RULING Defendants E*TRADE  Securities LLC and John Edward Bersin’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED  and the present action is STAYED pending the completion of arbitration. Defendants E*TRADE Securities LLC and John Edward  Bersin’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is DEEMED MOOT. Proceedings on Defendant  Bank of America, N.A.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint are STAYED pending completion  of arbitration. BACKGROUND On  November 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Jose Guzman Salcedo and Rafael R. Salcedo filed a  complaint against Defendants Franchise Tax Board (FTB), E*TRADE Securities  Inc., E*TRADE Securities LLC, E*TRADE Clearing LLC (E*TRADE Clearing), E*TRADE  Financial Corp., E*TRADE Financial LLC, E*TRADE Group Inc. (E*TRADE), TIR  Holdings Limited (TIR Holdings), John Edward Bersin, Michael D. Lane, Bank of  America, N.A., (Bank of America) and Does 1-100, alleging the following causes  of action: (1) general negligence against the FTB, (2) general negligence  against E*TRADE Securities LLC and E*TRADE Financial Corp., (3) fraud against  E*TRADE Securities LLC, (4) intentional tort against Bersin, (5) intentional  tort against Lane, (6) negligence against Lane, (7) negligence and fraud against  Bank of America by Guzman Salcedo, and (8) negligence against Bank of America  by Salcedo. On  February 16, 2024, Bank of America filed the present demurrer to Guzman Salcedo  and Salcedo’s Complaint. Prior to filing the demurrer, Bank of America’s  counsel met and conferred telephonically with Guzman Salcedo and Salcedo. (Aldworth  Decl., ¶ 2.) On  February 29, 2024, E*TRADE Securities LLC and  Bersin (collectively, E*TRADE Defendants) filed the present demurrer and motion  to compel arbitration. Prior  to filing on February 23, the E*TRADE Defendants’ counsel attempted to meet and  confer telephonically with Guzman Salcedo and Salcedo but was unable to get in  contact with them. (Stroud Decl., ¶ 2.) A hearing on the present motions, a case  management conference, and an OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service are set  for April 18, 2024. ANALYSIS The E*TRADE Defendants move  to compel Guzman Salcedo to arbitration pursuant to an arbitration agreement. For  the following reasons, the court GRANTS the E*TRADE Defendants’ motion. Legal  Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.) The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting rulings  on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the  court’s role “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to  arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the  dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019)  44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840, quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot  Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion The E*TRADE  Defendants argue Guzman Salcedo’s action is subject to an arbitration provision  that Guzman Salcedo agreed to when Guzman Salcedo applied for an account with  E*TRADE Securities LLC. On May 9, 2002, Guzman Salcedo submitted an online  account application to E*TRADE Securities LLC that expressly incorporated a  customer agreement. (Bersin Decl., ¶ 2-3, Ex. A, B.) The customer agreement  included an arbitration provision that provides as follows in relevant part: “I agree  to resolve by binding arbitration any controversy that may arise between  E*TRADE Securities or its affiliates and me relating in any way to my  relationship with E*TRADE Securities, any Account held with E*TRADE Securities,  or any service provided by E*TRADE Securities to me. This arbitration agreement  includes any controversy involving (a) transactions of any kind made on my  behalf by or through E*TRADE Securities, or (b) the performance, construction  or breach of this Agreement or any other written agreement between E*TRADE  Securities and me. . . . This arbitration provision will be enforced and  interpreted exclusively in accordance with applicable federal laws of the  United States, including the Federal Arbitration Act. . . . ” (Bersin Decl.,  Ex. B, ¶ 7(a).) Guzman  Salcedo alleges two causes of action against E*TRADE Securities LLC. In the  second cause of action for general negligence, Guzman Salcedo alleges E*TRADE  Securities LLC was negligent in selling Guzman Salcedo’s stocks, closing Guzman  Salcedo’s account, and failing to provide records. (Complaint, p. 19.) In the  third cause of action for fraud, Guzman Salcedo alleges E*TRADE Securities LLC  filed false tax forms for Guzman Salcedo’s account and purchased and sold  stocks without Guzman Salcedo’s consent. (Complaint, p. 20.) Because these  causes of action arose from Guzman Salcedo’s relationship and account with  E*TRADE Securities LLC, they are subject to the arbitration provision in  E*TRADE Securities LLC’s customer agreement. While the  E*TRADE Defendants acknowledge Bersin was not a signatory of the customer  agreement that included the arbitration provision, they allege Bersin can  enforce the arbitration provision as an agent of E*TRADE Securities LLC. “[A] defendant may enforce the arbitration agreement, ‘when  a plaintiff alleges a defendant acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration  agreement.’” (Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 788,  quoting Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 614.) In the fourth  cause of action for intentional tort against Bersin, Guzman Salcedo alleges  Bersin prevented Guzman Salcedo from receiving and obtaining unspecified  documents and avoided communications about reports and trades by E*TRADE  Securities LLC. (Complaint, p. 21.) Guzman Salcedo also alleges elsewhere that Bersin  was blocking Guzman Salcedo’s access to E*TRADE records as E*TRADE Securities  LLC’s general counsel. (Complaint, p. 16, ¶ 7.) As this cause of action also  arises from Guzman Salcedo’s relationship and account with E*TRADE Securities  LLC and involves allegations that Bersin was acting as E*TRADE Securities LLC’s  agent in refusing to provide records, it is also subject to the arbitration  provision at issue. The court finds that the E*TRADE  Defendants adequately established the existence and applicability of a binding  arbitration provision. As a result, the burden of proof now shifts to Guzman  Salcedo to establish any defenses to the enforcement of this provision. In  opposition, Guzman Salcedo first argues the arbitration provision is invalid  because the logo at the top of the online account application did not exist in  2002. This argument fails for two reasons. First, Guzman Salcedo fails to provide  any evidence in support of this claim. Second, even if Guzman Salcedo is  correct, the online account application specifically states “[t]his section is  for E*TRADE Securities use only.” (Bersin Decl., Ex. A.) Guzman Salcedo also argues  E*TRADE Securities LLC did not exist at the time the online application was submitted  on May 9, 2002. But Guzman Salcedo’s own evidence contradicts this claim. While  Guzman Salcedo provides a copy of an LLC registration that shows E*TRADE  Securities LLC registered as a California LLC on July 29, 2002, the application  states E*TRADE Securities was formed on May 2, 2002 in Delaware. (Guzman  Salcedo Opp. Decl., e.p. 5.) Last, Guzman Salcedo argues the arbitration  provision is invalid because the initial online account application reportedly  has erroneous birthdates and account numbers. But Guzman Salcedo fails to  support these claims with any evidence. And Guzman Salcedo does not explicitly  deny completing the application and agreeing to the customer agreement that  contained the arbitration provision. Accordingly, in light of Guzman Salcedo’s  failure to establish a defense to the enforcement of the arbitration provision  at issue, the court GRANTS the E*TRADE Defendants’ motion. The E*TRADE Defendants also  request that the court stay or dismiss the present action. When a matter before  a court is compelled to arbitration pursuant to the FAA, the court “shall on  application of one of the parties stay the trial of the action until such  arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement.” (9  U.S.C., § 3.) But when such a matter involves other litigants who are not  parties to the arbitration, a state court’s power to stay the action as to  those other parties is subject to the state’s procedural rules. (Moses H.  Cone Memorial Hosp. v. Mercury Constr. Corp. (1983) 460 U.S. 1, 20, fn. 23  [“In some cases, of course, it may be advisable to stay litigation among the  non-arbitrating parties pending the outcome of the arbitration. That decision  is one left to the district court (or to the state trial court under applicable  state procedural rules) as a matter of its discretion to control its docket.”].) In California, a court may  limit the stay to the issue submitted to arbitration if it is severable. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 1281.4; see Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1976)  17 Cal.3.d 699, 714 [“[T]he trial court is not required to stay all proceedings  against the defendants who are not entitled to arbitration; the court may, in  its discretion, sever the action as to the [other defendants] or limit any stay  to those issues subject to arbitration.”].) But “[i]n order to avail oneself of  this remedy, a party is required to bring an appropriate motion and to prove  that his or her claim is independent from the matter in arbitration.” (Federal  Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1370, 1375; see also  Mattson Technology, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th  1149, 1161 [“The party seeking severance under Code of Civil Procedure section  1281.4 has the burden of proving its claim is independent from the arbitrable  matter.”].) Here, no party in the present action has sought such a remedy.  Accordingly, the court STAYS the entire action pending the arbitration  of Guzman Salcedo’s claims against the E*TRADE Defendants. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the  E*TRADE Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED and the  present action is STAYED pending the completion of arbitration. Furthermore, the E*TRADE  Defendants’ demurrer to Guzman Salcedo’s Complaint is DEEMED MOOT. Proceedings on Defendant Bank  of America, N.A.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint are STAYED pending completion  of arbitration.