  Case Number:  23STCV13288    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  14 Carlos v. General MotorsCase Background
 
Lemon law case involving
Plaintiff’s 2015 Chevrolet Cruze. 
 
On June 9, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
their Complaint for (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability, (2)
Breach of Express Warranty, (3) Fraudulent Concealment, and (4) Violation of
the CLRA against Defendants General Motors LLC (“GM”) and DOES 1-10.
 
On January 25, 2024, GM’s demurrer
and motion to strike the Complaint came on for hearing. The Court overruled
GM’s demurrer to third cause of action and sustained the demurrer to fourth
cause of action. The Court denied GM’s motion to strike punitive damages
allegations from the Complaint.
 
On February 14, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
 
No trial date has yet been set.
 
(1)       Demurrer
 
            Defendant
GM demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e) to the third and fourth
causes of action in the FAC on the grounds that there are no facts sufficient
to support those causes of action against GM. 
 
Decision
 
The demurrer to the third cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of
Action: Fraudulent Concealment
 
The elements of fraudulent
concealment are:
 

Defendant
     concealed or suppressed a material fact;
Defendant
     was under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff;
Defendant
     intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
     the plaintiff; 
Plaintiff
     was unaware of the fact and would not have acted in the same way knowing
     of the concealed or suppressed fact;
Causation;
     and
The
     plaintiff sustained damage.

 
Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 868.
 
The rule of specific pleading for
fraud claims, including how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
misrepresentations were communicated, is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations, and not to concealment. Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,
1384. Concealment is sufficiently pled when the complaint as a whole provides
sufficient notice of the particular claims against defendants. Jones v.
ConocoPhillips (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1200. 
 
“There are “four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.”” LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326,
336 (quoting Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651).
 
            GM contends
that Plaintiffs’ fraudulent concealment claim fails because the FAC fails to
plead fraud with the required specificity, and because Plaintiffs do not allege
a transactional relationship between the parties giving rise to a duty to
disclose.
 
Plaintiff alleges that GM failed to
disclose that the six-speed transmission installed in Plaintiffs’ vehicle was
susceptible to a significant series of malfunctions. (FAC ¶ 138).
Plaintiff alleged that GM received extensive and specific prior warnings about
the transmission (FAC ¶¶ 44-65), but instead continued to advertise it as
“smooth” and “crisp.” (FAC ¶ 68). Plaintiff alleged that GM was under a
duty to disclose the defective transmission due to GM’s exclusive and superior
knowledge, and because the defect posed a significant safety risk. (FAC ¶¶
136-137).
 
GM argues that it had no duty to
disclose the alleged defect. For this proposition, GM relies on Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276. But Bigler-Engler
is not on-point.
 
            In Bigler-Engler,
the plaintiff rented a medical device from her doctor which she claimed caused
serious injury to her knee. Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 286-292. Evaluating plaintiff’s
claim against the device manufacturer for fraudulent concealment, the Court of
Appeal referred to the above-quoted language from LiMandri v. Judkins,
setting forth the four circumstances that give rise to a duty to disclose. Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th
286-292 at 311. The panel stated that in the absence of a fiduciary
relationship, only the last three LiMandri categories could apply; but
even those three categories presupposed the existence of some other
relationship between the parties. Id. They ultimately held that because
there was no transactional or other relationship between the plaintiff and the
medical device manufacturer, the underpinning for applying any of the LiMandri
categories was absent. Id. at 312. The Court of Appeal rejected
plaintiff’s invitation to transplant the duty to disclose that exists in a
products liability context into a fraud context. Id.
 
            The
circumstances of buying a car are widely different from renting a medical
device. Doctors are not franchisees of medical device companies, and most
patients do not make physician appointments out of an eager desire to purchase
the latest model of pacemaker. Most patients wouldn’t know any particular
manufacturer from a hole in the ground, whereas auto makers create and operate
huge brands that inspire high levels of loyalty from consumers. People go to a
Chevy dealer to buy a Chevy, and they generally expect that the dealer (like
most franchisees) is significantly under the control of the manufacturer. See Daniel
v. Ford Motor Co. (9th Cir. 2015) 806 F.3d 1217, 1226-27 (auto
manufacturers communicate with their consumers through their dealerships).
While consumers are certainly aware of the difference between the maker and the
dealer, the difference is more theoretical than real. In the circumstances of
this case, there is at least a question of fact as to whether visiting an auto
dealer creates a sufficient relationship between the consumer and the automaker
itself.
 
            Plaintiffs
have pled that Defendant GM had exclusive knowledge of the defect. (See, e.g.,
FACC ¶ 137.) That puts this case within the second LiMandri category: a
party with exclusive knowledge has a duty to share that knowledge. See Falk
v. General Motors Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1096-97 (that
duty still exists even where the ignorant party could have discovered the
information by engaging in pre-transaction research). Therefore, Plaintiffs
have pled sufficient facts to show that GM had a duty to disclose the defect.
Taken as a whole, the FAC sufficiently alleges a fraud claim.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: CLRA
 
            Civil Code
§ 1770 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(a) The unfair methods of
competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices listed in this
subdivision undertaken by any person in a transaction intended to result or
that results in the sale or lease of goods or services to any consumer are
unlawful: …
(5) Representing that goods or
services have sponsorship, approval, characteristics, ingredients, uses,
benefits, or quantities that they do not have or that a person has a
sponsorship, approval, status, affiliation, or connection that the person does
not have….
(7) Representing that goods or
services are of a particular standard, quality, or grade, or that goods are of
a particular style or model, if they are of another.…
(9) Advertising goods or services
with intent not to sell them as advertised.…
(14) Representing that a
transaction confers or involves rights, remedies, or obligations that it does
not have or involve, or that are prohibited by law.
 
Civil Code § 1780 provides in
relevant part as follows:
 
“(a) Any consumer who suffers any
damage as a result of the use or employment by any person of a method, act, or
practice declared to be unlawful by Section 1770 may bring an action against
that person to recover or obtain any of the following:
(1) Actual damages, but in no case
shall the total award of damages in a class action be less than one thousand
dollars ($1,000).
(2) An order enjoining the
methods, acts, or practices.
(3) Restitution of property.
(4) Punitive damages.
(5) Any other relief that the
court deems proper.”
 
Statute of Limitations
 
            Civil Code
§ 1783 provides: “Any action brought under the specific provisions of
Section 1770 shall be commenced not more than three years from the date of the
commission of such method, act, or practice.”
 
GM contends that the statute of
limitations began to run on March 14, 2015, when Plaintiffs purchased the
vehicle, and that the delayed discovery rule is inapplicable because Plaintiffs
“concede that alleged “defects” and warranty nonconformities manifested
themselves within the applicable express warranty period.” (Dem., 8:2-3.) According
to the FAC, the coverage for the bumper-to-bumper warranty is 3 years or 36,000
miles and 5 years or 100,000 miles for the powertrain warranty. (FAC ¶ 8.) If
Plaintiffs discovered the defects during the warranty period, even at the end
of the 5-year warranty period, Plaintiffs’ claims would be time-barred as the
Complaint was not filed until June 9, 2023. 
 
However, GM fails to identify where
in the FAC Plaintiffs allegedly conceded that they discovered the defects
during the warranty period. In fact, the FAC states the opposite. (See, e.g.,
FAC ¶ 89 [“Defendants . . . continued to intentionally conceal and mispresent
their inability to repair the Vehicle in conformity with the warranty
throughout the warranty period.”]; ¶ 108 [“Plaintiffs were never informed by
[GM] that the issues exhibited by the Vehicle during the warranty period were
related to the known, longstanding, and widespread Defective Transmission, and
that Plaintiffs' Vehicle exhibited the exact symptoms from the same underlying
defect.”].) Consequently, there are no allegations in the FAC which establish,
as a matter of law, that Plaintiffs discovered or should have discovered GM’s
alleged fraudulent acts more than three years before they filed the instant
action. Plaintiffs’ CLRA claim is not time-barred.
 
Notice
 
            Civil Code
§ 1782 requires that, before filing a lawsuit, a consumer give notice to
the manufacturer or seller and allow them time to cure the issue. Notice must
be given at least 30 days prior to filing a lawsuit. Civil Code § 1782(a).
If the manufacturer or seller agrees to an “appropriate” curative measure
within that period, the suit is barred. Civil Code § 1782(b). However,
there is no need to comply with the notice procedure if the plaintiff is only
seeking injunctive relief. Civil Code § 1782.
 
            Paragraph
155 of the FAC admits that Plaintiffs have not complied with the notice period.
That paragraph alleges that “Plaintiff complied with the notice provisions of
Civ. Code § 1782 by notifying Defendants on June 13, 2023”. (FAC ¶ 155.)
However, this action was commenced on June 9, 2023 and the CLRA requires that
notice be given to a manufacturer or seller at least 30 days prior to filing a
lawsuit. This is a fatal defect that appears on the face of the pleading. Plaintiffs’
cause of action fails on this ground. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiffs
have properly pled a claim for fraudulent concealment because they have alleged
a defect which GM did not disclose despite its exclusive knowledge. The
presence or absence of a statute of limitations defense is not evident on the
face of the pleadings. However, Plaintiffs have not properly pled a CLRA claim
because they have sought restitution without complying with the notice
requirement.
 
            Therefore,
the demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED, and the demurrer to
fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend.
 
(2)       Motion to
Strike
 
            Defendant
GM moves this court, per Code of Civil Procedure §§ 435-436, for an order
striking the punitive damages allegations from the FAC. 
 
Decision
 
The motion is DENIED. 
 
As discussed above, Plaintiffs have
properly pled a claim for fraud by omission, which can form the basis for
recovery of punitive damages. Civil Code § 3294(a) &(c)(3). 