  Case Number:  20STCV07262    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  40 ­­Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



NIRMAL S. SEHMBEY, an individual; RONAK SINGH BHATHA, an
  individual; and SUKJOODH SINGH JOHAL, as successor in interest for the estate
  of BALDEV SINGH JOHAL, deceased,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
DR. AMARJIT SINGH MARWAH; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV07262
 Hearing Date:   7/1/24
 Trial Date:        8/20/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Dr.
  Amarjit Singh Marwah’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative,
  Summary Adjudication [Res ID # 1587].



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Nirmal S. Sehmbey, Ronak
Singh Bhatha, and Sukjoodh Singh Johal, as successor in interest for the estate
of Baldev Singh Johal, sue Defendant Dr. Amarjit Singh Marwah and Does 1
through 50 pursuant to a June 6, 2021 First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging
claims of (1) Libel Per Se, (2) Slander Per Se, (3) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (IIED), and (4) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
(NIED).
The claims arise from allegations
that on or about April 2018 and August 2019, Defendants published and
republished documents that stated that Plaintiff Sehmbey and Baldev Singh Johal
were felons, criminals, and had been “jailed for kidnapping children and
murder,” among other things, and that Plaintiff Bhatha was a “felon, criminal
and was cited for money laundering,” among other things.
B. Motion Before the Court
On March 22, 2024, Dr. Marwah filed
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication of the FAC’s four causes of
action, as alleged by Plaintiff Sehmbey against Dr. Marwah.
Dr. Marwah’s motion is unopposed by
Plaintiff Sehmbey and is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication
A. Requests for Judicial Notice
Per Dr. Marwah’s request, the Court
takes judicial notice of various documents filed or orders published in
criminal court proceedings against Plaintiff Sehmbey. (Mot., RJN, Exs. 1-3;
Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (d), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
B. Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
A party may also seek summary
adjudication of select causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for
damages, or issues of duty, which may be made by a standalone motion or as an
alternative to a motion for summary judgment and proceeds in all procedural
respects like a motion for summary judgment, but which must completely dispose
of the challenged cause of action, affirmative defense, claim for damages, or
issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (f)(1)-(2), (t).)
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make prima facie showing no triable material fact
issues. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
This burden on summary judgment or adjudication “is more properly one of
persuasion rather than proof, since he must persuade the court that there is no
material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to prove any such
fact to the satisfaction of the court itself as though it were sitting as the
trier of fact.” (Id. at p. 850, fn. 11.)
If the moving party meets this
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p. 849.)
“[I]n ruling on motions for summary
judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.”’ [Citations].” (Cheal v. El Camino Hospital (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
C. Summary
Judgment, FAC, First to Fourth Causes of Action [Libel Per Se; Slander Per Se;
IIED; NIED]: DENIED.
1. Relevant Law
a. Truth as
Defense to Defamation
“Defamation is effected by either
of the following: [¶] (a) Libel; [¶] (b) Slander.” (Civ. Code, § 44.) To
constitute libel or slander, the published statement must be false. (Civ. Code,
§§ 45, 46.) To establish the defense of truth—i.e., that the statement is not
false—defendants do not have to prove the “literal truth” of the statement at
issue. (Emde v. San Joaquin County Central Labor Council (1943) 23
Cal.2d 146, 160.) “[S]o long as the imputation is substantially true so as to
justify the ‘gist or sting’ of the remark” the truth defense is established. (Ibid.;
Campanelli v. Regents of University of California (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th
572, 582.)
b. Common
Interest Privilege
The common
interest privilege applies to a communication made without malice to a person
interested in the communication’s subject matter by another person also
interested in the communication’s subject matter. (Civ. Code, § 47, subd.
(c)(1).) For example, “the common interest of the members of a church in church
matters is sufficient to give rise to a qualified privilege to communications
between members on subjects relating to the church’s interest.” (Brewer v.
Second Baptist Church (1948) 32 Cal.2d 791, 796 (Brewer).)
The
malice required to defeat the common interest privilege is actual malice. (Kachlon
v. Markowitz (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 316, 336.) The publication must be
shown to be motivated by hatred or ill will toward the allegedly defamed person
or that the publisher/speaker lacked reasonable grounds for believing the truth
of the statements. (Ibid.; accord Noel v. River Hills Wilsons, Inc.
(2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1370-1371 (Noel) [malice is shown only when
negligence amounts to a reckless or wanton disregard for the truth, so as to
imply a willful disregard for, or avoidance of, accuracy].)
“A
court may consider a defendant’s anger or hostility toward a plaintiff in
determining the presence of malice only to the extent it impacts the
defendant’s actual belief concerning the truthfulness of the publication.
[Citation.] The focus is thus on the ‘“defendant’s attitude toward the truth or
falsity of the material published … [not] the defendant’s attitude toward the
plaintiff.”’” (Christian Research Institute v. Alnor (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 71, 92.)
With
limited exceptions, a defendant bears the initial burden of establishing that
the allegedly defamatory statement was made upon an occasion falling within the
purview of the common-interest privilege, which, if established, shifts the
burden to the plaintiff to prove that the statement was made with malice. (Lundquist
v. Reusser (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1193, 1202-1203.)
If
malice is not shown, the privilege is a complete defense to all torts except
malicious prosecution. (Hailstone v. Martinez (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th
728, 740 (Hailstone); (Noel, supra, 113 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1368-1369.)

2. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Plaintiff
Sehmbey and DENIES Dr. Marwah’s motion.
The publications at issue in the
FAC are attached to the FAC as Exhibits B and C and are summarized in
paragraphs 10 to 17 of the FAC, most clearly at paragraph 15 for spoken slander.
In relation to Plaintiff Sehmbey, Exhibit B shows an email accusing Plaintiff
Sehmbey of having committed kidnapping and murder, while Exhibit C shows a
church vote document naming Sehmbey as a jailed kidnapper. Paragraph 15 of the
FAC alleges that the contents of Exhibits B and C were orally shared with the
parties’ religious congregation. 
In his motion, Dr. Marwah argues that
the truth defense and common interest privilege apply here because “plaintiff
has admitted in response to request for admissions that he is a convicted
felon, was convicted for conspiracy to commit robbery, was arrested by Kern
County Sheriff’s Department for conspiracy to commit a crime in 2011, and was
sentenced to three years at Wasco State Prison in 2014.” (Mot., p. 16.)
In support, Dr. Marwah relies on
California court documents showing that Plaintiff Sehmbey was convicted for
felony conspiracy to commit a crime. (Mot., RJN, Ex. 1.)
However, the allegations in the FAC
involve kidnapping and murder, not conspiracy to commit robbery. As a result,
there was no substantial truth to Exhibits B and C naming Plaintiff Sehmbey a
kidnapper or Exhibit C naming Sehmbey a murderer. Kidnapping and murder are
starkly different crimes than conspiracy to commit robbery. A truth defense is
therefore not established.
Moreover, arguendo, even if
Dr. Marwah carried the burden of showing that the publications at issue were a
matter of common interest to the parties’ congregation, Dr. Marwah’s own
evidence shows triable issues as to malice. Specifically, as discussed in the
preceding two paragraphs, nothing in the state criminal court documents for
Plaintiff Sehmbey shows a conviction for kidnapping or murder. As a result, Dr.
Marwah lacked reasonable grounds for believing the truth of the statements
naming Plaintiff Sehmbey a kidnapper or murderer rather than a person convicted
of conspiracy to commit robbery. Dr. Marwah’s points and authorities fail to
recognize this distinction and fail to advance arguments for why this
distinction should not matter.
Dr. Marwah’s motion therefore fails
as to its two grounds for relief: truth; and the qualified common interest
privilege.
Dr. Marwah’s motion is accordingly
DENIED.
 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Dr. Amarjit Singh Marwah’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in
the Alternative, Summary Adjudication [Res ID # 1587] is DENIED.