 Case Number:  23STCV31222    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




MARGIT STEVENS, et al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
BLUE CROSS OF CALIFORNIA DBA
  ANTHEM BLUE CROSS, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV31222




Hearing Date:


October 18, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANTS’
  PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY TRIAL COURT PROCEEDINGS




Background
Plaintiffs Margit Stevens and Nathaniel
Stevens (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on December 21, 2023 against
Defendants Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Life and
Health Insurance Company. Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on December 28, 2023, alleging causes of action for (1)
negligence and 
(2) promissory fraud. 
In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia,
that “[t]his lawsuit arises out of Defendants’ refusal to cover necessary
medical treatment for Plaintiff Nathaniel Stevens (‘Nathaniel’) who was at all
relevant times covered under a self-insured health plan through his mother
Margit Stevens’…employer. Defendants administered claims under the plan. When
Nathaniel needed a surgical procedure to treat his significant symptoms caused
by gastroparesis, Defendants denied the claim based on an erroneous internal
guideline that deemed the procedure ‘investigational’ and excluded from
coverage. This decision was wrong, and known by Defendants to be wrong, given
the medical information and other information Defendants possessed. Even after
Plaintiffs appealed Defendants’ wrongful denial through the plan’s appeal
procedure, Defendants simply reiterated their erroneous position.” (FAC, ¶ 1.) 
Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross
and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company (erroneously sued as
Anthem Life and Health Insurance Company) (jointly, “Defendants”) now petition the
Court for an order: (1) compelling Plaintiffs to submit their claims against Defendants
to binding arbitration and (2) staying trial court proceedings pending a ruling
on the petition and until the arbitration is concluded. Plaintiffs oppose. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Plaintiffs’ evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Kymberly Gilpin as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled 
Objection No. 2: overruled
Objection No. 3: overruled
Objection No. 4: overruled 
Objection No. 5: overruled
Objection No. 6: overruled 
Objection No. 7: overruled
Objection No. 8: overruled 
The Court rules on Plaintiffs’ evidentiary
objections to the Supplemental Declaration of Kymberly Gilpin and the Declaration
of Jonathan S. Barrera in Support of Defendants’ Reply as follows: 
Objection No. 1: sustained. In Jack v. Ring LLC (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1186, 1210,
cited by Plaintiffs, the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he general rule of
motion practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.”
Objection No. 2: sustained 
Objection No. 3: sustained
Objection No. 4: sustained 
Objection No. 5: sustained
Objection No. 6: sustained 
The Court rules on Defendants’ evidentiary
objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled
Objection No. 2: overruled 
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel
arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the
existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the
agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance
of evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). ((Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)  
Generally, on a petition
to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting rulings on common issues. ((Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2); (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California has a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” ((Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that
arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an
arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” ((Ibid. [internal
quotations omitted].) This is in accord with the
liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements under the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to arbitrate in contracts
“involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. section 2,
et seq.; (Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that
“[a]t all relevant times, Plaintiffs were covered under the terms of a
group health plan arranged by Margit’s employer, the Cascade County Union
Elementary School District, a public school district. This group health plan is
self-funded through the California Valued Trust (‘CVT’), a public schools
trust. At all relevant times Margit and her family, including her son
Nathaniel, were covered under the terms of this plan.” (FAC, ¶ 10.) 
Defendants submit the Declaration of Kymberly Gilpin, the Operations
Manager for California’s Valued Trust (“CVT”). (Gilpin Decl., ¶ 1.) Ms. Gilpin
states that “[o]n September 1, 2022, Plaintiff Margit Stevens enrolled in a PPO
healthcare plan that covered her and her family, including Plaintiff Nathaniel
Stevens, for the 2023 calendar year. Anthem was the Claims Administrator for
the plan.” (Gilpin Decl., ¶ 4.) Ms. Gilpin states that “[t]o obtain benefits
under this healthcare plan, Plaintiff Margit Stevens’ completed and submitted
an online enrollment form. Attached as Exhibit A is a true and correct copy of
screenshots showing the online enrollment form Plaintiff Margit Stevens would
have completed and submitted to obtain healthcare plan benefits for her and her
family.” (Gilpin Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Defendants note that Exhibit “A” to Ms. Gilpin’s declaration, the “online
enrollment form,” provides, inter alia, that “I acknowledge that legal
action to resolve any benefit dispute will be through arbitration.” (Gilpin
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A, p. 10.)  
But as noted by Plaintiff, Exhibit “A” to Ms. Gilpin’s declaration appears
to be a blank enrollment form. As Plaintiff notes, Ms. Gilpin “states that
Margit ‘would have’ completed and submitted the online enrollment form but does
not describe any electronic signature process.” (Opp’n at p. 3:14-16.)
Defendants do not appear to provide any evidence that Margit Stevens signed any
online enrollment form with the above-referenced arbitration language. In her
declaration in support of the opposition, Margit Stevens states that “I have
reviewed the screenshots attached as Exhibit A to the Gilpin Declaration. While
I generally recall scrolling through the enrollment website, I do not recall
the single arbitration sentence buried in Exhibit A, page 13 of the
screenshots, nor do I recall clicking an ‘I agree’ or ‘submit’ button with
respect to such arbitration language. In fact there is no ‘submit’ button or
other mechanism for agreement on the screenshot page containing the arbitration
language.” (Stevens Decl., ¶ 4.) 
            The parties cite to Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 843-844,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “Civil Code
section 1633.9 addresses how a proponent of an electronic signature may
authenticate the signature—that is, show the signature is, in fact, the
signature of the person the proponent claims it is. The statute states: ‘(a)
An electronic record or electronic signature is attributable to a person if it
was the act of the person. The act of the person may be shown in any
manner, including a showing of the efficacy of any security procedure
applied to determine the person to which the electronic record or
electronic signature was attributable.’ (Civil Code
section 1633.9, subdivision (a), italics added.) Main summarily asserted in
her initial declaration that Ruiz was the person who electronically
signed the 2011 agreement ‘on or about September 21, 2011,’ but she did not
explain how she arrived at that conclusion or inferred Ruiz was the
person who electronically signed the 2011 agreement. To be sure, ‘Ernesto Zamora Ruiz (Electronic
Signature)’ and ‘9/21/2011 11:47 AM’ appear in print on signature and date
lines of the 2011 agreement, and Main apparently retrieved the proffered ‘true
and correct copy’ of the 2011 agreement from Moss Bros.’s personnel
records. But Main never explained how Ruiz’s printed electronic
signature, or the date and time printed next to the signature, came to be
placed on the 2011 agreement. More specifically, Main did not explain how she
ascertained that the electronic signature on the 2011 agreement was ‘the act of’ Ruiz.
(Civ. Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a).).” Here,
Defendants do not appear to even argue that Margit Stevens’s electronic
signature, or any other “act” of Margit Stevens appears on any online
enrollment form.[1] 
In addition, Defendants do not appear to assert that they are parties
to the subject “online enrollment form” attached as Exhibit “A” to Ms. Gilpin’s
declaration. As noted by Plaintiffs, “[t]he screenshot sentence does not state
that it is an agreement to arbitrate with the claims administrator or,
specifically, Anthem.” (Opp’n at p. 6:13-14.) 
Ms. Gilpin also states in her supporting declaration that “[a]s part
of the enrollment process, CVT sent Plaintiff Margit Stevens a welcome packet
confirming that her healthcare plan was effective as of September 1, 2022…The
packet…included a plan benefit summary that included the statement ‘This
summary is for comparison purposes only. Please refer to the actual benefit
booklet for complete benefits at www.cvtrust.org/plan- documents.’” (Gilpin
Decl., ¶ 7, emphasis omitted.) Ms. Gilpin states that “[t]he Benefit Booklet
detailed the particular terms of Plaintiffs’ healthcare plan. A true and
correct copy of this Benefit Booklet is attached as Exhibit C.” (Gilpin Decl.,
¶ 8.) Defendants note that the “Benefit Booklet” provides, inter alia, as
follows: 
 
“BINDING ARBITRATION 
 
Any dispute or
claim, of whatever nature, arising out of, in connection with, or in relation
to this plan or breach or rescission thereof, or in relation to care or
delivery of care, including any claim based on contract, tort, or statute, must
be resolved by arbitration if the amount sought exceeds the jurisdictional
limit of the small claims court. Any dispute or claim within the jurisdictional
limits of the small claims court will be resolved in such court. 
 
The Federal
Arbitration Act will govern the interpretation and enforcement of all
proceedings under this Binding Arbitration provision. To the extent that the
Federal Arbitration Act is inapplicable, or is held not to require arbitration
of a particular claim, state law governing agreements to arbitrate will apply. 
 
The member
and CVT agree to be bound by this Binding Arbitration provision and acknowledge
that they are each giving up their right to a trial by court or jury. 
 
The member
and CVT agree to give up the right to participate in class arbitration against
each other. Even if applicable law permits class arbitration, the member
waives any right to pursue, on a class basis, any such controversy or claim
against CVT and CVT waives any right to pursue on a class basis any such
controversy or claim against the member. 
 
The arbitration
findings will be final and binding except to the extent that state or Federal
law provides for the judicial review of arbitration proceedings. 
 
The arbitration
is begun by the member making written demand on CVT. The arbitration
will be conducted by Judicial Arbitration and Medication Services (‘JAMS’)
according to its applicable Rules and Procedures. If, for any reason, JAMS is
unavailable to conduct the arbitration, the arbitration will be conducted by
another neutral arbitration entity, by mutual agreement of the member
and CVT, or by order of the court, if the member and CVT cannot agree.
The arbitration will be held at a time and location mutually agreeable to the member
and CVT.” (Gilpin Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. C, p. 155, emphasis in original.) 
            Defendants contend that “Plaintiffs
did not initiate arbitration as required, but instead filed suit in this Court.”
(Pet. at p. 5:7.) 
            As an initial matter, in the
opposition, Plaintiffs assert that Defendants are “not a party to the terms of
Plaintiffs’ Booklet,” and that “[c]onsistent therewith, the Booklet’s Binding
Arbitration provision limits the arbitration agreement to members and CVT.” (Opp’n
at p. 5:7; 5:9-10.) Indeed, as set forth above, the subject arbitration
provision provides, inter alia, that “[t]he member and
CVT agree to be bound by this Binding Arbitration provision and acknowledge
that they are each giving up their right to a trial by court or jury.” (Gilpin
Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. C, p. 155, emphasis in original, underline added.) As noted by Plaintiffs, “[b]ecause arbitration is a matter of
contract, generally one must be a party to an arbitration agreement to be bound
by it or invoke it.” ((DMS Services, LLC v. Superior
Court (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1346,
1352 [internal quotations omitted].) Here, Defendants do not appear
to contend that the subject “Benefit Booklet” is an agreement between
Defendants and Plaintiffs.  
            In the petition,
Defendants argue that “under the equitable estoppel doctrine, a
plaintiff cannot circumvent an arbitration provision in a contract by suing
non-signatories to the contract.” (Pet. at p. 10:17-18.) Defendants cite to JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237,
where the Court of Appeal noted that under the doctrine of equitable estoppel, “as
applied in both federal and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory
defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to
arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are
intimately founded in and intertwined with the underlying contract obligations.
By relying on contract terms in a claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even
if not exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause contained in that agreement.” (Internal quotations and
citations omitted.) 
            Defendants assert that here, “Plaintiffs’
claims are premised upon and inextricably tied to their health plan contract
with CVT—and in particular, the terms in the Benefit Booklet. They are estopped
from opposing arbitration on the ground that Anthem is a non-signatory to that
contract, when they are pursuing Anthem for claims under the very same
contract.” (Pet. at p. 12:7-10.) In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia,
that “[t]he contract form setting forth the plan benefits under Plaintiffs’
plan is called the Benefit Booklet (the ‘Booklet’).” (FAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiffs
allege that “[i]n a letter dated September 6, 2023, Anthem denied Plaintiffs’
request to authorize G-POEM[2]
for Nathaniel stating that it was ‘investigational’ per SURG.00047.” (FAC, ¶
27.) “On September 17, 2023, Nathaniel sent a letter to Anthem’s Grievances
& Appeals Department appealing the denial of his request for G-POEM.” (FAC,
¶ 28.) “In a letter dated November 16, 2023, Anthem advised that it was denying
Plaintiffs’ appeal.” (FAC, ¶ 29.) Plaintiffs allege that “[a]lthough Anthem’s
original denial and appeal denial letters quote from the Booklet’s definition
of an investigational service (‘not widely accepted as proven and effective
within the organized medical community’), neither references any view of ‘the
organized medical community’ regarding G-POEM.” (FAC, ¶ 30.) 
            Plaintiffs further allege that
“Anthem on behalf of Anthem Life assumed all duties of claims administration,
claims adjudication, and appeals. By assuming these duties, Anthem assumed a
duty of due care to Nathaniel as a covered member to avoid physical harm to him
resulting from its claims administration of benefits under the Booklet.” (FAC,
¶ 44.) Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Anthem did not perform the
promises made in the Booklet. When Plaintiffs appealed the denial of Nathaniel’s
care, Anthem’s Grievances and Appeals Department did not conduct a review of
its investigational position and ignored the substance of Nathaniel’s appeal,
including the referenced medical article and Clinical Practice Update (CPU)
from the American Gastroenterology Association. Rather, Anthem relied on
SURG.00047 which Anthem knew contained false statements regarding G-POEM.”
(FAC, ¶ 58.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiffs do not
appear to dispute that their allegations against Defendants involve the
“Benefit Booklet.” However, Plaintiffs argue that equitable estoppel does not
apply here. Plaintiffs indicate that the deposition of Kristyn Nelms, Defendants’
Person Most Qualified, was taken on April 23, 2024. (Barrio Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs
note that Ms. Nelms testified as follows: “Q. Okay. So who is responsible for
creating the benefits booklet?... THE WITNESS: We work collaboratively with the
CVT team to finalize the benefit booklet documents.” (Barrio Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 4
(Nelms Depo.) at pp. 42:24-43:4.) Ms. Nelms further testified that “I think I
mentioned earlier, CVT has been a client for 40 years, so I don’t know how the
document was initially created. But as I suggested earlier, or stated earlier,
I should say, that every year we look at the summary plan description or the
benefit booklet, incorporate any new benefit changes that have been made since
the prior document was finalized, and then add those to the newer document and
send those to CVT for their final review and blessing before they became
finalized.” (Id. at p. 43:12-22.) Plaintiffs also cite to the following testimony from Ms. Nelms’
deposition: “Q. So now I’m going to direct your attention to Bates 5 in Exhibit
2. So I’m on page 5 of -- of the -- of this exhibit…. Q. It says (as read): On
behalf of trust, Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health shall produce and maintain a
master copy of the benefits booklet and make changes and amendments to the
master copy of the benefits booklet and incorporate any approved exchanges or
amendments pursuant to Article 18A of this agreement.” (Id. at pp. 40:24-41:17.) 
            Plaintiffs assert
that Defendants accordingly “drafted and agreed to the language of the
Booklet omitting it from the arbitration agreement.” (Opp’n at p. 9:5-6.) Defendants
assert that “[t]here…would be no fairness in allowing Anthem to draft an
arbitration clause excluding itself then invoke arbitration through the
backdoor with equitable estoppel when it was advantageous for it to do so…”
(Opp’n at p. 9:22-24.) Plaintiffs cite to Goldman v.
KPMG, LLP (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 235,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[o]ne may recall that the linchpin for
equitable estoppel is equity—fairness, and that the application of the doctrine
is fact specific.” (Internal quotations and citation omitted.) 
            Plaintiffs also asserts that the
circumstances “compare[] to the kind of lack of mutuality that constitutes
substantive unconscionability.” (Opp’n at p. 9:24-25.) Plaintiffs cite to Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 120,
where the California Supreme Court noted that “an arbitration agreement imposed
in an adhesive context lacks basic fairness and mutuality if it requires one
contracting party, but not the other, to arbitrate all claims arising out of
the same transaction or occurrence or series of transactions or occurrences.
The arbitration agreement in this case lacks mutuality in this sense because it
requires the arbitration of employee--but not employer--claims arising out of a
wrongful termination. An employee terminated for stealing trade secrets, for
example, must arbitrate his or her wrongful termination claim under the
agreement while the employer has no corresponding obligation to arbitrate its
trade secrets claim against the employee.” 
Similarly here, Defendants could argue that they are not required to
arbitrate their claims against a member per the terms of the Benefit Booklet’s
arbitration provision, while also arguing that a member must arbitrate their
claims against Defendants pursuant to the doctrine of equitable estoppel. As
discussed above, the subject arbitration provision in the Benefit Booklet
provides that it pertains to the “member” and “CVT,” not Defendants.
Specifically, the arbitration provision provides, inter alia, that “[t]he
member and CVT agree to be bound by this Binding Arbitration provision
and acknowledge that they are each giving up their right to a trial by court or
jury.” (Gilpin Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. C, p. 155, emphasis in original.) Moreover,
Defendants do not appear to dispute that they assisted in drafting the Benefit
Booklet containing the above-referenced arbitration provision that only
references “CVT.” Now, however, they seek to compel Plaintiffs to arbitrate
their claims against Defendants, who are not referenced in the subject
arbitration provision. 
The Court agrees with Plaintiffs that under the facts of this case, it
would be inequitable to apply the doctrine of equitable estoppel, which, as set
forth above, is grounded in principles of fairness. (Goldman
v. KPMG, LLP, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at page 235, “the ‘linchpin’ for equitable estoppel ‘is
equity—fairness’.”) As noted in Metalclad Corp. v.
Ventana Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705, 1714, cited by Defendants, the
equitable estoppel doctrine “prevents a party from playing fast and loose with
its commitment to arbitrate, honoring it when advantageous and circumventing it
to gain undue advantage.”
In light of the foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendan8ts have demonstrated
that an arbitration agreement exists between Plaintiffs and Defendants. In
addition, under the circumstances, the Court does not find that Defendants may invoke
the arbitration provision of the Benefit Booklet under the doctrine of
equitable estoppel to compel Plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims against
Defendants. 
            Defendants also argue that “the
arbitration provisions’ plain language provides that gateway questions of
arbitrability—such as interpretation and operation of the arbitration
provisions themselves—are for the arbitrator, and not the courts, to decide.”
(Petition at p. 8:25-27.) As an initial matter, as set forth above, the Court
does not find that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties. Plaintiffs
thus note that “Anthem’s
arbitrability argument puts the proverbial cart before the horse because it
presupposes there is an agreement between the parties to arbitrate…” (Opp’n at
p. 11:2-3.)[3]

As
the Court does not find that Defendants have demonstrated that an arbitration
agreement exists between the parties, the Court need not analyze Plaintiffs’ arguments
pertaining to unconscionability.

Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ petition to compel
arbitration is denied. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to provide notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  October 18, 2024                           
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


