  Case Number:  22IWUD00457    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                    Monday,
December 11, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                              Calendar No. 1
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Amber Quarles v. Michael Bark, et al.
            22IWUD00457
1.      Amber
Quarles’ Motion to Unseal Record    
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Amber
Quarles’ Motion to Unseal Record is granted. 
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on May
3, 2022. This is a residential unlawful detainer action relating to property
located at 626 Rosecrans Avenue, Manhattan Beach, California 90266.  The parties settled and agreed to a stipulated
judgment.  Defendants breached the
settlement agreement. Judgment for possession was entered for Plaintiff and
against Defendants on December 16, 2022. A writ of possession was issued. Thereafter, a money judgment was entered on
February 8, 2023, in the amount of $129,822.77. 
 
Motion to Unseal Records
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1161.2 states, in
relevant part:
            “(a)(1) The clerk shall allow access
to limited civil case records filed under this chapter, including the court
file, index, and register of actions, only as follows: (G)(i) In the case of a
complaint involving residential property based on Section 1161a as indicated in
the caption of the complaint, as required in subdivision (c) of Section 1166,
to any other person, if 60 days have elapsed since the complaint was filed with
the court, and, as of that date, judgment against all defendants has been
entered for the plaintiff, after a trial.”
 
The Court considers the same matters as on a motion to
seal.  In re Providian Credit Card
Cases (2002) 96 Cal. App. 4th 292, 302.
 
“A record must not be filed under seal without a court
order.  The court must not permit a
record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of
the parties.”  Cal Rules of Court, Rule
2.551(a).
 
“A party requesting that a record be filed under seal
must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The
motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  Cal Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(b)(1).  California Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(b)(4)
also provides that the party requesting that a record be filed under seal must
lodge it with the court when the motion or application is made and, pending the
determination of the motion or application, the lodged record will be
conditionally under seal.  
 
“The court may order that a record be filed under seal
only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
(1)
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record;
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3)
A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”
Cal
Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d).
 
Plaintiff moves for an order to unseal the Court
record in this action in its entirety. The motion is supported by a memorandum
of points and authorities and evidence submitted by Plaintiff.  Plaintiff states that there is no overriding
interest that supports sealing nor overcomes the public right of access. 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff made a competent
showing to support a finding that no overriding interest overcomes the public
right of access to the Court record and that no overriding interest exists to
support sealing the documents. Plaintiff has adequately shown that there is no
probability that the parties’ interests will be prejudiced if the documents are
made public. The elements of narrow tailoring and less restrictive means are
not applicable. 
 
Therefore, for the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Unseal Record is granted. 
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 