On August 22, 2023, Gohar Babazadeh (“Gohar”) filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint for (1) breach of fiduciary duty (derivatively by Hayem’s Daughters, Inc. (“HD”)), (2) breach of fiduciary duty (derivatively by Shalom Brothers Enterprises, LP (“SB”)), (3) breach of fiduciary duty (by Gohar), (4) conversion (derivatively by HD), (5) conversion (derivatively by SB), (6) conversion (by Gohar), (7) unjust enrichment (derivatively by HD), (8) unjust enrichment (derivatively by SB), (9) unjust enrichment (by Gohar), (10) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”), (11) indemnity, and (“11”) indemnity.  Demurrer Cross-Defendant Jila Babazadeh-Shraga (“Jila”) demurs to the FACC for failure to state sufficient facts and uncertainty.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Shareholder Standing  Jila first argues that the first, fourth, and seventh causes of action fail because Gohar cannot assert these claims derivatively for HD as she is not a shareholder “of record” of HD.  (See Corp. Code § 800.)  Jila contends that this is because there was no stock issued for HD.   The FACC alleges that Gohar is a shareholder.  Likewise, Jila’s own Complaint alleges numerous times that both Jila and Gohar are shareholders of HD.  (Compl. ¶¶ 1-2, 8-9, 14, 38-39, 52-53.)  Whether there was a valid record of this is a factual matter.  The Demurrer is overruled.  Fiduciary Duty—by Gohar Jila argues that the third cause of action fails because Jila was not an officer of HD and, as argued above, Gohar was not a shareholder of HD.  Jila also argues that equal shareholders of a corporation do not owe each other any fiduciary duty.  This lacks merit because the FACC states that Jila was the CFO of HD.  Indeed, “California law clearly recognizes that officers and directors owe a fiduciary duty to stockholders . . . .”  (Singhania v. Uttarwar (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 416, 426; see also Cal. Prac. Guide Employment Litigation Ch. 14-B [“An officer or director of a corporation owes a fiduciary duty to the corporate employer and its shareholders.”].)While Jila points to a statement of information from December 2023 that shows that only Gohar is an officer, that statement was signed by Jila.  What authority did Jila have to sign such a document if she had no role in HD?  More importantly, prior statements of information show that Jila was a CFO and those statements correlate with the timeframe of the FACC.  (See Gohar’s RJN, Exhibits 2-3.)  Jila also argues that, with regard to injury, “[s]ince there is no Board of Directors for HD, there is no authority to make distributions or declare dividends. Moreover, since Gohar is not a record shareholder, she has no entitlement to distributions or dividends. The Third Cause of Action fails as a matter of law.”But, whatever the circumstances, to the extent a distribution somehow was made, then there is seemingly no reason that Jila would obtain something while Gohar would obtain nothing.  Factual issues remain.Therefore, Jila’s Demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled.Conversion Jila next argues that the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action for conversion fail because a specific amount of money was not identified.  The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.  (Burlesci v. Petersen (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.)  Where money is the subject of a conversion claim, the precise amount of funds misappropriated must be specified.  (Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 284-285.)  Jila’s argument fails as to the fourth and fifth causes of action which identify $150,000 and $100,000, respectively, as the amount at issue.  The sixth cause of action incorporates prior allegations, at the very least, of a $15,000 distribution from which Gohar received nothing.  (FACC ¶ 24.)Thus, the Demurrer is overruled as to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action. Receiver—SB Jila next argues that the second, fifth, and eighth causes of action fail because Gohar lacks standing to bring these claims for SB to the extent a receiver has now been assigned to wind up SB.   In her opening memorandum of points and authorities, Jila only supported this argument with non-binding authority from other jurisdictions.  This is not persuasive. Jila then asserts in her Reply, for the first time, that Code Civ. Proc. § 568 is applicable. Code Civ. Proc. § 568 states, “The receiver has, under the control of the Court, power to bring and defend actions in his own name, as receiver; to take and keep possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, to compound for and compromise the same, to make transfers, and generally to do such acts respecting the property as the Court may authorize.” This section, however, does not state that a pending derivative claim abates by reason of the receivership.  It’s also not proper or fair that Jila raises new authorities in her Reply.  Absent other California authority, the Court will not dismiss the subject claims at this time.  The Court notes that this issue is likely a matter for the receivership court.  (See Helvey v. U.S. Bldg. & Loan Ass'n of Los Angeles (1947) 81 Cal.App.2d 647, 649.)  The Court further notes that Jila’s argument would mean that Jila’s own derivative claim for SB in her Complaint would also be abated or dismissed. The Demurrer is overruled as to the second, fifth, and eighth causes of action at this time.  Fiduciary Duty—SBJila next argues that “Limited partners do not owe a fiduciary duty to other partners or the limited partnership. Cal. Corp. Code § 15903.05(a). Accordingly, Gohar’s second and third causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty relating to SB fail as a matter of law.”Corp. Code § 15903.05(a) states, “A limited partner does not have any fiduciary duty to the limited partnership or to any other partner solely by reason of being a limited partner.”“While a limited partner normally would not be involved in the management or otherwise participate in the partnership (see generally, 9 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (9th ed. 1989) Partnership, § 61 et seq., p. 450) so as to incur fiduciary obligations to other partners, we believe there can be factual scenarios where a limited partner might be involved in the partnership in such a manner—for example, allowing him access to confidential information—so as to create fiduciary duties.”  (Tri-Growth Ctr. City, Ltd. v. Silldorf, Burdman, Duignan & Eisenberg (1990) 216 Cal.App.3d 1139, 1150.)Here, the FACC states that Jila “assumed certain management responsibilities including with respect to SB’s finances and accounts and disbursements from those accounts, which Jila asserted control over. Without being appointed as the general partner, she has also, at relevant times, assumed the responsibilities of the general partner with respect to these issues. Gohar and the partnership placed trust and confidence in Jila to handle her responsibilities in the best interests of SB and its partners and with the appropriate level of care.”  This allegation is sufficient to allege the existence of a fiduciary duty, which is ultimately a factual issue.Jila asks the Court to take judicial notice of a document that Gohar produced in discovery by a property management company that states that Gohar handled SB’s finances and day to day affairs.First, the Court cannot take judicial notice of the truth of the matters stated therein given Gohar’s objection.  Second, the letter does not state that Jila did nothing.The Demurrer is overruled as to the second cause of action.  Fiduciary Duty by Gohar  As to the third cause of action, Jila argues that “Gohar admits that Jila is not the general partner of SB. [FAXC 10:8] As a matter of law, Jila has no authority to make partnership distributions because as Gohar admits, Jila is not the general partner. The Third Cause of Action as it relates to Gohar’s direct breach of fiduciary duty claim for Jila’s alleged failure to make equal distributions to Gohar fails as a matter of law.” This argument is rejected.  As stated above, to the extent that Jila acted like a general partner and made distributions, there was a duty to properly make such distributions. Unjust Enrichment  Jila finally contends that “[t[here being no actionable wrong, there is no basis for the relief” of unjust enrichment.  This is rejected as the FACC’s other claims have survived.Summary The Demurrer is overruled.  Gohar’s Request for Judicial Notice is granted.  Jila’s Request for Judicial Notice is granted, but the Court does not take judicial notice of the truth of the matters stated within the subject documents.Motion to Strike  Jila also seeks to strike (a) Gohar’s tenth, eleventh, and second eleventh causes of action for IIED and indemnity, (b) the prayer for relief, and (c) the request for attorneys’ fees. The IIED and indemnity claims are stricken because the Court did not previously allow Gohar to add these claims when granting leave to amend after Jila’s motion for judgment on the pleadings.  Gohar argues that she does not need to seek leave to amend as to the indemnity claims against third-parties HD and SB, citing Code Civ. Proc § 428.50(b), which states, “Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.”  This lacks merit because the Court set and then vacated a trial date in this action.  (See Loney v. Superior Ct. (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 719, 722; see also O'Connor's California Practice * Civil Pretrial Ch. 4-C § 3 (2024 ed.).) Next, Jila’s arguments as to the prayer lack merit and are rejected.  The prayer seeks relief in general fashion.  Finally, fees are sought based on the substantial benefit theory.  “Courts generally apply the common fund and substantial benefit theories to cases involving a distinct class of beneficiaries, among whom the costs of litigation can be fairly spread to prevent the unjust enrichment of class members at the expense of the successful litigant. In a derivative action, the corporation represents the class of beneficiary shareholders. When the corporation pays attorney fees to the successful plaintiff, all shareholders indirectly share the cost of the beneficial litigation with the shareholder who brought the action. In contrast, when a shareholder brings a derivative suit for the true purpose of advancing his or her ‘personal adverse interests,’ neither equitable doctrine allows an award of attorney fees.”  (Cziraki v. Thunder Cats, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 552, 558.)  While these doctrines may not ultimately apply, the Court finds that it cannot make a decision on this issue at the pleadings stage.  (See id. at pp. 564-65.) In sum, the Motion to Strike is granted only as to the tenth, eleventh, and second eleventh causes of action, without leave to amend.  Gohar may file a separate motion for leave to amend.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 