 Case Number:  21STCV04187    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 2, 2021, Plaintiff Jeffrey D. Devorebest (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Peter Brueggeman, Josephy Brueggeman, and Does 1-20 for
motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
May 4, 2021, Defendants Peter Brueggeman and Josephy
Brueggeman (“Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
August 23, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s attendance at an independent medical examination, to be heard on December 8, 2023.  At Defendants’
request, the Court continued the hearing to March 13, 2024.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 29, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to order Plaintiff to attend an independent medical examination on August 1, 2023 with orthopedic surgeon Russell W. Nelson, M.D., at 250 Lombard Street, First
Floor, Thousand Oaks, California 91348. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides: 
“(a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: 
“(1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. 
“(2) The examination is conducted at a location within
75 miles of the residence of the examinee. 
“(b) A defendant may make a demand under this article
without leave of court after that defendant has been served or has appeared in
the action, whichever occurs first. 
“(c) A demand under subdivision (a) shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform
the examination. 
“(d) A physical examination demanded under subdivision
(a) shall be scheduled for a date that is at least 30 days after service of the
demand. On motion of the party demanding the examination, the court may shorten
this time. 
“(e) The defendant shall serve a copy of the demand
under subdivision (a) on the plaintiff and on all other parties who have
appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.230 provides: 
“(a) The plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical
examination under this article is directed shall respond to the demand by a
written statement that the examinee will comply with the demand as stated, will
comply with the demand as specifically modified by the plaintiff, or will
refuse, for reasons specified in the response, to submit to the demanded
physical examination. 
“(b) Within 20 days after service of the demand the
plaintiff to whom the demand is directed shall serve the original of the
response to it on the defendant making the demand, and a copy of the response
on all other parties who have appeared in the action. On motion of the
defendant making the demand, the court may shorten the time for response. On
motion of the plaintiff to whom the demand is directed, the court may extend
the time for response.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.230.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.240 provides: 
“(a) If a plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical
examination under this article is directed fails to serve a timely response to
it, that plaintiff waives any objection to the demand. The court, on motion,
may relieve that plaintiff from this waiver on its determination that both of
the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The plaintiff has subsequently served a response
that is in substantial compliance with Section 2032.230. 
“(2) The plaintiff’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The defendant may move for an order compelling
response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination. 
“(c) The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless
it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. 
“(d) If a plaintiff then fails to obey the order
compelling response and compliance, the court may make those orders that are
just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to that sanction the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.240.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.250 provides: 
“(a) If a defendant who has demanded a physical
examination under this article, on receipt of the plaintiff’s response to that
demand, deems that any modification of the demand, or any refusal to submit to
the physical examination is unwarranted, that defendant may move for an order
compelling compliance with the demand. This motion shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with
a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.250.) 

DISCUSSION 
On
June 23, 2023, Defendants served a demand for Plaintiff’s physical examination by
Russell W. Nelson, M.D., on August 1, 2023 at 11:30 a.m. 
On
August 10, 2023, Defendants’ counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel an email stating
that Plaintiff failed to appear for the August 1, 2023 physical
examination.  Defendants’ counsel stated:
“Unless the independent medical examination is rescheduled with the doctor
within the next five days, it is our intention to move the court for
appropriate orders.  Please advise us as to how you are going to proceed. If I
do not hear from you within five days of the date of this letter, it will be
necessary to file the appropriate motion.” 
Plaintiff’s
counsel responded: “We gave notice maybe 6 times that he would not appear on
the 1st and gave alternative dates. Here they are: Thursday, August 16[;]
Monday, August 28[;] Tuesday, August 29[;] Wednesday, August 30[.] Please
advise on which work.” 
Defendants’
counsel emailed back, saying, “Sorry. Found your e-mail. The doctor doesn’t
have any mid mornings for those dates. He can do 8/29/23 @ 2:30pm.” 
On
August 18, 2023, Defendants’ counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel another email
stating: “We have not received a response to our 8/11/23 email. Please respond
or we will need to file a Motion to Compel.” 
Defendants’
counsel states that after meeting and conferring with Plaintiff’s counsel on
August 11 and 18, 2023, “My communications with plaintiff’s counsel have
deteriorated in regard to resolving this situation.”  (Germany Dec. ¶ 6.) 
On
August 23, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to compel Plaintiff’s physical examination.  The
Court denies the motion without prejudice.  Defendants rely on Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.250, which provides: “If a defendant who has demanded a physical
examination under this article, on receipt of the plaintiff’s response to that
demand, deems that any modification of the demand, or any refusal to submit to
the physical examination is unwarranted, that defendant may move for an order
compelling compliance with the demand.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.250, subd. (a).) 
Defendants have not shown that any modification of the demand – such as a
request to reschedule the examination for another date – was unwarranted.  In addition, Defendants have not shown that
Plaintiff refused to submit to a physical examination.  Therefore, Defendants have not established a basis
for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.250. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion to compel Plaintiff’s
compliance with an independent medical examination filed by Defendants Peter Brueggeman and Josephy Brueggeman without
prejudice. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.