 Case Number:  21STCV23098    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 22, 2021, Plaintiff John Erickson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Executive Car Leasing Company (“Executive”), Blusky Restoration
Contractors, LLC (“Blusky”), and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises
liability. 
On
July 23, 2021, Executive filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Blusky and Roes 1-20 for indemnity, contribution,
apportionment, breach of express indemnity, breach of contract, and declaratory
relief.  On March 15, 2022, the Court dismissed Executive’s cross-complaint
without prejudice at Executive’s request. 
On
February 8, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant
Southwest Group USA, Inc. (“Southwest”) as Doe 1. Plaintiff also filed a first
amended complaint against Defendants Executive, Blusky, Southwest, and Does
2-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
March 30, 2022, Blusky filed an answer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
and filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Southwest and Roes 1-50
for express contractual indemnity, implied contractual indemnity, equitable
indemnity, contribution, breach of contract, declaratory relief—duty to defend,
declaratory relief—duty to indemnify, and duty to defend—duty to name as
additional insured. 
On
April 7, 2022, Executive filed an answer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
and filed a cross-complaint against Southwest and Roes 1-20 for indemnity,
contribution, apportionment, and declaratory relief. 
On
June 30, 2022, the clerk entered Southwest’s default on Blusky’s
cross-complaint. On July 24, 2023, the Court set aside the default based on the
stipulation of Southwest and Blusky. On August 10, 2023, Southwest filed an
answer to Blusky’s cross-complaint. 
On
February 8, 2024, Blusky filed a motion to continue the trial and all related dates,
to be heard on March 13, 2024.  No party
has filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 22, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Blusky
asks the Court to continue the trial to September 23, 2024 and to continue the
deadlines for discovery and related dates. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Request to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The addition
of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which
the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332.) 
B.  
Request to
continue or reopen discovery 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except
as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial
date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently
set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.)

DISCUSSION              
          The Court has reviewed the moving papers and finds good
cause to continue the trial.  The Court
continues the trial to September 23, 2024. 
In
addition, the Court has considered the factors listed in Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 and grants the request to reopen discovery.  Discovery and all related dates will be based
on the September 23, 2024 trial date.   
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Blusky Restoration Contractors, LLC to continue
the trial and related dates.  The Court
continues the trial to September 23, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.  The Final
Status Conference is September 9, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.  All discovery
and related dates will be based on the new trial date. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.