 Case Number:  23STCV21102    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  68 Silva
Donikian vs. Kia America, Inc., et al., 23STCV21102
Motion to Vacate
Default
Moving
Party – Lou Sobh Cerritos Saturn, Inc.
This lawsuit was filed by Plaintiff on August 31, 2023. It identified 2
defendants. On November 7, 2023 the default of Defendant Lou Sobh Cerritos
Saturn, Inc. (“Cerritos Saturn”) was entered by the Court.  However, on November 13, 2023 a First Amended
Verified Complaint was filed. There is no indication on the proof of service
whether it was served on Cerritos Saturn. 
Nonetheless, on December 4, 2023 Defendant Cerritos Saturn filed its
Verified Answer to First Amended Complaint.
Moving Party’s Position
Defendant Cerritos Saturn moves to vacate default pursuant to CCP §
473(b). Defendant makes this motion based on the provision of that section that
allows for mandatory relief if a party submits an application to vacate default
within six months of entry of default, is in proper form, and is accompanied by
an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. Default was entered against Defendant on November 7, 2023,
and this motion was filed on December 5, 2023.
Defendant’s motion is accompanied by an affidavit from its attorney
stating that the attorney, Matthew M. Proudfoot, had been retained by both Cerritos
Saturn and Defendant Kia America to represent their interests in this matter.
(Proudfoot Decl., ¶ 5.) Based on the allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint, Mr.
Proudfoot determined that he could not represent both Kia America and Cerritos
Saturn, but he failed to notify Cerritos Saturn of this, so they were
unknowingly without counsel and failed to respond to Plaintiff’s complaint. (Proudfoot
Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)
Defendant also argues that it may obtain relief from default due to
Plaintiff filing a First Amended Complaint that included new facts not in the
first iteration of Plaintiff’s complaint. Defendant also argues that it may obtain
discretionary relief from default.
No opposition has been filed.
Analysis
CCP Section 473(b) states as follows:
Notwithstanding any other requirements of
[§ 473(b)] the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment…unless
the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
Further, the
law favors hearings on the merits, so any doubts as to the application of
section 473 should be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from
default. (See Shapiro v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.)
Defendant filed its
motion to vacate default within 6 months of the entry of default because
default was entered on November 7, 2023, and Defendant filed this motion on
December 5, 2023. Defendant’s motion was accompanied by an affidavit from
Defendant’s attorney attesting to the fact that the failure to file a
responsive pleading to the complaint was due to mistake.
The Answer to the Verified
First Amended Complaint was filed December 4, 2023
ORDER
1.      Defendant’s
motion to vacate default is GRANTED.
2.      The
Verified Answer to First Amended Complaint is deemed filed December 4, 2023.