  Case Number:  18STCV07913    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  68 Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
Victoria Williams vs. Pasadena City College, 18STCV07913
Moving Party: Defendant Pasadena Area Community College
District

Responding Party: Plaintiff Victoria
Williams

I.                  
Background
Plaintiff Victoria Williams
(Plaintiff), an African American woman, has been employed continuously by
Defendant Pasadena Area Community College District (Defendant) from May 15,
2014, to the present in the position of Administrative Assistant I in Pasadena
City College’s (PCC) Office of Strategic Communications and Marketing. (UMF 1.)
Plaintiff alleges that at the time of her hire, she was improperly placed at
the lowest pay level for her position. (UMF 2.) Plaintiff alleges that she
performed job duties outside of her job classification starting in September
2014. (UMF 3.) Plaintiff alleges that on December 10, 2014, and March 31, 2015,
two District-initiated reclassification requests were submitted on Plaintiff’s
behalf, but after position reviews were conducted, no change was made to
Plaintiff’s position. (UMF 6, 8.) Plaintiff received the final decision
regarding her reclassification request on August 25, 2015. (UMF 10.)
In April 2017, the new Executive
Director of the Marketing Department, Alex Boekelheide, submitted a memorandum
with a justification for the reclassification of Plaintiff’s position. (UMF
11.) No position reclassification was recommended to reclassify Plaintiff’s
Administrative Assistant I position into a Business Analyst position in June
2017. (UMF 12.) 
In October 2017, the decision was
made that no employee would receive a reclassification until the District had
the opportunity to review the position in order to determine which departments
were in need of a reorganization. (UMF 13.) All reclassifications were denied
in 2017, regardless of any protected category which may have been attributable
to a person (UMF 14), though a couple of employees who were part-time employees
were hired as full-time employees. (Reply, Blizinski Decl., ¶ 4.)
On February 15, 2018, Boekelheide
submitted a District-Initiated reclassification request to Linda Beam, Interim
HR Vice President, on Plaintiff’s behalf. (UMF 15.) Beam did not proceed with
the request, given the directive at the time that no one was to be reclassified,
and the year before that it was recommended that no change be made to
Plaintiff’s position allocation. (UMF 16.) Beam testified in her deposition
that she had no discriminatory animus in making her decision. (UMF 17.) In
April 2018, Beam directed Plaintiff to stop performing duties outside her job
description. (UMF 18.)
After filing this lawsuit in
December 2018, Plaintiff again applied for reclassification in 2019, for the
position of Senior Business Analysis. (UMF 19.) In May 2019, it was announced
that a Joint Committee, which included members of Plaintiff’s own Union, would
review the reclassification requests. (UMF 20-21.) After conducting an
interview with Plaintiff and her supervisor, the Committee unanimously agreed
that Plaintiff was not going to be reclassified to a Senior Business Analysis,
but did find that Plaintiff should have been classified as an Administrative
Assistant II (a position for which Plaintiff has never applied, despite being
the next step up from her current position). (UMF 22.)
Defendant indicates that the
employee-initiated reclassification requests between 2015 and 2019 show no
pattern or practice of discrimination on the basis of race or gender. (UMF 24.)
No one in the District has made any derogatory comments to Plaintiff about her
race or gender. (UMF 33.)
Plaintiff alleges that she was
retaliated against after filing this suit, but in her deposition, Plaintiff
admitted that she is performing the same job duties currently that she was
performing before she filed her lawsuit. (UMF 28.) She was also allowed to
remain on FMLA leave and returned to work following clearance from her doctor.
(UMF 29-30.)
Plaintiff applied for her
right-to-sue on December 22, 2017, and obtained her right-to-sue from the DFEH
on January 2, 2018. (UMF 34.) Plaintiff filed this suit on December 11, 2018.
II.               
Evidentiary Objections
a.     
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
                                                             
i.     
Sustained: None
                                                           
ii.     
Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
b.     
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections
                                                             
i.     
Sustained: 1, 2, 4 (misnumbered), 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20
                                                           
ii.     
Overruled: 14
III.            
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff has requested that the
Court take judicial notice of two PCC Courier articles. The Court denies
Plaintiff’s request, as Plaintiff cannot rely on Evidence Code § 452 for the
Court to take judicial notice of newspaper articles.
IV.            
Analysis
a.     
Standard for Summary Judgment and
Adjudication
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437c(c) “requires the trial
judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th
384, 389.)¿ 
When interpreting § 437c, courts have held that a
three-step analysis is required: (1) Identify the issues framed by the
pleadings since it is these allegations to which the motion must respond by
establishing a complete defense or otherwise showing there is no factual basis
for relief on any theory reasonably contemplated by the opponent’s pleading;
(2) Determine whether the moving party’s showing has established facts which
negate the opponent’s claim and justify a judgment in movant’s favor; and (3) Determine
whether the opposition demonstrates the existence of a triable, material
factual issue. (AARTS Production, Inc. v. Crocker National Bank (1986)
179 Cal.App.3d 1061, 1064-1065.)¿¿ 
Summary Judgment may be granted only where all the
supporting and opposition papers show there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment “as a matter of
law.” (CCP § 437c(c).)¿¿ 
As a result, the Plaintiff “must present evidence that
would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying material fact
more likely than not—otherwise, he would not be entitled to judgment as a
matter of law but would have to present his evidence to a trier of fact.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 851, fns. omitted; Oldcastle
Precast, Inc. v. Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554,
562-563.)¿¿ 
The Defendant need only show the existence of a triable
issue of material fact. (Union Bank v. Super Ct. (Demetry) (1995)
31 Cal.4th 573, 590; see Lopez v. Super
Ct. (Friedman Bros. Invest. Co.)
(1996) 45 Cal.4th 705, 713; Leslie G. v. Perfy &
Assocs. (1996) 43 Cal.4th 472, 482.) Summary judgment would not be proper
where the facts support a triable issue of fact.¿ 
b.     
Issues for Summary Judgment
                                                             
i.     
Issue No. 1: First Cause of Action for
Race Discrimination (Gov. Code § 12940(a))
Defendant has moved for summary adjudication on the First
Cause of Action. Defendant has moved for summary adjudication on multiple
bases, including that Plaintiff’s claims based on alleged actions prior to
December 22, 2016, are time-barred by the DFEH complaint filing requirements;
Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case of discrimination; Defendant has
articulated legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for its actions; Plaintiff
cannot demonstrate that Defendant’s stated legitimate non-discriminatory
reasons for its actions are pretextual; and Plaintiff failed to exhaust her
administrative and judicial remedies prior to initiating the litigation.
Timeliness of Pre-2016 Claims
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
reclassification requests from 2014 and 2015 should not be considered as part
of this case because they are time-barred.
Under the former version of Gov. Code §
12960, a plaintiff asserting a FEHA claim was obligated to file an
administrative complaint with the DFEH within one year from the date the
alleged unlawful practice or refusal to cooperate with the FEHA occurred.
(Former Gov. Code §12960(d), amended eff. Jan 1, 2020, by Stats. 2019, ch. 709
(A.B.9) [“No complaint may be filed after the expiration of one year from the
date upon which the alleged unlawful practice or refusal to cooperate occurred
. . .”].) “A party must file a charge within [one year] of the date that a
discrete retaliatory or discriminatory act ‘occurred’ or lose the ability to
recover for it.” (Rojo v. Kliger (1990) 52 Cal.3d 65, 88.) A timely
filing of the administrative complaint is a predicate to maintaining a FEHA
civil action for damages. (Accardi v. Sup. Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th
341, 349; Okoli v. Lockheed Tech. Operations Co. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th
1607, 1613.)
Plaintiff applied for right-to-sue on
December 22, 2017. That means that any claims related to incidents prior to December
22, 2016, could not be considered as part of Plaintiff’s suit. For the 2014 alleged
misclassification and 2015 request to have been included under the continuing
violation doctrine, Plaintiff would have had to show that she suffered adverse
employment actions that were sufficiently similar and frequent enough to be a
single course of conduct and that the situation had not reached a degree of
permanence over a year before she commenced the lawsuit, such that Plaintiff
knew or should have known that she sustained a harm. (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal
USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1059.)
Plaintiff knew about the decisions regarding
her classification and the denial of her request at the time they happened.
Additionally, those incidents were distinct from Plaintiff’s later requests for
reclassification. As such, they cannot be considered as part of the events for
her discrimination claim.  They are time
barred.
Prima Facie Case for Race Discrimination
            Next,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not establish a prima facie case for race
discrimination.
            An
action for discrimination under the FEHA requires that an employee prove that
the employer intentionally discriminated against the employee based on a
protected characteristic. (Mixon v. Fair Employment Housing Comm’n
(1987) 119 Cal.App.3d 1306, 1317.) On a defense motion for summary judgment
against a disparate treatment claim, the defendant must show either that one of
the required elements cannot be established or that there were one or more
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons underlying the alleged adverse employment
action.” (Jones v. Department of Corrections (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
1367, 1379.) “[C]onceptually the theory of ‘[disparate] treatment’ . . . is the
most easily understood type of discrimination. The employer simply treats some
people less favorably than others because of their race, color, religion, sex
or national origin.” (Mixon, supra, at 1317.)
            Other
than her own Declaration with speculation lacking foundation and based on
hearsay, Plaintiff has provided no evidence of direct discrimination.
            Where
there is no evidence of direct discrimination, courts apply a three-stage
burden-shifting framework in evaluating discrimination claims, established by McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792 (1973). The McDonnell Douglas
test places the initial burden on Plaintiff to establish a prima facie case of
discrimination. (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317,
355.) If Plaintiff does, the burden then shifts to Defendants to articulate a
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for its action. If the Defendants do so,
Plaintiff must present substantial evidence that the stated reason is
pretextual. (Id.)
            Plaintiff
has not established a prima facie case for discrimination. Though Plaintiff
attempts to point to a couple employees who went from part-time to full-time
during the period of no reclassifications in 2017 as evidence that she was
discriminated against, the move from part-time to full-time was not considered
a reclassification. Additionally, Defendant had legitimate, non-discriminatory
reasons for not recommending Plaintiff’s reclassification, either because Defendant
was not reclassifying employees at that time or because Plaintiff’s
qualifications did not meet the positions for which she was applying. Plaintiff
has failed to show that Defendant’s stated reasons were pretextual as Plaintiff
has not presented any admissible evidence suggesting that Defendant engaged in
discriminatory reclassification practices.
            ­Administrative
Remedies
            Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative remedies. The
Collective Bargaining Agreement to which Plaintiff is a party has a grievance
procedure that includes arbitration. Plaintiff did not follow the grievance
procedure in the Collective Bargaining Agreement before filing this suit.
            Conclusion
            Plaintiff
has not demonstrated any triable issues of material fact regarding her race
discrimination claim. Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED
for this cause of action.

                                                           
ii.     
Issue No. 2: Second Cause of Action for
Gender Discrimination (Gov. Code § 12940(a))
Defendant
has moved for summary adjudication on the Second Cause of Action. Defendant has
moved for summary adjudication on multiple bases, including that Plaintiff’s
claims based on alleged actions prior to December 22, 2016, are time barred by
the DFEH complaint filing requirements; Plaintiff cannot establish a prima
facie case of discrimination; Defendant has articulated legitimate,
non-discriminatory reasons for its actions; Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that
Defendant’s stated legitimate non-discriminatory reasons for its actions are
pretextual; and Plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative and judicial
remedies prior to initiating the litigation.
The
analysis for this cause of action is the same as the previous cause of action
for race discrimination. Plaintiff has not presented sufficient evidence of
gender discrimination.
            Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED for this cause of action.
                                                         
iii.     
Issue No. 3: Third Cause of Action for Declaratory
and Injunctive Relief (Gov. Code § 12940(a))
Defendant
has moved for summary adjudication on the Third Cause of Action. Defendant has
moved for summary adjudication on multiple bases, including that Plaintiff’s
claims based on alleged actions prior to December 22, 2016, are time barred by
the DFEH complaint filing requirements; Plaintiff cannot establish a prima
facie case of discrimination; Defendant has articulated legitimate,
non-discriminatory reasons for its actions; Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that
Defendant’s stated legitimate non-discriminatory reasons for its actions are
pretextual; and Plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative and judicial
remedies prior to initiating the litigation.
As
with the previous causes of action, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that there
is a triable issue of material fact concerning Defendant’s alleged
discriminatory actions.
Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED for this cause of action.
                                                         
iv.     
Issue No. 4: Fourth Cause of Action for
Injunctive Relief (Education Code § 88010)
Defendant
has moved for summary adjudication on the Fourth Cause of Action. Defendant has
moved for summary adjudication on multiple bases, including that Plaintiff’s
claims based on alleged actions prior to December 22, 2016, are time barred by
the DFEH complaint filing requirements; Plaintiff cannot establish a prima
facie case of discrimination; Defendant has articulated legitimate,
non-discriminatory reasons for its actions; Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that
Defendant’s stated legitimate non-discriminatory reasons for its actions are
pretextual; and Plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative and judicial
remedies prior to initiating the litigation.
Similar
to the above issues, Plaintiff has not demonstrated a triable issue of fact
that would entitle her to injunctive relief.
Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED for this cause of action.
                                                           
v.     
Issue No. 5: Fifth Cause of Action for
Retaliation (Gov. Code § 12940(a))
Defendant
has moved for summary adjudication on the Fifth Cause of Action on the basis
that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case of retaliation because she
cannot establish that she experienced an adverse employment action.
To
establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must
show that she: (1) engaged in a protected activity; (2) the employer subjected
her to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link exists between the
protected activity and the employer’s action. (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)
Contrary
to the allegations in her complaint, Plaintiff testified at her deposition that
she is performing the same job duties she performed before the lawsuit, that the
District allowed her to remain on FMLA leave, and that she returned to work
following clearance from her doctor after her leave. (UMF 28, 30.) Indeed, Plaintiff
complains that when she voiced complaints that she was doing work outside of
her job duties, she was directed to only perform services within the job
description.  Hence, rather than any
adverse action taken against her for her complaint, she was instead told that she
is to perform her job duties.  Plaintiff
has not demonstrated a triable issue of fact concerning any retaliatory
conduct.
Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED for this cause of action.
                                                         
vi.     
Issue No. 6: Sixth Cause of Action for
Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation (Gov. Code § 12940(k))
Defendant
has moved for summary adjudication on the Sixth Cause of Action on the baes
that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case for failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation because no discrimination or retaliation ever
occurred; and based the District maintains policies and procedures regarding
prevention of discrimination and retaliation.
The
FEHA establishes that an employer may be liable for failure to prevent
discrimination in the workplace. Government Code § 12940(k). A failure to
prevent claim is viewed under the same elements as a tort, in that the
plaintiff has the burden of proving: (1) that defendant had a legal duty of
care toward plaintiff; (2) defendant breached that duty; (3) legal causation;
and (4) damages. (Trujillo v. North County Transit Dist. (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 280, 286.) A plaintiff cannot maintain a failure to prevent claim
if the plaintiff cannot establish the underlying discrimination. (Dickson v.
Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1314.)
Plaintiff
has not established that there was any underlying discrimination or
retaliation. Therefore, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that there is a triable
issue of material fact concerning her cause of action for failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation.
Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED for this cause of action.

V.               
Order
Defendant Pasadena Area Community
College District’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED IN ITS ENTIRETY.
Defendant shall prepare a form of
judgment, submit it to Plaintiff for approval as to form, and then file it with
the Court for execution.