  Case Number:  21STCV36615    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  9 ARMANDO REYES vs F. ROBERTS CONSTRUCTION, et al., 21STCV36615 9/12/24 DRAFT Minute Order On September 12, 2024, Counsel for the parties voluntarily participated
in an informal discovery conference with the Court, at the conclusion of which
the parties agreed as follows: No later than September 19, 2024, Defendant will voluntarily
supplement its response to allow Plaintiff’s RPD Set 3, No. 110 in full, will
conduct a reasonable and diligent search, and will produce all documents in its
possession or control that are responsive to Plaintiff’s RPD Set 3, No. 110. The parties agree that in producing responsive documents, Defendant has
already identified the Bates page numbers of the produced documents that
correspond to each RFP that the documents are responsive to, including all
Bates page numbers of documents produced in response to RPD 110.   The parties agree that Defendant’s response to RPD Set 2 No. 76 is code
compliant. The parties agree that for exchanges of written discovery verified by
Plaintiff Armando Reyes, Plaintiff will attach: (1) a verified Spanish
translation of Defendant’s set of interrogatories, requests for production, or
requests for admissions, (2) a Spanish version of Plaintiff’s responses thereto,
(3) a written verification in Spanish signed by Plaintiff , (4) an English translation
of Plaintiff’s responses, (5) an English translation of Plaintiff’s verification,
and (5) a declaration from a certified Spanish language interpreter attesting
to the accuracy of the Spanish-English translations of all these documents (Defendant’s
set of interrogatories or requests for production, or requests for admissions, Plaintiff’s
responses, and Plaintiff’s verifications). No later than October 11, 2024, Plaintiff
will produce translated documents and verifications in compliance with this
agreement for all written discovery that Plaintiff has verified to date.  Plaintiff will also comply with this
agreement regarding translations for all discovery to which Plaintiff has not
yet served verified responses going forward. No later than October 11, 2024, Plaintiff will voluntarily supplement
his response to allow Defendant’s RPD Set 1 No. 2.  Plaintiff will reiterate that he is unable to
comply because Plaintiff never signed any arbitration agreement, and thus, no
original arbitration agreement ever existed. 
Nonetheless, in an abundance of caution, Plaintiff conducted a
reasonable and diligent search physically of where he maintains and stores his personal
papers and confirmed that no original arbitration agreement can be found in his
personal papers.  No later than October 11, 2024, Plaintiff will voluntarily supplement
his responses to allow Defendant’s RPD Set 1, Nos. 1, 3, 4 and 5 in full, will
conduct a reasonable and diligent search, and will produce all documents in his
possession or control that are responsive to Defendant’s RPD Set 1, Nos. 1, 3, 4
and 5.  Plaintiff has already produced all
documents in his possession or control after a reasonable and diligent search,
which can be found at Bates pages (identify Bates numbers). The parties entered into these stipulations in open Court.  Prior to finalizing this minute order, the
Court posted this minute order on the Court’s online tentative ruling website,
and all Counsel agreed to the accuracy of this minute order in reflecting the
parties’ stipulations. The parties are to continue their meet and confer regarding
any remaining discovery disputes.  If the
parties fully resolve all pending discovery issues relating to the pending motions
to compel further, the moving party must promptly take any pending motion
off-calendar by filing a notice of withdrawal and also posting a message on Case
Anywhere.    For any motion to compel further in this action that has
been filed or will be filed in the future, the responding party’s voluntary
service of supplemental responses prior to the hearing will moot all issues for
the motion except for sanctions.  The
parties are ordered to meet and confer regarding sanctions and to file a joint
statement within 5 days of the service of supplemental responses; the joint
statement must advise that supplemental responses have been served and advise whether
the parties have been able to resolve the sole remaining issue of
sanctions.  In order to demonstrate that
supplemental responses have been served thereby mooting a pending motion to
compel further, the responding party must also file and serve a copy of the
verified supplemental responses no later than when the opposition is due.  If the moving party deems that the
supplemental responses remain deficient and/or non-code compliant, the moving
party must timely (within 45 days of service of the supplemental responses)
file and serve a new motion to compel further complying with all statutory
requirements, including a meet and confer regarding the supplemental responses
and a separate statement that includes all responses (original and
supplemental).  The moving party may
contact Department 26 to request a further informal discovery conference to
discuss the remaining disputes following the service of supplemental
responses.  The parties are ordered to
file a joint statement of items remaining in dispute no later than 5 days before
the further IDC. 



















































Plaintiff is to download this minute order, give formal
notice, and file proof of service of such no later than September 20, 2024.