 Case Number:  24TRCV01287    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka      Tuesday, September 17, 2024 
Department M    Calendar No. 12   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Michelle
Nichols v. The Travelers Insurance Companies, et al.    
24TRCV01287
1.      The Standard Fire Insurance Companies’ Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint
 
TENTATIVE RULING

The Standard Fire Insurance Companies’ Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend, in part, and
without leave to amend, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on October 6, 2023. Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint was filed on July 8, 2024. Plaintiff alleges defective repair
and restorative construction work on the real property located at 2113 Harriman
Lane Unit A, Redondo Beach, California by Defendant Paul Davis Restoration,
Inc. (“Restoration”). Defendant alleges that an agent of Defendant The Standard
Fire Insurance Companies negligently recommended Restoration and induced the retention
of Restoration through false representations.
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendant set forth a meet and
confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41. (Decl., Shadie
Maghareh, ¶¶ 1-2.) 
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.
(Schmidt v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are
the essential facts of the case "with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature,
source, and extent of his cause of action.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether
the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling
upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a
demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s factual
allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a defendant of
the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendant demurs to
the second through sixth causes of action for failure to state sufficient facts
to state a cause of action and uncertainty. CCP § 430.10(e)(f). The Court notes
that the fourth cause of action is not directed against demurring Defendant and
therefore the demurrer to that cause of action is moot. 
 
Second Cause of
Action for Negligent Hiring
 
Defendant’s demurrer
to the second cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
“An employer may be liable to a
third person for the employer's negligence in hiring or retaining an employee
who is incompetent or unfit. Liability for negligent hiring ... is based upon
the reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics
which might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the enterprise
should bear the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit
employees. Negligence liability will be imposed on an employer if it knew or
should have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard
and that particular harm materializes. California follows the rule set forth in
the Restatement Second of Agency section 213, which provides in pertinent part:
‘A person conducting an activity through servants or other agents is subject to
liability for harm resulting from his conduct if he is negligent or reckless:
... [¶] (b) in the employment of improper persons or instrumentalities in work
involving risk of harm to others[.]’ Liability for negligent ... retention of
an employee is one of direct liability for negligence, not vicarious
liability.” Phillips v. TLC Plumbing,
Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133. 1139 (internal citations and quotations
omitted). 
            “One
who employs another to act for him is not liable ... merely because the one
employed is incompetent, vicious, or careless. If liability results it is
because, under the circumstances, the employer has not taken the care which a
prudent man would take in selecting the person for the business in hand.... [¶]
Liability results ... not because of the relation of the parties but because
the employer antecedently had reason to believe that an undue risk of harm
would exist because of the employment.” Federico
v. Superior Court (Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1213-14. 
            “[A]n
employer can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring, supervising,
or retaining an unfit employee. [Citation.] Liability is based upon the facts
that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes. To establish
negligent supervision, a plaintiff must show that a person in a supervisorial
position over the actor had prior knowledge of the actor's propensity to
do the bad act.” Alexander v. Community Hospital of Long Beach (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 238, 264 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in
original).
            Plaintiff
has failed to allege facts to demonstrate that Defendant had any advance
knowledge of the unfitness of any of its employees. Plaintiff alleges no facts
to support the conclusion that Defendant had reason to believe that an
unreasonable risk of harm existed in the hiring of any of its employees. Only
conclusions are set forth. 
The demurrer to the
second cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of
Action for Breach of Implied Warranty of Fitness
 
The demurrer to the
third cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails
to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
“The general rule is
that privity of contract is required in an action for breach of either express
or implied warranty and that there is no privity between the original seller
and a subsequent purchaser who is in no way a party to the original sale.” Burr
v. Sherwin Williams Co. (1954) 42 Cal.2d 682, 695.
 
Here, Plaintiff is
attempting to impose liability upon demurring Defendant pursuant to a home
improvement contract entered between Plaintiff and Defendant Restoration. However,
Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to show privity of contract on the part of
demurring Defendant with respect to that contract.
 
The demurrer to the
third cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Fifth Cause of
Action for Breach of California Business and Professions Code §7160
 
The demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails
to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 7160 states: “Any person who is induced to contract for a work of
improvement, including but not limited to a home improvement, in reliance on
false or fraudulent representations or false statements knowingly made, may sue
and recover from such contractor or solicitor a penalty of five hundred dollars
($500), plus reasonable attorney's fees, in addition to any damages sustained
by him by reason of such statements or representations made by the contractor
or solicitor.”
“A complaint for fraud must
allege the following elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the
defendant; (2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable
reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages.”  Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “[T]he elements of an action for fraud and
deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he has known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230,
248.
“Every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner and the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow
defendant to understand fully the nature of the charge made.”  Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157. 
Plaintiffs must state facts which “show how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered.”  Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
Plaintiff fails to
plead specific facts to state a cause of action for Fraud, including specific
facts as to knowledge that the representations were false, intent to deceive,
justifiable reliance, and resulting damages. In addition, Plaintiff fails to plead
the requisite specific facts as to how, where, and by what means the
representations were made. 
 
Defendant’s demurrer
to the fifth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Sixth Cause of
Action for Respondeat Superior
 
The demurrer to the
sixth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to
state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
“Respondeat superior”
is not an independent cause of action. It is merely a legal doctrine. “Under
the doctrine of respondeat superior, an employer is vicariously liable for the
torts of its employees committed within the scope of the employment.” Saks
v. Charity Mission Baptist Church (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1138
(internal quotation omitted).
 
The demurrer to the
sixth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Defendant is ordered
to give notice of this ruling. 