  Case Number:  19TRCV00248    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                            Tuesday,
September 17, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 9
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Fedex Corporate Services, Inc. v. Faraday &
Future, Inc., et al. 
            19TRCV00248
1.      Fedex
Corporate Services, Inc.’s Motion for Entry of Judgment     
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Fedex
Corporate Services, Inc.’s Motion for Entry of Judgment is granted pursuant to
CCP § 664.6. 
       
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on March 7, 2019. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. This
is an action for common counts for services provided in the amount of $394,157.35.

 
            Motion
to Enforce Settlement Agreement
 
            CCP § 664.6 states: “If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court
or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the
court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.
If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties
to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement.”
 
            Plaintiff contends that the parties entered into a
settlement agreement executed on December 10, 2020. (Decl., Long Bui, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff states that Defendant breached the
terms of the settlement agreement. According to Plaintiff, Defendant has not
made a payment since December 20, 2023. (Id.). The Court notes that Defendant
failed to file any written opposition to the motion. 
 
               Therefore, the Court determines that Plaintiff has met
its burden to establish that a breach of the settlement agreement exists such
that a judgment, pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, may be
ordered.  
 
               Thus, Plaintiff’s Motion for Entry of Judgment is
granted.  
 
               Plaintiff is ordered
to give notice of this ruling.