 Case Number:  22STCV33878    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Equinox Holdings, Inc.’s Motion to Enforce Court’s
October 2, 2023 Discovery Order and for Sanctions
            Defendant
Equinox Holdings, Inc. moves for an order compelling plaintiff to comply with
the court’s discovery order dated October 2, 2023, and for monetary
sanctions.  On October 2, 2023, the court
ordered plaintiff to further respond to requests for production without
objections.  
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(i)
provides, “[I]f a party fails to obey an order compelling further response, the
court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction … .  In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction.”
Plaintiff argues defendant’s motion is
defective because defendant did not submit a separate statement.  But defendant submitted a separate statement
when it initially filed this motion on January 16, 2024.  Moreover, the motion only concerns three
discovery responses.  Defendant
adequately submitted a concise outline of the disputed responses.
Plaintiff also argues the motion is
defective because defendant did not file a meet and confer declaration.  Defendant made an adequate effort to informally
resolve this dispute.  (Tran Decl., Ex.
C.)
Plaintiff disobeyed the court’s order
compelling further responses.  On October
2, 2023, the court ordered him to serve further responses without objections to
the disputed requests for production within 20 days.  His supplemental responses to requests for
production Nos. 45, 46, and 49 were only objections.  (Tran Decl., Ex. B, pp. 2-4.)  
On May 16, 2024, plaintiff ultimately
served further responses and produced additional documents.  (Iarusso Decl., Ex. A.)  “The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though …  the requested discovery was
provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)  The court ordered plaintiff to serve further
responses without objections within 20 days of October 2, 2023.  Plaintiff unreasonably delayed doing so for more
than six months.  Plaintiff only served
responses without objections six weeks after defendant filed this motion.  Sanctions are appropriate.  
Defendant Equinox Holdings, Inc.’s
motion to enforce the court’s discovery order and for sanctions is granted as
to monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff Joshua
Canady and his counsel Michelle Iarusso are ordered to pay defendant
Equinox Holdings, Inc. $2,212.50 within 20 days.  Plaintiff and his counsel are jointly and severally liable for the
sanctions.