 Case Number:  23PSCV03574    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Jesse  Hirezi, et al. v. Hannah Bishara Hirezi, et al.  Plaintiffs’  Motion to Disqualify Jorn S. Rossi as Counsel for Defendants Hanna Hirezi, Mona  Hirezi, Bethlehem Star, Inc., Golden Springs, LLC, and Arrow Beverage, Inc.  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to disqualify Jorn S. Rossi as  Counsel for Defendants Hanna Hirezi, Mona Hirezi, Bethlehem Star, Inc., Golden  Springs, LLC, and Arrow Beverage, Inc. The Court will set a Status Conference re Representation of the Corporate Defendants at the hearing on this  motion.               Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a family business dispute. On November 15, 2023, plaintiffs  Jesse Hirezi (Jesse), an individual and as Trustee of the J & R Hirezi  Family Trust of April 20, 2015, and Randa Hirezi (Randa), an individual and as  Trustee of the J & R Hirezi Family Trust of April 20, 2015 (collectively, Plaintiffs)  filed this action against defendants Hanna Bishara Hirezi a/k/a Hanna Hirezi  a/k/ John Hirezi (John), Mona Qumsieh Hirezi a/k/a Mona Hirezi a/k/a Mona J.  Herzi, Bethlehem Star, Inc. (Bethlehem), Golden Springs, LLC, Arrow Beverage,  Inc. (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 20. On May 2, 2024,  Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint, alleging causes of action  for breach of partnership agreement, breach of fiduciary duty, dissolution of  partnership/corporation, accounting, quasi contract and constructive trust,  money had and received, declaratory relief, and partition.  On April 2, 2024, Plaintiffs moved to disqualify Jorn S. Rossi as  counsel for Defendants. On May 13, 2024, Defendants opposed the motion. On May  21, 2024, Plaintiffs replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD              An attorney  owes a duty of confidentiality to his or her client. (Bus. Prof. Code §  6068(e)(1). An attorney also owes a duty of loyalty to a client, such that  disqualification is necessary even if there is no risk of a client’s  confidences being transmitted to the client’s litigation adversary in an  unrelated matter. (Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton, LLP v. J-M  Manufacturing Co., Inc. (2018) 6 Cal.5th 59, 84, citing Flatt v.  Superior Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 284-85.) Unless there is informed  written consent by each client, disqualification is automatic in cases of  simultaneous representation of clients. (Sheppard, at p. 80.)  Disqualification is necessary in cases of successive representation where there  is a substantial relationship between the subjects of the prior and current  representations. (City and County of San Francisco v. Cobra Solutions, Inc. (2006)  38 Cal.4th 839, 847, citing Flatt, at p. 283.) A conflict of interest  that requires an attorney’s disqualification from a matter normally extends to  the entire firm to safeguard the clients’ legitimate expectations that their  attorneys will protect their confidences. (People ex rel. Dept. of  Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135,  1139, citing Flatt v. Superior Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 283-84; City  and County of San Francisco, at pp. 847-48.) Such conflict of interest  imputations apply to attorneys who are of counsel. (SpeeDee, at pp. 1139  [“Conflicting representations that would disqualify all of a law firm’s attorneys  are not more acceptable when an attorney of counsel to the firm creates the  conflict.”)  DISCUSSION              Summary of  Arguments              Plaintiffs  contend that Jorn S. Rossi (Rossi), counsel for Defendants, has represented  Jesse relative to the partnership, which underlies this action. Plaintiff Jesse  indicates that while he was a client of Rossi, he provided confidential  information about himself and his relationship with his brother, Defendant John.  Jesse contends he is a former client of Rossi and that he has not consented to  Rossi representing his brother John and the other Defendants in this action, as  Rossi obtained confidential information material to his employment as counsel  for Defendants.  Plaintiffs  contend Rossi was the longtime attorney for Plaintiffs in matters involving  Bethlehem, i.e., the partnership that is the subject of this action. Plaintiffs  contend they retained Rossi to perform legal work involving the subject  partnership, that he drafted the shareholder agreement referenced in the complaint  at the request of both Plaintiffs and Defendants, and that Rossi has been  involved in the partnership issues between the parties for several years. Plaintiffs  contend this case involves the same issues and subject matter for which Rossi  previously represented Plaintiffs, that Rossi had direct contact with  Plaintiffs, and that he was the sole attorney working on matters pertaining to  the partnership. Plaintiffs contend that since they are Rossi’s former clients,  he obtained confidential information and insights about them, and that Rossi  may not harm Plaintiffs by representing the Defendants’ whose interests conflict  with theirs. Plaintiffs contend Rossi breached his duty of loyalty by  representing John against Jesse.  In  opposition, Rossi contends he never spoke with or in any way communicated with  Jesse about Bethlehem other than the preparation of the subject shareholder  agreement, which is not a confidential disclosure and in which Jesse waived in  writing any conflicted related thereto. Rossi contends Jesse disclosed no  confidential information to Rossi or any other plaintiff party, and that none  was identified in the motion. Rossie contends he has never represented Jesse or  Randa, and that at most, he prepared some annual meeting minutes for Bethlehem  over the years at the request of John. Rossi contends he has never discussed  anything about Bethlehem with Jesse or John, that he did not form Bethlehem in  1996, know Jesse or John then, and has never represented Bethlehem.  Rossi  contends Plaintiffs lack standing to disqualify him because Plaintiffs have no  other prior relationship, other than the conflict-waived, non-confidential  drafting of the shareholder agreement, and that Plaintiffs have failed to  explain how the continued representation of Defendants would negatively impact  the outcome of the case. Rossi contends Plaintiffs do not argue that his  representation of all the Defendants creates a risk of harm to Plaintiffs. Rossi  contends Jesse never had any substantive communications with Rossi on the few  occasions that they met. Rossi contends that a substantial relationship to  litigated issues is irrelevant with dual representation, citing Evidence Code  section 962 for the contention that there is an absence of confidentiality, and  that Plaintiffs fail to identify any confidential related matter involving  Rossi. Rossi further contends that representing a corporation does not equate  to representing its shareholders or partners, so Rossi’s representation of  Bethlehem does not equate to representation of Jesse.  Analysis  The Court  finds Plaintiffs’ motion to be well taken. It is clear that Rossi represented  both Jesse and John in connection with the drafting of the subject shareholder  agreement, which forms part of the basis of this action. (See FAC, ¶ 14, Ex.  1.) Jesse contacted Rossi on November 2, 2015, to assist him and his brother  John in preparing the shareholder agreement concerning Bethlehem. (Jesse Hirezi  Decl., Ex. 1.) Jesse and John executed a retainer agreement with Rossi, wherein  Rossi agreed to draft the shareholder agreement and ultimately did draft it.  (Jesse Hirezi Decl., Exs. 2-4; Opp., 3:2-4.) Plaintiffs also provided evidence  showing that Rossi communicated directly with Jesse regarding these matters,  and that he and John communicated with Rossi regarding issues involving the  partnership for several years in which Rossi obtained confidential information  from Jesse. (Jesse Hirezi Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. 2-3.) Accordingly, the Court finds  Plaintiffs have established that Jesse is a former client of Rossi, and that the  subject matter of that prior representation is substantially related to the  subject matter of Rossi’s current representation of Defendants, such that Rossi  is presumed to have had access to confidential information and Rossi’s  disqualification is mandatory. (See Ontiveros v. Constable (2016)  245 Cal.App.4th 686, 696, italics added; see also Cal. Rules of Professional  Conduct, rule 1.9, subd. (a) [lawyer may not represent another person in a  matter that is substantially related to another matter involving a former  client].)[1] Thus, Plaintiffs need not explain how Rossi’s continued representation of  Defendants would harm Plaintiffs or address the substance of Jesse’s  communications with Rossi in connection with these matters.  Moreover,  Rossi’s own words confirm that he understood the existence of a conflict of  interest in representing Defendants against Plaintiffs in this action, as  evidenced by a letter dated March 19, 2024, in which Rossi advised counsel for  Plaintiffs that he was looking for Jesse’s conflict waiver. (Spitz Decl., Ex. F.)  Rossi’s opposition contends Jesse waived this conflict in writing, but Rossi provided  no copy of any such written waiver. (See Opp., 3:2-5.) Additionally, the  conflict waiver in the retainer agreement only waived conflicts relating to the  shareholder agreement, it did not waive any conflicts in representing one  brother against the other in litigation. (Jesse Hirezi Decl., ¶ 5.)  Furthermore,  the Court finds Rossi’s arguments regarding Evidence Code section 962 to be without  merit. Evidence Code section 962 is a rule of evidence that governs the  admissibility of confidential communications in a civil proceeding between a lawyer  and two or more clients in a matter of common interest; it is not a rule of  ethics that determines whether a lawyer is disqualified from representing a  particular client. (See Evid. Code, § 962.) The Court also finds these  arguments inherently contradictory, as Rossi would have to concede Jesse was a  client to make such a client, which would in turn undermine Rossi’s contention  that Plaintiffs lack standing to disqualify him.               Based on the  foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion.          CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to disqualify Jorn S. Rossi as  Counsel for Defendants Hanna Hirezi, Mona Hirezi, Bethlehem Star, Inc., Golden  Springs, LLC, and Arrow Beverage, Inc. The Court will set a Status Conference re Representation of the Corporate Defendants at the hearing on this  motion.               Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     