 Case Number:  23PSCV03336    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Lawrence
Elmer Barkley, Jr. v. Judy Ann Drebert 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Interlocutory Judgment and Appointment of Partition Referee 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES the motion for interlocutory judgment and
appointment of a partition referee, without prejudice. The case is stayed in
its entirety until the notice of pendency of action is recorded and proof of
the recording filed with the Court. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a partition action. On October 27, 2023, plaintiff Lawrence
Elmer Barkley, Jr. (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Judy Ann
Drebert (Defendant) and Does 1 through 10, alleging one cause of action for
partition. Defendant was served with the Summons and Complaint on November 13,
2023. Defendant has not filed any responsive pleading, although she has
appeared in Court. Plaintiff has not entered the default of Defendant.
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed his motion for interlocutory
judgment and appointment of a partition referee. On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Notice of Non-Opposition, informing the Court that he did not receive
any opposition to the motion. As of May 9, 2024, no opposition to the motion
has been filed. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“‘A co-owner of real or personal property may bring an
action for partition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 872.210.) “The primary purpose of a
partition suit is ... to partition the property, that is, to sever the unity of
possession. [Citations.]” [Citation.]’ [Citations.]” (Cummings v. Dessel
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 589, 596.) 
“The governing statute [for interlocutory judgments] is
[Code of Civil Procedure] section 872.720.” (Summers v. Superior Court
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 138, 142 (“Summers”).) 
“Subdivision (a) [of the statute] declares that ‘[i]f the
court finds that the plaintiff is entitled to partition, it shall make an
interlocutory judgment that determines the interests of the parties in the
property and orders the partition of the property.’ (§ 872.720, subd. (a).)” (Summers,
supra, 24 Cal.App.5th at p. 142.) 
“When the trial court ‘determines the interests of the
parties in the property and orders the partition of the property,’ it shall
decide the manner of partition ‘unless [this] is to be later determined.’ (§
872.720, subd. (a).) ‘The manner of partition may be “in kind”—i.e., physical
division of the property [citation] according to the parties’ interests as
determined in the interlocutory judgment. [Citations.] Alternatively, if the
parties agree or the court concludes it “would be more equitable,” the court
may order the property sold and the proceeds divided among the parties.’
[Citation.]” (Summers, supra, 24 Cal.App.5th at p. 143.) 
“Two points are made clear by [the above] provisions.” (Summers,
supra, 24 Cal.App.5th at p. 143.) 
“First, an interlocutory judgment in a partition action
is to include two elements: a determination of the parties’ interests in the
property and an order granting the partition. (§ 872.720, subd. (a).)” (Summers,
supra, 24 Cal.App.5th at p. 143.) An “order of partition ‘shall order
that the property be divided among the parties in accordance with their
interests as determined in the interlocutory judgment.’ (§ 872.810.)” (Id.
at p. 142.) 
“Second, the manner of partition—i.e., a physical
division or sale of the property—is to be decided when or after the parties’
ownership interests are determined, but not before.” (Summers, supra,
24 Cal.App.5th at p. 143.) 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice of other superior court rulings (from Los Angeles
County and other counties) because those courts’ rulings on interlocutory
judgment motions are not relevant to the instant motion, and the motions in
those rulings concerned parties and properties unrelated to this action. 
PRELIMINARY ISSUE 
Notice of Pendency of Action 
Code of Civil Procedure section 872.250 states, in pertinent part: 
a) Immediately upon filing the complaint, the plaintiff shall
record a notice of the pendency of the action in the office of the county
recorder of each county in which any real property described in the complaint
is located.
***
(c) If the notice is not recorded, the court, upon its own motion
or upon the motion of any party at any time, shall order the plaintiff or
person seeking partition of the property, or another party on behalf of the
plaintiff or other person, to record the notice and shall stay the action until
the notice is recorded. 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 872.250.) 
Plaintiff has not provided any evidence to the Court that a notice
of pendency of action has been recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder.
Although a document titled, “Notice of Lis Pendens” was filed December 5, 2023,
such document does not indicate that it was recorded with the Los Angeles
County Recorder and it does not include a copy of any such recorded document.
Hence, the Court orders Plaintiff to record a notice of the pendency of the
action with the Los Angeles County Recorder and/or file proof of such recorded
document with the Court. The case is stayed in its entirety until the notice is
recorded and proof of the recording filed with the Court. 
DISCUSSION 
The Parties’ Interests in the Property 
The Court must first determine the parties’
interests in the property at issue before making an order granting the
partition. 
To support his motion, Plaintiff relies on
the facts stated in his Verified Partition Complaint (the “Complaint”), which
attests to the following facts: “The real property to be partitioned is a
single-family home located at 644 North Chapman Street, West Covina,
California, 91790, zoned WCR17500*, which is a single-family residential zoning
designation, bears Los Angeles County Assessor Parcel Number 8440-035-006, and
is more particularly described in the legal description attached as Exhibit A,
which is incorporated by reference here (the ‘Property’).” (Compl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff
and Defendant each own an undivided one-half (50 percent) interest in the
Property as tenants in common. (Compl., ¶¶
3, 4, 9, 10; Exhibit C – a copy of the quitclaim deed that Plaintiff for the
trust that held the Property executed releasing the trust’s interest in the
Property to Plaintiff and Defendant as individuals, with each party receiving one-half
interests in the Property.) 
The Court notes that in his motion, Plaintiff
refers to the deed attached as Exhibit C to the Complaint as a “grant deed” and
cites Winchell v. Lambert (1956) 146 Cal.App.2d 575, 578, for the
proposition that a “grant deed...is prima facie evidence of [a party’s]
ownership.’ [Citation.]” (Memorandum of Points and Authorities (“Motion”), pp. 3:27-4:6,
4:18-22.) However, Exhibit C to the Complaint is titled “Quitclaim Deed.” 
“It is well recognized that a quitclaim deed
is a distinct form of conveyance and operates like any other deed inasmuch as
it passes whatever title or interest the grantor has in the property.
[Citations.] It is equally settled that the form of the instrument creates a
presumption that the title to the property is held as shown in the instrument.”
(In re Marriage of Broderick (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 489, 496.) 
Here, the Quitclaim Deed states
that the owners of the Property are Judy Ann Drebert (i.e., Defendant), an
unmarried woman with an undivided fifty percent interest as a tenant-in-common,
and Lawrence Elmer Barkley, Jr. (i.e., Plaintiff), a married man as his sole
and separate property, an undivided fifty percent interest as a
tenant-in-common. (Compl., Exh. C.) 
However, Plaintiff has not
provided sufficient evidence for the Court to find that the Property is owned
by Plaintiff and Defendant. The Grant Deed, dated September 8, 1998, but not recorded
until September 15, 2023, indicates the Property is owned by Lawrence Elmer
Barkley and Ruth Ida Barkley as trustees of the Lawrence Elmer Barkley and Ruth
Ida Barkley Revocable Trust, dated September 3, 1998. (Compl., Exh. B.) The
Quitclaim Deed, dated September 20, 2023 but not recorded, purports to transfer
ownership of the Property from the Lawrence Elmer Barkley and Ruth Ida Barkley
Revocable Trust to Plaintiff and Defendant each with 50% undivided interests as
tenants in common. (Compl, Exh. C.) The Quitclaim Deed is signed by Plaintiff
Lawrence Elmer Barkley, Jr., for the Lawrence Elmer Barkley and Ruth Ida
Barkley Revocable Living Trust. The Court notes that the Grant Deed identifies
the trust as the Lawrence Elmer Barkley and Ruth Ida Barkley Revocable Trust,
not Revocable Living Trust. The Court further notes that the notary statement
indicates that Lawrence Elmer Barkley appeared before her, not Lawrence Elmer
Barkley, Jr. 
Moreover, Plaintiff has not
provided any evidence that he is the trustee or successor trustee of the
Lawrence Elmer Barkley and Ruth Ida Barkley Revocable Trust or that he had the
authority to sign the Quitclaim Deed on behalf of the Trust and convey the
Property to Plaintiff and Defendants. Further, as the Court previously noted,
the Quitclaim Deed has not been recorded and the Title Guarantee, dated March
3, 2023, states: 
According to the Public Records
as of the Date of Guarantee:
a. Title to the estate or
interest in the Land is vested in:
Lawrence E. Barkley and Ruth Ida
Barkley, husband and wife, as joint tenants 
(Compl., Exh. D, Schedule A.) Indeed, the Property
Details Report, dated March 29, 2023, lists the owners of the Property as “Barkley
Lawrence E. and Ruth I.” (Compl., Exh. E.) 
            Based on all of these discrepancies,
Plaintiff has not established his ownership of the Property. Thus, the Court
cannot make any order to partition the Property. 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the
motion to partition the Property. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion for interlocutory judgment and
appointment of a partition referee, without prejudice. The case is stayed in
its entirety until the notice of pendency of action is recorded and proof of
the recording filed with the Court. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order.