  Case Number:  22PSCV01581    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:   Shamel Nelson v. Country Oaks
Partners, LLC, et al. 
Brian
Van Allen’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Shamel Nelson 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved as counsel effective
upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed Order. Counsel must submit
a revised proposed order addressing the issues discussed herein. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a medical malpractice and elder abuse action. On October
31, 2022, Shamel Nelson, successor in interest to Gloria McKeiver, deceased (Plaintiff)
filed this action against defendants Country Oaks Partners, L.L.C., a limited
liability company doing business as Country Oaks Care Center (Country Oaks),
Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center, a corporation doing business as Pomona
Valley Hospital Medical Center (Pomona Valley), and Does 1 through 110,
alleging two causes of action for medical negligence against Country Oaks and
Pomona Valley separately, two causes of action for reckless neglect of an elder
person in violation of the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Protection Act
against Country Oaks and Pomona Valley separately, and one cause of action for
violation of patient’s bill of rights against both Country Oaks and Pomona
Valley. 
On
May 2, 2024, Brian Van Allen of Belgum, Fry & Van Allen LLP, counsel for Plaintiff,
filed a motion to be relieved as counsel. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
The Court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 403-407.) 
A motion to
be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of
Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite
forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have appeared in
the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Brian
Van Allen of Belgum, Fry & Van Allen LLP (Counsel), seeks to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff on the grounds that an irreconcilable breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship has occurred. (Van Allen Decl., ¶ 2.) A breakdown
in the attorney-client relationship is sufficient grounds for allowing the
attorney to withdraw. (Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004,
1014.) 
The Court notes some issues with Counsel’s declaration and the
proposed order. Paragraph 4, subdivision (b), of Counsel’s declaration incorrectly
provides the place of the hearing for the Post Mediation Status Conference on
August 5, 2024 as Department A. (Van Allen Decl., ¶ 4, subd. (b).) The Post
Mediation Status Conference is scheduled in Department 6 of the West Covina
Courthouse. The proposed order does not provide the time or place for the Post
Mediation Status Conference on August 5, 2024. (Proposed Order, ¶ 7, subd.
(a).) Paragraph 5 of the proposed order is not filled out either. (Proposed
Order, ¶ 5.) Nevertheless, these issues can be resolved by Counsel submitting a
new proposed order addressing these issues. 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved as counsel
on the condition that Counsel submits a revised proposed order addressing the
issues discussed herein. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved as counsel effective
upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed Order. Counsel must submit
a revised proposed order addressing the issues discussed herein. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days.