  Case Number:  23SMCV06025    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             California Lawyers Group LLP v.
Durst, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the Complaint; Motion
for Sanctions (CCP § 128.7)
HEARING DATE:    7/31/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.) 
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)  
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 


Sanctions
 
Code of Civil
Procedure (CCP) section 128.7 states that a court may impose sanctions on a
party or attorney that presents a pleading, petition, motion, or other similar
papers in the following circumstances: 
 
1) the document is presented primarily for an
improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless
increase in the cost of litigation. 
2) the claims, defenses, and other legal contentions
therein are not warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of
new law. 
3) the
allegations and other factual contentions have no evidentiary support. 
4) the denials
of factual contentions are not warranted on the evidence. 
 
CCP section
128.7 permits the Court to impose monetary sanctions on an attorney or an
unrepresented party that violates any one of these requirements. (Eichenbaum
v. Alon (2003) 106 Cal App 4th 967, 976.) In addition, section 128.7 does
not require a finding of subjective bad faith; instead it requires only that
the Court find that the conduct be objectively unreasonable. (In re
Marriage of Reese & Guy (1999) 73 Cal. App. 4th 1214, 1221.) 
 
Under section
128.7, a court may impose sanctions if it concludes a pleading was filed
for an improper purpose or was indisputably without merit, either legally or
factually. (Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 189–190.) A claim
is factually frivolous if it is “not well grounded in fact” and is legally
frivolous if it is “not warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for
the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.” (Ibid.) In
either case, to obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party's
conduct in asserting the claim was objectively unreasonable. (Ibid.) A
claim is objectively unreasonable if “any reasonable attorney would agree that
[it] is totally and completely without merit.” (Ibid.) However, “section
128.7 sanctions should be ‘made with restraint’ [Citation], and are not
mandatory even if a claim is frivolous.” (Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 428. at 448.) 
 
In addition to
the above requirements, CCP section 128.7(c)(1) requires that a motion for
sanctions under section 128.7 be made separately from other motions and that
notice of the motion must be served, but not filed with the Court, unless,
within 21 days after service of the motion, the challenged paper is not
withdrawn. This 21-day time period is known as a "safe harbor" period
and its purpose is to permit an offending party to avoid sanctions by
withdrawing the improper pleading during the safe harbor period. (Li v.
Majestic Industry Hills LLC (2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 585, 591.) This
permits a party to withdraw a questionable pleading without penalty, thus
saving the court and the parties time and money litigating the pleading as well
as the sanctions request. (Ibid.)   
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant Etehad Law APC demurs to Plaintiff
California Lawyers Group LLP’s complaint for declaratory relief.  “A complaint for
declaratory relief must demonstrate: (1) a proper subject of declaratory
relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating
to the rights or obligations of a party.” (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman
Marina Hospital (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410.) “The ‘actual controversy’
requirement concerns the existence of present controversy relating to the legal
rights and duties of the respective parties pursuant to contract (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1060), statute or order.” (Ibid.) Generally, the purpose of a
declaratory relief action is “to set controversies at rest before they lead to
repudiation of obligations, invasions of rights, or commissions of wrongs . . .
[Citations.]” (Travers v. Louden (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 926, 931.)
“Another purpose is to liquidate doubts with respect to uncertainties or
controversies which might otherwise result in subsequent litigation.
[Citations.]” (Id.) “‘[S]ection 1060 does not require a¿breach of
contract in order to obtain¿declaratory¿relief, only an ‘actual controversy.’¿Declaratory¿relief¿pursuant
to this section has frequently been used as a means of settling controversies
between parties to a contract regarding the nature of their contractual rights
and obligations.’” (Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho
Partners LLC¿(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 365.) Declaratory relief operates
prospectively. (Id. at 366.)¿ 
 
“Strictly speaking, a demurrer is a
procedurally inappropriate method for disposing of a complaint for declaratory
relief.” (Lockheed Martin Corp. v. Continental Ins. Co. (2005) 134
Cal.App.4th 187, 221, disapproved on other grounds.) Nevertheless, the court
may sustain a demurrer to a declaratory relief claim if the complaint fails to
allege an actual or present controversy, or that the controversy is not
“justiciable,” or if a judicial declaration is not “necessary or proper at the
time under all the circumstances.” (CCP § 1061; DeLaura v. Beckett
(2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 542, 545.) If no facts are alleged with would render
necessary or proper a declaration with respect to the future conduct of the
parties, resolution by demurrer is appropriate. (Osseous Technologies of
America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
376 [there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are
involved]; Meyer v. Sprint Spectrum L.P. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 634, 648
[demurrer properly sustained where no allegations that declaratory relief would
“have any practical consequences.”].) 
 
Etehad
argues that that the declaratory claim is not ripe because Plaintiff has not previously
adjudicated the “existence, value, or enforceability of its lien” in a separate
action, as required by governing case law. (Mojtahedi v. Vargas (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 974; Brown v. Superior Ct. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 320.)
 The Court finds Etahad’s cited cases
distinguishable from the instant action where a separate action was brought
simultaneously against both a client and successor counsel. In Brown, a
judgment creditor (JC) filed an application for an order that the judgment
debtor’s money judgment in a subsequent action be applied to satisfy the JC’s judgment
lien. (Brown, supra, 116 Cal. App. 4th at 324.) The judgment debtor’s (JD)
attorney opposed the application, based on the priority of his claimed attorney
fee lien. (Ibid.) The Brown court held that an attorney had to
bring an independent action against his client to establish the enforceability
and amount of his contractual lien and could not simply intervene and address
that issue in a dispute between the creditor and his client. The court
explained:
 
“Appellate courts have
consistently held that the trial court in the underlying action has no
jurisdiction to determine the existence or validity of an attorney lien on the
judgment . . . [B]ecause the attorney is not a party to the underlying action
and has no right to intervene, the trial court acts in excess of its
jurisdiction when it purports to determine whether the attorney is entitled to
foreclose a lien on the judgment. [Citations.] Nor can the court entertain a
motion to terminate the lien. [Citation.] After the client obtains a judgment,
the attorney must bring a separate, independent action against the client
to establish the existence of the lien, to determine the amount of the lien,
and to enforce it. [Citations.] An order within the underlying action
purporting to affect an attorney's lien is void.” 
 
(Id.
at 328, emphasis added.) The Brown court also specifically noted that a declaratory
relief action under CCP section 1060, seeking a declaration of the attorney's
rights with respect to his client would be an appropriate independent action. (Id.)

 
In
Mojtahedi v. Vargas, a discharged attorney (Mojtahedi) in a personal
injury matter filed a separate action to enforce an attorney fee lien against a
successor attorney (Vargas). (Mojtahedi, 228 Cal. App. 4th at 975.) In an
underlying matter, Mojtahedi represented the clients until Vargas was
substituted in as new counsel. Vargas subsequently obtained a
settlement payment for the clients, which he held in his client trust
account. Mojtahedi subsequently sued Vargas on the theory that he was
owed a portion of the settlement checks. However, Mojtahedi never brought an
action against his former clients to establish the reasonable cost of his
attorney fees, and instead unsuccessfully demanded payment of attorney
fees from defendant. Citing Brown, the Second District found that the
nature of an attorneys’ fees lien required that “[a]fter the client obtains a
judgment, the attorney must bring a separate, independent action against the
client to establish the existence of the lien, to determine the amount of the
lien, and to enforce it.” (Id. at 978.) 
 
The
instant action apparently complies with Brown and Mojtahedi’s “separate,
independent action” requirement. Here, Plaintiff sues the former client Linda Durt
separately from the underlying action in which the subject fees were
incurred. Plaintiff is not seeking to enforce a lien “solely” against third
parties who paid the settlement. This action is therefore factually
distinguishable from Mojtahedi and Brown on its face. 
 
Furthermore,
Etehad fails to present authority that a plaintiff cannot join a successor
attorney as a third party defendant in which the former client is also named as
a defendant.  On the contrary, case law
suggests that this suit is not barred. For example, in Southern California
Gas Co. v. Flannery (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 476, the Court of Appeal clarified
that an action to determine a lien need only be “separate” and “independent”
from the underlying action in which the settlement or judgment was
entered, not separate and independent from an action against third parties who
settled or paid the judgment in disregard of the lien. Accordingly, the court
permitted an interpleader action in which the attorney lienholder and the
client were parties, since an interpleader action, taken together with the
answers and motion for fees, were the “equivalent of a complaint seeking a
determination of the value and enforceability” of a lien. (Id. at 496.)  The court distinguished Mojtahedi, noting that
unlike that matter, the client (Flannery) was also a party.  (Id. at 859.)  
Likewise,
in Levin v. Gulf Ins. Group (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1282, an attorney
lienholder stated a claim for breach of contract against a former client, and a
cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage against third parties that paid the full settlement amount to the former
client, despite notice of the plaintiff’s lien. (Id. at 1285, fn. 3.) The
Levin record does not show that the attorney lienholder had already
established the existence, value, or enforceability of the lien outside of the
interference suit.
 
In
addition, the recent case of Aresh v. Marin-Morales (2023) 92 Cal. App.
5th 296 commented in support of a “simultaneous” action under materially similar
circumstances:
 
We believe Mojtahedi
is distinguishable from this case. In Mojtahedi, the initial attorney
attempted to enforce his fee lien against the subsequent attorney without
involving the clients. He argued it was improper for an attorney to draw the
clients into what he viewed as a dispute that is solely between attorneys over
their division of a contingent fee. [Citation.] The appellate court disagreed,
pointing out the attorney's lien was a matter of contract between the attorney
and clients and the fees would be paid out of settlement funds otherwise
belonging to the clients. Consequently, the attorney must establish “his
entitlement to a particular portion of the settlement proceeds” as against the
client before enforcing that entitlement against a third party holder of the
funds. [Citation.] In contrast to Mojtahedi, Aresh did include his
former clients in his lawsuit, thus giving them the opportunity to be heard
that was improperly denied to the clients in that case. The issue of
simultaneous litigation was never raised in Mojtahedi.
 
(Id.
at fn. 3.) The Court notes that while on point and instructive, this footnote is
not controlling authority. Before the trial court formally ruled on the
successor attorney’s demurrer on this point, the discharged attorney dismissed the
successor attorney from the case and litigated fee claims only against the clients.
(Id., at 299-302.) Following trial, the trial court entered judgment in
favor of the discharged attorney, holding that he was entitled to recover his
earned fees and costs from the settlement amount. (Id.) The trial court
also determined, over objection, the amount of fees and costs to which the
dismissed successor attorney was entitled. (Id.) The Aresh court
reversed the trial court’s order concerning the successor attorney’s
entitlement to fees but upheld the order adjudicating the discharged attorney’s
fees. The Aresh court focused on the trial court’s lack of jurisdiction
over the successor attorney, which required vacating the judgment related to
the successor attorney’s allotment of fees. The Aresh court did not
directly hold that it was proper to bring the suit against the successor
attorney, as simultaneous litigation was not before the court due to the
voluntary dismissal. Therefore, the cited footnote is dicta. That said, the
Fourth District expressly approved including a third-party holder of funds into
a declaratory relief suit in materially identical circumstances. The Court
finds this comment persuasive on the proper application of Mojtahedi and
consistent with Southern California Gas Co. v. Flannery.
 
            Thus, this action complies with established
case law’s requirement that an attorney bring an independent action against
their former client in order to establish the validity of an attorneys’ fees
lien. The cited case law does not forbid a “simultaneous” action against a
successor attorney who holds the disputed funds in trust.  Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
The motion for sanction is DENIED. At a minimum, the above
discussion shows that Plaintiff’s complaint against Etehad was not “frivolous.”
Therefore, sanctions are not warranted even if the Court were inclined to
sustain the demurrer.  
 
Defendant to file an answer within 20 days.