 Case Number:  24SMCV02422    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02422




MOTION


Stay




MOVING PARTIES


Occupants Behnam Ghassemini-Nejad; Kaysan
  Ghassemi-Nejad; Bita Ghassemini-Nejad, and K3B Enterprises, LLC




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendant
  9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition, LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute regarding competing claims on the
property located at 9996 Sunset Boulevard. 
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff 9996 Sunset Properties, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed suit for declaratory relief against Defendants 9996 Sunset Loan
Acquisition, LLC and Fidelity National Title Company.  
 
On July 18, 2024, Defendant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition, LLC filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant LACC 9996, LLC and Plaintiff for (1)
judicial foreclosure; (2) specific performance; and (3) injunctive relief.
 
On July 23, 2024, pursuant to the parties’ stipulation, David
Stapleton was appointed as receiver over the subject property.
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition, LLC (“Defendant”)
moved ex parte for an order to show cause re contempt against the
occupants/trespassers on the property (1) Kayasan Ghassemi-nejad; (2) Behnam
Ghassemi-nejad; and (3) K3B Enterprises, LLC for failure to comply with the
July 23, 2024 receivership order, which the Court granted and set the order to
show cause for hearing.
 
On August 21, 2024, the non-party occupants
Behnam Ghasseminejad; Kaysan Ghassemi-Najad; and K3B Enterprises LLC (collectively,
“Occupants”) moved to intervene, to vacate the order appointing a receiver, and
to dismiss the case, which the Court denied in its entirety at the hearing on
September 23, 2024.  
 
Because the Occupants challenged the validity of the receivership
order apparently in good faith by virtue of the motion to intervene, vacate
receivership order, and dismiss, the Court continued the hearing on the OSC re:
Contempt to permit the Occupants to start complying with that order by either
vacating the subject property or, at minimum, permitting the Receiver access to
the subject property to complete an inspection. 

 
On October 14, the Court tentatively found that Occupants failed to
timely and substantially comply with the Court’s Receivership Order, and the
Occupants had demonstrated only untimely, minimal compliance efforts, specious
excuses, and continued disagreement with the validity of the Court’s
Receivership Order, but continued the hearing for the parties to submit
briefing on the appropriate penalty.  
 
On October 31, the Occupants filed a Notice of Appeal of (1) the
Court’s September 23, 2024 Order denying the Occupants Motion to Intervene,
Vacate Appointment of the Receiver, and to Dismiss; and (2) the Court’s October
14, 2024 Order continuing the hearing on the OSC re Contempt for further
briefing.
 
Occupants now move to stay all further proceedings and enforcement
actions pending the appeal that arise from
 
1.    
The Court’s denial of Occupants’ motion to intervene,
vacate the order appointing the receiver, and/or dismiss the case;
2.    
The Court’s findings of contempt for failure to comply
with the receivership order; and 
3.    
Any enforcement actions related to the receivership,
including eviction and the sale of the property located at 9996 Sunset Blvd.,
Beverly Hills, California.
 
Defendant opposes the motion.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
In
general, “the perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon
the judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or
affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial
court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected
by the judgment or order.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 916, subd. (a).)  Furthermore,
“When there is a stay of proceedings other than the enforcement of the
judgment, the trial court shall have jurisdiction of proceedings related to the
enforcement of the judgment as well as any other matter embraced in the action
and not affected by the judgment or order appealed from.”  (Id. at subd. (b).)  
 
            The purpose of the automatic stay
provision “is to protect the appellate court’s jurisdiction by preserving the
status quo until the appeal is decided. 
The [automatic stay] prevents the trial court from rendering an appeal
futile by altering the appealed judgment or order by conducting other
proceedings that may affect it.”  (Varian
Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 189 (hereafter Varian).)  The provision “stays all further trail court
proceedings ‘upon the matters embraced’ in or ‘affected’ by the appeal.”  (Ibid.)  “In determining whether a proceeding is
embraced in or affected by the appeal, we must consider the appeal and its
possible outcomes in relation to the proceeding and its possible results.”  (Ibid.)  Whether a proceeding is “embraced” or
“affected” by the appeal turns on whether the proceedings would affect the
“effectiveness” of the appeal.  (Ibid.)  Proceedings affecting the effectiveness of
the appeal are stayed; other proceedings are not.  (Ibid.)  
 
            That a “proceeding may render the
appeal moot is not, by itself, enough to establish that the proceeding affects
the effectiveness of the appeal” sufficient to warrant a stay.  (Varian, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 189.)  “Rather, something more is needed.  For example, the trial court proceeding must
directly or indirectly seek to enforce, vacate or modify [the] appealed
judgment or order.”  (Ibid.)  Alternatively, “the proceeding must
substantially interfere with the appellate court’s ability to conduct the
appeal.  (Id. at p. 190.)  
 
“A trial court proceeding also affects the effectiveness of an appeal
if the possible outcomes on appeal and the actual or possible results of the
proceeding are irreconcilable.”  (Varian,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 190.) For example, terminating jurisdiction over
spousal support is irreconcilable with possible outcomes on appeal of the
denial to vacate the spousal support order. 
(Ibid.)  Similarly, “an
appeal from a judgment on the pleadings precludes a trial court from granting
leave to amend the complaint because affirmance of the judgment is
irreconcilable with an order granting leave to amend.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“Finally, a proceeding affects the effectiveness of the appeal if the
very purpose of the appeal is to avoid the need for that proceeding.”  (Varian, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 190.).)  For example, “an appeal from the denial of a
motion to compel arbitration automatically stays all further court proceedings
on the merits” because the trial court proceedings themselves are “inherently
inconsistent with a possible outcome on appeal.”  (Ibid.)  Similarly, because the purpose of the
anti-SLAPP statute is to protect litigants from being “dragged through the
courts because [they] exercised [their] constitutional rights […] an appeal
from the denial of an anti-SLAPP motion is no different than an appeal from the
denial of a motion to compel arbitration.” 
(Id. at p. 193.)
 
But “an appeal does not stay proceedings on ancillary or collateral
matters which do not affect the judgment [or order] on appeal even though the
proceedings may render the appeal moot.” 
(Varian, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 191.)  “[C]ertain proceedings, by law, are
collateral to the merits of an appeal despite their potential effect on the
appeal.”  (Ibid.)  For example, a motion for a new trial is
legislatively ancillary or collateral and may proceed notwithstanding an appeal
from the judgment.  (Ibid.)  Similarly, a proceeding to expunge a lis
pendens is collateral to an appeal from the judgment.  (Ibid.)
 
A “proceeding is also ancillary or collateral to the appeal despite
its potential effect on the appeal, if the proceeding could or would have
occurred regardless of the outcome of the appeal.”  (Varian, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 191.)  For example, where a litigant could achieve
the same result by posting a bond to stay the spousal support provisions of a
judgment, the Court was not prevented from modifying its spousal support
provisions in the interlocutory judgment. 
(In re Marriage of Horowitz (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 377, 382.)  
 
Similarly, “an appeal from the denial of a preliminary injunction does
not stay further trial court proceedings on the merits” because “the affirmance
or reversal of its denial does not and cannot eliminate the need for additional
proceedings on the merits” as “the injunction amounts to a mere preliminary or
interlocutory order to keep the subject of the litigation in status quo
pending the determination of the action on its merits.”  (Varian, 35 Cal.4th at p. 191.)  “Likewise, an appeal from an order denying a
motion to disqualify counsel does not automatically stay further trial court
proceedings on the merits because such proceedings would occur regardless of
whether the reviewing court affirms or reverses the order.”  (Ibid.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
On October 31, the Occupants filed a Notice of Appeal of (1) the
Court’s September 23, 2024 Order denying the Occupants Motion to Intervene,
Vacate Appointment of the Receiver, and to Dismiss; and (2) the Court’s October
14, 2024 Order continuing the hearing on the OSC re Contempt for further
briefing on the appropriate sentence.
 
In support of the motion to stay, the Occupants raise the same
arguments already raised and rejected in the Court’s September 23, 2024 order
denying Occupants’ motion to intervene, vacate the receivership order, and
dismiss, including that (1) the Receivership Order is invalid because the
Occupants were not named as parties to this litigation or given notice or an
opportunity to reject it; and (2) the Occupants have valid claims to the
subject property by virtue of their allegations of fraud, Truth in Lending Act
violations, and fraud in an Orange County action.  
 
As discussed at length in the Court’s September 23, 2024 Order, the
property has since sold at auction, and the time for the Occupants to exercise
their rights to redeem has expired. 
Thus, the Court found that the Occupants have no legal right to
possession of the property at issue, and to the extent the Occupants prevail in
the Orange County action, their remedies are limited to monetary damages.
 
Occupants further argue that the contempt findings are premature and
violate the Occupants’ due process rights. 
The Court notes that there has been no final order regarding the OSC re:
contempt except to continue the hearing for additional briefing.  
 
As a threshold matter, the Occupants are not parties to this
litigation, the Occupants’ motion to intervene was denied, and therefore they
lack standing to move the Court for a stay.
 
Further, the Court is not convinced that the orders are
appealable.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 904.1, subdivision (a) provides that an appeal may be taken from (1) a
judgment; (2) an order made after a judgment; (3) order granting a motion to
quash service of summons or motion to stay for inconvenient forum, or a
dismissal for inconvenient forum; (4) order granting a new trial or denying a
motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict; (5) an order discharging or
refusing to discharge an attachment or granting a right to attach; (6) an order
granting or dissolving an injunction, or refusing to grant or dissolve an
injunction; (7) an order appointing a receiver; (8) interlocutory judgment,
order, or decree, made or entered in an action to redeem real or personal
property from a mortgage thereof, or a lien thereon, determining the right to
redeem and directing an accounting; (9) an interlocutory judgment in an action
for partition; (10) an order made appealable by Probate Code or Family Code;
(11) an interlocutory judgment directing payment of monetary sanctions in an
amount that exceeds $5,000; (12) an order directing payment of monetary
sanctions in an amount that exceeds $5,000; (13) an order granting or denying a
special motion to strike under Sections 425.16 and 425.19; and (14) a final
order or judgment in a bifurcated proceeding regarding child custody or
visitation rights.
 
None of those sections appear to apply to the orders appealed from – an
order denying the Occupants’ motion to intervene, vacate, and dismiss; and an
order continuing the hearing on the OSC re Contempt for further briefing.  Notably, no order appealed from is a
judgment, an order appointing a receiver, or an order for payment of monetary
sanctions, nor does this case involve a right to redeem.  
 
Moreover, even if one or both of these orders are properly appealable,
“the perfecting of an appeal shall not stay enforcement of the judgment or
order in the trial court if the judgment or order appealed from directs the
sale, conveyance or delivery of possession of real property which is in the
possession or control of the appellant or the party ordered to sell, convey or
delivery possession of the property, unless an undertaking in a sum fixed by
the trial court is given that the appellant or party ordered to sell, convey or
deliver possession of the property will not commit or suffer to be committed
any waste thereon and that if the judgment or order appealed from is affirmed, or
the appeal is withdrawn or dismissed, the appellant shall pay the damage
suffered by the waste and the value of the use and occupancy of the property,
or the part of it as to which the judgment or order is affirmed, from the time
of the taking of the appeal until the delivery of the possession of the
property.  If the judgment or order
directs the sale of mortgaged real property and the payment of any deficiency,
the undertaking shall also provide for the payment of any deficiency.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 917.4.)  
 
Similarly, “the perfecting of an appeal shall not stay enforcement of
the judgment or order in the trial court if the judgment or order appealed from
appoints a receiver, unless an undertaking in a sum fixed by the trial court is
given on condition that the judgment or order is affirmed or the appeal is
withdrawn, or dismissed, the appellant will pay damages which the respondent
may sustain by reason of the stay in the enforcement of the judgment.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 917.5.) 
 
Here, the Occupants do not even address the undertaking requirements,
nor has any such undertaking been fixed by the Court or posted by the
Occupants.  
 
Therefore, the appeal does not automatically stay these proceedings,
and the Court does not find a stay is warranted.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, having found (1) the Occupants lack standing to move this
court for a stay; (2) the orders appealed from do not appear to be appealable;
(3) the Occupants have not posted an undertaking; and (4) the Court already
found that the Occupants no longer have any legal right to the property by
virtue of the foreclosure sale, the Court denies the Occupants’ motion to stay
these proceedings.
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition, LLC shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling to all parties including counsel for the Occupants,
and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:  December 18, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02422




MOTION


Writ
  of Possession




MOVING PARTY


Cross-Defendant LACC 9996, LLC




OPPOSING PARTIES


Occupants
  Behnam Ghasseminejad; Kaysan Ghassemi-Najad; and K3B Enterprises LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute regarding competing claims on the
property located at 9996 Sunset Boulevard. 
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff 9996 Sunset Properties, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed suit for declaratory relief against Defendants 9996 Sunset Loan
Acquisition, LLC and Fidelity National Title Company.  
 
On July 18, 2024, Defendant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant LACC 9996, LLC and Plaintiff for (1)
judicial foreclosure; (2) specific performance; and (3) injunctive relief.
 
On July 23, 2024, pursuant to the parties’ stipulation, David
Stapleton was appointed as receiver over the property.
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition, LLC (“Defendant”)
moved ex parte for an order to show cause re contempt against the
occupants/trespassers on the property (1) Kayasan Ghassemi-nejad; (2) Behnam
Ghassemi-nejad; and (3) K3B Enterprises, LLC for failure to comply with the
July 23, 2024 receivership order, which the Court granted and set the order to
show cause for hearing.
 
On August 21, 2024, the non-party occupants
Behnam Ghasseminejad; Kaysan Ghassemi-Najad; and K3B Enterprises LLC (collectively,
“Occupants”) moved to intervene, to vacate the order appointing a receiver, and
to dismiss the case, which the Court denied in its entirety at the hearing on
September 23, 2024.  
 
On October 14, the Court found that Occupants failed to timely and
substantially comply with the Court’s Receivership Order, and the Occupants had
demonstrated only untimely, minimal compliance efforts, specious excuses, and
continued disagreement with the validity of the Court’s Receivership Order, and
held the Occupants in contempt, but continued the hearing to December 11 for
the parties to submit briefing on the appropriate penalty.  
 
On October 31, the Occupants filed a Notice of Appeal of the Court’s
September 23, 2024 and October 14, 2024 Orders.
 
Cross-Defendant LACC 9996, LLC (“Cross-Defendant’) now moves for an
order issuing a writ of possession in favor of the receiver.  The Occupants oppose the motion and
Cross-Defendant replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – WRIT OF POSSESSION
 
            “Upon the filing of the complaint or
at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a
writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ with the court
in which the action is brought.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 512.010, subd. (a).)  
 
The application shall be submitted under oath and
shall include all of the following:
 
(1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiff’s
claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the property claimed.
If the basis of the plaintiff’s claim is a written instrument, a copy of the
instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the property is wrongfully
detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into
possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge, information,
and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 
(3) A particular description of the property and
a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement, according to the best knowledge,
information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the property and,
if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place which may have
to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to
believe that such property is located there.
 
(5) A statement that the property has not been
taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an
execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is
by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 512.010, subd. (b).)
 
            Prior to the hearing, the defendant
shall be served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2) the Notice of
Application and Hearing; (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in
support thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
512.030, subd. (a).)  “If the defendant
has not appeared in the action, and a writ, notice, order, or other paper is
required to be personally served on the defendant under this title, service
shall be made in the same manner as a summons is served[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.030, subd. (b).)
 
The “Notice of Application and Hearing” shall
inform the defendant of all of the following:
 
(a) A hearing will be held at a place and at a
time, to be specified in the notice, on plaintiff’s application for a writ of
possession.
 
(b) The writ will be issued if the court finds
that the plaintiff’s claim is probably valid and the other requirements for
issuing the writ are established. The hearing is not for the purpose of
determining whether the claim is actually valid. The determination of the
actual validity of the claim will be made in subsequent proceedings in the
action and will not be affected by the decision at the hearing on the
application for the writ.
 
(c) If the defendant desires to oppose the
issuance of the writ, he shall file with the court either an affidavit
providing evidence sufficient to defeat the plaintiff’s right to issuance of
the writ or an undertaking to stay the delivery of the property in accordance
with Section 515.020.
 
(d) The notice shall contain the following
statement: “If you believe the plaintiff may not be entitled to possession of
the property claimed, you may wish to seek the advice of an attorney. Such
attorney should be consulted promptly so that he may assist you before the time
set for the hearing.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 512.040.)
 
            At the hearing, a writ of possession
shall issue if (1) plaintiff establishes the probable validity of plaintiff’s
claim to possession of the property; and (2) the undertaking requirements of Section
515.010 are satisfied.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 512.060.)
 
Unless the court finds a defendant has no interest in the property,
the Court shall not issue a writ of possession until a plaintiff has filed an
undertaking with the court in an amount not less than twice the value of the
defendant’s interest in the property. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 515.010.)
 
DISCUSSION

 
A.    Appeal
 
As a threshold matter, on October 31, the Occupants filed a Notice of
Appeal of (1) the Court’s September 23, 2024 Order denying the Occupants Motion
to Intervene, Vacate Appointment of the Receiver, and to Dismiss; and (2) the
Court’s October 14, 2024 Order continuing the hearing on the OSC re Contempt
for further briefing on the appropriate sentence.
 
First, the Court is not convinced that the orders are appealable.  Code of Civil Procedure section 904.1,
subdivision (a) provides that an appeal may be taken from (1) a judgment; (2)
an order made after a judgment; (3) order granting a motion to quash service of
summons or motion to stay for inconvenient forum, or a dismissal for
inconvenient forum; (4) order granting a new trial or denying a motion for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict; (5) an order discharging or refusing to
discharge an attachment or granting a right to attach; (6) an order granting or
dissolving an injunction, or refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; (7)
an order appointing a receiver; (8) interlocutory judgment, order, or decree,
made or entered in an action to redeem real or personal property from a
mortgage thereof, or a lien thereon, determining the right to redeem and
directing an accounting; (9) an interlocutory judgment in an action for
partition; (10) an order made appealable by Probate Code or Family Code; (11)
an interlocutory judgment directing payment of monetary sanctions in an amount
that exceeds $5,000; (12) an order directing payment of monetary sanctions in
an amount that exceeds $5,000; (13) an order granting or denying a special
motion to strike under Sections 425.16 and 425.19; and (14) a final order or
judgment in a bifurcated proceeding regarding child custody or visitation
rights.
 
None of those sections appear to apply to the orders appealed from.
 
Moreover, even if the orders are properly appealable, “the perfecting
of an appeal shall not stay enforcement of the judgment or order in the trial
court if the judgment or order appealed from directs the sale, conveyance or
delivery of possession of real property which is in the possession or control
of the appellant or the party ordered to sell, convey or delivery possession of
the property, unless an undertaking in a sum fixed by the trial court is given
that the appellant or party ordered to sell, convey or deliver possession of
the property will not commit or suffer to be committed any waste thereon and
that if the judgment or order appealed from is affirmed, or the appeal is
withdrawn or dismissed, the appellant shall pay the damage suffered by the
waste and the value of the use and occupancy of the property, or the part of it
as to which the judgment or order is affirmed, from the time of the taking of
the appeal until the delivery of the possession of the property.  If the judgment or order directs the sale of
mortgaged real property and the payment of any deficiency, the undertaking
shall also provide for the payment of any deficiency.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 917.4.)  
 
Similarly, “the perfecting of an appeal shall not stay enforcement of
the judgment or order in the trial court if the judgment or order appealed from
appoints a receiver, unless an undertaking in a sum fixed by the trial court is
given on condition that the judgment or order is affirmed or the appeal is
withdrawn, or dismissed, the appellant will pay damages which the respondent
may sustain by reason of the stay in the enforcement of the judgment.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 917.5.) 
 
Here, no such undertaking has been fixed by the Court or posted by the
Occupants.  Therefore, the appeal does
not automatically stay these proceedings.
 
B.   
Writ of
Possession
 
            The Court notes that the procedural
requirements for an application for a writ of possession under Code of Civil
Procedure section 512.010 et seq. have not been satisfied, because the
Occupants are not defendants to the action, nor have they been served with a
copy of the summonses, and either the complaint or cross-complaint.
 
            Instead,
Cross-Defendant seeks a writ of possession in favor of the Receiver pursuant to
Civil Code section 3375, Code of Civil Procedure section 712.010, and/or Code
of Civil Procedure section 715.010, subd. (a).
 
            Civil
Code section 3375 provides, “A person entitled to specific real property, by
reason either of a perfected title, or of a claim to title which ought to be
perfected, may recover the same in the manner prescribed by the Code of Civil
Procedure, either by a judgment for its possession, to be executed by the
Sheriff, or by a judgment requiring the other party to perfect the title, and
to deliver possession of the property.”  
 
            However,
the Receiver is not entitled to the real property by reason of perfected title
or of a claim to title.  
 
            Similarly,
Code of Civil Procedure section 712.010 provides, “After entry of a judgment
for possession or sale of property, a writ of possession or sale shall be
issued” in unlawful detainer cases.  Likewise,
Code of Civil Procedure section 715.010 provides, “A judgment for possession of
real property may be enforced by a writ of possession of real property issued
pursuant to Section 712.010.”  But the
Court’s order appointing the Receiver is not a judgment for possession or sale
of property following an unlawful detainer complaint.
 
            Therefore,
Cross-Defendant has not provided an adequate legal basis for a writ of
attachment to issue in favor of the Receiver.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, because Cross-Defendant has not provided an adequate legal
or factual basis for a writ of possession to issue in favor of the Receiver,
the Court denies Cross-Defendant’s motion. 

 
Cross-Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED:  December 18, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 3
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September
  23, 2024, continued to October 14, 2024, continued to December 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02422




MOTION


OSC
  re: Contempt




MOVING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant 9996 Sunset
  Loan Acquisition, LLC




OPPOSING PARTIES


Occupants
  Behnam Ghasseminejad; Kaysan Ghassemi-Najad; and K3B Enterprises LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute regarding competing claims on the
property located at 9996 Sunset Boulevard. 
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff 9996 Sunset Properties, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed suit for declaratory relief against Defendants 9996 Sunset Loan
Acquisition, LLC and Fidelity National Title Company.  
 
On July 18, 2024, Defendant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant LACC 9996, LLC and Plaintiff for (1)
judicial foreclosure; (2) specific performance; and (3) injunctive relief.
 
On July 23, 2024, pursuant to the parties’ stipulation, David
Stapleton was appointed as receiver over the property.
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition, LLC (“Defendant”)
moved ex parte for an order to show cause re contempt against the
occupants/trespassers on the property (1) Kayasan Ghassemi-nejad; (2) Behnam
Ghassemi-nejad; and (3) K3B Enterprises, LLC for failure to comply with the
July 23, 2024 receivership order, which the Court granted and set the order to
show cause for hearing.
 
On August 21, 2024, the non-party occupants
Behnam Ghasseminejad; Kaysan Ghassemi-Najad; and K3B Enterprises LLC (collectively,
“Occupants”) moved to intervene, to vacate the order appointing a receiver, and
to dismiss the case, which the Court denied in its entirety at the hearing on
September 23, 2024.  
 
Because the Occupants challenged the validity of the receivership
order apparently in good faith by virtue of the motion to intervene, vacate
receivership order, and dismiss, the Court continued the hearing on the OSC re:
Contempt to permit the Occupants to start complying with that order by either
vacating the subject property or, at minimum, permitting the Receiver access to
the subject property to complete an inspection. 
The Court also permitted the parties to file supplemental briefing on or
before October 7.  
 
The Occupants timely filed supplemental briefing on October 7.  Defendant untimely filed a response to the
Occupants’ supplemental briefing on October 10.
 
On October 14, the Court found that Occupants failed to timely and
substantially comply with the Court’s Receivership Order, and the Occupants had
demonstrated only untimely, minimal compliance efforts, specious excuses, and
continued disagreement with the validity of the Court’s Receivership Order, and
held the Occupants in contempt, but continued the hearing to December 11 for
the parties to submit briefing on the appropriate penalty.  
 
Defendant timely filed a supplemental brief regarding contempt
sanctions.  The Occupants did not file a
supplemental opposition.
LEGAL STANDARD – CONTEMPT
 
Disobedience of any
lawful judgment, order, or process of the court constitutes contempt of the
legal authority of the court.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1209, subd. (a)(5).)
 
“When the contempt is not
committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, or of the judge at
chambers, an affidavit shall be presented to the court or judge of the facts
constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or
arbitrators, or other judicial officers.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1211, subd. (a).) 

 
“Upon the answer and
evidence taken, the court or judge shall determine whether the person proceeded
against is guilty of the contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that the
person is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be imposed on the person not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000), payable to the court, or the person may be
imprisoned not exceeding five days, or both. In addition, a person who is
subject to a court order as a party to the action, or any agent of this person,
who is adjudged guilty of contempt for violating that court order may be
ordered to pay to the party initiating the contempt proceeding the reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs incurred by this party in connection with the
contempt proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1218, subd. (a).)  
 
“[I]f the contempt
consists of the omission to perform an act which is yet in the power of the
person to perform, he or she may be imprisoned until he or she has performed
it, and in that case the act shall be specified in the warrant of commitment.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1219, subd. (a).)
 
“The judgment and orders
of the court or judge, made in cases of contempt, are final and
conclusive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1222.)  
 
“Where the primary object
of contempt proceedings is to protect the rights of litigants, the proceedings
are regarded as civil in character. On the other hand, where the object of the
proceedings is to vindicate the dignity or authority of the court, they are
regarded as criminal in character even though they arise from, or are ancillary
to, a civil action.”  (In re Nolan W.
(2009) 45 Cal.4th 1217, 1236.)  Thus,
“[c]ivil contempt is a forward-looking remedy imposed to coerce compliance with
a lawful order of the court.”  (Ibid.)  By contrast, “criminal contempt may be used
to punish past conduct in violation of a court order.”  (Id. at p. 1237.)
 
DISCUSSION

 
A.    Appeal
 
As a threshold matter, on October 31, the Occupants filed a Notice of
Appeal of (1) the Court’s September 23, 2024 Order denying the Occupants Motion
to Intervene, Vacate Appointment of the Receiver, and to Dismiss; and (2) the
Court’s October 14, 2024 Order continuing the hearing on the OSC re Contempt
for further briefing on the appropriate sentence.
 
First, the Court is not convinced that the orders are appealable.  Code of Civil Procedure section 904.1,
subdivision (a) provides that an appeal may be taken from (1) a judgment; (2)
an order made after a judgment; (3) order granting a motion to quash service of
summons or motion to stay for inconvenient forum, or a dismissal for
inconvenient forum; (4) order granting a new trial or denying a motion for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict; (5) an order discharging or refusing to
discharge an attachment or granting a right to attach; (6) an order granting or
dissolving an injunction, or refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; (7)
an order appointing a receiver; (8) interlocutory judgment, order, or decree,
made or entered in an action to redeem real or personal property from a
mortgage thereof, or a lien thereon, determining the right to redeem and
directing an accounting; (9) an interlocutory judgment in an action for
partition; (10) an order made appealable by Probate Code or Family Code; (11)
an interlocutory judgment directing payment of monetary sanctions in an amount
that exceeds $5,000; (12) an order directing payment of monetary sanctions in
an amount that exceeds $5,000; (13) an order granting or denying a special
motion to strike under Sections 425.16 and 425.19; and (14) a final order or
judgment in a bifurcated proceeding regarding child custody or visitation
rights.
 
None of those sections appear to apply to the orders appealed from.
 
Moreover, even if the orders are properly appealable, “the perfecting
of an appeal shall not stay enforcement of the judgment or order in the trial
court if the judgment or order appealed from directs the sale, conveyance or
delivery of possession of real property which is in the possession or control
of the appellant or the party ordered to sell, convey or delivery possession of
the property, unless an undertaking in a sum fixed by the trial court is given
that the appellant or party ordered to sell, convey or deliver possession of
the property will not commit or suffer to be committed any waste thereon and
that if the judgment or order appealed from is affirmed, or the appeal is
withdrawn or dismissed, the appellant shall pay the damage suffered by the waste
and the value of the use and occupancy of the property, or the part of it as to
which the judgment or order is affirmed, from the time of the taking of the
appeal until the delivery of the possession of the property.  If the judgment or order directs the sale of
mortgaged real property and the payment of any deficiency, the undertaking
shall also provide for the payment of any deficiency.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 917.4.)  
 
Similarly, “the perfecting of an appeal shall not stay enforcement of
the judgment or order in the trial court if the judgment or order appealed from
appoints a receiver, unless an undertaking in a sum fixed by the trial court is
given on condition that the judgment or order is affirmed or the appeal is
withdrawn, or dismissed, the appellant will pay damages which the respondent
may sustain by reason of the stay in the enforcement of the judgment.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 917.5.) 
 
Here, no such undertaking has been fixed by the Court or posted by the
Occupants.  Therefore, the appeal does
not automatically stay these proceedings.
 
B.   
Contempt
 
            The Court’s July 23, 2024 Order Appointing
Receiver provides, “Subject to the requirements in this Order, the Receiver
shall have the power to take all lawful actions necessary to seek and/or
effectuate the removal of any and all unauthorized occupants on the Property,
including, but not limited to, lawsuits to remove such occupants.”  (Minute Order, Jul. 23, 2024 at p. 4.)   The
Order further provides:
 
All Parties, and/or current owners or occupants of the Property, their
agents, servants, employees or representatives, or all persons or entities
acting under or in concert with them, now in possession of any part of the
Property and not holding under valid leases, or rental agreements, shall
forthwith surrender their possession thereof to said Receiver, and that all
tenants or lessees in possession of any part of the Property, and such other
persons or entities as may be lawfully in possession thereof, are hereby
directed to attorn as tenants, or lessees to said Receiver, and until further
order of this Court, to pay over to said Receiver all rents, issues, income
profits, revenues, and lease payments of the Property now due and unpaid or
that may be hereafter become due, and all persons and entities liable for such
rents, issues, income, profits, revenues, royalties or lease payments are
hereby enjoined and restrained from paying any rents, issues, income, profits,
revenues, royalties, storage unit rentals or lease payments for the Property to
any Party or owner of the Property, their agents, servants, or attorneys.  
 
Access:
 
All persons occupying the Property, including, without limitations, any
lawful tenant or otherwise, shall immediately provide Receiver and its officers,
employees and agents, access to the Property to enable them to view and inspect
Property for the purposes of appraisal, marketing and potential sale.
 
[…]
 
            IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that
all Parties or owners or occupants of the Property, and their agents, employees
and representatives, and all persons or entities acting under or in concert
with them, are restrained and enjoined from engaging in or performing, directly
or indirectly, any or all of the following acts: 
 
            Committing or permitting any waste
on the Property or any act on the Property in violation of law or removing,
encumbering, or otherwise disposing of any of the fixtures on the Property;
 
            Demanding, collecting, receiving or
in any other way diverting or using any of the rents, issues, income, profits,
revenues, royalties or lease payments emanating from the Property;
 
            Interfering with or hindering in any
way whatsoever the Receiver in the performance of the Receiver’s duties herein
described and in the performance of any duties incident thereto;
 
            Interfering in any manner with the
Property, including their possession;
 
            Being on the Property or
communicating with any staff, vendors, employees etc. of the Receiver in
connection with the Property without the Receiver’s written consent, which
consent will not be unreasonably withheld after no less than twenty-four (24)
hours’ prior written notice to the Receiver;
 
            Transferring, conveying, assigning,
pledging, deeding, selling, renting, leasing, encumbering, changing ownership
of, vesting of title to, or otherwise disposing of the Property without a prior
order from this Court;
 
            Terminating or otherwise adversely
affecting any of the utilities which service the Property; and/or
 
            Doing any act that will impair the
preservation of the Property or Lender’s interest in the Property.
 
(Minute Order, July 23, 2024, at pp. 10-12.)
 
In support of Defendant’s request
for contempt, Defendant has provided the Declaration of Michael A. Abromson,
which provides:
 
6. Shortly after entry of the Order, the Receiver
signed the retainer agreement with my office in the form that this Court
approved in the process of the Receiver’s appointment, and I am therefore
currently employed by, and currently act as counsel for the Receiver for the
purposes set forth in the Order, i.e., to take any and all actions to remove
any and all unauthorized persons in possession of the Property.
 
7. Since my engagement as counsel, I have worked
with David Keiffer, the Receiver’s Senior Managing Director, and Justin
Picardi, the Receiver’s Associate Director, in connection with the Receiver
obtaining immediate turnover of the Property (as described in Pages 3 and 4 of
the Order). The Order directs the Receiver to take all lawful actions to remove
any and all unauthorized occupants on the Property; and provides powers for the
Receiver to access to the Property. 
 
8. To that end, the Receiver has undertaken
implementing the injunctive relief as set forth on Pages 9 through 12 of the
Order to aid in the conduct of the receivership. Specifically, for parties and
third parties with notice of the Order, it requires “immediate turnover of
possession of the Property to the Receiver,” to allow the Receiver’s
“inspection, appraisal, and marketing for potential sale.” See Order (Ex. 1),
Page 10, lines 14-25 & 27-28, and Page 11, line 1-2.
 
[…]
 
10. On July 30, 2024, the Receiver requested that
licensed process server “ASAP Legal” (“ASAP”) serve the Order (Ex. 1) and a
Notice of Inspection on any occupants of the Property (the “Notice of
Inspection”). A true and correct copy of the Notice of Inspection is attached
hereto as Exhibit 2.
 
11. On July 30, 2024, ASAP served the Order and
Notice of Inspection by posting at the Property. A true and correct copy of
ASAP’s proof of posting these documents is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.
 
12. Later that day, the Receiver and counsel for
Plaintiff received a letter from attorney Anthony Egbase, stating that his
office was retained by Kaysan Ghassemi-nejad, Behnam Ghassemi-nejad, and K3B
Enterprises, LLC (the “Occupants”). A true and correct copy of that letter is
attached as Exhibit 4. Attorney Egbase confirms in Paragraph 2 of
his letter (Ex. 4) that the Occupants did in fact “receive” the 24-hour Notice
of Receiver’s Intent to Enter and the Order, and he confirms that each of the
Occupants are “in possession” of the Property.
 
Meet & Confer with Occupants’ Counsel
to Obtain Access and Turnover of the Property is Unsuccessful.
 
13. On or about 5:30 p.m. on July 30, 2024, I
called Mr. Egbase and left a detailed voicemail requesting his and his clients’
cooperation with the Property inspection which was noticed by the Receiver for
the next morning, July 31, 2024. I embodied that voicemail in my
email sent to Mr. Egbase at approximately 6:14
p.m. A true and correct copy of that email is attached hereto as Exhibit
5. I stated that the Receiver sought compliance with the Order, specifically
turnover of the Property and immediate access thereto for purposes of
inspection. I
offered to coordinate a different date if July
31, 2024 was not available. I stated that, in any event, the inspection would
need to take place on or before August 2, 2024 (see Ex. 5).
 
14. At or about 9:30 a.m., on July 31, 2024, I
received a return call from the Occupants’ counsel, Mr. Egbase. I again advised
him that the Receiver would be at the Property at 10:00 a.m. that day, per the
Notice. I asked him whether his clients would cooperate and he responded that
he would call his clients to ask.
 
15. Approximately 15 minutes later, Mr. Egbase
called me back and said the Occupants would not permit access. I asked him for
an alternative date for inspection and turnover, and he did not respond. I
further asked him to identify who occupied the Property, whether there was any
lease to any occupant and whether the Property generated any income. He
responded that he did not know the names of the other parties occupying the
Property, but believed that they were “family members” of his clients, and that
none were paying any rent.
 
16. I then wrote Mr. Egbase an email confirming
our July 31, 2024 conversation. I attached another copy of the Receiver’s Order
to that email. Attached hereto as Exhibit 6 is a true and correct
copy of my July 31st email to Mr. Egbase. Attached as Exhibit 7 is a true and correct
Proof of Service reflecting the additional service of the Order upon the
Occupants.
 
17. In my July 31, 2024 email, I again reiterated
the Receiver’s requests for: (1) an insurance certificate; (2) identification
by name of all other occupants in the Property; and (3) a description of all
business-related activities taking place on the Property. 
 
18. Despite this detailed meet & confer,
I did not receive any further response from Mr. Egbase on July 31st or at any
time thereafter.
 
The Occupants Refuse Access to the Property.
 
19. As he noticed that he would do, the
Receiver’s representatives did in fact arrive at the Property at 10:00 a.m.,
July 31st, as per the Notice (Ex. 2). As set forth in the Picardi Decl., the
Receiver’s representatives attempted at that time to gain entry to the
Property, but the Occupants refused to allow access. Picardi Decl., ¶¶ 2-9.
This was despite the fact that the Receiver’s representatives saw a car parked
in the drive-way of the Property. Id., ¶ 6.
 
A Third Attempt to Obtain Agreement for
Access is Unsuccessful.
 
20. Having not received any response or any
alternative inspection dates from Occupants’ counsel on July 31 or August 1, I
wrote a third meet & confer email to Mr. Egbase, on August 2, 2024. A true
and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit 8. In that email,
I once again reiterated the Receiver’s requests for turnover of the Property,
insurance information, the names of all occupants, an immediate inspection
date, and other relevant information per the Order. I also highlighted the
Occupants’ refusal to permit the inspection and refusal to provide alternative
dates. 
 
21. I stated clearly that the deadline for
receipt of this information was the morning of Monday, August 5, 2024. That
date has come and gone without any response or inspection dates from the
Occupants or their counsel. 
 
22. Having received no cooperation (or even a
response), the Receiver understands that the Occupants are willfully refusing
to comply with the Order despite adequate notice and knowledge of their
obligations thereunder. 
 
23. Based upon the Occupants’ outright refusal to
comply with any of the terms of the Order, the Receiver requested that the
party which sought his appointment and issuance of the Order – defendant and
cross-complainant Sunset – seek enforcement of the Order by way of a contempt
action against the intransigent and uncooperative Occupants. This Declaration
(as well as the Picardi Decl.), are provided at Sunset’s request to facilitate
Sunset’s pursuit of appropriate relief to effectuate the purposes of the Order.
 
A Fourth Attempt to Identify the Occupants
is Unsuccessful.
 
24. I again wrote the occupant’s counsel on
August 7, 2024 demanding cooperation in identifying all occupants on the
Property. I also called Mr. Egbase and had a further meet and confer
conversation at noon on August 7th. I again asked Mr. Egbase to perform
whatever investigation was necessary in order to identify the occupants of the
Property. He stated it was “not his duty to investigate.” He further stated he
had transmitted my requests to his clients for response. I have not received
any response. 
 
25. I also pointed out there was evidence of
video streaming on the Property and “gaming” as noted in the Picardi Decl. 
 
26. I also sent Mr. Egbase a further fourth
demand to cooperate, investigate and provide the names of all occupants. A true
and correct copy of the email is attached hereto as Exhibit 9. In
that email I also demanded that any video streaming, gaming, and any other such
activities cease at once. I received no response to that email.
 
(Abramson
Decl. ¶¶ 6-8, 10-26.)
 
            Defendant has also provided the
declaration of Justin Picardi, the Associate Director of Stapelton Group, the
receiver, which provides:
 
3. As set forth in the Order, the Receiver is
charged with various critical duties with respect to the Property, including
the responsibility to take immediate possession, management, and control of the
Property. See Order, at page 3 lines 19-20. Additionally, the Receiver is
charged with collecting any and all income from the Property, taking proper
care of the Property, and the removal of all unauthorized occupants, and
ultimately marketing and sale of the Property. See id., Ex. 1, Order, page 3,
line 27 and page 4, lines 1-28.
 
4. To that end, the Receiver on July 30, 2024
employed a licensed process server to serve the Order and a Notice of
Inspection on the occupants of the Property. A copy of that Notice of
Inspection is attached to the Abramson Decl., as is the Proof of Service
thereon, as Ex. 3 thereto. The inspection was set for the next day, July 31,
2024. 
 
5. I arrived at the Property at approximately
10:00 a.m. on July 31, 2024, which was the time stated on the Notice of
Inspection. I was accompanied by my colleague, Mr. Chase Stroman, the Appraiser
Jonathan Goldrich, the listing broker, Ms. Ginger Glass, and her driver.
 
6. All parties mentioned above arrived to the
property in one car and I pressed the call button on the gate to ring any
occupants at the property. When we arrived there were several vehicles –
including two Mercedes Benzs, a Range Rover, and a Jeep Wrangler parked in the
driveway on the enclosed side of the gate. After about 5 minutes of ringing the
gate with no answer, I recorded myself making an announcement to the call box
(this recording may be made available to the Court for listening in the event that
the Court would find that helpful). I identified myself as an agent of the
Receiver and asked that the occupant respond and grant us access for the
appraisal. We had still not received a response so all of us got out of the car
and took a few pictures of the outside of the property and street while the
driver turned the car around. True and correct copies of those pictures are
attached as Exhibit A to this declaration. I then called my
supervisor, David Kieffer to see if we could get on the phone with the occupant’s
attorney. David Kieffer informed me that our attorney was on the phone with the
occupant’s attorney and that we would not be getting access. After about 25
minutes attempting to get access, I left a copy of the Order with my business
card in the mailbox, we all got back in the car and left the property (again,
without gaining any access or a response). 
 
7. After waiting 25 minutes, and after the
Receiver’s attorney spoke with the Occupants’ attorney, still, no access was
permitted. 
 
8. In order for the Receiver to comply with the
Order and properly care for, maintain, and ultimately market the Property,
there must be unimpeded access. The normal statutory procedure
under Civ. Code sec 1954 is to permit an owner to enter a dwelling unit in
order to make necessary repairs, exhibit Property to prospective purchasers,
workers or contractors. Indeed, Code Civ. P., § 1954(a)(4) specifically permits
entry “Pursuant to court order.” (Emphasis added.) 
 
9. For the occupants and their attorney to refuse
entry and to further refuse to provide alternative dates makes it impossible
for the Receiver to discharge his duties under the Order. Such refusal by the
occupants completely negates the entire purpose and effect of the Court’s
Order.
 
The Receiver is Not Receiving Any Income
From this High-Value, Luxury Property. 
 
10. Based on consultations with the broker and
rental comparison websites such as Redfin, Zillow, and Realtor.com, the
Receiver is informed and believes that current estimated monthly rental value
for the Property is at least $60,000. 
 
11. As stated in the Abramson Decl., the
Occupants’ own counsel will not confirm whether or not there are any leases for
any occupant of the Property, but despite knowing that action may be taken to
remove the Occupants, he has not come forward with any lease. There is also no
payment of any rent by any of the Occupants. Indeed, some of those Occupants’
identities are currently unknown and are being withheld from the Receiver and
his attorney. See Abramson Decl. 
 
12. Because the Receiver has a duty to sell the
Property, and cannot do so when the occupants block all access, the Receiver
requires immediate relief from the Court. The occupants must be ordered to
leave immediately and turn over possession per the Order. 
 
13. Alternatively, the occupants should be
ordered to post a bond to protect the Receiver for the amount of reasonable
monthly rental (at least $60,000 per month). 
 
Evidence of Unlicensed “Gaming” and Web
Streaming Activities on the Property. 
 
14. The Receiver has thoroughly researched the
occupant of the property, Kaysan Ghassemi-nejad, and determined that he is a
professional web streamer that goes by the name “FaZe Kaysan.” He is a part of
the professional esports and entertainment organization called “FaZe Clan.” I
have personally viewed Kaysan’s streams of himself playing video games, DJing,
and hanging out with friends on internet platforms such as Twitch, YouTube, and
Tik Tok. 
 
15. My search and review of Kayson’s Tik Tok and
Twitch accounts clearly show videos of Kaysan streaming himself and friends at
the Property playing video games, basketball, and performing loud DJ
music sets. In recent streams from the Property, Kaysan broadcasted that he was
being filmed on the Property for a documentary he is working on. This type of
activity (widespread public disclosure of his activities on the Property) is
potentially dangerous and could lead to liability for injury to persons or
property. It is completely incompatible with proper residential use of the
Property (which, even itself, would be unauthorized).
 
(Picardi
Decl. ¶¶ 3-15.)
 
            Thus, Defendant has provided
evidence that the Occupants continue to occupy the premises in violation of the
Court’s July 23, 2024 Order.
 
            The Occupants challenged that order and
sought to intervene in this matter on the grounds that they are the rightful
owners of the property, and the order appointing the receiver violated their
due process rights, as they were not named as parties to this litigation, and
were not given notice or an opportunity to be heard before the receiver was
appointed.  
 
            On September 23, 2024, the Court
denied the Occupants’ motion on all grounds, but in light of the Occupants’
apparent good faith challenge to the receivership order, the Court continued
the OSC re Contempt to October 14 to permit the Occupants to begin complying
with the receivership order by either vacating the subject property or, at
minimum, permitting the Receiver access to the subject property to complete an
inspection and to file supplemental briefing regarding their compliance.  
 
            Much of the Occupants’ supplemental
briefing appears to be an improper request for reconsideration of the Court’s
September 23, 2024 order denying Occupants’ motion to intervene, vacate the
receivership order, and dismiss, which Occupants misstate as “tentative.”  To be clear, the Court denied Occupants’
motion to intervene, vacate, and dismiss, and continued only the OSC re
Contempt.  Because issues regarding
Occupants’ attempt to intervene, vacate the receivership order, and dismiss
this case have already been decided and because there is no properly-noticed
motion for reconsideration before the Court, the Court disregards these
arguments.
 
            The Occupants make only two
arguments as to why a contempt order should not issue: (1) the Receivership
order requires the Occupants’ compliance with the law, which includes the
Unlawful Detainer process, which Occupants claim is the only proper method to
lawfully remove them from the premises, and which has not yet been initiated;
and (2) Occupant Behnam Ghasseminejad became ill with Covid-19 in late
September and quarantined on the premises, per doctor’s and the CDC’s
recommendations to avoid spreading the virus to others.
 
            Taking Occupants’ second argument
first, the Court finds the timeline provided in the Declaration of Michael A.
Abramson instructive:
 
·      
On September 23, 2024, Behnam Ghasseminejad was
present in Court at the hearing (Abramson Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
·      
Behnam Ghasseminejad tested positive for
COVID-19 on September 23, 2024 and tested negative on September 29, 2024.  (Ex. G to Abramson Decl.)
 
·      
On September 24, 2024, counsel for the Receiver
reached out to counsel for the Occupants, requesting to schedule an inspection
of the property.  (Abramson Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
·      
Having not received any response, counsel for
the Receiver reached out again on September 25, 2024.  (Abramson Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
·      
On September 25, 2024, counsel for the Occupants
replied that Behnam Ghasseminejad had tested positive for COVID-19 and was
quarantining for a week.  (Ex. C to
Abramson Decl.)
 
·      
On September 27, 2024, counsel for the Receiver
responded that the CDC no longer requires mandatory quarantines and that the
receiver’s staff would take appropriate precautions to protect both Behnam
Ghasseminejad and the Receiver’s staff. 
(Abramson Decl. ¶ 9 and Ex. E.)
 
·      
Having received no response, on October 2,
counsel for the Receiver again requested availability for an inspection.  (Abramson Decl. ¶ 11 and Ex. F.)
 
·      
On October 7, 2024, Occupants filed their
supplemental briefing.
 
·      
On October 8, 2024, counsel for Occupants sent
counsel for the Receiver a doctor’s note, dated the same day, proving Behnam
Ghasseminejad’s September 23, 2024 COVID-19 diagnosis and September 29, 2024
negative test.  (Abramson Decl. ¶ 14 and
Ex. G.)
 
·      
On October 9, 2024, having received no
substantive response to the Receiver’s request to schedule an inspection,
counsel for the Receiver emailed again asking for availability.  (Abramson Decl. ¶ 15 and Ex. H.)
 
·      
On October 10, 2024, counsel for the Occupants
offered two dates for inspection of the property – October 11 at noon or
October 14 at noon (which is after the OSC re Contempt hearing).  (Abramson Decl. ¶ 16 and Ex. I.)
 
·      
Counsel for the Receiver responded the same day
that the inspection would go forward on October 11.  (Abramson Decl. ¶ 16 and Ex. I.)
 
Although the Occupants have now agreed to an inspection of the
property (Oct. 10 Abramson Decl. ¶ 17) and provided the names of other persons
occupying the property (Nov. 15 Abramson Decl. ¶ 3), they have not provided any
plan in furtherance of turning over the property to the Receiver, and there is
some evidence the Occupants have now begun threatening the Receiver’s agents
with gun violence (Nov. 15 Abramson Decl. ¶¶ 4-5; Stroman Decl. ¶ 9.)  
 
Further, the timeline demonstrates that the Occupants have continued
to ignore the Receiver’s requests and thwart the Receiver’s attempts to inspect
and maintain the property in accordance with the Receivership Order.  In particular, the Court agrees with the
Receiver that an inspection of the property could have gone forward while
Behnam Ghasseminejad was still testing positive for COVID-19 with protections
in place to prevent the spread of the virus. 

 
Even further, the Occupants provide no reasonable explanation for
repeatedly ignoring the Receiver’s requests for inspection dates, especially
from September 29, 2024, when Behman Ghassminejad tested negative for COVID-19,
and October 10, 2024 – three days after the October 7 briefing deadline – when
the Occupants finally provided a single inspection date prior to the October 14
hearing.  This delay has additionally
burdened the Court, which has now had to consider late-filed developments.  Thus, the Court does not find COVID-19
diagnosis reasonably prevented the Occupants from complying with the
Receivership Order and granting the Receiver access to the subject property.
 
            As for Occupants’ first argument,
Occupants provide no legal or factual basis for their assertion that the
unlawful detainer process is the only valid way to lawfully remove them from
the premises.  Indeed, Code of Civil
Procedure section 1161, upon which Occupants rely, by its own terms applies to
tenants.  But there is no evidence that
Occupants ever leased the premises.  To
the contrary, Occupants argue they own the premises.
 
            Notwithstanding, Occupants are not
parties to this lawsuit, and there is no evidence in the record that Occupants
were served with formal notice of the Receivership Order of which Defendant now
seeks to hold them in contempt.  Although
the Receivership Order grants the Receiver exclusive possession of the property
in question, the Court does not find the appropriate remedy to hold non-parties
to this action in contempt of that order.
 
The inappropriateness of using contempt of an order issued in a case
to which the Occupants are not parties is further magnified by the fact that
the Occupants who have filed documents in this case do not constitute all of
the unauthorized occupants currently in possession of the subject property.  (See Nov. 15 Abramson Decl. at ¶ 3 and Ex. D
[additionally listing Bita Ghasseminejad and Shorat Shahrezai.])
 
Rather, once it became clear that the Occupants (and others occupying
the property) refused to cooperate with the Receiver, the Receiver had “the
power to take all lawful actions necessary to seek and/or effectuate the
removal of any and all unauthorized occupants on the Property, including, but
not limited to, lawsuits to remove such occupants.”  (Order Appointing Receiver, July 23,
2024.)  Nonetheless, the Receiver has not
initiated an action for unlawful detainer, forcible detainer, ejectment, or any
other such remedy for formally removing the Occupants from the premises and
placing their continued possession of the property directly at issue in any
proceeding.
 
Thus, the Court finds it inappropriate to allow Defendant to do an
end-run around these formal eviction remedies by holding non-parties to this
litigation (only some of whom of which have even been identified to this Court)
in contempt of the Receivership Order.
 
C.   
Contempt
Sanctions
 
Defendant requests that the
Court sentence the Occupants to imprisonment either for five days under Section
1218 or until such time as the Occupants comply with the Receivership Order
under Section 1219.  In particular,
Defendant argues that a $1,000 fine would be insufficient to coerce compliance
with the Receivership order, as the monthly rental value for the property is
$60,000, and as such, $1,000 represents only half a day of rent at the
Property.
 
Because the Court does not
find contempt to be the appropriate remedy to eject nonparties to the
litigation from the subject premises, the Court similarly does not impose any
contempt sanctions.
             
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Ultimately, although Defendant has demonstrated the Occupants have
failed to timely and substantially comply with the Court’s Receivership Order,
and the Occupants have demonstrated only untimely, minimal compliance efforts,
specious excuses, and continued disagreement with the validity of the Court’s
Receivership Order, the Court does not find the appropriate remedy to hold the
Occupants, as nonparties to this litigation, in contempt of the Receivership
Order.  Accordingly, the Court denies
Defendant’s request to holds each of the Occupants, Behnam Ghasseminejad,
Kaysan Ghassemi-Najad, and K3B Enterprises LLC in contempt of court for
violating the July 23, 2024 Receivership Order. 
 
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition, LLC shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling to all parties including counsel for the Occupants,
and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:  December 18, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 