 Case Number:  23SMCV02791    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02791




MOTIONS


(1)  
  Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Kimberly
  Tucker; Sanctions
(2)  
  Motion to Continue Hearing on Motion to Compel
  Deposition of Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker




MOVING PARTIES


(1)  
  Defendants City National Bank, N.A. and Jennifer
  Rueda
(2)  
  Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker




OPPOSING PARTIES


(1)  
  Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker
(2)  
  Defendants City National Bank, N.A. and Jennifer
  Rueda



 
MOTIONS
 
This case arises from allegations
that Defendants City National Bank N.A. (“CNB”); Bob Martinez (“Martinez”) and
Jennifer Rueda (“Rueda”) (together, “Defendants”) discriminated against
Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker (“Plaintiff”) when Plaintiff attempted to open a bank
account.  
 
            Moving Defendants CNB and Rueda
(“Moving Defendants”) move for an order compelling Plaintiff’s deposition and request
monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff opposes
the motion to compel and Moving Defendants reply.
 
            Plaintiff also moves for an order
continuing the hearing on the motion to compel her deposition.  Moving Defendants oppose Plaintiff’s motion
to continue and Plaintiff replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Moving Defendants request judicial
notice of the following:
 
Exhibit 1: Abundio v. State of California,
Sacramento Superior Court Case Number 34-2018-00246785 (April 27, 2021 Order
for Terminating Sanctions re: Defense Counsel sending substantive text messages
to deponent during deponent’s Zoom deposition);
 
Exhibit 2: Barksdale School Portraits, LLC v.
Williams, 339 F.R.D. 341 (Aug. 31, 2021, Mass Dist. Ct.);
 
Exhibit 3: Lynn v. George, Sacramento
Superior Court Case Number 34- 2015-00186641 (August 17, 2021 Ruling)
 
Exhibit 4: Vazquez Diaz v. Commonwealth
(2021) 487 Mass. 336 (Kafker, J. concurring).
 
Judicial notice may be taken of records of any court in this state or
of any state in the United states (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)   Because the requested exhibits are all court
records from California and Massachusetts, the Court may take judicial notice
of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
The requested exhibits are all
opinions, orders, or rulings.  Accordingly,
the Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the documents, as well as
the truth of any results reached.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
Motion to Compel
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
Here, on April 1, 2024, CNB noticed Plaintiff’s in-person deposition
for June 4, 2024.  (Jewett Decl. ¶
4.)  On April 15, Plaintiff’s counsel
responded that he would not allow Plaintiff’s deposition to go forward on June
4 on the grounds that the depositions of CNB employee Chad Gordon (“Gordon”)
and Defendant Rueda, which were previously noticed on February 14, 2024, must
go forward first.  (Jewett Decl. ¶ 5 and
Ex. 2.)
 
CNB’s counsel made multiple attempts to reschedule Plaintiff’s
in-person deposition to a mutually convenient date, but Plaintiff’s counsel
refused to provide any available dates. 
(Jewett Decl. ¶ 6 and Ex. 3.)  
 
CNB scheduled Rueda’s and Gordon’s depositions for August 27, 2024 and
September 6, 2024, respectively.  (Jewett
Decl. ¶ 7.)  On August 7, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel offered to schedule Plaintiff for deposition on September
27.  (Jewett Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Due to technical issues logging onto the deposition platform, the
Rueda deposition did not go forward as scheduled.  (See Gebriel Decl.; Jewett Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
The Gordon deposition went forward as planned on September 6,
2024.  (Jewett Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
On September 20, 2024, CNB requested confirmation that Plaintiff would
appear at the September 27 deposition. 
(Jewett Decl. ¶ 12 and Ex. 6.)  In
response, Plaintiff’s counsel responded that it would only go forward if Rueda
sat for deposition prior to September 27. 
(Ibid.)
 
The parties attended in Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) on
September 24, 2024.  The Court advised
that a ‘right to priority’ in scheduling depositions is a legal fallacy.
 
On September 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel objected to the taking of
Plaintiff’s deposition in person, on the grounds that attending depositions in
person is too strenuous on Plaintiff’s counsel’s heart, following three heart
surgeries, and proposed taking the remote depositions of Rueda on the 23rd
or 28th and then Plaintiff’s on the 28th or 31st.  (Jewett Decl. ¶ 16 and Ex. 9.)
 
CNB responded that Plaintiff’s counsel was welcome to attend remotely,
but CNB intended to take Plaintiff’s deposition in person.  (Jewett Decl. ¶ 17 and Ex. 10.)
 
On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel informed CNB’s counsel,
“nothing short of a court order will prompt me to allow Plaintiff to be deposed
prior to the termination of [Rueda’s] deposition” and “nothing short of a court
order will cause me to agree to allow Plaintiff to be deposed in person rather
than by Zoom.”  
 
Here, CNB noticed Plaintiff’s in-person deposition for June 4, 2024,
and Plaintiff refused to appear, with no valid objection, on the grounds that
Plaintiff wanted to take Rueda’s deposition first.  Plaintiff’s deposition was rescheduled for
September 27, and Plaintiff refused to appear unless the Rueda deposition
occurred first.  Further, Plaintiff did
not object to the deposition going forward in person as noticed.
 
Thus, Moving Defendants are generally entitled to an order compelling
Plaintiff to appear for her deposition in person as noticed.
 
2.    
Motion to Continue
 
Regarding Plaintiff’s motion, Plaintiff moves to continue the hearing
on the motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition “to a date when it can be heard
simultaneously with Plaintiff’s motion to compel” Rueda’s deposition.  
 
Plaintiff has similarly provided no valid basis to continue the
hearing on this motion.  As the Court
explained at the IDC, there is no priority rule for depositions.  Moreover, Plaintiff has not even filed a
motion to compel Rueda’s deposition yet. 
The Court will not continue the hearing on the motion to compel
Plaintiff’s deposition indefinitely until such date as Plaintiff decides to
file and schedule a motion to compel Rueda’s deposition – which may or may not
ever occur. 
 
As such, Moving Defendants’ motion to compel is granted and
Plaintiff’s motion to continue is denied.
 
3.     Monetary
Sanctions
Plaintiff’s
counsel neither formally objected to the taking of Plaintiff’s deposition in
person, nor provided any valid basis for the positions that (1) Plaintiff’s
deposition must go forward before Rueda’s or (2) Plaintiff’s deposition must go
forward remotely.  Moving Defendants’
counsel has already assured Plaintiff’s counsel that he may attend Plaintiff’s
deposition remotely to accommodate his health concerns.  
 
Thus, the
Court finds Plaintiff’s refusal to sit for deposition to be a misuse of the
discovery process, warranting sanctions. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2023.010, subds. (d)-(e), 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  
 
Accordingly,
the Court will impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel, Girma Gebriel, jointly and severally, in the amount of $1,945,
representing three hours of attorney time to draft the motion and reply briefs,
at the hourly rate of $465, and one hour of attorney time to attend the hearing
at the hourly rate of $550.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to continue the hearing on this motion.  
 
Further, the Court grants
Moving Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff to appear for deposition per Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, and orders Plaintiff to appear for
deposition in person within 30 days of notice of the Court’s order, unless CNB
stipulates otherwise.  
 
Further, the Court orders
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s Counsel Gebriel, jointly and severally, to pay
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,945 to Moving Defendants, by and through
counsel for Moving Defendants, within 30 days of notice of the Court’s order.
 
Counsel for Moving Defendants
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.  
 
 
 
DATED:  December 18, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 