 Case Number:  23SMCV00980    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV00980




MOTIONS


1.    
  Motion to Compel Further Deposition Responses From The
  Custodian of Records of Non Party Hoag Orthopedic Institute-Surgery Center
2.    
  Motion to Compel Further Deposition Responses From
  The Person Most Knowledgeable of Non Party Hoag Orthopedic Institute-Surgery
  Center




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Melvin Markman




OPPOSING PARTY


Non Party Hoag Orthopedic Institute-Surgery Center



 
MOTIONS
            
            This lawsuit arises out of a dispute
concerning an automobile collision. 
Defendant Melvin Markman (“Defendant”) moves to compel further
deposition responses from the custodian of records (“COR”) and the person most
knowledgeable (“PMK”) of Non Party Hoag Orthopedic Institute-Surgery Center
(“Hoag”), where Plaintiff Khristofor Scaramanga (“Plaintiff”) received
treatment for injuries.  
 
            In particular, Defendant seeks
further deposition responses from the COR and PMK concerning Categories 3 and 4
of the amended subpoenas which are as follows:
 
·      
3. Produce all HOAG ORTHOPEDIC INSTITUTE SURGERY
CENTER OF BEVERLY HILLS bills for all multilevel discectomies, fluoroscopies,
hemilaminotomies, facetectomies, and foraminotomies performed in May 2023 (this
is not limited to KHRISTOFOR SCARAMANGA (DOB: 01/15/1965).
 
·      
4. Produce a record of the payments received by
HOAG ORTHOPEDIC INSTITUTE SURGERY CENTER OF BEVERLY HILLS for the procedures
identified in request number 3.   
 
            Hoag opposes the motions and
Defendant replies.  Further, both Defendant
and Hoag seek monetary sanctions.  
 
ANALYSIS    
 
1.    
DISCOVERY – GENERAL PRINCIPLES
 
            “Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  
 
            “The purpose of the discovery rules
is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and
eliminate trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is
designed to make a trial less a game of blindman's bluff and more a fair
contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable
extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389
[cleaned up].)   
 
            Where a party objects, or responds
inadequately, to discovery requests, a motion lies to compel further responses,
and that party has the burden to justify the objections or inadequate
responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Further, “a trial court's determination of a
motion to compel discovery is reviewed for abuse of discretion.  However, when the facts asserted in support
of and in opposition to the motion are in conflict, the trial court's factual
findings will be upheld if they are supported by substantial evidence.” (Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court
(2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 [cleaned up].) 
 
2.     DEPOSITION
OF NON PARTIES – PROCEDURAL STANDARDS
 
            “The attendance and testimony of any
other deponent, as well as the production by the deponent of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying, requires the service on the deponent of a deposition subpoena under
Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 2020.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (b); see also Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010,
subd. (b) [“the process by which a nonparty is required to provide discovery is
a deposition subpoena”].)   
 
            The Discovery Act further provides regarding
the deposition of non-parties for testimony and production of documents as
follows:: 
 
(a)   A
deposition subpoena that commands the attendance and the testimony of the
deponent, as well as the production of business records, documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things, shall:
 
(1) Comply with the requirements of Section 2020.310.
(2) Designate the business records, documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things to be produced either by specifically
describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category
of item.
(3) Specify any testing or sampling that is being sought.
(4) Specify the form in which any electronically stored information is
to be produced, if a particular form is desired.
 
(b) A deposition subpoena under subdivision (a) need not be
accompanied by an affidavit or declaration showing good cause for the
production of the documents and things designated.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.510, subds. (a)-(b).) 

 
a.     Objections
to Amended Subpoenas
 
                                                             
i.     Right
To Privacy – Notice to Consumer
 
            The Discovery Act provides
concerning the production of personal records of consumers through deposition
subpoenas that:  
 
If, as described in Section 1985.3, the person to whom the deposition
subpoena is directed is a witness, and the business records described in the
deposition subpoena are personal records pertaining to a consumer, the service
of the deposition subpoena shall be accompanied either by a copy of the proof
of service of the notice to the consumer described in subdivision (e) of
Section 1985.3, or by the consumer's written authorization to release personal
records described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 1985.3.  
 
(See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.510, subd. (c).) 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, “personal records” “[m]eans
the original, any copy of books, documents, other writings, or electronically
stored information pertaining to a consumer and which are maintained by any
“witness” which is a physician, dentist, ophthalmologist, optometrist,
chiropractor, physical therapist, acupuncturist, podiatrist, veterinarian,
veterinary hospital, veterinary clinic, pharmacist, pharmacy, hospital, medical
center, clinic, radiology or MRI center, clinical or diagnostic laboratory . .
.” and “ ‘consumer’ means any individual, partnership of five or fewer persons,
association, or trust which has transacted business with, or has used the
services of, the witness or for whom the witness has acted as agent or
fiduciary.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (a)(1)-(2).)  
 
            In short, if a deposition subpoena
requests a deponent to produce a consumer’s personal records, the party
noticing the deposition, and seeking the production of documents, must comply
with Section 1985.3.  The purpose of
Section 1985.3 is “ ‘to protect a consumer's right to privacy (Cal. Const.,
art. I, sec. 1) in his personal records maintained, or kept, by his attorney,
accountant, doctor, banker, etc.’ ” (Lantz v. Superior Court (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 1839, 1848,  disapproved on
other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.)    
 
            “The
state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of privacy.  Protection of informational privacy is the
provision’s central concern.  .  . 
.  The party asserting a privacy
right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively
reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened
intrusion that is serious.[1]  The party seeking information may raise in
response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure
serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy.  A court must then
balance these competing considerations.” 
(Williams v. Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 [cleaned
up].)


            “Legally
recognized privacy interests [include] interests in precluding the
dissemination or misuse of sensitive and confidential information
(‘informational privacy’) .  .  . 
.”  (Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.)  “A particular class of information is
[sensitive or confidential] when well-established social norms recognize the
need to maximize individual control over its dissemination and use to prevent
unjustified embarrassment or indignity.” 
(Ibid.)  
            
            Against that backdrop, the Court
finds that Defendant served the Amended Notice of Taking the Deposition of
Custodian of Records of Hoag and the Amended Notice of Taking the Deposition of
Person Most Knowledgeable for Hoag, which attached as Exhibit A the amended subpoenas.  Affixed to the amended subpoenas are Notices
to Consumer naming Plaintiff only.  (See
Declarations of David H. Lieberthal (“Lieberthal”), Exhs. D.)  
 
            Thus, the Court finds that Defendant
has not complied with Section 1985.3 with respect to any other “consumer” whose
records may be subject to the amended subpoenas apart from Plaintiff.  In addition, no party has addressed whether
compliance with Section 1985.3 is unnecessary. 

 
            As such, the Court declines to
compel compliance with the amended subpoenas by Hoag as to Categories 3 and 4
for “consumers” who are not Plaintiff, especially in light of a consumer’s
right to privacy.
 
                                                           
ii.     Vague,
Ambiguous and Overbroad
 
            Hoag objected to Categories 3 and 4
on the grounds that the requests are vague, ambiguous and overbroad primarily
because Hoag does not “perform” the noted procedures.  Instead, the Hoag asserts that the noted
procedures are performed at Hoag by health care providers
not employed by Hoag.  Defendant does not
challenge Hoag’s assertions in his replies.
 
            Therefore, the Court agrees with
Hoag’s objections to the form of the requests, and declines to order compliance
with the amended subpoenas as currently crafted.  Plaintiff should have refined Categories 3
and 4 as indicated.  
 
            Notwithstanding, Hoag’s COR
testified that documents responsive to Categories 3 and 4 as they relate to
Plaintiff were produced to Defendant. 
(See Declaration of Andrew W. Salmond (“Salmond”) (Opposition to COR
Motion), Exh. G, 1816-19:17.)  Similarly,
Hoag’s PMK indicated that documents responsive to Category 3 concerning
Plaintiff were produced.  (See Declaration
of Salmond (Opposition to PMK Motion), Exh. F, 19: 10-15.)   Accordingly, the Court determines that
Defendant’s motions are moot in relation Plaintiff.  
 
                                                         
iii.     Burdensome,
Oppressive and Harassing
 
            “The objection based upon burden
must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work required, while to support
an objection of oppression there must be some showing either of an intent to
create an unreasonable burden or that the ultimate effect of the burden is
incommensurate with the result sought.” 
(West Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407,
417.)  The California Supreme Court
further noted that  “[s]ome burden is
inherent in all demands for discovery. 
The objection of burden is valid only when that burden is demonstrated
to result in injustice.” (Id. at p. 418.)   
 
            Hoag also contends that responding
to Categories 3 and 4 would require Hoag to prepare a compilation, abstract,
audit or summary of documents citing to Brotsky v. State Bar of Cal.
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 287 (hereafter Brotsky) in which the California high
court addressed in part whether the petitioner’s discovery requests were
burdensome and oppressive.  As to those
objections, the supreme court stated:  
 
Under the provisions of the discovery statutes respondent is given two
clear alternatives. If the search of its own records, without benefit of index,
would be found burdensome, it has the option of directing petitioner to the
place where such records are maintained, and requiring him to make the search
(Code Civ.Proc. s 2030, subd.(c)). But, of course, respondent does not wish to
turn petitioner loose in its files for the obvious reason that portions of
those files are confidential. If the confidentiality which it claims
prevents its taking advantage of the alternative which ahs (sic) been provided
for its benefit, then it must suffer the burden.
 
(Brotsky,
supra, 57 Cal.2d at 304, emphasis added.) 
Based upon the context of the discovery issues herein, the Court finds
Hoag’s reliance on Brotsky to be faulty. 
 
 
            Nevertheless, the Court finds that
Hoag has not made an adequate showing that responding to Categories 3 and 4 is
burdensome, regardless of whether the requests are limited to Plaintiff or
not.  
 
                                                         
iv.     Relevance
- Howell v. Hamilton Meats & Provisions, Inc.
      
            Hoag objects to Categories 3 and 4
of the amended subpoenas under the auspices of Howell v. Hamilton Meats
& Provisions, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 541.  In particular, Hoag asserts that Plaintiff’s
damages are limited to what amounts health care providers were paid as opposed
to amounts billed.  As such, according to
Hoag, the data sought by Defendant is irrelevant.
 
            Without addressing the merits of
Hoag’s contention, the Court finds that Hoag waived the relevance objection by
failing to raise it in the written objections to the amended subpoenas.  (See Declarations of Lieberthal, Exhs. F;
see, e.g., Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 1116, 1125 [“The failure to timely respond to an inspection demand
waives all objections to the demand, including objections based on privilege .
. .  and the failure to assert a specific
objection waives that particular objection”].) 

 
3.     MONETARY
SANCTIONS
 
            “The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).)  
 
            Similarly,
“[i]n making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section
1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount
of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)
 
Here, the Court finds that the imposition of monetary sanctions against
either party would be unjust and declines to do so.  
            
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            The Court denies Defendant’s Motions
to Compel Further Responses from the Custodian of Records and the Person Most
Knowledgeable of Hoag.  Further, the
Court denies Defendant’s and Hoag’s requests for monetary sanctions.  
 
            Defendant shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:  December 18, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


