 Case Number:  24SMCV04652    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV04652 




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (erroneously named as
  “Chase”)




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
On September 25, 2024, Plaintiffs Adam Dhanani (“Dhanani”) and Sam
Amin Jr. (“Amin”) (together, “Plaintiffs”) filed the verified Complaint in pro
per against Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (erroneously named as “Chase”)
(“Defendant” or “Chase”) alleging two causes of action for (1) “Violation of
Statutory Duties, in the meaning of violation of § 1785.25(a) of California
Civil Code, Title 1.6, Chapter 3.5” and (2) “Violation of Statutory Duties, in
the meaning of Violation of California Business and professions Code § 17200
(Unlawful Competition Law), prosecutable under Civil Code 1785.25(c), under the
jurisdiction of the Attorney General’s office, prosecutable Civilly under
Business and profession code 17200.”
 
Defendant now demurs to both causes of action on the grounds that they
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are
uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e)
and (f), respectively.
 
The demurrer is unopposed.  
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following:
 
· Exhibit A – A true and correct copy of the docket in
Case No. 19VECV00502 obtained by Chase’s counsel from the court’s “Case Access”
website on November 6, 2024. 
 
· Exhibit B – A true and correct copy of the complaint
filed by Plaintiff Sam Amin, Jr. in Case No. 19VECV00502 on April 9, 2019. 
 
· Exhibit C – A true and correct copy of the docket in
Case No. BC607436 obtained by Chase’s counsel from the court’s “Case Access”
website on November 7, 2024. 
 
· Exhibit D – A true and copy of the complaint filed by
Plaintiff Sam Amin, Jr. in Case No. BC607436 on January 19, 2016. 
 
· Exhibit E – A true and correct copy of the docket in
Case No. 23VECV00924 obtained by Chase’s counsel from the court’s “Case Access”
website on November 6, 2024. 
 
· Exhibit F – A true and correct copy of the complaint
filed by Plaintiff Sam Amin, Jr. in Case No. 23VECV00924 on March 1, 2023. 
 
· Exhibit G – A true and correct copy of the Notice of
Ruling issued by Department U of this Court on July 24, 2023 in Case No.
19VECV00502 sustaining Chase’s Demurrer to the UCL Cause of Action in the
complaint. 
 
· Exhibit H – A true and correct copy of the Minute Order
issued by Department A of this Court on July 13, 2023 in Case No. 23VECV00924
sustaining Discover Bank’s Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action in the
complaint without leave to amend.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the requested Exhibits are all court records from this state,
the Court may take judicial notice of them. 
However, “while courts are free to take judicial notice of the existence
of each document in a court file, including the truth of results reached, they
may not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions
and court files.  Courts may not take
judicial notice of allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation
reports in court records because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute
and therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of these exhibits as court records, and the
truth of the results reached in Exhibit H, but not the truth of any hearsay
allegations contained in the exhibits.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.) conglomeration 
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Here, the Complaint is not a model of clarity, consisting primarily of
legalese, with intermixed references to various statutes and legal principles
whose relevance to this action is unclear, including 18 United States Code 1343
(which Plaintiff mischaracterizes as “mail fraud”), the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, and “California Penal Code 118.”  (See, e.g., Complaint ¶¶ 8, 12, 31.)  Notwithstanding, the Complaint does appear to
have sufficient factual allegations to put Chase on notice as to the basic
facts underlying Plaintiffs’ claims.  To
wit, Plaintiffs allege the following facts:
 
·      
“California law, under California’s Consumer
Credit Reporting Agencies Act (CCRA) has allowed private right of action under
California Civil Code 1785.25(a) […]” (Complaint ¶ 4.)
 
·      
“On August 31st, 2024, the plaintiff
noticed that the defendant had furnished an adverse, and inaccurate information
to Experian, which is a credit bureau.”  (Complaint ¶ 6.)
 
·      
“Said information was a single
collections account, which was repeated 44 times […] falsely
claiming that there were 60 collections instead of only ONE.”  (Complaint ¶ 7.)
 
·      
“A Single collection, account could only be
reported to the credit bureaus one time.” 
(Complaint ¶ 9.)
 
·      
“The defendant had reported 60 collection
accounts, which could be only ONE.”  (Complaint ¶ 10.)
 
·      
“The defendant chose to continue violating the
plaintiff 59 more times.  Accordingly, 58 counts of extra violations,
which is grounds to 58 mail fraud and wire fraud counts, to be prosecuted by the California’s
attorney general’s office under CIV1785.25(c).”  (Complaint ¶ 13.)
 
·      
“The plaintiff brought the matter to the
attention of the defendant.”  (Complaint
¶ 17.)
 
·      
“The defendant chose to ignore the
defendant’s conclusive violations, and continued to enable the defendant to
treat the plaintiff with malice, oppression, fraud, and outmost disregard to
the interest of the public, […] warranting punitive and exemplary damages under
civil code 3294.” 
(Complaint ¶ 18.)
 
·      
“The inaccuracies were about the timing of the
payments made.  In the meaning of the
over the phone payments were delayed in posting to the account.  As a result the furnished information because
incomplete and inaccurate.” (Complaint ¶ 19.)
 
·      
“The defendant abused his/her authority to
report ‘COLLECTION’, about 60 times.  Accordingly adding extra 59 times which each
one was one count of violation of civil code 1785.25(a).”  (Complaint ¶ 20.)
 
·      
“The defendant, in bad faith, kept
reporting collection of the same account 60 times.  (This is also should be construed as if not
conclusive, but certainly clear and convincing evidence of violation of
unlawful competition law (Business and Professions Code 17200, and California Civil
Code 3512 which states the following: “One must not change his
purpose to the injury of another”. 
(Complaint ¶ 21.)
 
·      
“Plaintiff had previously brought the matter to
the attention of the defendant CHASE by calling them, and getting
oral promise that the corrections would be made.”  (Complaint ¶ 22.)
 
·      
“Even though, the Defendant had promised to
correct, the defendant did not inform the plaintiff in writing of the outcome
of the investigation, and correction.” 
(Complaint ¶ 23.)
 
·      
“But, the inaccurate information continued to
appear in the plaintiff’s credit report.” 
(Complaint ¶ 24.)
 
·      
“Among other inaccuracies, the said Report,
did not reflect the account being disputed by the plaintiff, as it is required
under the code.” (Complaint ¶ 25.)
 
·      
“As a result of the defendants violation of
CCRA, FCRA, CIV 1785.25(a). CIV178525(c), the plaintiff has sustained injuries
as follows:
I. Said adverse information had reduced the plaintiff’s credit score.
II. Plaintiff was not able to get favorable rate on his debt.
III. Plaintiff was not able to benefit from his statutory entitlement to good
credit history.”  (Complaint ¶ 29.)
 
Thus, the Complaint alleges clearly enough that Defendant (1) misreported
to Experian  the date plaintiff Dhanani
made payments about 60 times and (2) failed to report that the account was
being disputed by Plaintiffs in violation of Civil Code section 1785.25,
subdivision (a) and California’s Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”).
 
Moreover, although Defendant brings the demurrer on the grounds of
uncertainty, the brief contains no specific arguments that any portions of the
Complaint are so bad that Defendant cannot reasonably determine what issues
must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against it.  The Court thus declines to sustain Defendant’s
demurrer to the first cause of action on the basis of uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Plaintiff
Amin
 
As to Plaintiff Amin,
Defendant argues the Complaint fails to state a cause of action at all, because
“Plaintiff” is defined only as Dhanani, and all allegations are alleged as to
the singular “plaintiff” throughout the Complaint.  Thus, the Complaint contains no allegations
whatsoever pertaining to Amin.
 
As such, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer as to Plaintiff Amin in its entirety.
 
                                                      
ii.         
First Cause
of Action – Violation of Civil Code Section 1785.25, subd. (a)
 
Civil Code section 1785.25,
subdivision (a) provides, “A person shall not furnish information on a specific
transaction or experience to any consumer credit reporting agency if the person
knows or should know the information is incomplete or inaccurate.”
 
Subdivision (c) provides, “So
long as the completeness or accuracy of any information on a specific
transaction or experience furnished by any person to a consumer credit
reporting agency is subject to a continuing dispute between the affected
consumer and that person, the person may not furnish the information to any
consumer credit reporting agency without also including a notice that the
information is disputed by the consumer.”
 
Subdivision (g) provides, “A
person who furnishes information to a consumer credit reporting agency is
liable for failure to comply with this section, unless the furnisher
establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that, at the time of the failure
to comply with this section, the furnisher maintained reasonable procedures to
comply with those provisions.”
 
            Similarly,
Section 1785.31 provides:
 
(a) Any
consumer who suffers damages as a result of a violation of this title by any
person may bring an action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction against that
person to recover the following:
(1) In
the case of a negligent violation, actual damages, including court costs, loss
of wages, attorney’s fees and, when applicable, pain and suffering.
 
(2) In
the case of a willful violation:
 
(A)
Actual damages as set forth in paragraph (1) above:
 
(B)
Punitive damages of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000) for each violation as the court deems proper;
 
(C) Any
other relief that the court deems proper.
 
As to Plaintiff Dhanani, the
Complaint alleges Defendant violated Section 1785.25, subdivision (a) by furnishing
Experian with both incomplete and inaccurate information, which it knew or
should have known was incomplete or inaccurate, by virtue of Dhanani calling to
inform them, which cost Dhanani a favorable rate on his debt, in addition to
causing a reduction in his credit score.
 
Defendant argues that (1)
conflicting allegations about duplicate entries on his credit report and the
inaccuracies being about the timing of over-the-phone payments he made are
insufficiently clear to establish Chase furnished any inaccurate information
and (2) being unable to get a favorable rate on his debt is too vague to be
actionable.  
 
Ultimately, whether Chase actually
reported inaccurate information, and whether and to what extent Dhanani actually
paid a higher rate are factual questions to be determined at later stages
of the litigation.
 
But at the pleading stage, Dhanani
has adequately alleged a violation of Section 1785.25 to withstand demurrer.
 
                                                    
iii.         
Second
Cause of Action – Violations of UCL
 
Defendant demurs to the second
cause of action for violations of the UCL on the grounds that relief under the
UCL is preempted by the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”).  
 
The FCRA regulates the duties
and responsibilities of “furnishers” of credit information.  (See 15 U.S.C. § 1681(b) [“It is the
purpose of this title to require that consumer reporting agencies adopt
reasonable procedures for meeting the needs of commerce for consumer credit,
personnel, insurance, and other information in a manner which is fair and
equitable to the consumer, with regard to the confidentiality, accuracy,
relevancy, and proper utilization of such information in accordance with the
requirements of this title”].)   
 
Included in the matters the
FCRA regulates are the responsibilities of persons who furnish information to
consumer reporting agencies.  (See 15
U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(1)(A) [“Reporting information with actual knowledge of
errors”] & (B) [“Reporting information after notice and confirmation of
errors”].)   
 
In pertinent part, the FCRA
expressly preempts most state laws:
 
No requirement or prohibition may be imposed
under the laws of any State (1) with respect to any subject matter regulated
under […] (F) section 623 [§ 1681s-2], relating to the responsibilities of
persons who furnish information to consumer reporting agencies, except that
this paragraph shall not apply […] (ii) with respect to section 1785.25(a) of
the California Civil Code (as in effect on the date of enactment of the
Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act of 1996)
 
(15
U.S.C. § 1681t(b)(1)(F).)   Thus, although
the first cause of action, brought under Civil Code section 1785.25, is not
preempted by the FCRA, to the extent the UCL cause of action is premised upon Defendant’s
alleged furnishing of inaccurate or misleading information to the credit
bureaus, such cause of action is preempted by the FCRA.
 
            Here, in addition to the above
allegations, as to the UCL, the Complaint alleges:
 
·       “There did exist understanding that the
Defendants and all of them would treat consumers fairly and do not use their
superior bargaining position to impose unfair condition on the consumers.  Therefore the defendant’s conduct was
designedly unfair.”  (Complaint ¶
39.)
 
·       “Defendants, and each of them, have breached
their duty of fair dealing and good faith owed to plaintiff in the following
respects:

(a) Setting up a system designed to compromise the consumer’s ability to avoid
late payments even though there was no activity.

(b) Failure to make corrections to reports made to credit bureaus, regarding
the plaintiff’s history with them at a time when defendants knew plaintiff was
entitled to have accurate information regarding plaintiff’s credit data to be
furnished to consumer credit reporting agencies.  Said conduct is clearly unlawful under FCRA
and Civil Code 1785.25(a), and Civil Code 1785.25(c), which is prosecutable by
the attorney general of California.

(c) Said Conduct is in conclusive violation of California Civil Code 3512.
(Paragraph 9 and following paragraphs of this civil complaint.)

(d) Defendant was unfair to the plaintiff when willfully and in bad faith
withheld accurate data from Trans Union and Equifax regarding
plaintiff’s history (An additional mail fraud violation).

(e) Defendant had known about the inaccuracy and adversity of the furnished
information.

(f) Defendant has been aware of the defendant’s superior power over the
plaintiff and knowingly denied from the plaintiff the commitments the defendant
had made under the licensing agreements with the State of California, where the
plaintiff is a citizen.  This justifying imposition of punitive
and exemplary damages.

(g) Defendant had Made a representation to public (including plaintiff) that
the defendant would furnish accurate and complete information only.

(h) At time defendant either did not have sufficient information to make such
a  conclusive representation, or had
knowledge of its falsity, and continued to violate civil code 1785.25(a), and
civil code 1785.25(c).

(i) State of California, which plaintiff is citizen of, relied on defendant’s
representation and allowed the defendant do business in California, or in the
case of plaintiff do business with the defendant.

(j) As a result of defendant’s failure to keep defendant’s promise as set
above, the plaintiff has sustained injury.”

(Complaint ¶ 41.)
 
·       “As a further proximate result of the
aforementioned wrongful conduct of defendants, plaintiff has suffered anxiety,
worry, mental and emotional distress and other incidental damages, justifying punitive and exemplary damages under
Civil Code 3295.” (Complaint ¶
42.)
 
Thus, viewing the entire
complaint in context, all of the UCL allegations pertain to Defendant’s alleged
furnishing of false or misleading information to the credit bureaus, conduct
which is governed by the FCRA, which expressly pre-empts state laws like the
UCL.  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action.
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have failed to meet this burden as they did not
oppose the demurrer and therefore did not address whether leave should be
granted if the demurrer is sustained.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer as to
Amin for both causes of action without leave to amend, and sustains Defendant’s
demurrer as to Dhanani with respect to the second cause of action without leave
to amend.  Further, the Court overrules Defendant’s
Demurrer as to Dhanani with respect to the first cause of action.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file and serve an Answer to the
Complaint on or before January 15, 2025. 

 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference from January 23, 2025 to May 21, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  All parties shall comply
with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and
Further Case Management Conferences.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724)
and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule
3.725).  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  December 18, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court