 Case Number:  24SMCV02864    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02864




MOTION


Motion
  to Serve Process Upon the California Secretary of State




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Weber-Madgwick Excavating, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff Weber-Madgwick Excavating, Inc.
(“Plaintiff”) brought suit against Defendants Silverston & Associates, Inc.
(“Defendant”) and California Create & Design, LLC (“CC&D”) alleging
four causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) foreclosure of mechanic’s
lien; (3) recovery on mechanic’s lien release bond; and (4) quantum
meruit.  On November 7, 2024, Plaintiff
dismissed CC&D voluntarily.
 
Plaintiff now moves for an order permitting Plaintiff to serve the
summons on Defendant via the California Secretary of State.  The motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            “A summons may be served by personal
delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be
served.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)
 
            “In lieu of personal delivery of a
copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be served as specified in
Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a summons may be served by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or
her office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing
address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box, with the
person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of
the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to
be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.
When service is effected by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at a
mailing address, it shall be left with a person at least 18 years of age, who
shall be informed of the contents thereof.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., 415.20, subd. (a).)
 
            Further, “A summons may be served by
mail as provided in this section. A copy of the summons and of the complaint
shall be mailed (by first-class mail or airmail, postage prepaid) to the person
to be served, together with two copies of the notice and acknowledgment
provided for in subdivision (b) and a return envelope, postage prepaid,
addressed to the sender.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 415.30, subd. (a).)
 
“A summons may be served on a corporation by delivering a copy of the
summons and the complaint by any of the following methods:
 
(a) To the person designated as agent for service of process as
provided by any provision in Section 202, 1502, 2105, or 2107 of the
Corporations Code (or Sections 3301 to 3303, inclusive, or Sections 6500 to
6504, inclusive, of the Corporations Code, as in effect on December 31, 1976,
with respect to corporations to which they remain applicable).
 
(b) To the president, chief executive officer, or other head of the
corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer
or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief financial officer, a general
manager, or a person authorized by the corporation to receive service of
process.
 
(c) If the corporation is a bank, to a cashier or assistant cashier or
to a person specified in subdivision (a) or (b).
 
(d) If authorized by any provision in Section 1701, 1702, 2110, or
2111 of the Corporations Code (or Sections 3301 to 3303, inclusive, or Sections
6500 to 6504, inclusive, of the Corporations Code, as in effect on December 31,
1976, with respect to corporations to which they remain applicable), as
provided by that provision.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 416.10.)  However, 
 
“If an agent for the purpose of service of process has resigned and
has not been replaced or if the agent designated cannot with reasonable
diligence be found at the address designated for personally delivering the
process, or if no agent has been designated, and it is shown by affidavit to
the satisfaction of the court that process against a domestic corporation
cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand in
the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of Section 415.20 or
subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure or upon the
corporation in the manner provided in subdivision (a), (b), or (c) of Section
416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the
court may make an order that the service be made upon the corporation by
delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the
Secretary of State's office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of
the process for each defendant to be served, together with a copy of the order
authorizing such service.”  
 
(Corp.
Code, § 1702.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            To serve a corporation by way of the
Secretary of State, the moving party must establish by declaration that it
cannot, through reasonable diligence, serve the corporation (1) personally; (2)
by substitute service; or (3) by mailing a notice of acknowledgment and
receipt.
 
In support of the motion, Plaintiff advances the declaration of Bruce
D. Rudman, which provides:
 
3. Within the statutory time frame required to serve a defendant
following the filing of our Complaint in this matter, we attempted to serve
process on Sunshine Alana Armstrong, the purported Registered Agent for
Silverston & Associates, Inc. as indicated on the California Secretary of
State Online Business Search website, at her address of 26663 Latigo Shore
Drive, Malibu, California, 90265. Attached hereto and incorporated herein by
this reference as Exhibit “A” is a true and correct copy of the printout from
the Secretary of State Online Business Search results for Silverston &
Associates, Inc. 
 
4. Shortly after attempting to serve the identified registered agent
at that address, our process server provided a Non-Service Report which stated
that, upon attempting service of process upon Ms. Armstrong at the above
address, he was told by a male subject identifying himself as Ms. Armstrong’s
father that the owner of Silverston & Associates, Inc. is actually her
ex-husband, Gary Armstrong. This person further stated that Ms. Armstrong has
“never been affiliated to” Silverston & Associates, Inc. Attached hereto
and incorporated herein by this reference as Exhibit “B” is a true and correct
copy of the Non-Service Report. 
 
5. We can only surmise that following her divorce from Gary Armstrong,
the principal of SILVERSTON & ASSOCIATES, Sunshine Armstrong either refuses
to act or is no longer authorized to act as the corporation’s registered agent.

 
6. We have no other address for the corporation. 
 
7. Given the above circumstances, it is clear we are unable to serve
the listed Registered Agent using a traditional process server, and are thus
obliged to submit this Request in order to serve the Secretary of State on
behalf of Defendant Silverston & Associates, Inc.
 
(Rudman
Decl. ¶¶ 3-7.)
 
            The Court does not find that Plaintiff
has demonstrated the requisite diligence prior to resorting to service on the
California Secretary of State.  Although the
Rudman declaration indicates Sunshine Armstrong is either no longer or never
was Defendant’s agent for service of process, such that personal or substitute
service at her address would not effectuate service on Defendant, Plaintiff has
proffered no evidence of any diligent efforts to find and serve Gary Armstrong,
the owner, or, importantly, any attempts at service by mail with notice of
acknowledgment and receipt.  Not only is
a diligent attempt at service by mail required by the statute, but because mail
can be automatically forwarded to a new address by the post office, serving a
bad address by mail may actually reach the intended recipient.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies without prejudice Plaintiff’s Motion to
Serve Defendant by the Secretary of State. 

 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference and the Order to Show Cause Re: Monetary Sanctions for
Failure to File Proof of Service of the Summons and Complaint on Defendant
Silverston & Associates, Inc. from February 20, 2025 to May 22, 2025 at
8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  All parties
shall comply with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding
Initial and Further Case Management Conferences.  In particular, all parties shall adhere to
the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724) and to the requirement to prepare and
file Case Management Statements (Rule 3.725). 

 
 
DATED:  December 18, 2024                        ________________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 