 Case Number:  24SMCV02035    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02035




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Service of Summons




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  American Tower Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  5300 Marina Island, LLC 



 
MOTION
 
            On
April 30, 2024, Plaintiff 5300 Marina Island, LLC (“Plaintiff”) brought suit
against Defendants SepctraSite Communications, LLC (“SpectraSite”); American
Tower Corporation (“ATC”); Mas Tec Network Solutions, LLC (“Mas Tec”); T-Mobile
US Inc. (“T-Mobile”); and Sprint Corporation (“Sprint”) (together,
“Defendants”); alleging two causes of action for (1) breach of contract and (2)
negligence, arising from a dispute concerning antenna installation on an
easement.  Only the first cause of action
is alleged against ATC.
 
Specially appearing ATC now
moves to quash service of the summons and complaint on the basis of lack of
personal jurisdiction.  Plaintiff opposes
the motion and ATC replies.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of “the Massachusetts Secretary of State website for
American Tower.”    Judicial notice may be taken of any of the
following:
 
(a) The decisional,
constitutional, and statutory law of any state of the United States and the
resolutions and private acts of the Congress of the United States and of the
Legislature of this state.
 
(b) Regulations and
legislative enactments issued by or under the authority of the United States or
any public entity in the United States.
 
(c) Official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of
any state of the United States.
 
(d) Records of (1) any court
of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any state
of the United States.
 
(e) Rules of court of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States.
 
(f) The law of an organization
of nations and of foreign nations and public entities in foreign nations.
 
(g) Facts and propositions
that are of such common knowledge within the territorial jurisdiction of the
court that they cannot reasonably be the subject of dispute.
 
(h) Facts and propositions
that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and
accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable
accuracy.
 
(Evid. Code, § 452.)  
 
            Plaintiff
does not identify which subdivision permits the Court to take judicial notice
of the requested document.
 
            Moreover,
the document attached to Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice appears to be
a printout of Business Entity Search Results from the Secretary of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts website. 
However, Plaintiff has not provided the website address where this
information is available, how or when the search results were obtained or what
search terms were used, nor has Plaintiff authenticated the document.
 
            Therefore,
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is denied.    
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to ATC’s evidentiary objections:
 
1.    
Overruled
2.    
Overruled
3.    
Overruled
4.    
Overruled
5.    
Overruled
6.    
Overruled
7.    
Overruled
8.    
Overruled
9.    
Overruled
10. 
Overruled
11. 
Overruled
12. 
Overruled
13. 
Overruled
14. 
Sustained
15.  Overruled
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and
file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)  
 
“[W]hen jurisdiction is challenged by a nonresident defendant, the
burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘minimum contacts’
exist between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of
personal jurisdiction.” (Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d
703, 710.) It is thus upon the plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of
the evidence that all jurisdictional criteria are met. (Ziller Electronics
Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.)   
 
Moreover, “on a challenge to personal jurisdiction by a motion to
quash, the plaintiff has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual bases justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.”  (ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 198, 209–210 (hereafter ViaView).)  “The plaintiff must come forward with
affidavits and other competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot simply
rely on allegations in an unverified complaint.”  (Id. at p. 210.)  If plaintiff meets this burden, “it becomes
the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the existence of jurisdiction would
be unreasonable.” (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362.)
 
California’s long-arm statute grants its courts the power to assert
personal jurisdiction over out-of-state parties to the maximum extent that the
state and federal constitutions allow. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) Under the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States
Constitution, state courts may exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents
who have “minimum contacts” with the forum state. (International Shoe Co. v.
Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.) Minimum contacts exist when the
relationship between the nonresident and the forum state is such that the
exercise of jurisdiction does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.” (Id. at p. 316.) The primary focus of the personal
jurisdiction inquiry is the relationship of the defendant to the forum state. (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of California, San Francisco County (2017)
582 U.S. 255 (hereafter Bristol-Myers).) 
 
“Minimum contacts exist where the defendant’s conduct in the forum
state is such that he should reasonably anticipate being subject to suit there,
and it is reasonable and fair to force him to do so.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche,
Ltd. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 795, citing World–Wide
Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980) 444 U.S. 286, 297; Kulko v.
California Superior Court (1978) 436 U.S. 84, 92; Pavlovich v. Superior
Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.) 
 
Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific. General (also
called all-purpose) jurisdiction means that a defendant's contacts with a state
are sufficiently extensive that the “defendant is ‘essentially at home,’ ” and
the court may exercise jurisdiction over the defendant regardless of whether
the claims relate to the forum state.  (Ford
Motor Company v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141
S.Ct. 1017, 1024; Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S. A. v. Brown
(2011) 564 U.S. 915, 919.) 
 

Specific personal jurisdiction hinges on the “ ‘relationship among the
defendant, the forum, and the litigation.’ ” (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014)
571 U.S.117, 133; accord Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 284.)  Such jurisdiction requires “ ‘an affiliation
between the forum and the underlying controversy, principally, [an] activity or
an occurrence that takes place in the forum State and is therefore subject to
the State’s regulation.’ ” (Bristol-Myers, supra, 582 U.S. at p. 262.)
Consistent with the constraints of due process, “the defendant’s suit-related
conduct must create a substantial connection with the forum State.” (Walden
v. Fiore, supra, 571 U.S. at p. 284.) 
 
Further, “a nonresident defendant may be subject to the court's
specific jurisdiction if three requirements are met: (1) the defendant has
purposefully availed itself of forum benefits with respect to the matter in
controversy; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant's
contacts with the forum; and (3) the exercise of jurisdiction would be
reasonable and comports with fair play and substantial justice.”  (ViaView, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at p. 216.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
ATC contends that California lacks personal jurisdiction over it with
respect to the instant dispute because (1) it is incorporated in Delaware and
has its principal place of business in Boston, Massachusetts; (2) it was served
in Wilmington, Delaware; (3) specific jurisdiction is improper because it is
not a party to the underlying agreement and was not involved in the underlying
incident; and (4) it has no California presence and is not registered to do
business in California.
 
In support of its contention, ATC advances the Declaration of Paul
Bergendahl, which provides:   
 
4. American Tower is a Delaware corporation with its headquarters in
Boston, Massachusetts. A true and correct copy of a certificate of good
standing from the Delaware Secretary of State is attached hereto and
incorporated herein as Exhibit 1. 
 
5. American Tower is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. 
 
6. American Tower does not have any offices in the State of
California. 
 
7. American Tower does not conduct any business in the State of
California. 
 
8. Another subsidiary of American Tower, ATC TRS V LLC, owns and has
registered the service mark "American Tower Corporation" registered
with the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("US PTO"). A true
and correct copy of a web printout from the US PTO showing registration of that
service mark is attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit 2. 
 
9. American Tower does not control the operations of defendant,
SpectraSite Communications, LLC ("SpectraSite").
 
10. American Tower has no affiliation with American Tower Corporation,
the non-profit corporation for mutual benefit incorporated by Elaine Selan or
someone using her name.
 
(Bergendahl
Decl. ¶¶ 4-10.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff submits the following evidence that ATC was
directly involved in the underlying transaction and incident at issue:
 
·      
The Telecommunication Easement Agreement was
prepared by an attorney working for American Tower. (Exhibit A which directly
involved repair to the roof at issue in this case) 
 
·      
The Notice to Proceed involves the manner to
repair to the roof at issue in this case. The contact person in the Notice to
Proceed letter is gilbert.guitron@americantower.corporation. (Exhibit B) 
 
·      
The Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attomment
agreement was generated by American Tower Corporation involving the property at
issue. (Exhibit C) 
 
·      
Neil Freeman, Senior Account Manager for
American Tower Corporation, emailed Plaintiff to discuss how American Tower was
to repair the roof. (Exhibit D) 
 
·      
Plaintiff responded to Neil Freeman at American
Tower Corporation, "Yes. Please proceed now." (Exhibit E) 
 
·      
On February 1, 2024 Neil Freeman sent an email
that said, "If there is anything you need 2 to discuss with American Tower
prior to approving the work, please let me know, and I am happy to help."
(Exhibit F) 
 
·      
American Tower sent a document called
"Easement Acquisition Agreement" in which it identified the party
acquiring the easement as "SpectraSite Communications, LLC c/o American
Tower Corporation." (Exhibit G)
 
·      
In the American Tower Notice to Proceed Letter,
it states, "American Tower is pleased to inform you that all requirements
of the notice to proceed have been met." (Exhibit H)
 
·      
On February 1, 2024, Neil Freeman emailed
Plaintiff and advised that the manner in which to handle the repairs. (Exhibit
L) 
 
·      
On March 8, 2023 Brian Bodjiak of American Tower
contacted Plaintiff about taking the issue to the American Tower's carrier to
investigate the damages caused by the faulty installation of the antenna
equipment. (Exhibit M)
 
·      
On March 12, 2024, Joseph Poirier of American
Tower Corporation sent an email to Plaintiff where he says, "I do
apologize for the ongoing leaks. We are working with Sprint to remedy any leaks
caused by their equipment. They are active on site and will be addressing these
issues in the near future." (Exhibit J)
 
·      
On March 26, 2024, Sylvester Martinez, on behalf
of the repair contractor, Mastec, sent an email to all parties regarding
repairs to the roof. This email was sent to Neil Freeman at American Tower, and
Gilbert Guitron at American Tower that states, "[I] can have someone from
ATC reach out and discuss a solution that works for everyone." (Exhibit J)

 
·      
On March 26, 2024, Amanda Fairweather, on behalf
of American Tower Company, sent an email regarding the "alleged roof
damage to your client's property." Ms. Fairweather continues, "I have
been informed by American Tower's project management team that Mr. Isrealy has
been provided with all information related to Sprint's plans to repair damage
on the roof . . . .” (Exhibit K)
 
(Exs.
A-M to Altschuld Decl.)
 
            Thus, Plaintiff has met its burden
to demonstrate that ATC was directly involved in the underlying incident,
involving the installation of a satellite on real property in California, to
establish ATC has the requisite minimum contacts and purposefully availed
itself of the laws of California, such that the exercise of personal
jurisdiction over it in this matter is reasonable.
 
            In Reply, ATC argues that none of
these exhibits were properly authenticated, and use of the “American Tower
Corporation” service mark alone is insufficient to establish specific
jurisdiction.
 
            The original Altschuld Declaration
provides:
 
I make this declaration of my own personal knowledge and if called as
a witness I can and will testify competently thereto under oath
 
I have attached true and correct copies of text from the American
Tower website wherein it states 
 
"What We Do 
 
Through communications sites and other real estate solutions in 24
countries around the world, American Tower enables our partners and customers
to connect with more people, which builds community and creates
opportunities." 
 
"Who Do We Serve? Our customers include mobile network operators
and multinational telecommunications companies, media and broadband providers,
government agencies and other industries who reach people through wireless
communication technologies." 
 
and further: 
 
"With a leading portfolio of independently owned U.S. and
international tower real estate, as well as a network of data centers in the
U.S., American Tower offers our wide array of customers more comprehensive and
interconnected communications and real estate platforms to provide faster, more
reliable service." (Collectively Exhibit A to declaration of Bruce
Altschuld) 
 
Due to the website color coding I could not print up the wording but
these are the exact statements on the website
 
(Altschuld
Decl., Dec. 5, 2024.)   Four days later,
Plaintiff submitted a supplemental declaration of Bruce Altschuld, which adds:
 
“I also add to this declaration that, as to Exhibits A through M,
attached to the opposition to the motion to quash the service of the summons
and complaint on American Tower Corporation those are true and correct copies
of that evidence that was provided to my client during the course of the
repairs to the roof at issue.”
 
(Supp.
Alschuld Decl., Dec. 9, 2024.)
 
            Thus, although the exhibits were not
originally authenticated, Alschuld, as Plaintiff’s agent, authenticated them in
the Supplemental Alschuld Declaration.
 
            Plaintiff also argues in opposition,
that because ATC concedes it is not registered to do business in California,
the Court should enter default against ATC. 
That issue is not properly before the Court at this juncture.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has met its burden of proof that ATC was directly involved
in the underlying incident to establish the requisite minimum contacts between Plaintiff,
Defendants, and the forum state of California to justify imposition of specific
personal jurisdiction on ATC.  
 
Accordingly, the Court denies Specially Appearing Defendants’ Motion
to Quash quashing the service of the summons and complaint.  
 
            Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.     
 
 
DATED: 
December 18, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                                Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                                Judge of the Superior
Court