  Case Number:  22STCV31431    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



HASSAN MATEEN, 
  
  
        
  vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT.


 Case
  No.:  22STCV31431
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 25, 2024



 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s motion for summary judgment is denied.  
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s motion in the alternative for summary adjudication is denied as to
the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of action.

 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District
(“LAUSD”) (“Defendant”) moves for summary judgment against Plaintiff Hassan
Mateen (“Mateen”) (“Plaintiff”) on his complaint (“Complaint”) on the grounds
there are no triable issues of material fact on all causes of action and
Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Notice of Motion,
pg. 2.)
In the alternative, Defendant moves for summary
adjudication on the 1st (Failure to Accommodate in Violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act [“FEHA”]) [Issue 1], 2nd (Failure to Engage
in a Good Faith Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA) [Issue 2], 3rd
(Discrimination in Violation of FEHA) [Issue 3], 4th (Retaliation in
Violation of FEHA, Gov. Code §12940(n)) [Issue 4], and 5th (Failure to
Prevent Discrimination in Violation of FEHA ) [Issue 5] causes of
action.  (Notice of Motion, pgs. 2-3.)
 
Evidentiary Objections
Defendant’s 11/13/24 evidentiary objections to the
Declaration of Mateen are overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34,
35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, and 42 and sustained as to Nos. 24, 25, 28, and 31.
 
Procedural Background
On September 26, 2022, Plaintiff filed his
operative Complaint in the instant action against Defendant alleging five
causes of action: (1) Failure to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA; (2) Failure
to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA; (3)
Discrimination in Violation of FEHA; (4) Retaliation in Violation of
FEHA.  (See Complaint.)  
On June 18, 2023, Defendant filed the instant
motion for summary judgment, or alternatively summary adjudication of
issues.  Plaintiff filed his opposition on November 6, 2023.  Defendant
filed its reply on November 13, 2024.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiff alleges he was hired to work for
Defendant on or about October 1992 as a Teaching Assistant.  (Complaint
¶9.)  Plaintiff alleges that at the time of his forced retirement in
February 2022, he had been working as a Senior IT Support Technician. 
(Complaint ¶9.)  
Plaintiff alleges that he disclosed his initial
disabilities to Defendant in about May 2015 and Defendant was mostly
accommodating his medical needs until about 2021, after he settled his workers’
compensation case.  (Complaint ¶10.)  
Plaintiff alleges that in 2018 he began to have
panic attacks directly tied to driving on the freeway.  (Complaint
¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges he opened a workers’ compensation case in or
around July 2018.  (Complaint ¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges in 2019, Dr.
Cox recommended in the QME for Plaintiff to schedule a psychological
evaluation.  (Complaint ¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges that when he was
told by a supervisor in 2020 that he would be able to continue telecommuting
through 2022 and, therefore, would not have to drive, he cancelled the
psychological evaluation and settled his workers’ compensation case in about
January 2021.  (Complaint ¶11.)  
Plaintiff that immediately following his agreement
to settle his workers’ compensation case, Defendant engaged in retaliation
against him, including but not limited to not allowing Plaintiff to compete for
the MDM Specialist Position(s) (for which he was highly qualified). 
(Complaint ¶12.)  Plaintiff alleges that in or about June 2021, the new
MDM Specialist Position was finalized without Plaintiff ever being given the
opportunity to compete for the position at any stage.  (Complaint ¶12.) 
Plaintiff alleges this retaliation exacerbated his medical conditions, and he
also developed gastrointestinal symptoms, increased blood pressure, and
headaches.  (Complaint ¶12.)  
Plaintiff alleges that in July 2021, he filed a
reasonable accommodation application noting that his supervisor informed him
that Defendant required a doctor’s note in order to allow him to continue to
telecommute.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges he provided a note
from his medical provider shortly after his application.  (Complaint
¶13.)  
Plaintiff alleges in or around August 2021, he had
a meeting in which Supervisor Joshua Lee informed him that the accommodation
would no longer be honored beyond August 13, 2021.  (Complaint ¶14.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant claimed that, despite working remotely for years,
the essential functions of his position could not be completed while working
remotely.  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges he provided further
medical documentation describing his ability to work with accommodation and
need for accommodations, yet Plaintiff was put out on a forced medical leave of
absence.  (Complaint ¶14.)  
Plaintiff alleges that after attempting to return to work with
accommodations multiple times, Plaintiff felt he had no choice but to file for
retirement effective February 10, 2022.  (Complaint ¶15.)
 
Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall be granted if
all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of
law.   (C.C.P. §437c(c).) 
A motion for summary adjudication may be made by
itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed
in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  
(C.C.P. §437c(f)(2).)   A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action if that party contends that
the cause of action has no merit.  A motion for summary adjudication shall
be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.   (C.C.P.
§437c(f)(1).) 
 

Failure to
Accommodate in Violation of FEHA (1st COA) [Issue 1]
The elements of a cause of action for failure to
accommodate are: (1) plaintiff has a disability or medical condition or was
regarded as suffering from a disability; (2) plaintiff could perform the
essential duties of a sought reassigned job with or without reasonable
accommodations; and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate.  (Wilson
v. County of Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1193 [reasonable
accommodations include job restructuring, modified work schedules,
reassignments, providing readers or interpreters, and paid or unpaid leave].)
An employee’s “essential functions” are his job’s
fundamental duties such that their nonperformance would eliminate the need for
the job.  (Gov. Code §12926(f).)  Essential functions cannot be
readily performed by another employee or in an alternative manner.  (Cal.
Code Regs., tit. 2, §11065(e)(3).)  An employer may consider a job
function essential for any number of reasons.  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2,
§11065(e)(1).)  For example, a job function may be essential because the
position’s purpose is to perform that function, or the function is highly
specialized.  (Id.)
Whether a job function is “essential” may be shown
by evidence of the following:
(A)  
The employer’s judgment as to which functions are
essential.
(B)  
Written job descriptions prepared before
advertising or interviewing applicants for the job.
(C)  
The amount of time spent on the job performing the
function.
(D)  
The consequences of not requiring the incumbent to
perform the function.
(E)   
The terms of a collective bargaining agreement.
(F)   
The work experiences of past incumbents in the
job.
(G)  
The current work experience of incumbents in
similar jobs.
(Gov. Code §12926(f)(2).)
An employee “bears the burden of proving he or she
was able to do the job, with or without reasonable accommodation.”  (Green
v. State of California (2007) 42 Cal.4th 254, 262.)  “Applying Green’s
burden of proof analysis to section 12940(m), . . . the burden of proving
ability to perform the essential functions of a job with accommodation [is] . .
. placed on the plaintiff under this statute as well.” (Nadaf-Rahrov v.
Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 977, citing Green,
42 Cal.4th at pgs. 262-263.)
“A term of leave from work can be a reasonable
accommodation under FEHA, and, therefore, a request for leave can be considered
to be a request for accommodation under FEHA.”  (Moore v. Regents of
University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 243, internal citation
omitted.)
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s role as a “team
leader” in Local District West, which involved him providing high-level in
person support to schools and lower-level technicians, constituted an
essential function.  (Motion, pg. 15.)
Defendant submitted evidence that Plaintiff’s
presence in person was an essential function of his position. 
Specifically, Defendant submitted the Declaration of Joshua Lee (“Lee”), which
states that “[t]here was no way to anticipate when a school site would need a
Senior IT Support Technician on-site.”  (Defendant’s Disputed Separate
Statement of Fact [“D-DSSF”] 10; D-COE, Exh. C at ¶10.)  Lee also
declares, 
The Senior IT Support Technician’s primary function was to provide
high-level support to the schools in his assigned Local District and provide
device support for all students, teachers, and office personnel stationed in
the schools. A Senior IT Support Technician acted as an intermediary between
the central management and MDM systems at the School District’s headquarters at
the Beaudry Avenue Building (the “Beaudry Building”) and the thousands of
devices at the school sites. To that end, a Senior IT Support Technician
needed to go to a school site to ensure the proper configurations and
applications launched on the devices on-site launched on the students’ devices;
to ensure students’ devices contained the proper access to their applications
and not to inappropriate material; to assist teachers and office personnel as
needed; and to provide high-level support to the IT Technicians I and II. 

 
(D-DSSF 8; D-COE, Exh. C at ¶6, emphasis
added.)  
Defendant also submitted, as an exhibit to the
Declaration of Sarah Houston (“Houston”), a description of Plaintiff’s
position.  (D-DSSF 5-7; Exh. A at ¶6, Exh. 1.)  Defendant met its
burden to demonstrate Plaintiff’s presence in person was an essential function
of his position, shifting the burden to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of
material fact.
Plaintiff, in turn, met his burden to raise a
triable issue of material fact as to whether his presence in person was an
essential function of his position.  Specifically, Plaintiff testified
that he could do every require of him remotely or in person:
Q. . . . Okay. So is it fair to say that, in order
to do your job effectively, that you would have to go back on campus and do
in-person work?
 
A. No, sir. Not at all.
 
Q. How is your job done remotely?
 
A. We have certain tools. We use the telephone. We
use the Bomgar software that allows you to remotely take over. And we have to
go through the school’s VPN. So if you’re not on school district property, we
use a VPN. Cisco AnyConnect VPN. And we login to a system that puts us on a
district network so that we’re able to remotely take over anyone’s device
that’s on a district campus that’s at a district site.
Now, prior to that the students were at home.
Right? They weren’t coming into school sites. So we really didn’t have any
remote software to really allow us to—I mean, we could do it. But we were
mostly over the phone and guiding the parents. Guiding the parents and—
Since I was with mobile device management, the
bulk of my tasks, over 80 percent of my tasks, were remotely configuring
devices. You know, putting the intelligence into the device in the hands of the
students to control what they can and can’t do.
 
(P-DSSF 11; Decl. of Mateen ¶16, Exh. 9 at
45:18-46:18.)  Further, Plaintiff raised a triable issue of material fact
as to whether he could accomplish the essential function of his position with a
requested accommodation.  Specifically, Plaintiff submitted evidence of a
text message he sent on July 7, 2021, to his supervisor, Jet Decena, requesting
to be transferred to LD-South, from where he previously accomplished the
essential function of his position.  (P-DSSF 19; Decl. of Mateen ¶8, Exh.
5.)  Plaintiff met his burden to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication is denied as to the 1st cause of action.
 
Failure to Engage
in the Interactive Process (2nd COA) [Issue 2]

Government Code §12940(n) provides as follows:
“For an employer or other entity covered by this part to fail to engage in a
timely, good faith, interactive process with the employee or applicant to
determine effective reasonable accommodations, if any, in response to a request
for reasonable accommodation by an employee or applicant with a known physical
or mental disability or known medical condition.”  (Gov. Code
§12940(n).) 
“Two principles underlie a cause of action for
failure to provide a reasonable accommodation. First, the employee must request
an accommodation. Second, the parties must engage in an interactive process
regarding the requested accommodation and, if the process fails, responsibility
for the failure rests with the party who failed to participate in good
faith.”  (Gelfo v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 34,
54.)
An employer is only liable for failing to engage
in the interactive process if a reasonable accommodation was available.  (Nadaf-Rahrov,
166 Cal.App.4th at pgs. 979, 982.)
Defendant argues it engaged in a good faith
interactive process and it had no duty to accommodate Plaintiff’s September
2021 requests for accommodation because Defendant was not required to create a
new position to accommodate Plaintiff’s party-time work restrictions. 
(Motion, pg. 20.)
Defendant submitted evidence that it engaged in a
good faith interactive process.  Specifically, Defendant submitted
evidence that on July 8, 2021, it began the interactive process.  (D-DSSF
19; D-COE Exh. A at ¶¶10-11, Exhs. 2-3.)  Defendant submitted evidence
that, as an accommodation, Plaintiff was approved to continue to work remotely
until August 13, 2021, but informed Plaintiff that due to the school district’s
shift to in-person instruction, Plaintiff’s job duties could not be performed
remotely, and Plaintiff would be required to report to Local District
West.  (D-DSSF 26; D-COE Exh. A at ¶¶10, 13, Exhs. 2, 5.)  Defendant
met its burden to demonstrate it engaged in a good faith interactive process,
shifting the burden to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.
Plaintiff met his burden to raise a triable issue
of material fact.  Specifically, Plaintiff submitted evidence that he
requested to be transferred to LD-South.  (P-DSSF 19.)  Plaintiff
cites to Defendant’s evidence for the premise that he was directed to report to
LD West to perform his duties.  (P-DSSF 29; D-COE, Exh. A at Exh.
5.)  Plaintiff cites to Defendant’s evidence for the premise that
Defendant did not provide him with an accommodation to work remotely because
all district employees had the right to work from home until August 16, 2021,
due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  (P-DSSF 26; D-COE, Exh. A at ¶9.) 
Plaintiff met his burden to raise a triable issue of material fact as to
whether Defendant engaged in a good faith interactive process.
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of the 2nd cause of action is denied.
 
Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (3rd COA)
[Issue 3]
A cause of action for discrimination based on
disability requires a showing of the following elements: (1) plaintiff has a
disability or medical condition or was regarded as suffering from a disability;
(2) plaintiff could perform the essential duties of the job with or without
reasonable accommodations; (3) plaintiff was subjected to defendant’s adverse
employment decision; and (4) the adverse employment decision was because of
plaintiff’s actual or perceived disability or medical condition.  (Faust
v. California Portland Cement Co.  (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 864, 886.)
Under the McDonnell Douglas process for
allocating burdens of proof and producing evidence, which is used in California
for disparate-treatment cases under FEHA, the employee must first present a
prima facie case of discrimination.  (Moore v. Regents of the
University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 234, citing Guz v.
Bechtel National Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354; McDonnell Douglas
Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792.)  The burden then shifts to the
employer to produce evidence of a nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse
action.  (Moore, 248 Cal.App.4th at pg. 235, citing Guz, 24
Cal.4th at pgs. 355-356.)  At that point, the burden shifts back to the
employee to show that the employer’s stated reason was in fact a pretext for a
discriminatory act.  (Id., citing Guz, 24 Cal.4th at pg.
356.)
Defendant argues summary adjudication of this
cause of action is warranted because Plaintiff did not suffer an adverse
employment action.  (Motion, pg.
22.)  Further, Defendant argues Plaintiff
was not entitled to notice about the provisional vacancy of the MDM Specialist
position, and Plaintiff did ultimately apply and compete for the position of
MDM Specialist.  (Motion, pgs. 21-22.)  Defendant’s arguments are unavailing under
the case law to determine if a Plaintiff has suffered an adverse employment action.
 
1.     Prima Facie Case
of Disability Discrimination
In order to make out a prima facie case of
disability discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff must present evidence that
the plaintiff (1) suffered from a disability or was perceived as suffering from
a disability, (2) could perform the essential duties of the job with or without
accommodation, and (3) was subjected to an adverse employment action because of
disability or perceived disability.   (Moore, 248 Cal.App.4th
at 234-235.) 
Under FEHA, an adverse employment action is one
which “materially affect[s] the terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th
1028, 1052.)  The “materiality” test of adverse employment action
explained in Yanowitz looks to “the entire spectrum of employment
actions that are reasonably likely to adversely and materially affect an
employee’s job performance or opportunity for advancement in his or her
career,” and the test “must be interpreted liberally . . . with a reasonable
appreciation of the realities of the workplace.”  (Id. at pg.
1054.)  “[T]here is no requirement that an employer’s retaliatory acts
constitute one swift blow, rather than a series of subtle, yet damaging,
injuries.”  (Id. at pg. 1055.)
Plaintiff met his burden to demonstrate a prima
facie case of disability discrimination under the McDonnell Douglas
burden-shifting framework.  As a preliminary matter, it is undisputed that
Plaintiff had a disability or was perceived to have had a disability. 
(Defendant’s Undisputed Separate Statement of Fact [“D-USSF”] 12.) 
Plaintiff submitted evidence that he could perform the essential functions of
his job with an accommodation, namely being assigned to his same position at
the LD-South location.  (P-DSSF 11.)  Plaintiff submitted evidence
that he was subjected to an adverse employment action by being denied a promotion
to the position of MDM Specialist.  (P-DSSF 38; Decl. of Mateen ¶4, Exh.
3.)  Plaintiff met his burden to establish a prima facie case of
disability discrimination under McDonnell Douglas, shifting the burden
to Defendant to produce evidence of a nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse
employment action.
 
2.     Non-discriminatory
Reason for Adverse Employment Action
Defendant submitted evidence of its
non-discriminatory reason for the adverse employment action. 
Specifically, Defendant submitted the Declaration of Raymond Lao, an MDM
Specialist, who declares that the position at issue was provisional, not permanent. 
(D-DSSF 38; D-COE, Exh. B at ¶3.)  Lao declares on information and belief
that no eligibility list existed.  (D-DSSF 38.)  Defendant met its
burden to demonstrate a non-discriminatory reason for the adverse employment
action.
 
3.     Pretext for
Disability Discrimination
Plaintiff has the opportunity “to attack the
employer’s proffered reasons as pretexts for discrimination, or to offer any
other evidence of discriminatory motive.”  (Moore v. Regents of
University of California (2016) 24 Cal.App.4th 216, 235.)  Plaintiff
must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the legitimate reasons
offered by the defendant were not its true reasons but a pretext for
discrimination.  (McDonnell Douglas, 411 U.S. at pg. 802.) 
Plaintiff sufficiently submitted evidence that
Defendant’s proffered reason the denial of his promotion to MDM Specialist is
pretext for discrimination.  Plaintiff submitted evidence that Lao, the
interviewer for the position of MDM Specialist, received the position
advertised on a permanent basis.  (P-DSSF 38; Decl. of Hassan ¶4, Exh.
3.)  Further, Plaintiff submitted evidence of suspect timing, given that
the position of MDM Specialist was made available one month after Plaintiff’s
protected action of settling his workman’s compensation claim against
Defendant.  (P-DSSF 38.)  Plaintiff has met his burden on summary
adjudication to demonstrate a triable issue of material fact as to whether
Defendant’s proffered reasons for the adverse employment action was pretext for
discrimination.
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication as to 3rd cause of action for disability discrimination is
denied. 
 
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (4th COA) [Issue
4]
“To establish a prima facie case of retaliation
under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected
activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment
action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the
employer’s action. Once an employee establishes a prima facie case, the
employer is required to offer a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the
adverse employment action. If the employer produces a legitimate reason for the
adverse employment action, the presumption of retaliation ‘drops out of the
picture,’ and the burden shifts back to the employee to prove intentional
retaliation.”  (Yanowitz, 36 Cal.4th at pg. 1042, internal
citations omitted.)  
“An ‘adverse employment action,’ which is a
critical component of a retaliation claim, requires a substantial adverse
change in the terms and conditions of the plaintiff’s employment.”  (Holmes
v. Petrovich Development Co., LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1063,
quotation marks omitted.)
 
1.     Prima facie case
for retaliation
Plaintiff submitted evidence that he can
demonstrate a prima facie case for retaliation.  Specifically, Plaintiff
cites to Defendant’s evidence for the premise he engaged in protected
activities, including taking a leave due to disability.  (P-DSSF 30;
D-COE, Exh. A at Exh. 7.)  Plaintiff submitted evidence that on September
29, 2021, he requested FMLA protections for a modified work schedule. 
(P-DSSF 31; Decl. of Mateen ¶25.)  Plaintiff submitted evidence that he
was subjected to an adverse employment action.  (P-DSSF 38.) 
Plaintiff also submitted evidence of a causal link between his protected
activities and the adverse employment action based on the proximity of his
leave and denial of the promotion.  (P-DSSF 31, 38.)  Accordingly,
Plaintiff met his burden to demonstrate a prima facie case for retaliation.
 
2.     Non-retaliatory
reason for adverse employment action
Defendant submitted evidence of its
non-retaliatory reason for the adverse employment action. Specifically,
Defendant submitted the Declaration of Raymond Lao, an MDM Specialist, who
declares that the position at issue was provisional, not permanent. 
(D-DSSF 38; D-COE, Exh. B at ¶3.)  Lao declares on information and belief
that no eligibility list existed.  (D-DSSF 38.)  Defendant met its
burden to demonstrate a non-retaliatory reason for the adverse employment
action.
 
3.     Pretext for
retaliation
Plaintiff submitted evidence of pretext for
retaliation.  Plaintiff submitted evidence that Lao,
the interviewer for the position of MDM Specialist, received the position
advertised on a permanent basis.  (P-DSSF 38; Decl. of Hassan ¶4, Exh.
3.)  Further, Plaintiff submitted evidence of suspect timing, given that
the position of MDM Specialist was made available one month after Plaintiff’s
protected action of settling his workman’s compensation claim against
Defendant.  (P-DSSF 38.)  Plaintiff has met his burden on summary
adjudication to demonstrate a triable issue of material fact as to whether
Defendant’s proffered reasons for the adverse employment action was pretext for
retaliation.

Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the 4th cause of action is denied.
 
Failure to
Prevent Harassment and Discrimination in violation of FEHA (5th COA) [Issue 5]
A cause of action for failure to prevent
discrimination includes the following elements: (1) actionable discrimination
or harassment by employees or non-employees; (2) defendant’s legal duty of care toward plaintiff (defendant is plaintiff’s employer); (3)
breach of duty (failure to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent
discrimination and harassment from occurring); (4) legal causation; and (5)
damages to plaintiff.  (Trujillo v. North County Transit District (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 280, 287, 289.)
Defendant argues because all of Plaintiff’s claims
arising under FEHA fail, so too must her duplicative claim for failing to
prevent illegal conduct.  (Jumaane v. City of Los Angeles (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1410.)  In light of this Court finding Defendant
failed to demonstrate Plaintiff’s causes of action under FEHA fail, Defendant
fails to meet its burden on summary adjudication to demonstrate it is entitled
to summary adjudication of this cause of action as a matter of law. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of the 5th cause of action is denied.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is denied.
Defendants’ motion in the alternative for summary
adjudication is denied as to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  November _____, 2024
                                                                             





  