  Case Number:  20STCV39311    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV39311




MOTION 


Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Maki Gruninger




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Mami Martinez



MOTION
            Plaintiff
Mami Martinez (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Maki Gruninger (“Defendant”)
individually and as the relator in a qui tam action under the California False
Claims Act.  Plaintiff took Defendant’s
default, and the Court entered default judgment against Defendant in its January
4, 2024 order.  Defendant moves to set
aside the default and default judgment.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
In its August 9,
2024 order, the Court authorized Plaintiff to file a supplemental “declaration
only on whether service was effectuated on Defendant” to which Defendant could
respond.   (August 9, 2024 Minute Order.)  The Court now considers the supplemental
briefing. 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff purportedly served Defendant on
August 24, 2023 at 9:02 a.m. by personal service at 18910 Linnet Street in
Tarzana.  (See Proof of Service, filed
August 29, 2024.)  Defendant submits her
declaration in which she states she has never resided at that address.  Further, Defendant presents the building
access record for her place of employment. 
The record reflects Defendant entered the building at 7:10 a.m. on August
24, 2023.  (See Declaration of Maki
Gruninger, ¶  .)  
In opposition, Plaintiff submits the
declaration of the process server who purportedly served Defendant, Edgar
Javier Cusani (“Cusani”).  Cusani states he
“was shown the photograph of a woman, which [he] was told depicted” Defendant,
and the woman he personally served is the woman in the photograph.  (Declaration of Edgar Javier Cusani, ¶¶ 4-6.)  Cusani’s testimony is inadmissible.  Cusani lacks personal knowledge of whether
the photograph depicts Defendant.  (Evid.
Code, § 702.)
Plaintiff also advances the declaration of
her attorney, Jarrod Wilfert (“Counsel”). 
Counsel states Defendant’s husband gave him the photograph that
purportedly depicts Defendant.  (Declaration
of Jarrod Wilfert, ¶ 11.)  Again, this
testimony is inadmissible.  Counsel lacks
personal knowledge of whether the photograph depicts Defendant.  (Evid. Code, § 702.)  To the extent Counsel relies on the
statements of Defendant’s husband to authenticate the photograph, those
statements are hearsay.  (Evid. Code, §
1200.)
Plaintiff also presents a statement of
decision from the marital dissolution action involving Plaintiff and her
husband.  In that statement of decision,
the Court found Defendant testified dishonestly.  (Wilfert Decl., Exhibit 7.)  The Court can take judicial notice of the
order of the Court in the dissolution action. 
However, conclusions regarding Defendant’s testimony in that action are
hearsay and inadmissible.  (Evid. Code, §
1200.)  Further, even if the Court
assumes Defendant testified dishonestly in the dissolution action, that is not
pertinent to the determination of whether Plaintiff properly served Defendant
in this action.
Plaintiff also argues Defendant must have
known about this lawsuit before Plaintiff served her.  That is irrelevant.  If Plaintiff did not properly serve
Defendant, the default and default judgment against Defendant are void.
In response to the Court’s order of August 9,
2024, Plaintiff filed three supplemental declarations on the issue of whether
Plaintiff served Defendant.  Plaintiff
advances a declaration from Manuel Martinez (“Manuel”), who is Defendant’s
father.  Manuel authenticates three photographs
of Defendant.  (Declaration of Manuel
Martinez, Exhibits 1-3.)  Plaintiff
advances a declaration from Mami Martinez (“Mami”), who is Plaintiff’s
mother.  Mami also authenticates the
photographs of Defendant.  (Declaration
of Mami Martinez, Exhibits 1-3.)  Plaintiff
advances a supplemental declaration of Cusani in which he states the person he
served is the person the photographs depict. 
(Supplemental Declaration of Edgar Javier Cusani, ¶¶ 4-5.)  Defendant objects to these declarations, but
the declarations are admissible.  
In reply to this new evidence, Defendant submits
the declaration of Stephen B. Kass (“Kass”), who states he resides at 18910
Linnet Street in Tarzana, and, based on his review of the video Cusani took of
the service, the person Cusani attempted to serve is Kass’s girlfriend, Lien
Mai, who has resided with Kass at that address since 2016.  (Declaration of Stephen B. Kass, ¶¶ 3, 4.)[1]  Kass’s testimony, coupled with Defendant’s
declaration in connection with the moving papers, outweigh Plaintiff’s
evidence.  Plaintiff provides no
explanation why Defendant was present for service at 18910 Linnet Street in
Tarzana when, through Defendant’s and Kass’s testimony, Defendant offers proof
she does not reside there.  
Notwithstanding Plaintiff’s contentions
regarding service, the totality of the circumstances, including the evidence
Defendant has offered, compels the Court to grant Defendant’s motion to quash.  (See Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8
Cal.4th 975, 980 [“Because the law favors disposing of cases on their merits, ‘any
doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief
from default”’].)  The default and
default judgment are, therefore, void.  (Strathvale
Holdings v. E.B.H. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1241, 1249.)  
Defendant is to give notice of this order and
to file proof of service of same.


