  Case Number:  23TRCV04122    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                             Tuesday, May 14, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 5   



 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Erik
Sanchez v. Jose Edgar Guzman Cortez, et al.    
23TRCV04122
1.     
Jose Edgar Guzman
Cortez, et al. s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Jose Edgar Guzman Cortez (“Guzman Cortez”), Midway
HFCA, LLC (“Midway”), and United Moving Car’s (“United”) Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is granted with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on December 12, 2023.
Plaintiff was involved in a motor vehicle accident with Defendants. 
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendants set forth a meet and
confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 435.5. (Decl., William
E. Jemmott, ¶¶ 1-5.) 
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendants move to strike following
portion of the Complaint. “(Judicial Counsel Form Complaint) Paragraph 14a(2)
punitive damages.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, line 1.)  
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
Plaintiff failed to set forth specific
facts that Defendants acted willfully, maliciously, intentionally, and/or
recklessly to support Plaintiff’s allegations and prayer for punitive damages. Instead,
the allegations simply state that Defendant Guzman Cortez ran a red light and
was speeding. As to Midway, Defendant states that Midway negligently failed to
maintain, operate, or inspect the vehicle. As to United, no factual allegations
were set forth whatsoever other than conclusions that this Defendant
(previously identified as Doe 1) either owned, entrusted, employed the person
who operated the vehicle, or, nonsensically, itself operated the vehicle.
Plaintiff submitted no competent authority to show that punitive damages are
available under these facts in the context of a motor vehicle collision.
 
In addition, to the extent that Plaintiff
may be attempting to impose punitive damages against Midway or United under an
employer theory, no specific facts were set forth to meet the requirements of
Civ. Code § 3294(b).
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is granted
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of
this ruling.