 Case Number:  23SMCV00920    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel arbitration.  Plaintiff was injured on a scooter rented
from defendant.  Plaintiff asserts a
problem with the scooter.  Defendant
moved to compel arbitration pursuant to a clause defendant contends is in the
scooter rental agreement.  More
specifically, defendant states that in order to rent a scooter, the user must
create an account and that the account documents include an arbitration
provision.  Defendant asserts that such
is the case here—plaintiff had to download the app and create the account and,
as part of that process, plaintiff had to agree to the arbitration
provision.   
Plaintiff opposes the motion noting that the arbitration
provision requires that the arbitration be under the JAMS auspices and take
place in Tippecanoe County, Indiana—a location where there is no JAMS
office.  According to plaintiff, the
arbitration provision is in small type and hidden and that it is void because
of the lack of a JAMS office and also unconscionable due to the small type and
the distant location.  Plaintiff further
argues that defendant waived arbitration by not attempting to resolve the case
in good faith prior to litigation, which is a prerequisite to arbitration under
the contract.  Finally, plaintiff
contends that he never agreed to the arbitration provision and has no
recollection of agreeing to anything through an app.
The matter was called for hearing on February 2, 2024.  At that time, the court continued the hearing
because it was unclear whether plaintiff had in fact agreed to the arbitration
provision.  Whether there is a valid
arbitration contract is always a question for the court in the first
instance.  It could be that questions
whether a particular dispute is arbitrable are for the arbitrator in the first
instance if the parties so agree, but the existence of a contract is a question
that cannot be delegated to the arbitrator initially.
The court noted that the contract upon which defendant
relied was based on an account created on May 12, 2021.  The problem was that there was nothing in any
exhibit before the court at the prior hearing that tied the screenshot of the
account to the plaintiff.  There was no
name or other identifying information on the purported agreement, and the only
thing that came close was that the “Area” was listed as New York (although the
incident occurred in Florida).  The court
continued the hearing to allow defendant to shore up whether plaintiff had
actually agreed to the arbitration contract.
The court essentially rejected the other objections.  The court did not view the contract as
illusory—the fact that JAMS does not have an office in Tippecanoe does not mean
one could not arbitrate there.  Further,
the distant location was not something defendant was seeking to enforce.  Defendant’s motion did not require that
forum; defendant is and was willing to arbitrate locally.   To the extent that the clause has any bite,
the court would be inclined to strike it. 
The court tended to agree that there was some procedural
unconscionability to the contract—the arbitration provision could have been
more prominently displayed.  But it was
available and long-standing law will not invalidate the contract solely on that
basis.  The court also noted that the
contract had an opt-out provision, although it would take some digging to find
it.  At bottom, the court agreed that, at
least under California law, while there was some procedural
unconscionability.  However, there was no
substantive unconscionability and thus that objection could not stand.  (No one briefed Indiana law, which is the
governing law according to the agreement, Florida law, which is where the
incident occurred, New York law, which is the “Area” in which the contract was
purportedly signed, or the FAA.  The
court therefore presumes either that the parties agree that California law
governs or that it is not materially different from those other jurisdictions.)  As to waiver, the court acknowledged the time
lag between the time the complaint was filed and the time of the motion, but
nothing of substance occurred during that period and there is and was no
prejudice.  Accordingly, the court
rejected the notion that the delay alone was a waiver.  And finally, as to the lack of good faith
negotiation prior to defendant’s rejection of plaintiff’s claim, the court
believed that under the arbitration agreement, that question is for the
arbitrator in the first instance.  It is
a question of arbitrability, not a question of validity.  There was some heft to the claim—defendant
did not seem to engage in any kind of reasoned discussion with the plaintiff,
provide plaintiff with documentation or information to refute plaintiff’s
position or support defendant’s position, and may have misrepresented whether
there was insurance.  So far as the court
could tell, there was no dialogue or settlement discussion at all.  Plaintiff simply opened the discussion and
defendant (perhaps after an undisclosed internal investigation) said “no.”  That could well be bad faith and result in a
waiver of the right to arbitrate or enforce the arbitration provision, but the
arbitration clause gives that question to the arbitrator in the first instance.
Thus, the only open question was whether or not plaintiff
had actually entered into this agreement.
In its supplemental brief, defendant links the account to
plaintiff.  The records, according to the
defense, show that the account was created using plaintiff’s cell phone number
on May 12, 2021 and that the account was used to rent a scooter on a particular
day in Florida, which is when plaintiff’s injury occurred.  According to the Xie Supplemental
Declaration, a user’s account is linked to their cell phone number (which the court
will identify here as ending in “7” and will refer to as “xxx7”).  When plaintiff’s counsel contacted defendant
regarding the claim, defendant asked for the cell number so it could look up
the account.  Counsel responded by letter
identifying the number as xxx7.  (That is
not hearsay.  It is the statement by an
authorized representative of the opposing party, and thus is admissible for its
truth.)  And there are medical records to
the same effect.  According to Xie,
defendant searched the database for an account with xxx7 and that produced a
screen shot showing a user with that number and that the account was created on
May 12, 2021 and used to rent the scooter in Florida.  Because, according to the Xie declaration,
one cannot create an account without agreeing to the arbitration provision, the
logic leads to the conclusion that plaintiff did agree to the arbitration
provision.  Further, according to Xie,
one of plaintiff’s companions called defendant after the incident and reported
that plaintiff had fallen and wanted to end the ride.  That caller provided the phone number xxx7 to
allow the ride to end. 
In opposition, plaintiff accuses defendant of attempting to
reframe the court’s question.  According
to plaintiff, the question is whether plaintiff “knowingly and intelligently”
agreed to arbitration, not whether plaintiff had an account with defendant such
that she was subject to the agreement’s terms. 
Respectfully, the court disagrees. 
Defendant correctly answered the court’s question.  The court was concerned that there was no
evidence that plaintiff entered into the agreement at all.  For all the court knew, plaintiff found the
scooter already operative or used a friend’s account to log on.  Absent evidence that plaintiff herself
entered into the agreement, the court might well not be able to enforce the
arbitration provision.  After all, an
arbitration agreement is nothing more than a contract.  It, like all contracts, requires assent.  However, also like all contracts, if the
person agreeing to the contract does not read it, that is of no moment—the
written contract remains binding. 
Plaintiff argues that plaintiff did not know that by proceeding into the
app she was entering into a contract. 
The app allegedly did not include a screen with a “User Agreement” that
would inform her that she was entering into a contract; rather, one had to
click through to find the agreement. 
Plaintiff challenged the Xie declaration, stating that the screenshot in
the original Xie declaration does not say anything anywhere about an agreement.  (There would be an implied in fact agreement
of some kind in that plaintiff surely intended to use the scooter and pay for
it, but an implied in fact agreement would not give rise to arbitration.)  But only later, in the supplemental papers,
was there a screenshot that included a box that had to be checked stating that
the user had read and agreed to defendant’s terms and conditions.   The difference is attributed by the defense
as simply lightening the same picture so that other print that was visible to
the user showed up in the picture. 
Plaintiff does not accuse the defense of creating new evidence.  That said, plaintiff notes that this latter,
now visible, clause is in smaller and harder to read font.  Plaintiff goes so far as to say it is
virtually impossible to read.  Thus,
plaintiff claims, the assent is illusory and non-binding even though the box
was checked.  Plaintiff states that the
whole purpose was to use trickery to get a renter to click a box unknowingly so
that it can later be used against the plaintiff.  The brief then goes on to suggest that
defendant’s business practice is fraudulent because it advertises the scooters
as safe because defendant manufactures them when in fact they are made in
China.  (There may be something to
this—the ad in the supplemental brief states that defendant “designs and
manufactures” the scooters “in-house.” 
But in response to discovery, defendant states that it did not
manufacture the scooter.)  That
allegation is troubling, but the law is settled that even if there is a claim
that the contract was induced by fraud, the arbitration clause is still binding
unless the fraud went to the clause itself (which this does not).
The court is convinced that defendant has now carried its
burden.  Plaintiff did use the app, and
plaintiff did create an account.  As part
of that process, plaintiff checked the box stating that she had read and agreed
to the terms.  The court therefore has no
choice but to enforce the arbitration provision and the motion is GRANTED.  The case is STAYED pending arbitration.  The court will set a status conference in
about 270 days to make sure that the arbitration is moving along apace.
Before leaving this case, the court does note the
following.  The court is of the view that
defendant’s practice, like that of most sellers of goods and services on the
internet, is not designed to obtain a knowing and intelligent agreement to an
arbitration term.  The term is often hard
to find and requires one to go through a number of screens.  One might say that the time has come for a legislative
body to re-think what is required for a valid arbitration agreement—times have
changed a lot since the FAA and CAA were passed, like, say, the internet.  But that is a job for Congress or maybe the
California Legislature or maybe even a higher court; it is not something this
court can do.