  Case Number:  21SMCV00857    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  I The court is inclined to SEVER the cross-action against the
moving party such that it will not be heard as part of the April 2, 2024
trial.  Once severed, the court will
GRANT the ex parte and CONTINUE the severed portion of the case only.
Cross defendant was added a while back—in 2022.  When the court considered the motion for
leave to add him, the court’s reasoning was that there was plenty of time to
add him and let him conduct discovery before the trial.  There is some evidence that defendant served
him in February 2023 but then did nothing to bring him into default.  At the end of 2023, defendant served him
again—that was over a year after leave was granted and the cross-complaint was
filed.  There has been no showing of
diligence by the cross-complainants.
The court must agree with cross-defendant that it is unjust
on this record to force him to trial on April 2, 2024.  Discovery closed essentially before he even
answered.  Forcing him to try the case
would be a denial of due process.  That
said, however, it is manifestly unjust to continue the trial.  Defendant has been trying to continue this
trial for months.  They were successful a
little while ago when the court deemed (at the FSC) that the matter was not
ready for trial.  But the court set a new
date and made it clear that there would be no further continuances.  The court was aware of this potential problem
at the time, and this is what the court anticipated doing about it.
Accordingly, cross-defendant’s rights will be maintained by
continuing the trial and allowing discovery to reopen as to that, severed, part
of the case.  However, there is a
discovery hold on that case that will extend through May 15, 2024, to allow the
other parties to concentrate on the trial. 
The court will set a TSC hearing for approximately that time to set the
trial on the cross-action.  Any potential
prejudice to the defense is outweighed by their lack of any showing of
diligence in trying to serve cross-defendant between August 2022 (when the
cross complaint was filed) and December 19, 2023 (near Christmas, when service
was made).  The court is aware of the
motion to strike that plaintiff has filed against cross-defendant.  That will be dealt with on the hearing date
and nothing herein is meant to limit the court’s discretion at that time.
Frankly, the court is concerned that the entire attempt to
bring this cross-defendant into the case is more of a ploy by the defense to
get a trial continuance than anything else, although the court is not so
finding.  And, to the extent
cross-defendant was served in February 2023 or aware of the case at that time,
cross-defendant has not shown diligence. 
Those issues, though, will be considered at the TSC on the cross complaint.
