 Case Number:  24CHCV00181    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  F51  JULY 5, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 24CHCV00181    Demurrer filed: 2/20/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Ford Motor Company; and Galpin  Jaguar Lincoln-Mercury, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Holly Michelle Padilla (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants  demur to the fifth and sixth causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled as to  Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action and sustained as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause  of action with 30 days leave to amend.   BACKGROUND    On 11/21/20, Plaintiff allegedly  purchased a vehicle manufactured by defendant Ford Motor Company (“FMC”), and  now bring this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civil Code  § 1790 et seq.), alleging that “defects and nonconformities to warranty  manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including  but not limited to, transmission defects, infotainment defects, electrical  defects, climate control defects, body defects; among other defects and  non-conformities.” (Compl. ¶¶ 7–12.) Plaintiff presented the subject vehicle to  defendant Galpin Jaguar Lincoln-Mercury, Inc. (“Galpin”), an authorized repair  facility, for repair on numerous occasions, but Galpin was unable to “properly  store, prepare and repair of the Subject Vehicle in accordance with industry  standards.” (Id. at ¶¶ 57, 59.)   On 1/17/24, Plaintiff filed her complaint,  alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Violation of Civil  Code section 1793.2(d) [against FMC]; (2) Violation of Civil Code section  1793.2(b) [against FMC]; (3) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3)  [against FMC]; (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability [against  FMC]; (5) Negligent Repair [against Galpin]; and (6) Fraudulent Inducement –  Concealment [against FMC].   On 2/20/24, Defendants filed the  instant demurrer. On 5/30/24, Plaintiff filed her opposition. On 6/28/24,  Defendants filed their reply.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here,  Defendants¿demur to Plaintiff’s fifth and sixth causes of action on the bases  that Plaintiff fails¿to allege facts sufficient to¿state¿either of those causes  of action, and that they are barred by the economic loss rule.   A.    Meet-and-Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Defendants’ counsel declares that he met and  conferred telephonically with Plaintiff’s counsel to discuss the issues raised  in the instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to a resolution.  (Decl. of Chen Fei Liu, ¶ 3.) Therefore, counsel has satisfied the preliminary  meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,  subdivision (a).   B.      Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment   Plaintiff’s  sixth cause of action alleges Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment against FMC.  “The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or  suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the  fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by  intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware  of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of  the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a  result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v.  Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)    1.       Particularity   Fairness  requires that allegations of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the  court can weed out nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to  answer. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The  particularity requirement typically necessitates pleading facts that “show how,  when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar  v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)    In the Complaint,  Plaintiff alleges that FMC had actual knowledge of the transmission defect  through prior pre-market testing, consumer complaints, and issued a number of service  bulletins acknowledging the defect. (Compl. ¶ 24.) Plaintiff further alleges  that “although it has been fully aware of the Transmission Defect, Defendant  FMC actively concealed the existence and nature of the Defect from Plaintiff at  the time of purchase, repair, and thereafter.” (Id. at ¶ 34.)    Here,  Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to meet the particularity requirement for  pleading a fraud cause of action because “Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment  claim fails to allege with particularity the defect Ford allegedly concealed.”  (Dem. 11:5–6.) Specifically, Defendants argue that “Plaintiff fails entirely to  allege where the omitted information should or could have been revealed by Ford  and failed to identify the requisite representative samples of advertisements,  offers, or other representations by Ford that consumers relied upon to make  their purchase.” (Id. 11:22–25.)   “Less  specificity should be required of fraud claims when it appears from the nature  of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information  concerning the facts of the controversy; even under the strict rules of common  law pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when  the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Alfaro v.  Community Housing Improvement & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171  Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) In Alfaro,  the Court of Appeal found that plaintiffs home purchasers in a housing  development were sufficiently specific in pleading fraud based on the defendant  vendors’ alleged nondisclosure of deed restrictions, even though plaintiffs did  not allege that the nondisclosure occurred by a certain means or at a certain  time or place, because the defendants possessed the records of their dealings  with plaintiffs. (Id. at 1385.)     Here, Plaintiff  argues in opposition that the particularity requirement is relaxed when, as  here, the defendant is alleged to possess superior knowledge of the facts. (Pl.’s  Opp. 5:3–5, citing (Quelimane Co. v. Steward Title Guaranty Co. (1998)  19 Cal.4th 26, 27.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that FMC “acquired its knowledge of  the Transmission Defect prior to Plaintiff acquiring the Subject Vehicle,  through sources not available to consumers such as Plaintiff, including but not  limited to pre-production and postproduction testing data, early consumer  complaints about the transmission defect made directly to FMC and its network  of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled from FMC’s network of dealers,  testing conducted by FMC in response to these complaints, as well warranty  repair and part replacements data received by FMC from FMC’s network of  dealers, amongst other sources of internal information.” (Compl. ¶ 66.)   Based on  the foregoing allegations, the Court finds that the particularity requirement  for pleading a fraud cause of action is relaxed at this stage, and that  Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts to meet the relaxed standard. To the  extent that Defendants contend that the complaint “nowhere specifically  identifies the defect,” the Court notes that Plaintiff sufficiently alleges  that “FMC was well aware and knew that the transmission installed in the  Vehicle was defective but failed to disclose this fact to the Plaintiff at the  time of the sale and thereafter.” (Defs.’ Reply 2:28; Compl. ¶ 64.)   2.       Duty to Disclose   “Fraudulent  concealment requires the ‘suppression of a fact, by one who is bound to  disclose it.’” (Huy Fong Foods, Inc. v. Underwood Ranches, LP (2021) 66  Cal.App.5th 1112, 1121, quoting Civ. Code § 1710, subd. 3.)  “Although, typically, a duty to disclose  arises when a defendant owes a fiduciary duty to a plaintiff …, a duty to  disclose may also arise when a defendant possesses or exerts control over  material facts not readily available to the plaintiff.” (Jones v.  ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1199.)   Here,  Defendants further argue that Plaintiff does not allege any direct dealings  with FMC, and therefore has not alleged that FMC had any requisite duty to  disclose. (Dem. 13:11–15.) Defendants argue that no duty to disclose exists  where, as here, a plaintiff brings its claims against a manufacturer from which  it did not directly obtain the product in question.   In Bigler-Engler  v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, the Court of Appeal found that the  defendant manufacturer of a medical device owed the plaintiff patient no duty  to disclose where there was insufficient evidence that the parties transacted  in any way. (7 Cal.App.5th at 314.) Here, as Defendants argue, “Plaintiff fails  to allege facts establishing any direct transactional relationship between  Plaintiff and Ford at the time of the alleged non-disclosure.” (Dem. 13:11–12.)     Notwithstanding  Defendants’ argument, the Court, as previously discussed, finds that Plaintiff  has sufficiently alleged that FMC, as the manufacturer, had superior and/or  exclusive knowledge of the transmission defect through “pre-production and  postproduction testing data, early consumer complaints about the transmission  defect made directly to FMC and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data  compiled from FMC’s network of dealers, testing conducted by FMC in response to  these complaints, as well warranty repair and part replacements data received  by FMC from FMC’s network of dealers, amongst other sources of internal  information.” (Compl. ¶ 66.) Absent a fiduciary relationship between the  parties, FMC may nevertheless have a duty to disclose based on such control  over the material facts underlying the action. (Jones, 198 Cal.App.4th  at 1199.)    Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to  support a finding that FMC had the requisite duty to disclose, giving rise to a  fraudulent concealment cause of action.    3.       Economic Loss Rule   “The  economic loss rule provides that, in general, there is no recovery in tort for  negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm  unaccompanied by physical or property damage. … For claims arising from alleged  product defects, economic loss consists of damages for inadequate value, costs  of repair and replacement of the defective product or consequent loss of  profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to other property.” (Dhital  v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 837 review granted  Feb. 1, 2023, 523 P.3d 392 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)[1]   Here,  Defendants argue that “Plaintiff’s fraud claim is based on an alleged  fraudulent omission rather than affirmative misrepresentation, seeks purely  economic losses, and derives from Ford’s alleged breach of warranty. There are  no allegations of physical damage to Plaintiff’s property – beyond the  defective vehicle itself - or that personal injury accompanied such losses.” (Dem.  17:14–17; see also Food Safety Net Servs. v. Eco Safe Sys. USA, Inc.  (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 [“a party alleging fraud or deceit in  connection with a contract must establish tortious conduct independent of a  breach of the contract itself, that is, violation of some independent duty  arising from tort law.”].)   Plaintiff  argues in opposition that “the economic loss rule does not apply to fraudulent  inducement because the duty of fair dealing is independent of the contract, and  because the tortious conduct occurs prior to contract formation.” (Pl.’s Opp. 9:26–10:1,  citing Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551–552.) Plaintiff  contends that here, she has sufficiently alleged that FMC fraudulently induced her  into purchasing the subject vehicle by intentionally concealing a material fact  concerning the subject defect, a tort independent from FMC’s alleged breach of  the warranty contract.   As the  Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment, as outlined above, the Court  likewise finds that this tort is independent from any alleged breach of the  warranty contract itself. Accordingly, the Court finds that the economic loss  rule does not apply to bar Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action.   Based on the foregoing, the  demurrer to Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action is overruled.   C.     Negligent Repair   Plaintiff’s  fifth cause of action alleges Negligent Repair against Galpin. “There is no  liability in tort for economic loss caused by negligence in the performance or  negotiation of a contract between the parties. …Where a purchaser’s  expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not  working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has  suffered only ‘economic’ losses. … The economic loss rule requires a purchaser  to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations  unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.”  (Dhital, 84 Cal.App.5th at 838 [internal quotations and citations  omitted].)   Here, Defendants  further argue that the economic loss rule applies to bar Plaintiff’s negligent  repair cause of action because “the crux of Plaintiff’s claim is that Galpin  failed to repair Plaintiff’s vehicle to conform to warranty.” (Dem. 18:25–26.)  “So too, there is no allegation of physical damage to property or personal  injury other than the vehicle itself or of personal injury accompanied by such  losses.” (Id. at 19:1–2.)   Plaintiff  argues in opposition that “the economic loss rule does not bar all cases  involving the negligent performance of services.” (Pl.’s Opp. 14:11–12, citing North  American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 777–781.)  “The economic loss rule does not apply to negligent repair claims where  subcomponents of a vehicle cause damage to a larger component or where the  component causes damage to the vehicle into which it has been incorporated.” (Id.  at 15:2–4, citing Jimenez v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473,  483.)   Even  accepting Plaintiff’s arguments that the economic loss rule does not bar a tort  claim for property damage sustained by the negligent repair of a vehicle, such  harm has not been pled in the complaint. As Defendants observe, “here, unlike  Jimenez, there is no allegation in the Complaint that Galpin damaged a  component of a product.” (Defs.’ Reply 9:26–27.) The Court agrees and finds no  allegations of “personal injury or damages to other property” constituting  non-economic losses. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s  claims against Galpin are for purely economic losses, which are barred by the  economic loss rule. Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiff’s fifth cause  of action is sustained.   D.     Leave to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC  (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable  possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to  sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation  Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).   Here, the  Court notes that this is the first demurrer brought against Plaintiff’s original  complaint, and that Plaintiff requests leave to amend in the event the Court  sustains the demurrer. (Pl.’s Opp. 15:10–18.) Accordingly, under the Court’s  liberal policy of granting leave to amend, the Court grants Plaintiff 30 days  leave to amend the complaint to cure the defects set forth above. // // // CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action  and sustained as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action with 30 days leave to  amend.     