 Case Number:  23TRCV00607    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANDY
  GUY, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00607




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TIMOTHY
  ROTH, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 9,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Andy Guy
Responding Party:                  Defendants Timothy Roth, et al.
Motion
for Sanctions
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for sanctions is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On March 1, 2023, Andy Guy filed a
complaint against Timothy Roth and Roth Management Group for (1) breach of
contract, (2) fraud – concealment, (3) intentional misrepresentation, and (4)
conversion. 
On August 21, 2023, a request for
dismissal was filed and the case was dismissed with prejudice.
On April 9, 2024, the court granted
plaintiff’s motion to set aside dismissal.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §128.5 states in part:  “(a) A trial court may order a party, the
party’s attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s
fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad
faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. . . .
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Actions or tactics” include,
but are not limited to, the making or opposing of motions or the filing and
service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading.
The mere filing of a complaint without service thereof on an opposing party
does not constitute “actions or tactics” for purposes of this section.
(2) “Frivolous” means totally and
completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing
party.
(c) Expenses pursuant to this
section shall not be imposed except on notice contained in a party’s moving or
responding papers or, on the court’s own motion, after notice and opportunity
to be heard. An order imposing expenses shall be in writing and shall recite in
detail the action or tactic or circumstances justifying the order. . . .”
 
CCP §128.7 states, in part:  “(b) By presenting to the court, whether by
signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition, written
notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is
certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief,
formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the
following conditions are met:
(1) It is not being presented
primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary
delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
(2) The claims, defenses, and other
legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law.
(3) The allegations and other
factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified,
are likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for
further investigation or discovery.
(4) The denials of factual
contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified,
are reasonably based on a lack of information or belief.
(c) If, after notice and a
reasonable opportunity to respond, the court determines that subdivision (b)
has been violated, the court may, subject to the conditions stated below,
impose an appropriate sanction upon the attorneys, law firms, or parties that
have violated subdivision (b) or are responsible for the violation. In
determining what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court shall consider
whether a party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.”
DISCUSSION

            This motion arises from the events
surrounding the “settlement” of this case. 
The communications between the counsel for the parties shows that the
case counsel either had reached a settlement or were very close.  (Since the issue of whether or not a binding settlement
agreement was reached is the topic of litigation, the Court does not intend to
suggest any particular outcome on that question.)
            Ultimately Plaintiff Guy did not
sign the proposed written agreement. 
However, Defendant’s attorney, who had been provided an attorney
executed Request for Dismissal form  filed
the Request for Dismissal.  That resulted
in the motion to set aside the dismissal. 
            Plaintiff Andy Guy requests sanctions
against defendants and defendants’ counsel, jointly and severally, in the
amount of $10,617.50, pursuant to CCP §§128.5 and 128.7 claiming that the filing
of the Request for Dismissal and the refusal to stipulate to the setting aside
of that dismissal are worthy of sanctions.
            As noted above, the Court granted
plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal that had been entered on August
21, 2023.  Plaintiff had contended that
his former attorney sent defendants’ counsel an executed form CIV-100 request
to dismiss case with prejudice “to hold in trust and not file unless and until
Guy executed the draft settlement agreement or a revised [one].”  Plaintiff had argued that he had not authorized
the filing of the request for dismissal by defense counsel Einar Johnson. The
Court had continued the hearing on the motion for sanctions and referred the
case to mediation.
            Plaintiff argues that defendants’
counsel’s conduct was “frivolous” under CCP §128.5 and that defendants’ counsel
violated his implied certification under CCP §128.7 that the request for
dismissal was “not being presented primarily for an improper purpose,” was
“warranted by existing law,” and had “evidentiary support” because defense
counsel had filed a request to dismiss this action without authorization from
plaintiff or his counsel, noting that the “clerk entered the dismissal,
apparently under the impression that Guy had filed it.”  Plaintiff explains that plaintiff’s counsel
had requested that defendants’ counsel stipulate and agree that the dismissal
be set aside, but that defendants’ counsel had refused.  Plaintiff contends that “[n]o reasonable
attorney would have surreptitiously filed a request to dismiss his adversary’s
action with prejudice.”  
            In opposition, defendants request
sanctions in the amount of $9633 against plaintiff, attorney Daniel Hayes, and
Hayes Litigation PC, pursuant to CCP §§128.5(g) and 128.7(h).  Defendants incorporate their arguments made
in opposition to the motion to set aside dismissal.  Defendants assert that they and their counsel
acted consistent with valid and enforceable settlement agreements.  See Einar Johnson decl., attached to
opposition to motion to vacate dismissal. 
Defendants argue also that the amount requested by plaintiff is an
“overinflated sum.”  
            The Court notes that it had declined
to ascertain whether the settlement agreements were enforceable, and defendants
have not filed a motion to enforce the settlement agreements.  In any event, as to CCP §128.5, the Court
does not find that defendants’ counsel’s conduct falls under “frivolous” as
such conduct does not appear to be “totally and completely without merit” based
on defendants’ version of what occurred during settlement discussions and
defendants’ counsel’s purported good faith belief that the case had settled.  The Court thinks that given the totality of
the events as shown by the email communications between counsel regarding the settlement
agreement, no sanctions are in order under this statute.
            As to CCP §128.7, an issue is
whether the filing of the request for dismissal falls under “pleading,
petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper.”  The Court finds that it does not, although it
shall not base its decision on that question. 
The Court does not find that the filing of the request for dismissal was
“being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to
cause unnecessary delay or needless increate in the cost of litigation.”  None of the categories under CCP
128.7(b)(2)-(4) apply as they refer to “legal contentions” and “factual
contentions.”  Further, the Court finds
that sanctions are not warranted against plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel as
the motion was not brought for an improper purpose.
            The motion is DENIED.
            The request of defendant for
sanctions is DENIED as well.
ORDER
            The motion is DENIED.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.