 Case Number:  24TRCV00649    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANTONIO
  ZARAGOZA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00649




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
THE
  PICERNE GROUP, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 25,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants The Picerne Group, Inc. and Wallcraft Drywall,
Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Antonio Zaragoza
Demurrer to Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the complaint and the first and second causes
of action.
BACKGROUND
            On February 23, 2024, Antonio
Zaragoza filed a complaint against The Picerne Group, Inc. and Wallcraft
Drywall Inc. for (1) negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of employees
and (2) negligence.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendants The Picerne Group, Inc.
and Wallcraft Drywall, Inc. demur to the entire complaint and the first and
second causes of action on the grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts
to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain. 
The complaint alleges that on March
3, 2022, plaintiff was employed by Vincent Contractors, Inc., working at a
construction project located at 24000 Crenshaw Blvd., Torrance.  Complaint, ¶1.  Defendant The Picerne Group, Inc. was the
general contractor in charge of and responsible for the entire worksite and
safety at the worksite.  Id., ¶2.  Defendant Wallcraft Drywall, Inc. was a
subcontractor responsible for drywall at the worksite.  Id., ¶3. 
As a result of defendant negligence, a piece of drywall was thrown or
accidentally dropped off the worksite striking plaintiff in the head and
knocking him off a ladder and causing him to fall on the ground from the
scaffolding.  Id., ¶5.  Plaintiff sustained serious injuries while in
the course of his employment, including a permanent traumatic brain injury and
cervical spine injury.  Id., ¶6.
Defendants argue that the causes of
action are barred by the Privette doctrine and the exclusive remedy of
worker’s compensation as set forth in Labor Code §3602.  Defendants explain that Privette v.
Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal. 4th 689 holds that if an employee
of an independent contractor hired to do work suffers a work-related injury,
the hirer is generally not liable for on-the-job injuries to the independent
contractor’s workers, and that an employee injured in the course and scope of
performance is already entitled to recover from their employer under the state
worker’s compensation system.  Defendants
note that the Privette doctrine has been extended to apply to general
contractors.  Defendants contend that as
alleged, Picerne was the general contractor and that under Privette it
would generally not be liable for plaintiff’s injuries on the understanding
that plaintiff’s employer (Vincent Contractors) is responsible for his
work-related injuries through the worker’s compensation system as his employer
is responsible for supervising plaintiff and had a direct duty to him to comply
with the standard of care in ensuring his safety.  As to Wallcraft, defendants argue that the
allegations are vague as they do not specify whether Wallcraft was a hirer of
plaintiff’s employer in order to determine whether Privette
applies.  Defendants also argue that none
of the Privette doctrine exceptions apply.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that defendants’ reliance on Privette is misplaced and unsupported,
asserting that Privette is not a bar on plaintiff’s recovery from a
third-party tortfeasor.  Rather,
plaintiff argues, “it bars a plaintiff from suing his employer outside of the
Workers Compensation system.”  Plaintiff
asserts that he is bringing this action for a third-party’s negligence, which
is permitted under Labor Code §3852. 
Plaintiff further contends that even if Privette applies,
defendants cannot “prove that Privette’s exceptions are inapplicable.”
In reply, defendants reiterate the Privette
doctrine, which defendants assert has been broadly applied to protect general
contractors from being sued by the employees of their subcontractors, and that
“[t]his is the precise scenario for” The Picerne Group.  Defendants also contend that the allegations
are vague as to Wallcraft and thus they cannot determine whether the Privette
doctrine applies to it.
The Court rules as follows:  “The Privette doctrine holds that a
hirer generally delegates to an independent contractor all responsibility for
workplace safety and is not liable for injuries sustained by the contractor or
its workers while on the job.”  Gonzalez
v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 40.  There are, however, two exceptions to the Privette
doctrine.  “The first exception . . . is
usually referred to as the retained control exception.  It applies if:  (1) the hirer retains control over the manner
in which the contractor performs the work; (2) the hirer actually exercises its
retained control by involving itself in the work such that the contractor is
not entirely free to do the work in its own manner; and (2) the hirer’s
exercise of retained control affirmatively contributes to the worker’s injury.
. . . The second exception . . . is usually referred to as the concealed hazard
exception.  If applies if the hirer is
also an owner or possessor of land, and if ‘the landowner knew, or should have
known, of a latent or concealed preexisting hazardous condition on its
property, the contractor did not know and could not have reasonably discovered
this hazardous condition, and the landowner failed to warn the contractor about
this condition.’”  Miller v. Roseville
Lodge No. 1293 (2022) 83 Cal. App. 5th 825, 833-34 (citations
omitted).
The Court finds that the Privette
doctrine appears to bar the causes of action against The Picerne Group, which
is alleged to be the general contractor, and thus the “hirer” of plaintiff’s
employer, Vincent Contractors.  The allegations
are insufficient to encompass any of the exceptions to Privette.  As to Wallcraft, the allegations do not show
that the Privette doctrine applies as there is no allegation that
Wallcraft was the hirer of plaintiff’s employer.  The Court shall not rule on the uncertainty
demurrer as an amended pleading shall be filed. 
The Court notes that the Complaint is exceedingly sparse in describing
anything other than the identification of the parties and the bare-bones
description of the event as involving a piece of drywall “thrown or accidently
dropped of the WORKSITE.”  Nothing more
is pleaded as to the involvement of the various actors.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
ORDER

            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the complaint and the first and second causes
of action.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.