  Case Number:  19STCV26134    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
RAMONA
  MURILLO GAMBOA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV26134




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LOS
  ANGELES WORLD AIRPORTS, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 25, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Ramona Murillo Gamboa 
Responding Party:                  Defendants Los Angeles World
Airports, City of Los Angeles, and Concesionaria Vuela Compania de Aviacion,
S.A.P.I de C.V.
Motion
to Tax Costs
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
On July 24, 2019, plaintiff Ramona
Murillo Gamboa filed a complaint against defendants Los Angeles World Airports,
City of Los Angeles, SAS Services Group, Concesionaria Vuela Compania de
Aviacion S.A.P.I. De C.V., and Controladora Vuela Compania de Aviacion, S.A.B.
De C.V. for (1) premises liability; (2) dangerous condition of public property;
(3) breach of duty of a common carrier; (4) negligence; (5) negligent hiring;
and (6) negligence per se.  Plaintiff
alleges that she slipped and fell causing her to sustain injuries on June 20,
2018. 
On March 22, 2021, plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint.  
On March 23, 2023, the court
sustained with leave to amend Buenos Travel Agency (Doe 1)’s demurrer to the
FAC and denied defendant’s motion to dismiss under Barrows.
On April 25, 2023, plaintiff filed
a SAC against defendants Los Angeles World Airports, City of Los Angeles, SAS
Services Group, Concesionaria Vuela Compania de Aviacion S.A.P.I. De C.V., and
Controladora Vuela Compania de Aviacion, S.A.B. De C.V., and Buenos Travel
Agency for (1) premises liability; (2) dangerous condition of public property;
(3) breach of duty of a common carrier; (4) negligence; (5) general negligence;
(6) negligent hiring; and (7) negligence per se.
On May 15, 2023, the court granted
defendant S.A.S. Services Group, Inc.’s application for determination of good
faith settlement.
On January 29, 2024, the court
granted Los Angeles World Airports and the City of Los Angeles’ motion for
summary judgment.  The court also granted
defendant Concesionaria Vuela Compania de Aviacion, S.A.P.I. de C.V.
(“Volaris”)’s motion for summary judgment.
On April 13, 2024, judgment was
entered.  Defendants were entitled to
costs pursuant to a separate memorandum of costs.
On May 1, 2024, defendants filed
and served a memorandum of costs
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “Except as otherwise expressly
provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to
recover costs in any action or proceeding. 
This means that the prevailing party is entitled to all of his costs
unless another statute provides otherwise. 
Absent such statutory authority, the court has no discretion to deny
costs to the prevailing party.”  Nelson
v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal. App. 4th 111, 128-29 (citations and internal
quotations omitted); CCP §1032(b) (“Except as otherwise expressly provided by
statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding”). 
CCP §1033.5(c) states, in relevant
part:  “Any award for costs shall be
subject to the following:  
            (1) Costs are allowable if incurred,
whether or not paid.  
(2) Allowable costs shall be
reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation. 

(3) Allowable costs shall be
reasonable in amount.  
(4) Items not mentioned in this
section . . . may be allowed . . . in the Court’s discretion.” 
“If the items appearing in a cost
bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax
costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary.  On the other hand, if the items are properly
objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party
claiming them as costs.”  Ladas v.
California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal. App. 4th 761, 774
(citation omitted).   Id.  “The court’s first determination, therefore,
is whether the statute expressly allows the particular item, and whether it
appears proper on its face.  If so, the
burden is on the objecting party to show them to be unnecessary or
unreasonable.”  Nelson v. Anderson
(1999) 72 Cal. App. 4th 111, 131 (citations omitted).  “[I]t is not enough for the losing party to
attack submitted costs by arguing that he thinks the costs were not necessary
or reasonable.  Rather the losing party
has the burden to present evidence and prove that the claimed costs are not
recoverable.”  Seever v. Copley Press,
Inc. (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 1550, 1557.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court tax defendants’ memorandum of costs.
            The
memorandum of costs was filed and served on May 1, 2024, on plaintiff’s counsel
by email via One Legal.  Defendants are
requesting $2703.65 in filing and motion fees, $4727.56 in deposition costs,
$662.15 in service of process, and $588 in interpreter fees.
            Plaintiff
asserts that the prevailing party failed to timely serve the memorandum of
costs because it was not served on plaintiff and that plaintiff’s counsel of
record did not explicitly give permission to defense counsel that plaintiff’s
counsel may be served “instead of the subject debtor” as mandated by CCP §684.020.  Plaintiff also argues that defendants are
attempting “to assert damages not related to the action” and that they “have
not itemized the expenses or described how the outrageous amount was arrived
to, and as such, it should be denied as grossly unreasonable and is
excessive.”  Plaintiff further contends
that defendants “failed to itemize how the attorney’s fees were calculated.” 
            In
opposition, defendants argue that the memorandum of costs was filed and served
timely and properly served on plaintiff’s attorney of record.  As defendants point out, the notice of entry
of judgment was filed and served on April 30, 2024.  Defendants filed their memorandum of costs on
May 1, 2024, well within the 15-day time period.  Defendants further contend that CCP §684.020
does not apply because it pertains to “judgment debtors” and plaintiff does not
fall under the definition of “judgment debtor” as no money judgment has been
entered against her.  See law revision
comment under CCP §680.250.  Moreover,
under Cal. Rules of Court Rule 8.25, defendants assert, a party must serve one
copy of the document on the attorney for each party separately represented,
which defense counsel did.  Defendants
also assert that they properly itemized all allowable costs, referring to the
worksheet attached to the memorandum of costs. 
Further, defendants contend, they are not seeking attorney’s fees, thus,
plaintiff’s argument is meritless.
            In
reply, plaintiff contends that filing fees and motion fees are excessive and
duplicative.  The Court notes that
plaintiff did not raise this argument in the motion, and thus the Court does
not consider.
            The
Court rules as follows:  The Court finds
that the memorandum of costs was properly and timely served on plaintiffs’
counsel.  CCP §684.020 does not apply as
plaintiff is not considered a “judgment debtor.”  Further, plaintiff does not identify any
specific item that is either improper, excessive, or unreasonable.  Despite what plaintiff argued, defendants
provided an itemization as to each cost. 
Although plaintiff refers to “attorney’s fees,” defendants are not
requesting attorney’s fees.  In consideration
of the memorandum of costs and the itemization of each cost, the Court finds
that plaintiff has not met her burden of showing that the claimed costs are not
recoverable.
            The
motion is thus DENIED.
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED.
Defendants
are ordered to give notice of ruling.