 Case Number:  23TRCV03643    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  B    Superior Court    of California County of Los Angeles Southwest    District Torrance Dept. B       MAKSIM    RUSANOV,          Plaintiff,     Case No.:       23TRCV03643       vs.         [Tentative]    RULING         TESLA    MOTORS, INC.,         Defendant.                                Hearing  Date:                          June 25, 2024   Moving Parties:                      Defendant Tesla Motors,  Inc. Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Maksim Rusanov Motion to Compel Binding  Arbitration             The court considered the moving,  opposition, and reply papers. RULING             The motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED  and the action is STAYED.             This Song Beverly lawsuit has a  characteristic that differed from most Song Beverly actions.  This actions involves a suit against Tesla.  Unlike traditional auto manufacturers, Tesla  sells its vehicles directly to the consumer-purchaser, not through a  dealer.  As a result it has a direct  contractual relationship with the consumer-purchaser.  It, not a dealer, has an arbitration  provision in its contract with the consumer-purchaser.  Hence, the entire line of cases kicked off by  Felisilda and continuing through the more recent Ford Motor Warranty  Cases line of cases addressing the various theories allowing a manufacturer  to obtain the benefit of the selling dealer’s arbitration provision are simply  not applicable.  Plaintiff’s arguments  failed to appreciate this critical distinction. BACKGROUND On November 1, 2023, Maksim Rusanov  filed a complaint against Tesla Motors, Inc. LC for violations under  Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  LEGAL AUTHORITY Under CCP § 1281, a “written  agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy  thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds  as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of  a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written  agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to  arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the  respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to  arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party  to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .  with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related  transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common  issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to  the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .  with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may  refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention  or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among  the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .  . . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration  pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”   DISCUSSION Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc. requests  that the court compel arbitration and to stay the case. The complaint alleges that on May  15, 2023, plaintiff purchased a 2023 Tesla Model Y.  Complaint, ¶5.  After plaintiff took possession of the  vehicle and during the warranty period, the vehicle contained defects that  substantially impair the use, safety, and/or value of the vehicle.  Id., ¶10.   Plaintiff provided defendant with sufficient opportunity to service or  repair the vehicle.  Id., ¶13.  Defendant was unable and/or failed to service  or repair the vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts.  Id., ¶14.             Existence of an agreement to  arbitrate “As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th  625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel  arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that  contract.  There is no public policy  favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to  arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th  1224, 1229. Defendant Tesla presents evidence  that on May 5, 2023, upon initially placing the order for the subject vehicle,  plaintiff electronically accepted the terms and conditions of the Motor Vehicle  Order Agreement (“MVOA”).  Defendant  asserts that the MVOA contains an arbitration provision, which states, in  part:  “Please carefully read this  provision, which applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its  affiliates. . . . [Y]ou agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to  any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by a  judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered  by the [AAA] under its Consumer Arbitration Rules. . . .”  The provision contains an opt out clause and  that if “you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any  different arbitration agreement between us, including any arbitration agreement  in a lease or finance contract.”  Raymond  Kim decl., Exh. 1. Defendant also contends that plaintiff  took delivery of the subject vehicle on May 15, 2023, at which time plaintiff  executed a Retail Installment Sale Contract (“RISC”) for the purchase of the  subject vehicle on credit.  Defendant  asserts that the RISC also contains an arbitration agreement.  It states in part:  “1.   Either you or we may choose to have any dispute between us decided by  arbitration and not in court or by jury trial. . . . Any claim or dispute,  whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation  and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or  dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns,  which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or  condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or  relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not  sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral,  binding arbitration and not by a court action. […]”  “We” and “us” are defined as the seller,  Tesla Motors, Inc.  See Kim decl., Exh. 2.             In opposition, plaintiff argues that  the purchase agreement “eclipses” the order agreement, and thus the order  agreement is not binding.  Plaintiff also  contends that his claims are independent from the agreements, citing to Ford  Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal. App. 5th 1324 (“Ochoa”),  in that the vehicle warranty claims are disconnected from any purchase  agreement.             In reply, defendant argues that Ochoa  and the other cases cited by plaintiff are irrelevant case law because  defendant is the direct contracting party and does not have third-party  dealerships that handle the ordering and selling of its vehicles. The Court finds that arbitration agreements  exist between plaintiff and defendant Tesla and that plaintiff did not opt-out.  Plaintiff does not dispute that he entered  into both agreements.  Even if the RISC  supersedes the order agreement, the RISC contains an arbitration agreement as  stated above.    The Ochoa case (which addresses whether a nonsignatory  manufacturer can enforce the arbitration agreement) is not applicable to the  situation at hand, as Tesla is both the manufacturer and seller of the vehicle  and is a party to the agreements, and not a nonsignatory.  Cases involving car manufacturers lacking an  agreement with the consumer-purchaser seeking to gain the benefit of the dealer’s  arbitration contract is simply not applicable. Scope of agreement  Defendant argues that plaintiff’s  claims against it fall squarely within the scope of the arbitration clauses as  they arise directly out of the relationship between plaintiff as  purchaser/consumer and Tesla as the manufacturer/retailer/warrantor/repair facility  and relate to the “purchase or condition” of the vehicle. The Court finds that the scope of  the arbitration agreements covers plaintiff’s claims against Tesla as they  relate to the condition of the vehicle and arise out of the relationship.  Further, plaintiff’s citation to Ochoa  is unavailing. Enforceability             Unconscionable? “Courts analyze the  unconscionability standard in Civil Code section 1670.5 as invoking elements of  procedural and substantive unconscionability.   The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on whether the contract  is one of adhesion.  Procedural  unconscionability focuses on whether there is ‘oppression’ arising from an  inequality of bargaining power or ‘surprise’ arising from buried terms in a  complex printed form.  The substantive  element addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided terms.  An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable  only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied.  However, Armendariz  held, ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence  of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the  term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ (Armendariz,  at 114).”  McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 76, 87  (citations omitted). In opposition, plaintiff argues  that the agreements are procedurally unconscionable because they are an  adhesion contract drafted by defendant.  Plaintiff  asserts that he merely clicked through various prompts in relation to the order  agreement, indicating the lack of any substantial bargaining power.  Plaintiff also argues that the agreements are  substantively unconscionable because of the requirement to exclusively and  solely use AAA.  Plaintiff further  contends that the arbitration agreement fails to provide any meaningful  guidance as to how to access the AAA rules.   Plaintiff asserts that if the court grants the motion, then the AAA  provision should be stricken. In reply, defendant argues that the  arbitration provisions are not unconscionable because plaintiff’s decision to  order and purchase the subject vehicle was entirely willful and that he has not  shown that he lacked bargaining power, citing to Sanchez v. Valencia Holding  Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899.   Defendant also points out that AAA’s Consumer Arbitration Rules allow  for the exchange of information between the parties, and are more efficient. The Court finds that even if the arbitration  provisions are adhesion contracts, when there is no other indication of  oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the degree of  procedural unconscionability is low.  Serpa  v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal. App. 4th  695, 704.  Further, plaintiff had the  ability to opt out of the arbitration clause.   Moreover, as in Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61  Cal. 4th 899, 931, “there is no reason in this case to conclude that  plaintiff lacked power to bargain.  In  general, nothing prevents purchasers of . . . vehicles from bargaining with  dealers, even though dealers use form contracts, and nothing in the record  shows that plaintiff could not bargain in this case.”    The Court further finds little to no  substantive unconscionability as the arbitration provisions do not lack  mutuality.  The discovery rules apply  equally to both parties, for example.  Moreover,  the Court does not find a basis to strike the provision requiring AAA as  arbitrators.   The motion is thus GRANTED. ORDER The motion to compel arbitration is  GRANTED. The action is STAYED.              Defendant  is ordered to give notice of the ruling.