 Case Number:  21STCV02566    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion for terminating sanctions.  Frankly the court is puzzled.  This motion was filed on August 29,
2024.  It was on the docket, but then
dropped off the docket.  Then it
reappeared.  The court is not quite sure
why.  The court notes that there is no
opposition, which makes no sense given that defendant appears to be preparing
for trial.  The opposition—filed on
Friday—fills in some gaps.  According to
the opposition, the court took the matter off calendar but then the court
restored the matter to the calendar.  The
court does not recall its thinking on either of those orders, sorry to say, but
here we are.  Defendant says that it got
a late notice of the restoration from plaintiff, and that it has not had a
chance to file a true opposition.
 
By way of background, the gist of the motion is that for a
time defendant ignored the case.  After
firing counsel, defendant then no longer responded to discovery or anything
else.  Motions to compel were brought and
granted.  The resulting orders were
ignored as well.  A motion for a
terminating sanction was brought and not opposed.  It was granted.  Defendant then retained counsel and sought to
vacate the default, arguing in part that service had been to an address at
which defendant no longer lived.  The
parties ultimately stipulated to having the default vacated.  The court made sure that defense counsel was
aware that defendant needed to participate in discovery.  The answer was therefore reinstated, the
trial date was continued, and the two related matters were consolidated—all by
stipulation.  As part of the agreement,
defendant agreed to be deposed within the next 60 days.  According to plaintiff, when asked for
proposed dates, defendant only provided a few, but then provided only July 30,
2024, which was more than 60 days after the agreement.  Even so, plaintiff agreed to the July 30,
2024, date.  However, the parties had to
reschedule.  From defendant’s opposition,
it appears that plaintiff initiated the postponement.  Plaintiff suggested alternative dates and
defendant provided two days that would work. 
However, when plaintiff requested confirmation of those dates, defendant
went silent.  Plaintiff noticed up the
deposition.  Shortly before the
deposition, defendant changed counsel. 
New counsel stated that the scheduled date would not work and asked for
a day in October.  The motion for
terminating sanctions follows.  Defendant
says, however, that after the motion was filed, he actually did sit for 7 hours
of deposition.  The court is not sure
whether the deposition has concluded or not.
 
It is clear to the court that defendant is no longer
ignoring the court’s orders nor is defendant ignoring the case.  Defendant has sat for at least one session of
the deposition, and if it is not concluded, the court assumes he will sit for
another.  Under the circumstances, it
would seem that events have overtaken the motion and the engine that drove the
motion—the need to depose defendant—is no longer as urgent, thus rendering the
motion potentially MOOT.  If it is not
moot, it will have to be rescheduled.  A
matter as serious as terminating sanctions cannot be decided based on somewhat
stale facts and an opposition hastily written that the court only saw this
morning (it was not scanned as of yesterday). 
The court will discuss this with the parties, but hopes that the matter
can simply be taken off calendar.
 