  Case Number:  20SMCV00216    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  I Judgment Debtor Jadelle (and witness Rachel Rechnitz) seek a
protective order as to the upcoming judgment debtor’s exam.  This exam stems from a judgment in which
Jadelle is a judgment debtor.  Rachel
Rechnitz is Jadelle’s manager (according to the papers filed with the
appropriate governmental agency).  Jona
Rechnitz is a co-judgment debtor and he has been deposed.  The original plaintiff has assigned the
judgment to judgment creditor Pay Up.  
 
The original motion sought an order barring the deposition
on the theory that Rachel Rechnitz knows nothing.  She is said to be a person who has no
involvement in the business and no information about the business or its
assets.  In response to an earlier
hearing, the request has been modified to seek limits on the deposition, most
particularly a 2 hour time limit.
 
The court’s earlier comments were based on the notion that
it could well be that Rachel Rechnitz knows nothing, but she is the named
manager of the entity and the judgment creditor is not required to take her
word for it.  That is now no longer an
issue because all agree that the deposition will go forward.  On the question of time limits, the court
agrees that, assuming she in fact knows nothing, the deposition should be short.  The court hesitates to impose an unduly short
artificial limit because if in fact she does have information, the deposition
will not be as fast as Rachel Rechnitz might wish.  The court will impose a presumptive 4 hour
limit, but the court warns both parties. 
If Rachel Rechnitz truly knows nothing, the deposition should end much
sooner than that.  On the other hand, if
she does have information, she should not be sanguine about walking out after
four hours.  And even if her declaration
is in good faith, she might know more than she thinks she knows.
 
The court also expects the deposition to be efficient.  Jadelle’s counsel noted that during Jona
Rechnitz’s deposition, counsel was allegedly not efficient.  For example, instead of asking “Do you have
any bank accounts?” and getting a “No” answer, Jadelle suggests that Pay Up’s
counsel insisted on asking a separate question about many, many separate banks,
so it went like “Do you have a bank account at Bank of America?” No.”  Do you have a bank account at Wells Fargo
Bank?”  “No.”  “Do you have a bank account at Bank of New
York?”  “No.”  You get the idea.  That is abusive if that is in fact what
happened.  The court is not going to get
into it now; the court states only that the depositions and the defense of
those depositions must be done professionally and efficiently.  The court is also not overly concerned if
that whole line of questions took 45 seconds or so.
 
Jadelle’s counsel suggests that the real driver of this
process is that Pay Up’s principal simply hates Jona Rechnitz, and this whole
process is designed to inflict pain and suffering.  Jadelle’s counsel suggests that Pay Up’s
principal attended Jona’s deposition and was laughing and smirking
throughout.  The court does not know if
that behavior occurred or did not, but the court offers the following note: if
it is true, the court can take appropriate steps, such as requiring him to
attend remotely such that he cannot be seen or heard except by his own counsel,
barring him from the deposition entirely, or finding that the depositions are
in bad faith and not authorizing further depositions at all.  On the other hand, if Jadelle’s counsel’s
statements are not true, then sanctions would go the other way.  Although Pay Up has not responded to the
accusation, the court assumes that Pay Up will say that the driver of this
process is a desire to collect a very large judgment and would deny any
inappropriate behavior.  The court does
not know and will not hazard a guess. 
However, at some point the court might have the job of reading the
transcript of one of these depositions. 
The court suspects that such will tell the tale.  The court hopes that will not be
necessary.  While the court understands
Jadelle’s counsel’s position, at the same time this court found Jona had
engaged in fraud, which does lessen his credibility, and the judgment at issue
flows from the fact that the court found that he (and Jadelle) converted
millions of dollars worth of jewelry being held as collateral for debt.  And the argument that Rachel Rechnitz is
named on legal documents as Jadelle’s manager but in fact has nothing to do
with the company and knows nothing hardly screams honesty and integrity on her
part.  The court urges both parties to
work more cooperatively.  The court does
not believe that it ought to be using precious judicial resources in this
manner.
 
The court assumes that the deposition will go smoothly.  It would be in everyone’s interest to ensure
that such is the case.
 
The matter is also here on an ex parte application to
extend the liens for a year as to Jona Rechnitz and Jadelle or, in the
alternative, to issue an order shortening time to hear the motions.  The current liens expire next week.  The court is inclined to GRANT the motion and
extend the lien to a year from today. 
However, if judgment creditors believe that there is a basis to oppose
what looks like a routine request, the court will issue an OST and hold the
hearing next week to allow judgment debtors to file an opposition inasmuch as
something that appears to be routine may in fact not be routine.  The court does not anticipate a reply.
 