  Case Number:  23PSCV02124    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  G Defendants John Zhong and Catherine Li’s Motion to
Remove Plaintiff’s Lis Pendens Against Defendants’ Property
Respondent: Plaintiff City of
Diamond Bar
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants John Zhong and Catherine Li’s Motion to
Remove Plaintiff’s Lis Pendens Against Defendants’ Property is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a nuisance abatement action. Defendants John Zhong and Catherine Li are the
alleged owners of real property on Knoll Court in Diamond Bar. From March 2022
to present, the City of Diamond Bar (the City) alleges Zhong and Li have been
utilizing the Diamond Bar property for short-term rentals in violation of
Diamond Bar Municipal Code section 22.08.030. The City alleges that despite
multiple notices of violation, Zhong and Li have failed to comply.
On
July 14, 2023, the City filed a complaint against Zhong, Li, and Does 1-50,
alleging (1) public nuisance and (2) public nuisance per se.
On
September 6, 2023, Zhong and Li filed the present motion. A hearing on their
motion is set for October 9 along with a case management conference and OSC Re:
Failure to File Proof of Service on December 7.
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
The City’s request for
judicial notice of the Complaint filed in this action, the lis pendens at
issue, and the Diamond Bar Municipal Code are GRANTED.
ANALYSIS
Zhong
and Li move to expunge the lis pendens recorded against the Diamond Bar
property. For the following reasons, the court DENIES their motion.
Legal Standard
Pursuant
to Government Code section 65908, subdivision (a), “[a]ny agency which
institutes a judicial action or proceeding to enforce zoning regulations may
file a notice of the pendency of the action or proceeding in the county
recorder’s office of the county where the property affected by the action or
proceeding is situated.” To vacate this type of lis pendens, a party to the
action must file a motion that makes “an appropriate showing of need.” (Gov.
Code, § 65908, subd. (b).)
Discussion
In
this case, Zhong and Li argue the City’s notice of lis pendens is without legal
authority. But in arguing so, they fail to address Government Code section
65908, which allows the City to file a notice of lis pendens in zoning
enforcement actions. Unlike the general lis pendens statute, this provision
does not require the City to establish the probable validity of its action by a
preponderance of the evidence. (Compare Gov. Code, § 65908, with Code
Civ. Proc., § 405.32.) Instead, the court has the discretion to remove a lis
pendens if Zhong and Li make an appropriate showing of need.
Here,
Zhong and Li fail to make such a showing beyond claiming the lis pendens “hampers
legitimate property transactions.” (Zhong Decl., ¶ 5.) On its own, this ground
is insufficient since every lis pendens filed by a government agency to enforce
zoning regulations could be expunged on the same ground.
Accordingly,
the court DENIES Zhong and Li’s motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Zhong
and Li’s motion is DENIED.
