 Case Number:  23STCV00866    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO DEEM CONTENTS OF REQUESTS FOR
ADMISSION ADMITTED 
Hearing Date: 5/14/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV00866 GRECIA ZAMUDIO, et
al. vs ASHES TO ASHES CORPORATION
Moving Party: Defendant Macera 
Responding Party: Defendant Ashes to Ashes
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM CONTENTS OF REQUESTS
FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED IS
GRANTED
 
 
Legal Standard¿¿ 
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the
genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact,
opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission
may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).¿¿ 
 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.¿¿ 
 
Analysis and Conclusion
 
On February
15, 2024, Defendant Macera Crematory served its first set of Requests for
Admissions to Defendant Ashes to Ashes. The responses were due on March 19,
2024, but Ashes to Ashes failed to serve any responses. Macera repeatedly
communicated to Ashes to Ashes that no responses had been served, yet Ashes to
Ashes did not respond to Macera's communications or serve its responses to the
Requests for Admissions.
 
Ashes to
Ashes did not file an opposition or any other documents indicating that
responses to the Requests for Admissions have been filed prior to the present
hearing. Thus, the present motion is GRANTED.
 
Macera seeks sanctions in the
amount of $2,762 against Ashes to Ashes only. The Court exercises its
discretion and lowers the amount to $1,000, considering the simplicity of the
motion and the lack of opposition. Defendant Ashes to Ashes is hereby ordered
to pay sanctions in the amount of $1,000 to Defendant Macera within 20 days of
today.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.