  Case Number:  18STCV00258    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO QUASH  
Hearing Date: 5/14/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 18STCV00258 MERCED MALDONADO vs
BARRETT WISSMAN
Moving Party: Defendants
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO QUASH IS DENIED
 
On October 10, 2018, Merced Maldonado
("Plaintiff") initiated a lawsuit against Barrett Wissman
("Barrett"), Nina Kokob ("Kokob"), and DOES 1 through 20
(collectively, "Defendants") citing injuries from assault, battery,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and negligence. The incident in
question occurred at 121 South Rossmore Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90028. On
August 29, 2023, the Court approved Plaintiff's Application for Publication for
both Defendants. Subsequently, on September 6, 2023, Judge Thomas Griego issued
the Order for Publication concerning Defendant Nina Wissman, and Judge Mark E.
Windham did the same for Defendant Barrett Wissman. The summons was published
in the Los Angeles Times on September 18, September 25, October 2, and October
9, 2023. On December 6, 2023, the court heard Defendants’ fifth motion to quash
the summons by publication in the Los Angeles Times. In that motion, Defendant
argued that service by publication was improper and violated the Hague
Convention, and also pointed out the use of an incorrect name in the
publication. The court continued the hearing and requested supplemental
briefing. On December 20, 2023, the Court heard the matter again and issued an
order denying the motion to quash and instructed Defendant to file an answer or
response within 30 days.
 
On January 10, 2024, Defendant filed a sixth
motion to quash, presenting the same arguments previously made, that the
service by publication was improper and violated the Hague Convention. However,
the Court has already ruled on these issues on the merits concerning the
service by publication in the Los Angeles Times. Thus, the present motion is
DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 