 Case Number:  23STCV24185    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS TO QUASH AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
 
Hearing Date: 5/14/24
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV24185 ERNESTO LOPEZ, et
al. vs WILLIAM SLADE BACKER
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant William Slade
Backer
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: THE COURT WILL HEAR FROM THE PARTIES 
 
Background
 
On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
present motorcycle accident case. On March 22, 2024, Defendant William Slade
Backer issued 12 subpoenas for medical records to various facilities seeking
“any and all” records pertaining to Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that efforts
were made to meet and confer with Defendant to limit the scope of the subpoenas
to 10 years prior to the incident and to the body parts Plaintiff claims were
injured in the incident. Defendant allegedly refused to limit the scope of the
subpoenas. Plaintiff now moves the court to quash Defendant’s 12 subpoenas.
 
Defendant filed an opposition claiming that On
April 5, 2024, the parties came to an agreement regarding the subpoenas at
issue. Defendant agreed to revoke subpoenas for five providers, including those
to Redlands Community Hospital, and to reissue them with language proposed by
Plaintiff. Plaintiff's counsel agreed to waive objections for the remaining
seven subpoenas.
 
Plaintiff's declaration seems to acknowledge
that an agreement was reached by the Parties on April 5 but indicates that
Defendant failed to act on the agreement and reissue the subpoenas. However,
Defendant introduced a 4/11/24 email chain where Defendant's counsel confirmed
that the subpoenas had been cancelled and reissued. No reply has been filed
contesting Defendant’s assertions. However, the Court is puzzled as to why the
motion was filed on 4/15/24 given the parties' agreement and the alleged
reissuance of the subpoenas.
 
The Court will hear from the parties
concerning the 12 subpoenas issued on March 22, 2024, and also the Parties’ meet
and confer efforts relating to the 17 subpoenas issued on March 7, 2024, that
the court ordered on May 7, 2024.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 
 
 