 Case Number:  22STCV20709    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO DEEM CONTENTS OF REQUESTS FOR
ADMISSION ADMITTED 
Hearing Date: 5/14/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV20709 ARTURO LEAL vs
TOTAL TERMINALS INTERNATIONAL, LLC,
Moving Party: Defendant Total Terminals
International
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM CONTENTS OF REQUESTS
FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED IS
GRANTED
 
 
Legal Standard¿¿ 
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness
of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion
relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may
relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).¿¿ 
 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.¿¿ 
 
Analysis and
Conclusion
 
On January 8,
2024, Defendant Total Terminals International served its first set of Requests
for Admissions on Plaintiff. The responses were due on February 12, 2024, but
Plaintiff failed to serve any responses by the statutory deadline. On April 3,
2024, after not receiving any responses, Defendant moved the Court to deem the
contents of its Requests for Admissions, set one, admitted.
 
Plaintiff did
not file an opposition or any other documents indicating that responses to the
Requests for Admissions have been served prior to the present hearing. Thus,
the present motion is GRANTED. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.