 Case Number:  22STCV31244    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon.
Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing
Date: 5/14/24  
CASE
NO./NAME: 22STCV31244 MARITZA RAMIREZ vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES
Moving
Party: Plaintiff 
Responding
Party: Defendant City of Los Angeles  
Notice:
Sufficient  
Ruling:
 MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS GRANTED; REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
 
MOTION FOR
SANCTIONS
Moving Party:
Defendant City of Los Angeles  
Responding Party:
Plaintiff
Notice:
Sufficient  
Ruling: MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
MOTION FOR
COMPLIANCE
Moving Party:
Plaintiff 
Responding Party:
Defendant City of Los Angeles  
Notice:
Sufficient  
Ruling:
 MOTION FOR COMPLIANCE IS DENIED
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION
 
Background 
On September 26, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present
premises liability case. On January 25, 2024, Plaintiff noticed Defendant City
of Los Angeles’ PMQ deposition for February 13, 2024. On February 12, 2024,
Defendant served its objection one day prior to the scheduled deposition date
citing deponent’s unavailability. Plaintiff now moves the Court to compel the
Defendant’s PMQ deposition.
 
Legal
standard
 
Any
party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.010.)  A properly served deposition notice is effective to
require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as well
as to produce documents for inspection and copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).)  
  
The
party served with a deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless
that party promptly serves a written objection at least three calendar days
prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)  In addition to serving this written
objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the
deposition and quashing the deposition notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.410, subd. (c).)  
  
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a
valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition
notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)  
 
A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply
with both of the following:   
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.   
(2) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040 or when the
deponent fails to attend the deposition, a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. 
  
Where
a motion to compel a party’s appearance and testimony at deposition is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent, unless the court finds the one subject
to sanctions acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (g)(1).)  On motion of a party who, in person or by attorney,
attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in the
expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party and against the
deponent.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(2).) 
 
Analysis
Defendant admits that it served the objection
one day before the date of the deposition, and the objection is therefore
untimely (CCP § 2025.410(a)). After Defendant's non-appearance at the
deposition on February 13, 2024, Plaintiff sought to meet and confer, but the
parties reached an impasse regarding the depositions and objections. Plaintiff
has fulfilled the requirements under § 2025.450(b)(2). Thus, all the
requirements to compel Defendant’s PMQ deposition have been met, and the present
motion is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to appear for deposition within 20 days
of today.
The Court is not persuaded by Defendant's
multiple arguments relating to the procedural defects of the motion. First, if
Defendant seeks relief from waiver of objections, it must file a fully briefed
motion, rather than request relief in its opposition. Second, there is no IDC
requirement for a motion to compel a deposition. Third, a separate statement is
not required when no response has been provided to the request for discovery
(California Rules of Court 3.1345(b)(1)).
The Court notes that the notice of deposition
includes a demand for production of documents, and Plaintiff seeks an order
compelling Defendant to produce all identified documents at the deposition. The
moving papers fail to show good cause for the production of the documents
sought, as required by §2025.450(b)(1).  Plaintiff failed to discuss good cause, and
therefore, the Court declines to enter an order compelling Defendant to produce
documents; nonetheless, the Court urges the parties to work together to resolve
any issues concerning documents without court intervention.
Plaintiff requests $1,321.65 in sanctions.  Sanctions are appropriate here because
Plaintiff brought a motion to compel that the Court is granting.  However, the Court reduces the amount of sanctions
from the amount requested to $750, recognizing that Plaintiff appears to have
been particularly aggressive in bringing the motion at the same time that the
parties were in communication attempting to schedule a PMK deposition.  Defendant and its counsel are jointly and
severally ordered to pay sanctions of $750 to Plaintiff within 20 days.
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Defendant’s motion is untimely. The motion was filed on
April 19, 2024; thus, the earliest possible hearing date with required notice is
May 15, 2024, one day after the present hearing date. Defective notice
deprives the Court of jurisdiction to act. (Lee v. Placer Title Co.
(1994) 28 CA4th 503, 509, 511.) Counsel may have failed to account for the fact that
service was completed through electronic submission and overnight mail, which
adds 2 additional court days to the notice period.
MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE
This motion concerns Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production (RFP) No. 19, regarding surveillance footage of the
incident.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO.19 ask Defendant to provide “Any
and all videotapes and/or other media type surveillance footage taken of the
INCIDENT, specifically two hours prior to INCIDENT and two hours after
INCIDENT.”
 
Defendant’s response states: “Responding Party conducted
a reasonable and diligent search and produced all responsive documents in its
custody, control, or possession related to this request: video footage of the
Incident. Discovery and investigation are ongoing, and Responding Party
reserves the right to amend, supplement, or modify this response.”
Defendant thereafter supplemented its response indicating
it would make a search and inquiry for information related to the incident for
a period 5 minutes before and 5 minutes after the incident.  Defendant then states it “produces such responsive
documents.”  
Plaintiff appears to contend that whatever was produced
did not show the incident and, therefore, Defendant is not complying with the
request.  However, one cannot infer that
Defendant possesses a video of the incident or that it did not produce all
responsive documents in its possession, custody, or control. First, Defendant's
response did not state that it would produce the exact footage of the incident
but rather that it has produced all responsive documents in its possession,
custody, or control relating to the request. Responsive documents might include
video of times shortly before or after the incident, as both relate to the
incident and are responsive to the timeframe requested by RFP No. 19. Second,
Defendant stated that it has produced all documents in its possession, custody,
or control. This response does not eliminate the possibility that Defendant
might not possess the exact footage of the incident. Third, Plaintiff has
failed to introduce evidence showing that Defendant is in possession but
withholding additional video footage. Simply, the Court has no basis to
conclude that Defendant has not complied with the Request as indicated.  Of course, if Defendant attempts to use some
video of the incident for its own purposes that has not been produced, Plaintiff
will be able to point to Defendant’s discovery response and request an
appropriate remedy.  But for now, the
Court accepts Defendant’s statement that it has produced all responsive
documents.  Accordingly, there is nothing
to compel, and the Motion to Compel is denied.
The request for sanctions related to the Motion to Compel
video is also denied.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless all parties submit by email
to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume that
others may appear at the hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave. 
 
 
 