 Case Number:  21STCV08885    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
Hearing Date: 5/14/24
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV08885 ERNESTO RIVERA, AN
INDIVIDUAL vs BIMBO BAKERIES USA, INC.
Moving Party: Cross Defendant Robert Health
Logistics
Responding Party: Bimbo Bakeries and Logistics
Academy
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
IS DENIED
 
Background
 
On
March 5, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant Bimbo Bakeries
USA, alleging that several large pellets fell on Plaintiff while he was
transporting containers for Defendant Bimbo Bakeries USA. On March 13, 2023,
Defendant Bimbo filed a cross-complaint against Logistics Academy and Robert
Health Logistics for indemnity. Robert Health Logistics now moves the Court for
judgment on the pleadings against Bimbo's fourth cause of action in its cross
complaint for express indemnity and also seeks an order for Logistics to
indemnify Defendant Robert Health Logistics in this action.
 
Legal
Standard
 
A
defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made after the time to
demur has expired and an answer has been filed. (CCP § 438(f).) A motion by a
defendant may be made on the grounds that (1) the court “lacks jurisdiction of
the subject of one or more of the causes of action alleged” or (2) the
complaint or cross-complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant.” (CCP § 438(c).)
 
“A
motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general
demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings
or by matters that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman
Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) “A motion for judgment on the
pleadings is akin to a general demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the
complaint to state a cause of action.” (Wise v. Pacific Gas and Elec. Co.
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738.)
 
Like
a general demurrer, “ordinarily, a [motion for judgment on the pleadings] does
not lie as to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of
action is properly pleaded, the [motion] will be overruled.” (Fire Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) In considering
a motion for judgment on the pleadings, courts consider whether properly pled
factual allegations—assumed to be true and liberally construed—are sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (Stone Street Capital, LLC v. Cal. State
Lottery Com’n (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 109, 116.)
 
Discussion
 
Robert
Health Logistics ("RHL") requests that the court issue an order for
Logistics Academy to indemnify and defend RHL in the present action. However,
this exceeds the scope of a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Under
California law, a motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made on the
grounds that (1) the court "lacks jurisdiction of the subject of one or
more of the causes of action alleged," or (2) the complaint or
cross-complaint "does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against that defendant" (CCP § 438(c).) RHL has failed to provide any
authority indicating that a court can make an order requiring a party to
indemnify and defend another party pursuant to a judgment on the pleadings.
Regarding
RHL's motion against Bimbo's 4th cause of action for express indemnity in its
cross-complaint, the request is appropriate for motion for judgment on the
pleadings. In Bimbo’s fourth cause of action against all cross-defendants,
including RHL, Bimbo alleges that "Carrier agrees to indemnify, defend and
hold Broker and Customer [BIMBO BAKERIES USA, INC.], and their officers,
employees, agents, and directors, harmless from and against any and all fines,
penalties, costs, demands, damages (including bodily injury and property
damage), losses, obligations, claims, liabilities, and expenses (including
reasonable attorney's fees) of whatever type or nature arising out of or
related to: (i) any act or omission by Carrier or its subcontractors, (ii)
Carrier’s or any of its permitted subcontractor's performance or breach of this
Agreement, and (iii) any use, operation, maintenance, or possession of
Customer’s or Broker’s owned or leased equipment by Carrier or any of its
subcontractors" (Bimbo’s Cross Complaint ¶ 19). Bimbo further alleges that
"Cross-Defendants [RHL and Logistics] were the agents, employees,
representatives, co-venturers, partners, or in some manner agents or
principals, or both, for each other, and were acting in the course and scope of
said agency or employment or representative capacity." (Bimbo’s Cross
Complaint ¶ 10.)
Based
on the four corners of the complaint, Bimbo has alleged sufficient facts to
support a cause of action against RHL for express indemnity. RHL asserts that
the motion is supported by a request for judicial notice; however, no such
document has been filed with the Court. Even if the Court were to take judicial
notice of the contract attached as Exhibit 2 to the motion, this contract is
solely a signed agreement between RH and Logistics. Bimbo's cross-complaint
does not state that its express indemnity claim is based on this particular
contract. The existence of RHL's contract with Logistics does not preclude the
possibility that Bimbo is asserting express indemnity on a different basis.
Thus, RHL’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.