 Case Number:  22STCV09050    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  C Margarita Del Carmen Galvez Avalos, et al. vs Pacific Gas and Electric Company, et al. Case No.: 22STCV09050 Hearing Date: September 24, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m.   #4 Tentative Ruling  Defendants David G. Coronado and Elaine Coronado’s unopposed demurrer to the Second and Fifth Causes of Actions is OVERRULED.  Defendants’ demurrer to the Survivor Action by minor Plaintiff Maria Jose Galvez is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  Defendants to give notice.   Background On March 18, 2020, at approximately 4:30 p.m., Decedent GREGORIO GALVEZ AVALOS (“Decedent”) was electrocuted while trimming a tree located at 918 Escondido Court, Alamo, California (“Subject Premises”).  The Subject Premises was owned/leased by Defendants David G. Coronado and Elaine Coronado (“Defendants”).  In the operative First Amended Complaint (”FAC”), Plaintiffs, in their individual and representative capacities, sue Defendants, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, and other entities for negligence, product liability, and premises liability.   Defendants David G. Coronado and Elaine Coronado demur to the second cause of action for negligence, the fifth cause of action for premises liability, and the survivor action on the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.   No opposition filed as of September 20, 2024.   Legal Standard The party against whom a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).) Discussion  Second Cause of Action: General Negligence  To satisfy the cause of action for General Negligence, the following elements must be satisfied by Plaintiffs: (1) Defendants owed a legal duty; (2) the duty was breached by Defendants; (3) the breached duty was the proximate cause of Plaintiffs’ injury; and (4) Plaintiffs suffered injuries. (Saelzler v. Advance Group 400, (2001) 25 Cal.4th 703.) Defendants contend that the FAC does not allege any facts to show that they managed or maintained their property in a manner that was negligent, controlled the location of the trees, the placement of the power lines, or the amount of voltage running through the powerlines.   The FAC alleges that Defendants told Decedent that they would contact PG&E to ensure that the power was cutoff to the powerlines before Decedent began his work (FAC, p. 7.) and that Defendants affirmatively exercised retained control over an aspect of the Decedent’s work in a manner that contributed to the injury. (Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198.)    Based on this, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded a cause of action for general negligence as to Defendants.   Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.  Fifth Cause of Action: Premise Liability  The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.¿¿(Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp¿(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)¿¿Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property¿to¿avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.¿¿(Annocki¿v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)¿¿ Defendants contend that Plaintiffs do not plead any specific facts to support an alleged failure to warn.  The Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded a cause of action for premises liability as to Defendants.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant homeowners did not contact PG&E to shut off the power lines prior to the work being done, after assuring Decedent they would have the power lines shut off.  Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED.  Survivor Action Unlike a cause of action for wrongful death, a survivor cause of action is not a new cause of action that vests in the heirs on the death of the decedent but is instead a separate and distinct cause of action which belonged to the decedent before death but, by statute, survives that event. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30 et seq.)¿ Here, Plaintiff Maria Jose Galvez is listed as “decedent’s dependent niece, a minor.” (FAC, p. 4.)  Defendants argue that she fails to establish herself as a beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest.  Decedent left no will and no proceeding is pending in California for administration of Decedent’s estate. (Margarita del Carmen Galvez Avalos Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  The unopposed demurrer to the Survivor Action is SUSTAINED as to minor Plaintiff Maria Jose Galvez with 20 days leave to amend.   