 Case Number:  22NWCV00668    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  C DANE MEDLEY vs PACIFIC OFFICE AUTOMATION, INC., et al. Case No.: 22NWCV00668 Hearing Date: September 24, 2024 @ 9:30 AM  #3 Tentative Ruling Plaintiff/Cross Defendant Dane Medley’s Motion to Quash Subpoena for the Business Records of Flex Technology Group C/O Oval Partners, LLC is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  Flex Technology Group shall serve response documents within 45 days subject to a protective order.  No sanctions are ordered.   Opposing party to give notice.   Background  This is an employment discrimination lawsuit. Defendants Pacific Office Automation, Inc. (“POA”) and Eric Pitassi (“Pitassi”) terminated Plaintiff Dane Medley’s (“Medley”) employment on April 13, 2021. On August 4, 2022, Medley filed the instant action asserting eight causes of action arising out of his employment, including harassment and discrimination, wrongful termination, failure to pay wages, and defamation claims. During discovery, Medley produced approximately 1520 documents he claims he inadvertently retained after he was terminated.  On May 2, 2024, POA filed a Cross-Complaint against Medley alleging that he retained and failed to return POA’s confidential information in breach of the confidentiality agreement Medley signed when he was hired.  In its Cross-Complaint, POA brings causes of action for breach of contract and breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  On or about July 30, 2024, POA served a subpoena for production of business records from third party Flex Technology Group C/O Oval Partners, LLC (“FTG”), Medley’s current employer.  (Harmoush Decl., ¶5, Exhibit A.) On August 13, 2024, Counsel for Medley emailed a meet and confer letter to POA with objections to the subpoena. (Id., ¶6.)  Medley moves to quash the subpoena on the ground that the subpoena is overbroad as to scope and subject matter; seeks information not essential to the fair resolution of this case; invades the privacy rights of Medley and other third parties; and represents an unnecessarily invasive fishing expedition. Legal Standard¿ California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.¿ In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”¿¿¿ Code Civ. Proc., section 1985.3 provides that a party whose records are being sought by a subpoena duces tecum must serve notice of the motion to quash at least five days before the production date. However, the court retains jurisdiction to hear a motion to quash even if it is brought after the production date. (Slagle v. Superior Court (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1309, 1312.)¿ [E]ven when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the fundamental right of privacy.¿ . . . [I]f an intrusion on the right of privacy is deemed necessary under the circumstances of a particular case, any such intrusion should be the minimum intrusion necessary to achieve its objective . . . [meaning] the least intrusive means to satisfy the interest.¿ Mere convenience of means or cost will not satisfy that test for that would make expediency and not the compelling interest the overriding value.¿ (Lantz v. Superior Court (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1854-1855 [internal quotes and citations omitted].)¿ When evaluating invasions of the right to privacy in discovery, the party asserting a privacy right must establish “(1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 834, 865.) A responding party may prevail by negating any of these three elements “or by pleading and proving, as an affirmative defense, that the invasion of privacy is justified because it substantively furthers one or more countervailing interests.” (Id.) “[T]he party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533.) A court then balances these competing considerations. (Id.) As guidance in balancing these competing considerations, it should be noted, “[o]nly obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Id.) When lesser interests are at stake, “the strength of the countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of private information var[ies] according to the strength of the privacy interest itself, the seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives and protective measures.” (Id.)¿¿ Discussion¿ POA’s subpoena requests the following documents from Plaintiff’s current employer, FTG:  All DOCUMENTS that Dane Medley sent that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.  All DOCUMENTS that Dane Medley received that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.  All DOCUMENTS that Dane Medley obtained from Pacific Office Automation, Inc. while Dane Medley was employed by Pacific Office Automation, Inc.  All DOCUMENTS that Dane Medley received from Pacific Office Automation, Inc. while Dane Medley was employed by Pacific Office Automation, Inc.  All DOCUMENTS that Dane Medley had access to from Pacific Office Automation, Inc. while Dane Medley was employed by Pacific Office Automation, Inc.  All DOCUMENTS that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.’s customer lists. a. [For purposes of this search, Pacific Office Automation, Inc. agrees to narrow the search parameters of this request to Dane Medley’s ESI.]  All DOCUMENTS that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.’s revenue data. a. [For purposes of this search, Pacific Office Automation, Inc. agrees to narrow the search parameters of this request to Dane Medley’s ESI.]  All DOCUMENTS that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.’s profit and loss statements. a. [For purposes of this search, Pacific Office Automation, Inc. agrees to narrow the search parameters of this request to Dane Medley’s ESI.]  All DOCUMENTS that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.’s training materials. a. [For purposes of this search, Pacific Office Automation, Inc. agrees to narrow the search parameters of this request to Dane Medley’s ESI.]   All DOCUMENTS that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.’s listing of equipment provided to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.’s customers. a. [For purposes of this search, Pacific Office Automation, Inc. agrees to narrow the search parameters of this request to Dane Medley’s ESI.]  All DOCUMENTS that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.’s technical performance reports. a. [For purposes of this search, Pacific Office Automation, Inc. agrees to narrow the search parameters of this request to Dane Medley’s ESI.]  All DOCUMENTS that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.’s payroll records. a. [For purposes of this search, Pacific Office Automation, Inc. agrees to narrow the search parameters of this request to Dane Medley’s ESI.] All DOCUMENTS that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.’s operational reports. a. [For purposes of this search, Pacific Office Automation, Inc. agrees to narrow the search parameters of this request to Dane Medley’s ESI.] All DOCUMENTS that discuss, refer, or relate to Pacific Office Automation, Inc.’s Microsoft PowerPoint presentations. a. [For purposes of this search, Pacific Office Automation, Inc. agrees to narrow the search parameters of this request to Dane Medley’s ESI.] Medley argues, among other things, that the subpoena is an attempt to violate his constitutionally protected privacy rights, is overbroad as to scope and time, impermissibly attempts to access Medley’s current employment information and interfere with his current employment, imposes an enormous and unjustified burden on both FTG and Medley, and attempts to gain access to a competitor's confidential information through improper means. POA argues that the subpoena is necessary to determine the extent to which Plaintiff has used or disclosed POA’s confidential documents to FTG because FTG competes in the same market as POA.  POA argues that the subpoena serves two purposes: (1) to assist POA in establishing its damages on both claims in the Cross-Complaint, and (2) to determine if Plaintiff is being truthful when he contends that he has not used POA’s confidential documents since his discharge. (Riaz Decl. at ¶ 9.) The Court determines that POA’s subpoena shall be limited to any documents that contain confidential information (as defined in the Confidentiality Agreement signed by the parties) that Medley obtained from POA, disclosed to FTG, or used during the course of his employment with FTG.  POA is entitled to any  documents containing confidential information that Medley obtained during his employment with POA, whether that confidential information is now in Medley’s possession or FTG’s.  Neither Medley nor FTG have a privacy interest in POA’s confidential information.  To the extent POA requests information that is not confidential, the subpoena is overbroad.  Request Nos. 6-14 limit the search parameters to Medley’s ESI, thereby ensuring that any responsive documents are obtained from Medley himself, as opposed to another source.  These search parameters shall also be limited to ESI that was electronically stored on or before the date Medley was terminated by POA.   Accordingly, the motion to quash is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part as set forth above.  FTG shall serve response documents within 45 days subject to a protective order.    Sanctions  The court may award “monetary and contempt sanctions” against nonparties and their attorneys “who flout the discovery process by suppressing or destroying evidence.” (Temple Cmty. Hosp.¿v. Sup. Ct.¿(1999) 20 Cal.4th 466, 476-77.) The Code provides a catch-all provision that gives the Court wide powers to sanction “anyone” who misuses the discovery process. (See Code Civ. Proc., at § 2023.030.) Sanctions are mandatory “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel” a motion for “production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(j).)¿ POA request sanctions in the amount of $11,398.50. Counsel for POA states that he has billed 12.3 hours at a rate of $745 in drafting the opposition, including all accompanying documents. (Riaz Decl., ¶ 14.) Counsel also states that he will bill an additional 3 hours in attending the hearing.  The Court finds that Medley acted with substantial justification in moving to quash the subpoena.  The Court has determined that the subpoena is overbroad in some respects, and Medley raises important privacy issues in his moving papers.   