 Case Number:  23GDCV00889    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 03/08/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV00889
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: DANITZA MARAVILLA TORRES aka DANITZA MARAVILLA; and ANDRES MORALES
RIOS v. FCA US LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company; GLENDALE DODGE, LLC, a
California Limited Liability Company dba GLENDALE DODGE CHRYSLER JEEP RAM; and
DOES 1-10
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiffs,
Danitza Maravilla Torres, aka Danitza Maravilla, and Andres Morales Rios, move
the Court for an order compelling further responses to Plaintiffs’ First Set of
Requests for Production and for monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,610.00
against Defendant FCA US LLC and its attorneys of record, Ongaro P.C.
“This motion is made on the grounds that Defendant FCA
US LLC has not provided Code-compliant responses to Plaintiffs’ Requests for
Production numbers 45-46 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310.
This motion is based upon the Memorandum of Points and
Authorities attached hereto, the Declaration of Zachary Powell, the Separate
Statement of Issues in Dispute, the papers and records on file, and upon such
oral and documentary evidence that may be presented at the hearing on this
matter.”
BACKGROUND
On
05/02/2023, Plaintiffs filed the Complaint in this action against Defendants
FCA US LLC and Glendale Dodge LLC dba Glendale Dodge Chrysler Jeep.
The first two causes of action – (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, and (2) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Section 1793.2 – are alleged against Defendant FCA US LLC
The third cause of action for negligent repair is
alleged against Glendale Dodge LLC.
This action involves a 2017 Dodge Charger. 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Plaintiffs 
Responding Party: Defendant, FCA US LLC
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): The moving papers were not served
on the email address listed for Defendant’s counsel on eCourt. Moving papers
were served to lvawter@ongaropc.co; however, eCourt indicates that Defendant’s
counsel’s email address is lvawter@ongaropc.com. However, since an Opposition
was submitted, it appears as if Defendant received the moving papers.
Moving Papers: Notice; Motion; Separate Statement;
Powell Declaration; Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition; Separate Statement
Reply Papers: Reply
LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION
Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery
“may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of
any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature,
custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”

 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that:
“(1)   A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.
  (2)   A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
  (3)  
An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  

 
Under
CCP § 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”  
 
“In
the more specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the
party who asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for
the request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of
attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)


PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
45-Day Requirement
Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to
the demand. (CCP § 2031.310(c).) 
Plaintiffs argue that this motion had to be filed on
January 22, 2024 and that since it was filed by January 22, 2024, it is thus
timely. Defendant does not argue that the instant motion is untimely.
Therefore, the Court finds this motion timely.
Meet and Confer
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).)
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel alleged he met and
conferred. (Powell Decl. ¶5, Ex. C.) 
The Opposition argues that Plaintiffs’ counsel
prematurely abandoned the meet-and-confer process, but the Court does not find
this argument availing.
TENTATIVE RULING
The instant motion was filed by Plaintiffs on
1/22/2024. 
Defendant provided supplemental responses to the
instant RFPs – 45 and 46 – on February 20, 2024, and verifications to its
supplemental responses on February 23, 2024. 
Because Defendant provided supplemental responses to
the instant requests, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to RFPs 45
and 46, Set One, is DENIED as moot as to compelling further responses. 
However, this motion is not denied as moot as to the
issue of sanctions since Defendant provided supplemental responses only after
the Plaintiffs had filed the instant motion.
Sanctions
“Except
as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP §2031.310(h).)
 
“The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
Plaintiffs request
an award of monetary sanctions against FCA and its counsel of record, Ongaro
P.C in the amount of $2,610.00. 
 
Plaintiffs’
counsel requests sanctions as follows:
 
9. As a result of
Defendant’s failure to provide Code-compliant responses and the time and effort
it took Plaintiffs to meet and confer, Plaintiffs respectfully request that
this Court award monetary sanctions for the costs associated with Plaintiffs’
preparation of this motion. The total legal fees incurred of preparing the
motion and supportive papers will be as follows: 
a. I spent two
(2.0) hours drafting the instant motion, separate statement, proposed order,
notice of motion, and declaration, at my normal billing rate of $425.00 per
hour, for a total of $850.00. 
b. It is also
reasonably anticipated that I will spend an additional two hours reviewing
Defendant’s opposition and drafting a reply at my normal billing rate of
$425.00 per hour, for a total of $850.00. 
c. Finally, it is
reasonably anticipated I will spend an additional two hours preparing for and
attending the scheduled hearing on this matter at my normal billing rate of
$425.00, for a total of $850.00 
d. In all, legal
fees will total $2,550.00. 
 
10. Our office
will be forced to spend $60.00 in filing the instant motion.
 
(Powell Decl.
¶¶9-10.)
 
In Opposition, Defendant
argues against sanctions on the basis that Plaintiffs had no reasonable grounds
to bring the motion. Defendant also argues it substantively complied in
producing responsive documents and contends its prior objections were valid.
Defendant also argues that it supplemented its responses. 
 
Reply argues it
was forced to file this motion because supplemental responses were not filed
until after Plaintiffs were forced to file this motion.
 
The Court will
hear argument as to sanctions.
 
 
 