 Case Number:  23GDCP00092    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date:03/08/2024 – 8:30am 
Case No. 23GDCP00092
Trial Date: N/A
Case Name: TJL Group, LLC, dba Tom Love Group v. Palig Saghdejian 
TENTATIVE
RULING– MOTION TO VACATE/SET ASIDE DEFAULT
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
Plaintiff, TJL Group, LLC dba Tom Love Group moves this
Court for an order vacating the Sister-State Judgment entered on May 18, 2023
against Defendant Palig Saghdejian.
 
Procedural
 
Moving Party:  Plaintiff, TJL Group, LLC dba Tom Love
Group

Responding Party: Defendant, Palig Saghdejian
 
Moving Papers: Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Motion To Vacate
Sister-State Judgment Against Defendant
 
Opposition Papers: No Opposition submitted; however, Defendant’s
attorney filed a “Notice of Remote Appearance.”
 
Reply: No Reply
 
16/21 Day Lapse
(CCP §12c and §1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a): Uncertain – On eCourt, Defendant does not
have counsel listed, nor is there an address on eCourt for Defendant. However,
this motion was allegedly served “via electronic mail and/or via certified USPS
mail.” While eCourt does not list counsel for Defendant, a Notice of Remote
Appearance was filed by Arthur Sloane who appears to be Defendant’s counsel.
Arthur’s Notice of Remote Appearance lists an email address, and that email
address is the same email address listed on Plaintiff’s proof of service for
this motion. Further, Arthur’s Notice of Remote Appearance lists a mailing
address, and that mailing address is the same mailing address that Plaintiff
lists on its proof of service for this motion.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff filed its
original Complaint against Defendant in Clark County District Court in Nevada
on June 22, 2017 (the Nevada Case). Defendant never appeared in the Nevada
Case, and Plaintiff’s Application for Default Judgment against Defendant in the
Nevada Case was granted on September 27, 2018 and subsequently entered on
September 28, 2018.
 
Plaintiff applied for
and obtained the Sister-State Judgment in this Court on May 18, 2023.
 
Plaintiff now seeks to
vacate the notice of entry of judgment on sister-state judgment entered in this
Court on May 18, 2023.
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff
explains that while it was attempting to serve Defendant in Los Angeles County
as to the May 18, 2023 notice of entry of judgment on sister-state judgment,
Plaintiff was informed by Defendant’s counsel that Defendant had filed for
bankruptcy on July 17, 2017 and that there had been an automatic stay in place effective
from July 17, 2017 through November 6, 2018.
Plaintiff’s counsel states that it had no prior
knowledge of the bankruptcy proceedings or any stay. Plaintiff states that on
January 17, 2024, it filed an ex parte motion to vacate the judgment by
default in the Nevada Case on the basis that the default judgment proceedings
and subsequent service of process which took place upon entry of the Judgment
by Default were void as a matter of law. 
Plaintiff now moves this Court to vacate the sister-state
judgment in this Court which is premised on the judgment by default in the
Nevada Case which was allegedly rendered void by the bankruptcy stay.
Preliminary Matter
Plaintiff
states that this motion seeks an order vacating the sister-state Judgment
entered on May 18, 2023 against Defendant Palig Saghdejian. 
For clarity, the Court notes that it is not vacating, nor
does it appear to have the authority to vacate the judgment in the Nevada Case.
Therefore, the Court clarifies that it is construing Plaintiff’s motion to be a
motion seeking to vacate the Notice of Entry of Judgment on Sister-State
Judgment entered in this Court on 5/18/2023.
CCP §473(d), CCP §1710.40(a), and Federal
Bankruptcy Law
As
a preliminary matter, Plaintiff’s notice of motion does not state the statute
under which it seeks the instant relief requested.
The motion itself seems to be seeking relief under CCP
§§ 473(d), 1710.40(a), and federal authority on bankruptcy law.
Section 1710.40(a) states, “A judgment entered
pursuant to this chapter may be vacated on any ground which would be a defense
to an action in this state on the sister state judgment, including the ground
that the amount of interest accrued on the sister state judgment and included in
the judgment entered pursuant to this chapter is incorrect.” (CCP § 1710.40(a).)
Plaintiff appears to cite § 1710.40(a) to support the
argument that the default obtained during the stay in Nevada and any service of
process of notice of entry of default in Nevada are void in light of the
bankruptcy stay. 
Plaintiff does not cite § 1710.40(b), which states, “Not
later than 30 days after service of notice of entry of judgment pursuant to
Section 1710.30, proof of which has been made in the manner provided by Article
5 (commencing with Section 417.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2, the
judgment debtor, on written notice to the judgment creditor, may make a motion
to vacate the judgment under this section.” (CCP § 1710.40(b).)
The problem here with respect to § 1710.40(b) is that
this motion was not made “not later than 30 days after service of notice of
entry of judgment,” and this motion was not made by the judgment debtor. 
Therefore, the Court is skeptical about its authority
to vacate under § 1710.40(a).
Plaintiff also cites CCP § 473(d), which states, “The
court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct
clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the
judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to
the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.” (CCP § 473(d).)
Plaintiff cites California case law that allegedly
states that a judgment is void if the defendant was not validly served with
summons. Plaintiff then cites an extensive amount of federal authority that
allegedly supports the proposition that filing a bankruptcy petition
automatically stays the commencement of proceedings against a debtor. Plaintiff
then argues that, since the default in the Nevada case occurred when the
bankruptcy stay was in effect, when Plaintiff obtained default judgment and
served notice of entry, service of process was improper and the judgment by
default in the Nevada Case was and is void as a matter of law. Plaintiff
appears to be arguing that since the Nevada Case judgment is void, the judgment
in this case is also void.
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff’s
argument on the relationship between federal authority on bankruptcy law and
California state law regarding vacating default judgments is difficult to
decipher. Therefore, the Court will not opine on whether Plaintiff’s analysis
and application of federal bankruptcy law with respect to vacating a default
judgment under California law is correct. 
However, since the 5/18/2023 judgment entered in this
Court was in favor of Plaintiff, and Plaintiff is now seeking to vacate the
judgment that was in its favor, it appears that as a practical matter this
motion should be granted. Further, if Defendant’s counsel appears at the
hearing as indicated in its Notice of Remote Appearance, and Defendant does not
oppose this motion, this would appear to also lean in favor of granting this motion
for Plaintiff.
Plaintiff’s motion for an order vacating the Notice of
Entry of Judgment on Sister-State Judgment entered in this Court on 05/18/2023
is GRANTED. 
 
 