  Case Number:  20STCV43191    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Dariush G. Aldi, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV43191




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Skypanels, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 30, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended
Cross-Complaint
Moving Party: Cross-Defendant Dariush G. Aldi
Responding Party: Cross-Complainants Ali Salomi and
Chadwick Tyner
 
T/R:     CROSS-DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO THE FIFTH
CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED. THE DEMURRER TO THE REMAINING CAUSES OF ACTION IS
OVERRULED.
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANTS TO FILE AND SERVE A
SECOND AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS. CROSS-DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND
SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a dispute over legal fees. Plaintiffs Dariush G. Adli (Adli) and
ADLI Law Group P.C. (ALG) sued defendants Skypanels, Inc., Ali Salomi, and
Chadwick Tyner on November 12, 2020, alleging a single cause of action for
breach of contract (retainer agreement) and claiming $33,343.25 in damages.
 
Defendants Ali Salomi and Chadwick Tyner cross-complained against
Plaintiffs on May 27, 2021 for intentional misrepresentation, negligent
misrepresentation, unjust enrichment, conversion, unfair business practices,
breach of contract (in two iterations), and civil theft (Penal Code § 496).
Salomi and Tyner (Cross-Complainants) allege Adli and ALG overbilled them at
least $40,000.00 for the services in question.
 
Following Cross-Defendants' motion for judgment on the pleadings,
Cross-Complainants filed a first amended cross-complaint on August 22, 2024.
 
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Cross-Defendant's request for judicial
notice is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not as to the truth
of the matters asserted therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First and
Second Causes of Action for Misrepresentation
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Cross-Defendant Aldi demurs to the first and second causes of action on
the ground that Cross-Complainants have failed to allege fraud with the
requisite specificity. Cross-Complainants allege that Cross-Defendant Aldi made
various misrepresentations in the billing statements, including examples of
duplicative billing and inflated hours. Aldi asserts that this is insufficient
to state a claim for fraud against him individually. The Court disagrees.
Plaintiff alleges Cross-Defendant Aldi made misrepresentations and provides
specific examples from the billing statements. This is sufficient to state
claims for fraud against Aldi.
 
The demurrer to the first and second causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
C. Third Cause
of Action for Unjust Enrichment and Sixth Cause of Action for Breach of Implied
Contract
 
Cross-Defendant demurs to the third and sixth causes of action on the
ground that quasi-contract claims may only be alleged in the absence of an
express contract. Cross-Defendant argues that these claims fail because
Cross-Complainants have alleged a valid, express contract. The Court declines
to sustain the demurrer on this ground. Cross-Complainants may allege
alternative theories of liability.         
 
The demurrer to the third and sixth causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
D. Fourth Cause
of Action for UCL Violations
 
The UCL “bars ‘unfair competition’ and defines the term as a ‘business
act or practice’ that is (1) ‘fraudulent,’ (2) ‘unlawful,’ or (3) ‘unfair.’ …
Each is its own independent ground for liability under the [UCL], but their
underlying purpose ‘is to protect both consumers and competitors by promoting
fair competition in commercial markets for goods and services’ … .” (Shaeffer
v. Califia Farms, LLC (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 1125, 1135, citations omitted.)
 
Cross-Defendant asserts Cross-Complainants cannot state a claim for UCL
violations because they have failed to allege a fraudulent, unlawful, or unfair
business practice. As stated, Cross-Complainants have sufficiently alleged
fraudulent billing practices. This is sufficient to state a claim for UCL
violations.
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
E. Fifth Cause
of Action for Breach of Contract
 
Cross-Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action on the ground that
he is not a party to the retainer agreement and therefore cannot be liable for
its breach. The Court agrees. 
 
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
 
 
 
 
 