 Case Number:  24STCV10470    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
15, 2025                               TRIAL
DATE:  December 8, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Benjamin Deshon
Provo v. Yeezy LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV10470
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Benjamin Deshon Provo
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            Plaintiff
Benjamin DeShon Provo (Plaintiff) brings this wrongful termination action
against defendants Yeezy LLC, Donda Academy, Inc., and Kanye West aka Ye
(collectively, Defendants).  At the
outset of the litigation, Defendants were represented by Brian Brumfield, counsel
for Defendants.
 
            On July 10,
2024, Mr. Brumfield filed a motion to be relieved as counsel.  The motion was granted on August 5,
2024.  No substitution of attorney has
been filed with the court.
 
            On October
8, 2024, Plaintiff filed fourteen (14) motions to compel Defendants’ responses
to Form Interrogatories – Employment Law (Set One), Special Interrogatories
(Set One), and Request for Production of Documents (Sets One and Two).  Plaintiff requests sanctions against Defendants.
 
            The motions
are unopposed.
 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff seeks to compel
Defendants’ responses to his discovery requests.  Counsel for Plaintiff explains that
Defendants’ former counsel, Mr. Brumfield, and Manjoh Shah of Brand Counsel,
each requested extensions to provide responses. 
(See Gbewonyo Decls., ¶ 5.)[1]  Plaintiff granted the requests for extension,
but, to date, Defendants have not provided the responses.  The proofs of service attached to Plaintiff’s
motion indicate Mr. Brumfield and Mr. Shah were served with notice of the
motions on Defendants’ behalf.
 
            The court is inclined to grant the
motions to compel.  However, it is
unclear who is acting as counsel of record for Defendants.  There is no substitution of attorney or
written agreement filed with the court to indicate Mr. Shah is Defendants’
legal representative in this matter, let alone in a limited capacity.[2]  According to the court’s records, Mr. Shah
has made one special appearance on behalf of defendants Yeezy LLC and Kanye
West.  (See Minute Order, 11/07/24.)  If Mr. Shah is not Defendants’ counsel of
record, then Defendants are self-represented litigants and must be served with
the motions either by personal service or by mail.  Further, entity defendants Yeezy LLC and
Donda Academy, Inc. must have counsel to proceed in this matter.  
 
III.        CONCLUSION
            
Given the lack of
clarity as to the status of Defendants’ counsel, the court will hear from the
parties before issuing a ruling on Plaintiff’s discovery motions. 
 
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   January 15,
2025                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


