 Case Number:  24STCV23662    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Sharewell’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action 
Defendant
Sharewell, d/b/a Cayton Children’s Museum, moves to compel arbitration of this
action by plaintiffs Gabriel Chiu and Christine Chiu.
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiffs
make one objection to the declaration of Esther Netter in support of defendant’s
motion.  They object to this testimony:
“On
June 11, 2019, I sent an email to Ms. Chiu regarding her and her husband’s
proposed agreement to make a substantial pledge to the Cayton in exchange for
hosting a private party and private VIP/Media/Press launch.”  (Netter Decl., ¶ 5, p. 2:19-21.)  The beginning of that sentence is
admissible.  It merely states Netter’s foundation
for authentication of the email attached as exhibit 1.  
The
remainder of that sentence is inadmissible under the secondary evidence rule.  Generally, “oral testimony is not admissible
to prove the content of a writing.” 
(Evid. Code, § 1523, subd. (a).)  Netter’s
declaration describes the contents of the email.  The document speaks for itself.  Netter’s extrinsic description of the email
is inadmissible. 
Plaintiffs’
objection is sustained only as to the following portion of Netter’s declaration:
“regarding her husband’s proposed agreement to make a substantial pledge to the
Cayton in exchange for hosting a private party and private VIP/Media/Press
launch.”  (Netter Decl., ¶ 5.)
Discussion
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration turns on two documents plaintiffs signed in 2019:
a “pledge form” and a “charitable event agreement.”  On June 19, 2019, plaintiffs signed a pledge
form promising to donate $1,000,000 to defendant’s museum.  (Comp., Ex. 1.)  On June 24, 2019, the parties entered the
charitable event agreement.  (Netter
Decl., Ex. 3.)  Defendant contends that,
by doing so, plaintiffs entered a binding contract requiring them to pay the
money and owe a substantial balance. 
(Comp., ¶ 28.)  
Defendant
moves to enforce the arbitration provision in the parties’ charitable event
agreement.  (Netter Decl., Ex. 3, §
8.)  The agreement provides, “If, after
the Parties have made a good faith effort to resolve any dispute, such dispute
continues to exist, the Parties will submit all such disputes relating to this [Charitable
Event] Agreement (whether in contract, tort, or both) to binding arbitration,
in accordance with the laws of the State of California.  The Parties understand that they are waiving
their rights to a jury trial.”  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiffs
oppose this motion on the basis that the charitable event agreement’s
arbitration clause does not apply to this action.  Plaintiffs’ complaint asserts a single cause
of action for declaratory relief.  Code
of Civil Procedure 1060 provides, “Any person interested under a written
instrument … or under a contract … may, in cases of actual controversy relating
to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an original
action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of his or her
rights and duties … including a determination of any question of construction
or validity arising under the instrument or contract.”  Plaintiffs brought this action seeking a
judicial declaration that their pledge is an unenforceable gift.  (Comp., ¶¶ 36-40.)   
Plaintiffs
frame this action as a dispute over the enforceability of the $1,000,000
pledge.  Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges that,
after they signed the pledge, “Defendant advised that it wished to host a
three-hour-long reception in Plaintiffs’ honor at the museum.”  (Comp., ¶ 16.)  It further alleges, “The Chius worked out written
terms with Defendant Cayton Children’s Museum to host and film the reception so
that segments of the same might be featured on [a reality TV] show.  On or around June 24, 2019, the Chius and
Defendant Cayton Children’s Museum entered into a separate written agreement
relating to this Event in which they confirmed the foregoing event-related
terms (the ‘Event Agreement’).”  (Id.,
¶ 17.)  Plaintiffs allege, “[T]he Event
Agreement expressly referenced the Chius’ pledge to gift money to Defendant as
having already occurred and having already been memorialized in a separate
writing, i.e. the above-referenced ‘Pledge Form,’ within the Recitals section
of the Event Agreement.”  (Id., ¶
18.)  
From
plaintiffs’ perspective, their action for declaratory relief arises solely from
the pledge form.  From a bird’s eye view,
however, this action seeks declaratory relief about whether plaintiffs owe the
balance of the $1 million they pledged. 
And from defendant’s perspective, plaintiffs owe that money because their
pledge is part of the charitable event agreement or because defendant’s
obligations in the charitable event agreement otherwise constitute
consideration for plaintiffs’ pledge. 
The dispute over whether plaintiffs owe nearly $1 million to defendant
therefore does constitute a “dispute[] relating to this Agreement” as provided
in the charitable event agreement. 
(Netter Decl., Ex. 3, § 8.)       
Plaintiffs’
reliance on Marsch v. Williams (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 250 is
misplaced.  There, the court stated, “Where
… the parties have separate contractual relationships, which involve separate
enterprises and most importantly separate commercial risks, an arbitration
clause which governs one contractual relationship cannot be imposed in the
other relationship without undermining the parties’ reasonable expectations.”  (Id. at p. 256.)  The case involved three agreements about two businesses:
two agreements in 1973 and 1979 forming partnerships that “built and managed a
commercial building in La Jolla” (id. at p. 252), and one agreement in
1986 to create a partnership to develop property in Rancho Santa Fe (ibid.).  Only the latter agreement included an
arbitration clause.  (Ibid.)    
Here,
the pledge form was signed less than a week before the event agreement.  The event agreement’s recitals include,
“Whereas, the Chiu’s [sic] have pledged a substantial unrestricted gift to the
Museum (the ‘Charitable Gift’), as set forth in the Pledge Form attached hereto
as Exhibit A.”  (Netter Decl., Ex. 3, p.
1.)  The event agreement further
provides, “The Museum shall use best efforts to ensure that physical acknowledgements
in recognition of the Chiu’s [sic] charitable gift are installed and/or displayed
by or before June 28, 2019, which include, but are not limited to” specified
locations.  (Id., § 1.6.)  Regardless of whether the pledge is
enforceable, the two documents do not involve wholly separate enterprises.  They are not so distinct that compelling
arbitration of this dispute would undermine the parties’ reasonable
expectations.
Plaintiffs
also rely on Titan Group, Inc. v. Sonoma Valley County Sanitation Dist.
(1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 1122.  The court
reasoned, “In light of the importance of the jury trial in our system of
jurisprudence, any waiver thereof should appear in clear and unmistakeable
form.  This agreement does not present
such a waiver.”  (Id. at p.
1129.)  The court held a provision “that
disputes ‘may be subject’ to arbitration” did not constitute a binding
agreement that parties must arbitrate disputes.  (Id. at p. 1128.)
Here,
the parties agree they entered a binding contract to arbitrate some disputes.  The event agreement includes a clear and
unmistakeable waiver of the right to a jury trial regarding some disputes: “The
Parties understand that they are waiving their rights to a jury trial.”  (Netter Decl., Ex. 3, § 8.)  The question concerns the scope of the
arbitration provision: does it apply to plaintiffs’ action for declaratory
relief?  In contrast with disputes over
the existence of an arbitration, “doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable
issues are to be resolved in favor of arbitration.”  (Ericksen, Arbuthnot, McCarthy, Kearney
& Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35 Cal.3d 312, 323.)  “The party opposing arbitration has the
burden of showing that the agreement, as properly interpreted, does not apply
to the dispute.”  (Molecular
Analytical Systems v. Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th
696, 705.)  Plaintiffs do not meet that
burden.  
Selection
of Arbitrator
Defendant
requests that the court order arbitration with JAMS.  Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.6
provides a procedure to select an arbitrator when “the arbitration agreement
does not provide a method for appointing an arbitrator.”  Defendant acknowledges the event agreement
does not do so.  The parties therefore
must follow the procedure under section 1281.6. 

Disposition
Defendant
Sharewell’s motion to compel arbitration and stay the action is granted.  The court hereby orders plaintiffs
Gabriel Chiu and Christine Chiu to arbitrate their claim for declaratory relief
against defendant Sharewell.  The court
hereby stays the entire action pending resolution of the arbitration
proceeding.  
            The parties shall meet and confer
within 15 days regarding a method of appointing an arbitrator under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.6.  If the
parties do not agree, any party may petition the court to appoint an
arbitrator.