  Case Number:  20STCV42444    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff Gergis Ghobrial’s Motion
for Protective Order is DENIED. Sanctions are awarded against Plaintiff in the
amount of $1,500.
Defendants to give notice.
 
I.               
 MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
“Before, during, or after a
deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or
organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code
Civ. Proc. 2025.420, subd. (a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)
Plaintiff Gergis Ghobrial
(Plaintiff) moves for a protective order related to his deposition. The first
session of his deposition was taken remotely on February 16, 2023. (Ghobrial
Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant Long Beach Memorial Medical Center (Defendant) has since
served a deposition notice seeking Plaintiff’s in-person deposition. (Ghobrial
Decl. Exh. I.) Plaintiff here seeks a protective order directing that his
deposition be taken remotely, that the documents requested not be produced,
that the total time be limited to ten hours, and that the deposition be
restricted to the subject matter related to his allegations. (Motion at p. 15.)
Plaintiff bases the requested order on Defendant’s prior agreement to take
Plaintiff’s deposition remotely. (Ghobrial Decl. Exh. A.) Plaintiff argues that
taking his deposition in person could trigger “panic attacks that require
sedation.” (Motion at p. 9.) Plaintiff argues that limitations on time and
subject matter are necessary because the first session of Plaintiff’s
deposition was dedicated in large part to Plaintiff’s background and employment
history. (Motion at pp. 11–14.) Plaintiff argues that the requested document
production is duplicative of earlier discovery requests. (Opposition at p. 14.)
Plaintiff’s arguments are
unpersuasive. Plaintiff offers no support for the argument that the document
requests are duplicative of prior discovery. Nor does the transcript of Plaintiff’s
deposition session does reveal any need for time or subject matter limitations.
In an employment suit like the present case, employers may inquire into a
plaintiff’s employment history.. (See Chin et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Employment Litigation
(The Rutter Group 2023), F. Discovery, ¶ 19:684.) And as this is an employment
case, the seven-hour limit on depositions does not apply to Plaintiff. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.290, subd. (b)(4).)
Plaintiff’s request for a remote
deposition is also unpersuasive. Plaintiff relies on Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.310, subd. (a), for the proposition that he may elect a remote deposition.
But that provision states that a deponent may elect to have “the deposition officer . . .
attend the deposition at a different location than the deponent via remote
means.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.310, subd. (a).) The very next provision in
fact states that “any party or attorney of record may, but is not required to,
be physically present at the deposition at the location of the deponent.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.310, subd. (b).) Defendant may thus elect to be physically
present for the deposition. Although Plaintiff avers that an in-person
deposition would cause panic attacks, Plaintiff does not support this
contention with evidence, and never raised any such basis for an in-person
deposition in the meet-and-confer process. The sole evidence-based reason for
seeking a remote deposition in the motion is the fact that Defendant agreed to
and took the prior deposition by remote means, and indicated a willingness to
“permit [Plaintiff] to appear remotely” for a subsequent session scheduled for
May 9, 2023, which was ultimately taken off-calendar. (Ghobrial Decl. Exh. A.)
This is insufficient basis to find good cause supporting a variation from the
choices allowed to parties pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.310.
The motion is therefore DENIED.
II.            
SANCTIONS
The party prevailing on a motion
for protective order is generally entitled to sanctions against the
non-prevailing party, absent substantial justification or other circumstances
that make sanctions unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420, subd. (h).) 
Plaintiff seeks $960 for
document preparation and a filing fee. (Ghobrial Decl. ¶ 13.) Defendant seeks
$5,220.00 in sanctions, representing 14.6 hours of attorney work at $450 per
hour. (Mino Decl. ¶ 2.)
Sanctions are awarded against
Plaintiff in the amount of $1,500.
 