 Case Number:  21STCV08534    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Big Ben Mounts, Inc.’s Application for Good Faith Settlement Determination is
GRANTED.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.                  
GOOD-FAITH
SETTLEMENT
Code of Civil Procedure § 877.6(a)(1)
provides:
 
 Any party to an action in which it is
alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the
court may shorten the time for giving the required notice to permit the
determination of the issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of
the action, or before the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the
trial has commenced.
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 877(c) in turn
provides:
 
A determination by the court that the
settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.
 
A good faith settlement determination also
reduces the claims against the nonwetting defendants in the amount stipulated
by the settlement. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 877(a).)
 
Where a motion for
determination of good faith settlement is uncontested, a "barebones"
motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration
which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient to support a good
faith determination. (See City of Grand
Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal. App. 3d 1251, 1261.)
 
Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Big Ben Mounts, Inc. (Defendant) moves for approval of a
settlement reached with Plaintiff Thomas Scott Schlange (Plaintiff). The terms
of the settlement are that Defendant is to pay Plaintiff $25,000 in exchange
for a release and dismissal of claims against Defendant. (Dougherty Decl. ¶ 3.)
Defendant’s counsel testifies that the settlement follows arms-length
negotiations and discovery, and that the settlement was reached in good faith
and without collusion. (Dougherty Decl. ¶¶ 2, 4, 5.)
 
The motion is
therefore GRANTED. 