 Case Number:  23STCV12824    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant Brink’s
Incorporated’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
Defendant to provide notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION
On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate a controversy, a court must
order the petitioner and respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines the arbitration agreement exists, unless (1) the petitioner has
waived its right to arbitrate; (2) grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement; or (3) “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a
pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of
the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
 
“[T]he party moving
to compel arbitration bears the burden of establishing the existence of a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. The role of
the trial court is to sit as a trier of fact, weighing any affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence, together with oral testimony
received at the court's discretion, to reach a determination on the issue of
arbitrability.” (Hotels Nevada v. L.A.
Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.)
 
Defendant Brink’s
Incorporated (Defendant) presents an arbitration agreement signed by Plaintiff
Ciro Santoyo (Plaintiff) upon gaining employment with Defendant in September
2019. (Johnson Decl. Exh. 1.) 
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims ought to be arbitrated pursuant to the
U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana
(2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906, in which the Court held that the Federal Arbitration Act
(FAA) preempted California’s rule prohibiting “division of PAGA actions into
individual and non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate,” and
allowed PAGA defendants “to compel arbitration of [a PAGA plaintiff’s]
individual claim.” (Id. at p. 1925.) Defendant argues that this court
should stay the representative PAGA claims pending resolution of Plaintiff’s
individual arbitration. (Motion at pp. 5–7.)
 
Plaintiff in
opposition argues that no stay of litigation in this matter should be entered
because delay would prejudice prosecution of the PAGA claims. (Opposition at
pp. 3–5.)
 
Plaintiff’s
individual claims are properly ordered to arbitration, and a stay is properly
entered on his representative claims pending resolution of his individual
claims. Such an approach was embraced in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)
14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123–1124:
 
First, Uber contends that unless Adolph's
non-individual claims are dismissed, his PAGA action will run afoul of Viking
River because he will be permitted to relitigate whether he is an aggrieved
employee in court to establish standing even if he has agreed to resolve that
issue in arbitration as part of his individual PAGA claim.
 
In response, Adolph explains that his PAGA
action could proceed in the following manner if he were ordered to arbitrate
his individual PAGA claim: First, the trial court may exercise its discretion
to stay the non-individual claims pending the outcome of the arbitration
pursuant to section 1281.4 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Following the
arbitrator's decision, any party may petition the court to confirm or vacate
the arbitration award under section 1285 of the Code of Civil Procedure. If the
arbitrator determines that Adolph is an aggrieved employee in the process of
adjudicating his individual PAGA claim, that determination, if confirmed and
reduced to a final judgment (Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.4), would be binding on
the court, and Adolph would continue to have standing to litigate his
nonindividual claims. If the arbitrator determines that Adolph is not an
aggrieved employee and the court confirms that determination and reduces it to
a final judgment, the court would give effect to that finding, and Adolph could
no longer prosecute his non-individual claims due to lack of standing. (See
Rocha v. U-Haul Co. of California (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 65, 76–82, 304
Cal.Rptr.3d 587.)
 
Uber makes no convincing argument why this
manner of proceeding would be impractical or would require relitigating
Adolph's status as an aggrieved employee in the context of his non-individual
claims, and we see no basis for Uber's concern. In any event, Viking River
makes clear that in cases where the FAA applies, no such relitigation may
occur.
 
(Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at pp. 1123–1124.) The prejudice
that Plaintiff identifies in opposition to the present motion — the potential
loss of discoverable information and delayed recovery — would be applicable to
any matter stayed pending arbitration, and no showing is made of concrete harm
to be suffered by the stay.
 
The motion is
therefore GRANTED.
 
 