


[1]
Since Plaintiff did not request monetary sanctions in the notice of the motion
or even in the body of the points and authorities, but in her supporting
declaration only, the court declines to address a monetary sanction request. (See
CCP § 2023.040)
 


[2]
These records are supposed to indicate the frequency in which nurses received
patients and includes lunch schedules for all nurses in Plaintiff’s department.
(Mot. 1:2-4.) Plaintiff also indicates the documents would show whether of not
Plaintiff was up next for a patient and when her scheduled lunch break was set
to occur. (Mot. 5:22-24.) 
 


[3]
The court notes counsels’ uncivil exchange within Plaintiff’s Exhibit 4.
 


[4]
Indeed, Defendant’s response states “if they ever existed” and also indicates
that Defendant was still in the process of searching for responsive documents. (Zilifyan
Decl., Exhibit 2.) The also notes that Defendant responded to “no such
documents titled ‘admission logs’ have ever existed” in their responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production (Set Three) which Plaintiff has not
challenged. (Eichberger Decl., Exhibit D.) Plaintiff’s request for the court to
“infer” that the documents existed and were intentionally destroyed is exactly the
type of statement that concerns courts. (See, e.g., New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1431 (New Albertsons) [“A party
moving for discovery sanctions based on the intentional destruction of evidence
could argue that the mere fact that the evidence no longer exists supports an
inference of intentional spoliation.”]
 


[5]
While the records custodian did testify that he knew what to look for and “It
should have existed, yes,” this does not establish that the records regarding the
day in question in fact existed. (Zilifyan Decl., Exhibit 4, at 76: 10-21, and 83:4.)
Accordingly, the Court need not further develop the failure to preserve argument
which is premised on the claim that the documents existed.
 


[6]
For example, Plaintiff has her own testimony, the testimony of Nurse Covrig,
the testimony of Nurse Burgner, Kronos Time Sheets, Email Threads, and a sample
blank assignment sheet. (Eichberger Decl., Exhibits A, B, C, G, H, and J.)


[7]The
Court observes that the evidence would suggest that it is questionable whether Plaintiff
or the Defense even considered the nursing assignment sheets, meal/rest break
schedules significant until well after the Remittitur issued.

