  Case Number:  BC653918    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   January
23, 2024                                             
 
CASE NAME:           Helene Sakellis v. Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                BC653918

 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS AND/OR EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS
AGAINST DEFENDANT FOR SPOLIATION OF RELEVANT EVIDENCE

 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff
Helene G. Sakellis
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
order issuing terminating sanctions against Defendant or, alternatively, a
harsh adverse inference or evidentiary sanctions.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for terminating sanctions against Defendant or, alternatively, a harsh adverse
inference or evidentiary sanctions is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
Plaintiff Helene G. Sakellis (“Plaintiff”) worked for
Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (“CSMC”) as a clinical nurse from
July1992 to June 2016. Plaintiff alleges various claims against Defendants
CSMC, Anna Grief (“Grief”), and Does (collectively, “Defendants”) for
retaliation, discrimination based on her age and disability, and defamation in
relation to her termination from employment.¿ 
¿ 
On March 14, 2017, Plaintiff filed a Complaint, and on
March 24, the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants for
the following causes of action:¿ 
¿ 
(1) retaliation for exercising rights under the Labor Code
§98.6;¿ 
(2) retaliation and wrongful termination in violation of
the Health and Safety Code §1278.5;¿ 
(3) retaliation and wrongful termination in violation of
the Labor Code §6310;¿ 
(4) retaliation and wrongful termination in violation of
the Labor Code §1102.5;¿ 
(5) defamation;¿ 
(6) discrimination in violation of Gov’t Code §§12940 et
seq.;¿ 
(7) failure to prevent discrimination in violation of Gov’t
Code §§12940(k);¿ 
(8) wrongful termination in violation of public policy;
and¿ 
(9) declaratory judgment.¿ 
 
On April 17, 2019, Defendants filed a motion for summary
judgment or alternatively summary adjudication. Defendants moved for summary
judgment/adjudication as to all nine causes of action, as well as Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages. On July 12, 2019, the court granted summary
judgment as to all causes of action. In doing so, the court did not consider
issues related to Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. 
 
Plaintiff appealed. On August 12, 2021, the Court of Appeal
issued an opinion, holding that the trial court “correctly concluded plaintiff
did not raise a material factual dispute concerning age discrimination or
retaliation based on patient advocacy, but there is a triable issue of fact as
to whether plaintiff was terminated for demanding a lunch break.” The Court of
Appeal reversed the grant of summary judgment and remanded solely for further
proceedings on Labor Code lunch break retaliation. The court of appeal declined
to decide the issue of whether or not Defendant’s were entitled to summary
adjudication of whether or not plaintiff was entitled to punitive damages. 
 
On October 22, 2021, this court entered a minute order,
vacating the order granting summary judgment and the portion of the order
granting summary adjudication with respect to the first and fourth causes of
action to the extent that they allege retaliation for complaining about the
lack of a lunch break. 
 
On December 2, 2021, the court denied summary adjudication
as to the punitive damages issue. 
 
On March 17, 2023, Defendant renewed its motion for summary
judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication as to the first and
fourth causes of action.
 
On April 14, 2023, Plaintiff served the Request for Production
of Documents (Set Eight) at issue in this motion for records from May 21, 2016.
 
On November 22, 2023, the court DENIED Defendant’s renewed
MSA.
 
On December 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion
for terminating sanctions. On January 9, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On
January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion,
identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought,
and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of motion shall be
supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a
declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction
sought.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §, 2023.040.) 
 
The court, after notice to any affected party, person, or
attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose monetary, issue,
evidence, and/or terminating sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that
is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030 subd.
(a)-(d).) 
 
The discovery remedies set forth in California Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 “provide a substantial deterrent to acts of
spoliation, and substantial protection to the spoliation victim.”  (Cedars-Sinai Center v. Superior Court (1998)
18 Cal.4th 1, 17.) 
 
“Spoliation of evidence means the destruction or
significant alteration of evidence or the failure to preserve evidence for
another's use in pending or future litigation. [Citations] Such conduct is
condemned because it ‘can destroy fairness and justice, for it increases the
risk of an erroneous decision on the merits of the underlying cause of action.
Destroying evidence can also increase the costs of litigation as parties
attempt to reconstruct the destroyed evidence or to develop other evidence,
which may be less accessible, less persuasive, or both.’ [Citation] While
there is no tort cause of action for the intentional destruction of evidence
after litigation has commenced, it is a misuse of the discovery process that is
subject to a broad range of punishment, including monetary, issue, evidentiary,
and terminating sanctions. [Citations] A terminating sanction is appropriate in
the first instance without a violation of prior court orders in egregious cases
of intentional spoliation of evidence. [Citation]” (Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223 (Williams).)  
 
“Discovery sanctions are intended to remedy discovery
abuse, not to punish the offending party.  Accordingly, sanctions should
be tailored to serve that remedial purpose, should not put the moving party in
a better position than he would otherwise have been had he obtained the
requested discovery, and should be proportionate to the offending party's
misconduct. [Citation]” (Ibid.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant willfully destroyed nursing
assignment sheets, meal/rest break schedules, and admission and discharge
reports in violation of its own document retention policies and knowing that
Plaintiff needed these documents as the only evidence of whether she was
provided with timely meal breaks.[1]
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally defective, that the
documents sought have little bearing on Plaintiff’s remaining claims, that some
of the requested documents never existed, and for those that did, that the
destruction was not willful.
 
Here, Plaintiff did not establish Defendant destroyed or
failed to preserve evidence with the culpable state of mind.  (See National Council Against Health Fraud, Inc.
v. King Bio Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1336, 1346-1347
[“[i]n spoliation of evidence cases, for example, the plaintiff must produce
evidence that the defendant failed to preserve the evidence and establish a
substantial probability of causation before the burden of proof shifts to the
defendant to prove the failure to preserve the evidence did not cause damage to
the plaintiff. [Citation]”]; see also
Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1227 (Williams) (“[t]he burden does not shift automatically. 
Instead, by analogy to decisions concerning the burden of proof at trial, we
hold that a party moving for discovery sanctions based on the spoliation of
evidence must make an initial prima facie showing that the responding party in
fact destroyed evidence that had a substantial probability of damaging the
moving party's ability to establish an essential element of his claim or
defense.  [Citation]”].) 
 
The records at issue here are nursing assignment sheets,
meal/rest break schedules, and admission and discharge reports requested in
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents (Set Eight) Nos. 1, 2, 5 and
6.[2]
(Zilifyan Decl., Exhibit 1.) Plaintiff made this request on April 14, 2023, six years after the complaint was
initially filed.  Plaintiff
contends that Defendant destroyed these documents because Defendant responded
that “If no responsive documents are located, it will be because any such
responsive documents, if they ever existed, were destroyed during the ordinary
course of business under Cedars-Sinai’s document retention policies, which
calls for the retention of physical documents at an offsite storage facility
for a period of five to seven years.” (Zilifyan Decl., Exhibit 2.) Thereafter,
Defendant’s records custodian provided a declaration that: “After an extensive
search, no boxes were found that contained paper or hard-copy records of would
contain nursing assignment sheets, meal/rest break schedule, or any other
documents from January 1, 2016 – December 31, 2016 from the Women’s Health
Department.” (Zilifyan Decl., Exhibit 3[3].)
However, Defendant’s qualified discovery response is not evidence of
spoliation.[4]
Thus, unlike in Williams, where it
was undisputed that the records existed, the plaintiff allowed destruction of
records and failed to inform the defendant until two years after their
destruction, here, there is little, if any, evidence that the records existed.[5]
Even if the records did exist, Plaintiff provided no evidence that the records
were destroyed contrary to Defendant’s records retention policy. (Cedars-Sinai, supra, at p. 15-16. [concerning
the cost of litigating meritless spoliation claims where evidence was
destroyed, not for the purpose of making it unavailable in litigation, but
innocently in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a document
retention policy.]; see also New
Alberstons, infra, at p. 1429.) Moreover, Plaintiff has failed to offer any
evidence on culpable state of mind.
 
Additionally, Plaintiff has not shown that these records had
a substantial probability of damaging her ability to establish an essential
element of her claim. Unlike in Williams,
where the destroyed client files were essential to the defendants’ defense,
here, Plaintiff has numerous other evidentiary sources to support her claim.[6]

 
Finally, the sanctions requested are incompatible with the
alleged discovery abuse. (Williams, supra,
at p. 1223.)
 
In sum, the Court is familiar with the many twists and turns
this case has taken since its initial filing in 2017. Many of the causes of
action have been dismissed. What now remains after the Remittitur was issued on
August 12, 2021, are two retaliation claims founded on a lunch break controversy.
In that context, Plaintiff has utterly failed to present evidence showing that Defendant
was aware of the significance of the documents years before their request in
2023, let alone that Defendants intentionally, negligently or knowingly failed
to preserve the records.  Plaintiff’s
bare, unsupported allegations to the contrary are  insufficient to meet their initial burden.[7]
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for
terminating sanctions or alternatively evidentiary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Motion for terminating sanctions
against Defendant or, alternatively, a harsh adverse inference or evidentiary sanctions
is DENIED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              January 23, 2024                     __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


