 Case Number:  23STCV09616    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ANITRIA MICHELLE TOMLIN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV09616
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 17, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3
 



 
 
 
Defendants County of Los Angeles (“County”), Kresimir Kovac
(“Kovac”), Brian Yanagi (“Yanagi”), John Burcher (“Burcher”), and Lewis Lim
(“Lim”) (collectively, “Defendants”) file this Pitchess motion seeking leave to
disclose certain law enforcement personnel records of the County, including
records of Plaintiff Anitria Michelle Tomlin (“Plaintiff”), for the purposes of
this litigation.
 
The Court tentatively GRANTS in camera review of the
requested materials.  However, the Court
raises the question for discussion whether notice to Guninder Singh, who is not
a party to this lawsuit, is necessary before the review can take place.
 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request to be present during
the in camera review.  However, any
documents ordered produced following in camera review will be ordered produced
to all parties.  Production will be made
under a protective order that the documents may be used only for the purposes
of this litigation and must be returned to the County at the conclusion of this
case.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this employment case against Defendants. The
following facts are taken from the allegations in the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”).
 
Plaintiff is currently a sworn Lieutenant for the Los
Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, assigned to the Records and Identification
Bureau (“RIB”). 
 
The RIB is responsible for fingerprint identification for
the Sheriff’s Department and a number of other law enforcement agencies. The
fingerprint process is a 24/7 operation. Tomlin herself is not trained in the
identification process but relies on the technicians and supervisors in the
department to conduct identification. 
 
When an individual is arrested, the arrestee’s fingerprints
are taken and uploaded to a central database for verification of the
fingerprints. If the fingerprints are not recognized by the system, the
fingerprints are forwarded to RIB. In RIB, the fingerprints are reviewed by
technicians specially trained by the County. Results that match are then
transmitted to the California Department of Justice.
 
To protect the public from false identification of a
person’s fingerprints, the identification process performed by Plaintiff’s unit
requires two technicians to verify the match and a supervisor to handle any
discrepancies between the two verifiers. Each of these positions require
technical expertise and specialized skills.
 
Due to understaffing, the RIB was ordered to continue
operating at times with fewer than two technicians or without a supervisor
present. Plaintiff repeatedly reported her concerns about this process to her
superiors, including Yanagi and Kovac, stating that she believed the short
staffing violated arrestees’ due process rights and caused fingerprint
technicians to offer false or misleading testimony. Plaintiff requested at
different times that the operating hours be reduced to 16 hours a day, 5 days a
week, that additional supervisors be funded, and that overtime be funded.
Plaintiff’s requests were denied. This staffing shortage resulted in Plaintiff
having to work overtime on weekends and evenings, although Plaintiff alleges
that she was not paid overtime compensation.
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was addressed in a demeaning and
condescending manner in briefings concerning these issues. On January 10, 2023,
Burcher also informed Plaintiff that she would be responsible for any issues
related to the fingerprint identification process.
 
From November 2022 to January 2023, Yanagi ordered
Plaintiff’s supervisor to cancel a personnel loan agreement which would have
loaned an employee to RIB to fill a vacant Assistant Director position. As a
result, Plaintiff had to perform the duties of the Assistant Director in
addition to her own.
 
On January 23, 2023, Plaintiff was served with a notice that
she was the subject of an internal investigation regarding a disciplinary
meeting she had with a subordinate manager in October 2022. Plaintiff contends
that the subordinate manager falsely accused Plaintiff and a fellow supervisor
of bullying and harassing them, leading to the investigation. Plaintiff alleges
that Kovac and Yanagi conspired to improperly institute the investigation
against her. Plaintiff contends that Kovac should have recused himself because
Tomlin had previously interviewed Kovac when Kovac was under investigation for
alleged criminal activity.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on May 1, 2023. On September 6,
2023, the Court sustained a demurrer to the Complaint with leave to amend. The
operative complaint is now the FAC, which raises claims for (1) whistleblower
retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5 (against County); (2)
intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) (against all Defendants);
and (3) conspiracy (against Kovac, Yanagi, and Burcher.
 
On December 19, 2023, the Court sustained a demurrer with
leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s IIED claim. Plaintiff did not amend.
 
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a separate Pitchess
motion seeking broad discovery into complaints of misconduct made against
Defendant Kresimir Kovac, as well as the names and contact information of any
attendant complainants and witnesses. The motion was fully briefed. On October
31, 2024, the Court denied the motion without prejudice. The Court found that
in camera review of the requested material was not necessary because Plaintiff
had not explained what she expected to find or how she expected it to support
her claims. The Court granted Plaintiff leave to refile the motion setting
forth more specific requests under the correct legal standard. Plaintiff has
not re-filed at this time.
 
On November 18, 2024, Defendants filed this Pitchess motion,
seeking leave to disclose three complaints against (1) Plaintiff and Guninder Singh
(“Singh”); (2) Kovac; and (3) Yanagi and Burcher. Defendants also seek to
disclose the non-privileged portions of the County’s files relating to a
worker’s compensation claim made by Plaintiff. Plaintiff filed an opposition
and Defendants filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Except as provided in subdivision (b), the personnel
records of peace officers and custodial officers and records maintained by a
state or local agency pursuant to Section 832.5, or information obtained from
these records, are confidential and shall not be disclosed in any criminal or
civil proceeding except by discovery pursuant to Sections 1043 and 1046 of the
Evidence Code. This section does not apply to investigations or proceedings
concerning the conduct of peace officers or custodial officers, or an agency or
department that employs those officers, conducted by a grand jury, a district
attorney's office, or the Attorney General's office.” (Pen. Code, § 832.7,
subd. (a).)
 
“(a)
In any case in which discovery or disclosure is sought of peace or custodial
officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of
the Penal Code or information from those records, the party seeking the
discovery or disclosure shall file a written motion with the appropriate court
or administrative body upon written notice to the governmental agency that has
custody and control of the records, as follows:
 
….
 
(b) The motion
shall include all of the following:
 
(1)
Identification of the proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought,
the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose
records are sought, the governmental agency that has custody and control of the
records, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure
shall be heard.
 
(2) A description of
the type of records or information sought.
 
(3)
Affidavits showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting
forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending
litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency
identified has the records or information from the records.”
 
(Evid. Code, § 1043.)
 
Penal Code, section 1046 provides additional requirements
for cases where excessive force is alleged.
 
A motion pursuant to section 1043 is known as a Pitchess
motion. (Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1017.) “On a
showing of good cause a criminal defendant is entitled to discovery of relevant
documents or information in the personnel records of a police officer accused
of misconduct against the defendant.” (Id. at p. 1016.) “To determine
whether the defendant has established good cause for in-chambers review of an
officer's personnel records, the trial court looks to whether the defendant has
established the materiality of the requested information to the pending
litigation. The court does that through the following inquiry: [1] Has the
defense shown a logical connection between the charges and the proposed
defense? [2] Is the defense request for Pitchess discovery factually specific
and tailored to support its claim of officer misconduct? [3] Will the requested
Pitchess discovery support the proposed defense, or is it likely to lead to
information that would support the proposed defense? [4] Under what theory
would the requested information be admissible at trial?” (Id. at pp.
1026-1027.) “[T]o obtain in-chambers review a defendant need only demonstrate
that the scenario of alleged officer misconduct could or might have occurred.”
(Id. at p. 1016.)
 
When proceeding to in camera review, “the court may require
the person from whom disclosure is sought or the person authorized to claim the
privilege, or both, to disclose the information in chambers out of the presence
and hearing of all persons except the person authorized to claim the privilege
and any other persons as the person authorized to claim the privilege is
willing to have present. If the judge determines that the information is
privileged, neither the judge nor any other person may ever disclose, without
the consent of a person authorized to permit disclosure, what was disclosed in
the course of the proceedings in chambers.” (Evid. Code, § 915, subd. (b).)
 
Discussion
 
Discovery Sought
 
Defendants seek leave for the County to disclose the
following records:
 
(1) The entire
investigation file for the administrative investigation identified as
#OMB-22-387 involving a complaint by Stacey Drake against Plaintiff and
Guninder Singh.
 
(2) The entire
investigation file for the administrative investigation identified as ICMS #
2022-116586 involving a complaint by Plaintiff against Kresimir Kovac.
 
(3) The entire
investigation file for the administrative investigation identified as
#OMB-23-015 involving a complaint by Singh against Brian Yanagi and John
Burcher.
 
(4) Non-privileged
portions of the County’s files regarding or related to Plaintiff’s workers comp
claim identified as Claim No. 23-006966-A and/or Workers’ Compensation Appeals
Board Case No. ADJ7247284.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff does not oppose in camera review of the materials
in question.
 
Logical Connection
 
Defendants seek disclosure of the investigation against
Plaintiff and Singh in order to establish whether the investigation was a
legitimate business decision.
 
Defendants seek disclosure of the investigation into Kovac
to establish whether Plaintiff’s complaint against Kovac was properly
investigated and addressed.
 
Defendants seek disclosure of the investigation against
Yanagi to establish whether the complaint against Yanagi was properly
investigated and addressed.
 
Defendants seek disclosure of Plaintiff’s worker’s
compensation claim information because the worker’s compensation claim relates
to emotional distress suffered at work. Plaintiff claims damages for emotional
distress incurred at work in this action.
 
The Court determines that each request has a logical
connection to the claims at issue here.
 
Factual Specificity and Tailoring
 
The requests are specifically stated and appear tailored to
the facts at issue in this case.
 
Relevance of Discovery to Defendants’ Legal Theories
 
As discussed above, the discovery at issue is relevant to
Defendants’ litigation of the claims in this case.
 
Admissibility at Trial
 
There are no clear admissibility issues raised with the
requested evidence.
 
In Camera Review
 
The Court finds that that in camera review of the requested
materials is warranted.
 
In camera review must occur “out of the presence and hearing
of all persons except the person authorized to claim the privilege and any
other persons as the person authorized to claim the privilege is willing to
have present”. (Evid. Code, § 915, subd. (b).)
 
Plaintiff has not meaningfully made a showing that she has a
privilege to assert in the context of these documents.  The categories of documents are described
clearly by the County, and Plaintiff has not identified any privilege that
needs additional protection at the in camera review.  
 
The Court will order that any documents ordered produced
following in camera review must be produced to all parties.  The Court will order production under a
protective order that they may be used only for the purposes of this litigation
and must be returned to the County at the conclusion of this case.