  Case Number:  20STCV28899    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  39 Shahrouz
Jahanshahi v. Corey Evan Parker
Case
No. 20STCV28899
 
Order
#1 of 2
Defendants’
Motion to Declare Plaintiff a Vexatious Litigant
 
[TENTATIVE]
Order
            
NOTICE
 
            The
Court posts this tentative order on October 12, 2023, in advance of the hearing
on October 16, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.  The
Court provides notice: If Plaintiff does not appear at the hearing, either
remotely or in-person, he shall waive the right to be heard and shall submit to
entry of this tentative order.  
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Plaintiff
Shahrouz Jahanshahi (“Plaintiff”), a self-represented litigant, filed this legal
malpractice action against his former attorney, Corey Evan Parker, and a series
of Doe defendants.  Following a demurrer,
the following causes of action remained at issue: (1) Legal malpractice, (2)
Breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) Breach of contract.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated August 25,
2021.)  Shortly before the hearing on
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, on May 8, 2023, Plaintiff named Mr.
Parker’s wife, Trisha Parker, in place of a Doe defendant.  The Court granted Defendant Corey Evan
Parker’s motion for summary judgment. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 15, 2023.)  Notwithstanding the Court’s ruling on the
motion for summary judgment, Plaintiff maintains these same causes of action
against Mr. Parker’s wife, who worked as his case manager.  Defendants move to have Plaintiff declared a
vexatious litigant under Code of Civil Procedure sections 391(b)(1) and
391(b)(3), and ask the Court to require him to post an undertaking of $10,685
before proceeding with this case against Defendant Trisha Parker.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, which is
granted. 
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action against Defendant on July 27, 2020, and filed the operative
first amended complaint on May 4, 2021 asserting six causes of action: (1)
Legal malpractice, (2) Breach of fiduciary duties, (3) Breach of contract, (4)
Punitive damages, (5) Intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (6)
Fraud and deceit.  Defendant demurred to
the first amended complaint and moved to strike the prayer for punitive
damages.  The Court sustained the
demurrer and granted the motion to strike. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated August 25, 2021.)  The Court ruled that the case may proceed on
the first three causes of action: (1) Legal practice, (2) Breach of fiduciary
duty, and (3) Breach of contract.
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that he retained Defendant Corey Evan Parker to handle an appeal of an
adverse judgment in a limited civil case. 
The underlying dispute was between Plaintiff and his tenants, Howard and
Jean Rosenfield, over the security deposit. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Corey Evan Parker committed malpractice
as follows: (1) Defendant failed to file a notion to proceed in the District
Court of Appeal, Second District rather than the Appellate Division of the Los
Angeles County Superior Court; (2) Defendant failed to interview anyone as part
of an investigation to determine whether there were viable claims for the
appeal; (3) Defendant failed to raise viable Constitutional claims and
challenge erroneous rulings of the trial court in the underlying action; (4)
Defendant failed to properly assemble the record for the appeal; (5) Defendant
failed to serve the notice of remittitur on Plaintiff, so he lost his
opportunity to file a motion to tax costs; and (6) Defendant missed the
statutory deadline for filing a writ of mandate in Shahrouz Jahanshahi v.
Rodney T. Lewis, Case Number BC644230.
 
            Defendant
Corey Evan Parker filed a motion for summary judgment on November 14,
2022.  Shortly before the hearing on
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, on May 8, 2023, Plaintiff named Mr.
Parker’s wife, Trisha Parker, in place of a Doe defendant.  The Court granted Defendant Corey Evan
Parker’s motion for summary judgment. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 15, 2023.)  However, Plaintiff maintains these same
claims against Mr. Parker’s employees. 
Therefore, Defendants move to have Plaintiff declared a vexatious
litigant under Code of Civil Procedure sections 391(b)(1) and 391(b)(3). 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A “vexatious
litigant” is a person who “[i]n the immediately proceeding seven-year period
has commenced, prosecuted, or maintained in propria personal at least five
litigations other than in a small claims court that have been [] finally
determined adversely to the person . . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 391(b)(1).) 
The term “litigation” is defined as “any civil action or proceeding,
commenced, maintained or pending in any state or federal court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391(a).)  A “vexatious litigant” also includes a person
who “[i]n any litigation while acting in propria persona, repeatedly files
unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary
discovery, or engages in other tactics that are frivolous and solely intended
to cause unnecessary delay.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 391(b)(3).)  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants
filed a request for judicial notice concerning pleadings and orders filed in
courts within the State of California.  Plaintiff
does not oppose the request for judicial notice.  The Court takes judicial notice of these
filings, per Evidence Code section 452(d). 

 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Code of Civil Procedure section
391(b)(1)
 
            Plaintiff
has maintained the following actions as a self-represented party that resulted
in a final adverse decision against him over the past seven years:
 
            1.         Jean Rosenfeld, et al. v. Shahrouz Jahanshahi,
Los Angeles County Superior Court Case Number 15K09197.  This limited civil case was filed on August
1, 2016, and there was an adverse judgment at trial on December 8, 2017.  (See Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff appealed the judgment to the
Appellate Division, which affirmed the judgment.  (See Request for Judicial Notice, Exh.
B.)    
 
            2.         Shahrouz Jahanshahi v. Rodney T. Lewin,
Los Angeles County Superior Court Case Number BC644230.  This unlimited civil case was filed on
December 20, 2016, and there was a final adverse judgment on November 16, 2017,
when the Court entered a judgment of dismissal following sustaining of demurrer
without leave to amend.  (See Request for
Judicial Notice, Exh. C.)  Plaintiff
appealed the decision to the Appellate Division, which affirmed the trial
court’s decision.  (See Request for
Judicial Notice, Exhs. F & G.)    
 
            3.         Shahrouz Jahanshahi v. Benjamin Tarn
Rosenfield, Los Angeles County Superior Court Case Number 19STCV40091.  This unlimited civil case was filed on
November 7, 2019, and there was a final adverse decision on November 8, 2022,
when the Court entered a judgment of dismissal and award of attorney’s fees
against Plaintiff.  (See Request for
Judicial Notice, Exh. D.)  Plaintiff
appealed the decision to the District Court of Appeal, which affirmed the trial
court’s decision.  (See Request for
Judicial Notice, Exh. E.)    
 
 
          4.         Shahrouz Jahanshahi v. The State Bar of California,
California Supreme Court Case Number S268748. 
Plaintiff filed this “Accusation against Attorney”—Mr. Benjamin Tarn
Rosenfield, the plaintiffs’ attorney in Case Number 15K09197 and the defendant
in Case Number 19STCV40091—asking the California Supreme Court to “order the
State Bar of California to hold a disciplinary hearing against Benjamin Tarn
Rosenfield, an active member of the bar . . . .”  (Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. H-1.)  Plaintiff argued that he “has provided
extensive, clear, convincing evidence, ultimate facts, beyond the shadow of the
doubt to the State Bar of California to investigate and commence disciplinary
proceedings against Benjamin Tarn Rosenfield . . . [but] the State Bar has been
reluctant in taking the disciplinary actions in any form or share, and has been
silent as to the status of the complaint as unwilling to provide any
information despite petitioner’s numerous requests.”  (Ibid.) 
The California Supreme Court denied the petition on July 21, 2021.  (See Request for Judicial Notice, Exh.
H-2.)   
 
            5.         Shahrouz Jahanshahi v. Superior Court,
Case Number B309466.  Plaintiff filed a
petition for a writ of mandate on September 15, 2022, challenging the Court’s
decision to order the parties to conduct remote depositions.  (See Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. M.)  The petition was denied.  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff then filed a petition for writ of certiorari with both the
California Supreme Court and the United States Supreme Court, which were
denied.  (See Request for Judicial
Notice, Exh. N.) 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff falls within the scope of
Code of Civil Procedure section 391(a)(1). 
Plaintiff makes a series of arguments, none of which is meritorious.  Plaintiff argues that he was the defendant in
Jean Rosenfeld, et al. v. Shahrouz Jahanshahi, Los Angeles County Superior
Court Case Number 15K09197.  That matters
not, because the statute prohibits a self-represented party from “maintaining”
an unmeritorious action.  Contrary to
Plaintiff’s argument, section 391(b)(1) is not limited to actions by
“plaintiffs.”  Regardless, Plaintiff
elected to appeal the jury’s decision, and he was unsuccessful, and that
adverse decision qualifies under the statute. 
(See John v. Superior Court (2016) 63 Cal.4th 91, 99.)  Plaintiff cites John out-of-context,
arguing that “Section 391.7’s prefiling requirements do not apply to
self-represented vexatious litigant’s appeal of judgment or interlocutory
orders in an action in which he or she was the defendant.”  That is correct, but that holding relates to
the prefiling requirements of section 391.7. 
Plaintiff ignores the relevant part of the holding, which is that a
self-represented defendant/appellant or writ petitioner may be deemed a
vexatious litigant based upon conduct during the appellate proceedings.  (Id., p. 99.) 

 
            Plaintiff
argues that the case Shahrouz Jahanshahi v. The State Bar of California,
California Supreme Court Case Number S268748, was administrative in nature and
therefore does not fall within the statute. 
Plaintiff is incorrect.  The
statute defines “litigation” as “any civil action or proceeding, commenced,
maintained, or pending in any state or federal court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391(a).)  A “civil action” is defined broadly to mean
non-criminal litigation.  (See Black’s
Law Dictionary, 11th ed., 2019.)  Indeed,
the purpose of the statute is to prohibit vexatious litigants from filing
meritless actions, which means that any non-criminal case filed by an
individual falls within the definition of “litigation.”  Regardless, between the adverse decision at
trial and on appeal, Plaintiff still would qualify as a vexatious litigant,
even if the Court did not consider this case. 

 
            Plaintiff
argues that he was represented by counsel in certain of these cases.  The pleadings demonstrate that Plaintiff
represented himself.  Regardless, even if
Plaintiff had an attorney during certain parts of the cases, the record is
clear that he “commenced, prosecuted or maintained” these actions as a
self-represented party, which brings him within the scope of the statute.    
 
            Finally,
Plaintiff argues that some of the cases have not been “finalized” yet because
there is no “final judgment.”  As an
initial matter, Plaintiff is, quite simply, incorrect.  There was a judgment, and the appellate
process has concluded.  The Court has
considered Plaintiff’s remaining arguments and finds none to have merit.  Therefore, Defendants’ motion is granted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 391(b)(1).
 
            B.        Code of Civil Procedure section
391(a)(3)
 
            In
the alternative, the Court grants Defendants’ motion under Code of Civil
Procedure section 391(a)(3).  The Court previously
found that Plaintiff engaged in gamesmanship and harassment during discovery.  The Court incorporates by reference its
orders of August 19, 2022, and March 2, 2023, but summarizes the issue as
follows:
 
“[T]he Court finds that
Plaintiff is engaged in gamesmanship. 
The Court previously found that Plaintiff has engaged in abusive
discovery conduct in attempting to evade his own deposition.  Now, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s refusal
to take Defendant’s deposition is nothing more than an attempt to revisit the
Court’s order that the deposition proceed remotely, and to harass both
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel. 
Again, the Court is concerned by the poor working relationship between
the parties and their repeated allegations against each other, which is one
reason the Court has ordered remote depositions in this case.  The Court finds that Plaintiff, not
Defendant’s counsel, has been responsible for the delays in litigating this
case, which supports the Court’s view that Plaintiff’s true motive is
harassment of Defendant and Defendant’s counsel.”  
 
(Court’s Minute Order, dated May
2, 2023, p. 6.)  This supports the
Court’s decision to grant the motion under section 391(b)(3). 
 
            In
addition, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s decision to name Defendant Corey
Evan Parker’s wife, Trisha Parker, as a defendant is vexatious.  Plaintiff filed this action on July 27, 2020,
and Defendant Corey Evan Parker identified his wife as his case manager in his
discovery responses on August 19, 2021. 
(See Declaration of John Lupton, ¶ 3 & Exh. P.)  Yet, Plaintiff waited until May 8, 2023,
shortly before hearing on Defendant Corey Evan Parker’s motion for summary
judgment, to name Trisha Parker (and David Thomas Sulzbacher).  This reflects an effort to unduly delay the
proceedings in order to harass Corey Evan Parker.    
 
More important,
there is no legitimate basis to proceed against Trisha Parker.  Trisha Parker is not an attorney; she merely
worked as her husband’s case manager, and she did not sign the retainer
agreement.  (See Declaration of Trisha
Parker, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff’s opposition
does not persuade the Court that his claims against Trisha Parker have
merit.  Plaintiff argues: “If spouses are
sued together, each may defend his or her own right, but if one spouse neglects
to defend, the other spouse may defend for that spouse’s right also.”  (Plaintiff’s Opposition, p. 9:12-14.)  This does not entitle Plaintiff to name
Trisha Parker in an action for legal malpractice, breach of fiduciary duty, and
breach of the retainer agreement against her employer and husband.  
 
Plaintiff
baldly asserts: “[T]here exists liability in [sic] her part to
Jahanshahi.”  (Plaintiff’s Opposition, p.
9:17-18.)  However, Plaintiff does not
articulate a sufficient independent basis to proceed against Trisha Parker,
which means the claims against her are based upon the same facts as those
against her husband.  This is fatal to
Plaintiff’s claims against Trisha Parker. 
Plaintiff does not explain how a non-lawyer employee could be liable for
these causes of action—legal malpractice, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach
of the retainer agreement—against her attorney-employer.  Even if so, the Court’s grant of summary
judgment addressed the merits of those claims. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s claims against Trisha Parker are
frivolous and intended for purposes of harassment.  
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendants are judicially estopped from filing this motion because
Defendant Corey Evan Parker appeared and filed an answer, and his wife now
files this motion, which “equates to defendant taking two separate
positions.”  (Plaintiff’s Opposition, p.
8:26-27.)  Plaintiff’s argument lacks
merit.  As for Defendant Corey Evan
Parker, he is free to file this motion at any point before a final judgment is
entered.  “[A] defendant may move the
court at any time before final judgment for an order requiring the plaintiff to
furnish security upon a showing ‘that the plaintiff is a vexatious litigant and
that there is not a reasonable probability that he will prevail in the
litigation against the moving defendant.” 
(Tokerud v. Capitolbank Sacramento (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 775, citing
Code of Civil Procedure section 391.1.) 
Plaintiff cannot “have his cake and eat it, too,” by arguing that the Court’s
grant of Defendant Corey Evan Parker’s motion for summary judgment is not a
final decision for purposes of declaring him a vexatious litigant but operates
as a final decision that precludes Defendant Corey Evan Parker from filing this
motion.  Regardless, Defendant Trisha Parker
is permitted to maintain this motion independently of Defendant Corey Evan
Parker.  Plaintiff created his own
problem by naming her as a defendant.
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendants are prohibited from filing this motion because Corey
Evan Parker previously represented him, and therefore has a duty of
loyalty.  Plaintiff argues: “Attorneys
are bound to protect their clients’ secrets at every peril, and not to cause
any harm to them.”  (Plaintiff’s
Opposition, p. 10:20-22.)  As an initial
matter, the Court is not aware of Defendants having revealed anything governed
by attorney-client privilege in the course of this litigation.  Regardless, once the client sues the lawyer,
the lawyer is entitled to defend himself. 
Filing a legal malpractice action against one’s attorney generally
results in a waiver of the attorney-client privilege, thus enabling the
attorney to disclose, to the extent necessary to defend against the action,
information otherwise protected by the privilege.  (See Reilly v. Greenwald & Hoffman, LLP
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 891, 900.) 
Similarly, a lawyer who is sued by his client may file any motion
necessary to defend against the litigation. 

 
The Court has
considered Plaintiff’s remaining arguments and finds none to have merit.  Therefore, in the alternative, Defendant’s
motion is granted under Code of Civil Procedure section 391(b)(3).
 
C.        Constitutionality of Vexatious Litigant
Statute
 
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that section 391 is unconstitutional because it impedes the
right of access to the courts.  Section
391 does no such thing because it does not bar litigation from vexatious
litigants.  Rather, it requires vexatious
litigants to obtain permission before filing an action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 391.7.)  It also authorizes, but does not require, the
posting of an undertaking.  (Ibid.) 
 
D.        Posting of an Undertaking 
 
Defendant
Trisha Parker asks the Court to require Plaintiff to post an undertaking of at
least $10,685.  Per Code of Civil
Procedure section 391.3, once the Court determines that Plaintiff is a
vexatious litigant, the Court “shall” require him to post security.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.3(a).)  Defendant Trisha Parker did not request
dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure section 391.3(b). 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Defendants’ motion to
declare Plaintiff a vexatious litigant under Code of Civil Procedure section
391(a)(1).
 
            2.         In the alternative, the Court grants
Defendants’ motion to declare Plaintiff a vexatious litigant under Code of
Civil Procedure section 391(a)(3).
 
            3.         The Court orders Plaintiff to post an
undertaking in the amount of $10,685 within ten (10) days.  
 
            4.         The Court orders Plaintiff to file
proof that he posted the required undertaking on or before October 30, 2023.
 
            5.         The Court continues the case management
conference to November 6, 2023, at 8:30 a.m. 

 
            6.         The Court issues an Order to Show Cause
why the claims against Defendant Trisha Parker should not be dismissed with
prejudice for failure to post the required undertaking.  The OSC hearing shall be held on November 6,
2023, at 8:30 a.m. at the following location:
 
Stanley Mosk Courthouse 
111 North Hill Street
Department #39 (Goorvitch, J.)
Los Angeles, California 90012
 
The parties may appear remotely
or in-person.  The parties may file
responses on or before November 1, 2023, and/or may address the issues orally
at the hearing.  The Court provides
notice: If Plaintiff fails to post the required undertaking, absent good cause,
the Court intends to dismiss the claims against Trisha Parker with prejudice.
 
            7.         The Court’s clerk shall serve this
order upon the parties, as well as the Judicial Council, so that Plaintiff’s
name may be added to the vexatious litigant list.  
 
 
Order
#2 of 2
Defendant’s
Motion to Strike
 
[TENTATIVE]
Order
                        
            The
Court posts this tentative order on October 12, 2023, in advance of the hearing
on October 16, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.  The
Court provides notice: If Plaintiff does not appear at the hearing, either
remotely or in-person, he shall waive the right to be heard and shall submit to
entry of this tentative order.  
 
Plaintiff
Shahrouz Jahanshahi (“Plaintiff”), a self-represented litigant, filed this
legal malpractice action against his former attorney, Corey Evan Parker, and a
series of Doe defendants.  Following a
demurrer, the following causes of action remained at issue: (1) Legal
malpractice, (2) Breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) Breach of contract.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated August 25,
2021.)  Shortly before the hearing on
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, on May 8, 2023, Plaintiff named a
contract attorney, David Thomas Sulzbacher (“Defendant”), in place of a Doe
defendant.  Now, Defendant moves to
strike the Doe amendment under Code of Civil Procedure sections 435(b)(1) and
436, which Plaintiff opposes.  Defendant’s
motion is granted on two independent grounds. 
  
 
First, the
Court grants the motion based upon Plaintiff’s unreasonable delay in filing the
Doe amendment.  “[S]ection 474 includes
an implicit requirement that a plaintiff may not ‘unreasonably delay’ his or
her filing of a Doe amendment after learning a defendant’s identity.”  (A.N. v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1058, 1066-1067.)  On August
19, 2021, Defendant Corey Evan Parker disclosed that he worked with Defendant,
another attorney, “in analyzing and researching possible grounds for appeal,
preparing arguments, and drafting and revising the appellate briefing.”  (See Defendant’s Compendium of Exhibits, Exh.
#4, p. 3.)  The Court denied Plaintiff’s
motion to take Defendant’s deposition, noting that Plaintiff never noticed the
deposition.  (See Court’s Minute Order,
dated January 14, 2022.)  Yet, Plaintiff
did not file the Doe amendment until May 8, 2023, and did not serve the Doe
amendment until June 23, 2023.  The Court
finds there is no good cause for this delay. 
The Court finds Defendant is prejudice by the late service.  Therefore, the Court grants the motion based
upon unreasonable delay under Section 474. 

 
Second, in the
alternative, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to strike under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 583.410 and 583.420, which authorizes the Court to dismiss
actions for undue delay in prosecution when service is not made within two
years after the action is commenced against a defendant.  In cases of Doe amendments, this clock begins
running when the complaint is filed, not when the Doe defendant is named.  “[E]ven
where the filing of an amended complaint on a Doe amendment relates back to the
filing of an original complaint, the plaintiff must nonetheless identify and
serve a Doe defendant with a summons and complaint within three years of the
commencement of the action.”  (Higgins
v. Superior Court (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 973, 982, citation omitted.)  “Failure to discover relevant facts or
evidence is not a cause beyond plaintiff’s control for purposes of this
subdivision.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
583.240.)  In this case, Plaintiff filed
the action on July 27, 2020, and he served Defendant on June 23, 2023, one
month before the mandatory dismissal date. 
There is no good cause for this delay, as Plaintiff was aware of
Defendant’s role in the underlying appeal since no later than August 19,
2021.  Therefore, in the alternative, the
Court grants the motion based upon delay in prosecution under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 583.410 and 583.420.
 
Plaintiff makes a series of arguments.  Plaintiff argues that there was no
meet-and-confer as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5 because Defendant’s
counsel merely sent correspondence to Plaintiff.  This is sufficient to satisfy the statute,
given the nature of this motion and the posture of the case, and Defendant’s
counsel’s declaration is sufficient evidence of compliance with section
435.5.  Regardless, a violation of
section 435.5 is a basis for a continuance of the hearing and/or sanctions, not
a denial of the motion.  Plaintiff also argues
that Defendant has unclean hands, but Plaintiff’s declaration and attached
emails do not establish any improper conduct by Defendant.  To the contrary, it was Plaintiff’s
responsibility to notice Defendant’s deposition—which the Court advised
Plaintiff in denying his motion to compel Defendant’s deposition—and he failed
to do so in a timely manner.  (See
Court’s Minute Order, dated January 14, 2022.) 
But that matters not.  Simply,
Plaintiff had sufficient information to name Defendant no later than August 19,
2021; Plaintiff failed to do so; and Defendant is not responsible for this delay.  The Court has considered Plaintiff’s
remaining arguments and finds that none has merit.    
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court grants
Defendant’s motion to strike.  The Court
need not address Defendant’s arguments that the Doe allegations are
insufficient under Code of Civil Procedure section 474, or that the claims
against Defendant do not “relate back” to the original complaint, meaning they
are barred by the applicable statute of limitations.  Although the Court has declared Plaintiff to
be a vexatious litigant given his conduct in this case, per Code of Civil
Procedure section 391(b)(3), the Court need not determine whether his decision
to name and serve Defendant was intended for purposes of harassment or undue
delay in order to rule on this motion.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Defendant David Thomas Sulzbacher’s
motion to strike the Doe amendment is granted.
 
            2.         The Court orders that Defendant David
Thomas Sulzbacher shall be dismissed with prejudice.
 
            3.         Counsel for Defendant David Thomas
Sulzbacher shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  