  Case Number:  22STCV19003    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.This is a
revival action pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.1, alleging Plaintiff was
sexually abused and assaulted by Defendants’ employee while Plaintiff was a
student at school.
Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the
Second Amended Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to the Second Amended Complaint is DENIED in its entirety.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Judgment On The Pleadings
Request
For Judicial Notice
            Defendant’s request that the Court
take judicial notice of California 2008 Legislative Search, 2008 Potion of
2007-2008 Regular Session, Chapter 383, S.B. No. 640 is GRANTED. The Court may
take judicial notice of legislative history materials relevant to a material
issue. (See Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 544 n.4.)
            Plaintiff’s requests that the Court
take judicial notice of various Superior Court rulings is DENIED as these unpublished,
non-binding rulings are not relevant to this Court’s determination of this
motion. The
Court need only take judicial notice of relevant materials. (Mangini v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1057, 1063, overruled in part on other grounds noted in In re Tobacco
Cases II (2007) 41
Cal.4th 1257, 1276.) The Court may deny a request for judicial notice of
material unnecessary to its decision. (Rivera v. First
DataBank, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 709, 713.) Defendant’s objection to these
requests is SUSTAINED. 
 
Plaintiff’s request that the Court
take judicial notice of Assembly floor analysis AB 218 dated August 30, 2019 is
GRANTED. 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
            The Declaration of Jeffrey P. Wade
reflects that Defendant’s counsel satisfied the meet and confer requirement set
forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 439.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District moves for judgment on the pleadings on the
following grounds:
 
1.         Entire
Second Amended Complaint.
 
            A.        Failure To Present Government Claim.
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (c)(1)(B(ii) Plaintiff Stephen
Benveniste’s Second Amended Complaint fails to state a cause of action against Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District because Plaintiff failed to present a Government
Claim to Los Angeles Unified School District prior to commencing suit.   Thus, Causes of Action Number 1 for
Negligence and Number 4 for Negligent Hiring, Retention and Supervision fail as
a matter of law.   
 
This argument is not persuasive because the Legislature eliminated
the government claims requirement for actions for recovery of damages
suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.1(q).)

 
See also Gov. Code, § 905(m),
which provides:
 
There shall be presented in accordance with Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) all
claims for money or damages against local public entities except any of the
following:
 
. . .
 
(m) Claims made pursuant to Section 340.1 of the Code of Civil
Procedure for the recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual
assault.

     (Gov.
Code § 905(m).)
 
 
Defendant argues that the Legislature’s elimination of the government
claim requirement violates the “gift clause” in creating a liability for LAUSD
and other public entities where one did not previously exist, and because the
legislation only served a private purpose, i.e., that certain individuals may
sue. This argument is not persuasive.
 
Eliminating the claims presentation
requirement for these cases is not creating new governmental liability where
none exists—those long-standing (since 1963) statutory bases are alleged in the
2AC as follows: Government Code §§ 815.2[1],
815.4[2],
and/or 815.6[3]. (2AC, ¶
58.)
 
Rather, the new legislation removes
one barrier—a government claim—to such liability, which Plaintiff still must
prove. This may be difficult if the incidents occurred long ago, as memories
fade and documentary evidence/witnesses may be unavailable.
It does not constitute a gift of public funds because Plaintiff
must prove liability in order to obtain such funds by way of payment of a
judgment---they are not simply being given to him without the need for a trial.
And, if Plaintiff should prevail at trial, Defendant’s payment of a judgment
does not constitute a gift of public money:
 
"We are not strongly impressed with the contention of
the respondent that the application of funds to pay judgments obtained against
the state constitutes a gift of public money, within the prohibition of the
Constitution. The state cannot be subjected to suits against itself
except by its express consent; but it may surrender its sovereignty in that
particular. It has done so in this instance through the act of its
duly authorized representative, the legislature. The judgments
which are to be paid bear no semblance to gifts. They must be first obtained in
courts of competent jurisdiction, to which the parties have submitted their
claims in the manner directed by law. In other words, they are judgments
obtained after the requirements of due process of law have been complied with.
The legislature has not attempted to create a liability against the state
for any past acts of negligence on the part of its officers, agents or
employees -- something it could not do, and the doing of which would, in
effect, be the making of a gift -- but has provided that 'hereafter' it shall
be liable for certain things done which cause damage to its citizens, its
liability to be first determined by an appropriate action at law.

     (Heron
v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 507, 517 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            Defendant places great importance on
the language in Heron that the legislature could not create a liability
against the state for past acts of negligence on the part of its officer,
agents or employees, which would be the making of a gift. Defendant also cites Chapman v. State (1894) 104 Cal. 690, 693, which contains the following
passage:
 
It is also
true that under section 31 of article IV of the constitution of this
state, which forbids the legislature from making any gift of public money or
other thing of value to any person, the legislature has no power to create a liability against the state for any such past act
of negligence upon the part of its officers.

    
(Italics in original.)
 
However, the removal of the claims presentation requirement does
not create a liability, but rather revives potential liability if the plaintiff
can prove it. This government claim elimination has been upheld:
 
In addition to the changes to Code of Civil Procedure section
340.1, Assembly Bill 218 amended Government Code section 905 by deleting from
subdivision (m) the language that previously limited this exception to the
government claim presentation requirement to claims arising out of conduct
occurring on or after January 1, 2009, and adding subdivision (p), which made
this change retroactive.
 
     (Coats v. New
Haven Unified School Dist. (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 415, 424.)
 
The present
case, of course, involves revival of a cause of action barred by a claim
presentation requirement, not a statute of limitations. But we are aware of no
reason the Legislature should be any less able to revive claims in this
context, as it expressly did in Assembly Bill 218: “Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, any claim for damages described in paragraphs (1)
through (3), inclusive, of subdivision (a) that has not been litigated to
finality and that would otherwise be barred as of January 1, 2020,
because the applicable statute of limitations, claim presentation deadline, or any other time limit
had expired, is revived, and these claims may be commenced within three years
of January 1, 2020.” (§ 340.1, subd. (q), italics added.)
 
The express inclusion of “claim presentation deadline[s]” in
Assembly Bill 218 distinguishes it from the 2002 amendment to Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1, which revived claims “that would otherwise be barred
as of January 1, 2003, solely because the applicable statute of limitations has
or had expired. …” (Stats. 2002, ch. 149, § 1, p. 752.) That revival provision,
our Supreme Court held, did not alter the bar imposed by a plaintiff's failure
to file a claim with the public entity defendant: “‘[T]he government claim
presentation deadline is not a statute of limitations. Had the Legislature
intended to also revive in subdivision (c) the claim presentation deadline
under the government claims statute, it could have easily said so. It did
not.’” (Rubenstein, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 907, quoting Shirk,
supra, 42 Cal.4th at p. 213.) In Assembly Bill 218, the
Legislature made clear its intent to revive causes of action previously barred
by government claims presentation requirements.
 
Rubenstein noted that the claim
presentation requirement “‘is based on a recognition of the special status
of public entities, according them greater protections than nonpublic
entity defendants, because unlike nonpublic defendants, public entities whose
acts or omissions are alleged to have caused harm will incur costs that must
ultimately be borne by the taxpayers.’” (Rubenstein, supra, 3 Cal.5th at
p. 908, quoting  [*429] Shirk, supra, 42 Cal.4th at p. 213.) In that case, the plaintiff argued that the claim she
filed with a public entity defendant in 2012, when she became aware of memories
of sexual abuse by her public school athletic coach from 1993 to 1994, was
timely. Accepting the plaintiff's argument that her claim accrued when she
became aware of the past abuse, the court said, would contravene the policies
underlying the claim presentation requirement: “A public entity cannot plan for
a fiscal year if it may be subject to an unknown and unknowable number of
ancient claims like this one. It is probably too late today to meaningfully
investigate the facts behind the claim and reach reliable conclusions; even if
some investigation is still possible, a claim timely filed in 1993 or 1994
would certainly have been easier to investigate and would have allowed for more
reliable conclusions. It is also too late to prevent the alleged abuser from
abusing again.” (Rubenstein, at p. 914.)
 
The Rubenstein court
observed that in responding to Shirk by adding subdivision (m)
to section 905, the Legislature had “endeavored to take account of these policy
concerns,” creating the exception to the claims requirement for childhood
sexual abuse cases but making it prospective only. (Rubenstein, supra, 3
Cal.5th at p. 914.) “[T]he amendment shows that the Legislature has attempted
to balance the important objectives underlying the statutory scheme with
practical concerns about permitting the litigation of old claims against
governmental entities.” (Ibid.)
In Assembly Bill 218, the Legislature
has again attempted to balance the competing concerns of protecting public
entities from stale claims and allowing victims of childhood sexual abuse to
seek compensation. This time, the Legislature came to a different conclusion,
with an express revival provision for claims against public entities as well as
those against private defendants. The District attempts to cast doubt upon
the constitutionality of [*430]  retroactive application of the
legislation by pointing to the magnitude of the changes it makes, not only
adding the previously discussed provision for treble damages in cases of
coverup of childhood sexual abuse but extending the statute of limitations
14 years longer than under prior law (to 22 years after the age of majority),
reviving claims that have not been litigated to finality for a three-year
period regardless of when the abuse allegedly occurred (“even if the abuse
allegedly occurred 100 years ago”), and eliminating the protection section 905,
subdivision (m), previously provided for claims arising from conduct that
occurred prior to 2009. None of these changes are implicated in the present
case. As we have said, there are no allegations to trigger the treble damages
provision. Appellants' suit was filed when E.D. was 19 years old, well within
the prior statute of limitations (eight years from age of majority). The
alleged abuse last occurred only a year and a half prior to the filing of the
complaint, far from the “100 years ago” invoked by the District in
characterizing the amendment. And the case involves alleged abuse in 2014 and
2015, not prior to 2009. The District offers no reason for finding the claim
revival provisions of Assembly Bill 218 unconstitutional.
 
In light of the express revival provision
in subdivision (q) of Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1, it is not
necessary for us to determine the merits of appellants' argument that the trial
court erred in finding the District's claim presentation requirement was
valid under section 935 despite the exception for childhood sexual abuse claims
stated in section 905, subdivision (m), either due to the legislative intent
reflected in section 905, subdivision (m), itself or as clarified by Senate
Bill No. 1053's (2017–2018 Reg. Sess.) addition of the exception to section 935
for claims of childhood sexual abuse. It is apparent from the history of
amendments to these statutes, however, that the Legislature has consistently
worked to expand the ability of victims of childhood sexual abuse to seek
compensation from the responsible parties, on several occasions in direct
response to restrictive judicial opinions. In the face of a revival
provision expressly and unequivocally encompassing claims of childhood sexual abuse
previously barred for failure to [*431]  present a timely government
claim, it is clear we must reverse the trial court's judgment and remand for
further proceedings on appellants' complaint.
 
(Coats v. New Haven Unified School Dist. (2020) 46
Cal. App. 5th 415, 428-31 [bold emphasis added].)
 
 
            Defendant
also relies upon the principal espoused in Jordan v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 431 regarding the prohibition
of a gift of public money:
 
Section 6
of article XVI of the California Constitution provides that the Legislature has
no power "to make any gift or authorize the making of any gift, of any
public money or thing of value to any individual, municipal or other
corporation . . . ."  The term "gift" in the constitutional
provision "includes all appropriations of public money for which
there is no authority or enforceable claim," even if there is a moral or
equitable obligation. ( Conlin v. Board of Supervisors (1893) 99 Cal. 17, 21-22, [33 P. 753].) "An appropriation
of money by the legislature for the relief of one who has no legal claim
therefor must be regarded as a gift within the meaning of that term, as used in
this section, and it is none the less a gift that a sufficient motive appears
for its appropriation, if the motive does not rest upon a valid
consideration." ( Id. at p. 22.)
 
"It is
well settled that the primary question to be considered in determining whether
an appropriation of public funds is to be considered a gift is whether the
funds are to be used for a public or private purpose. If they are to be
used for a public purpose, they are not a gift within the meaning of this
constitutional prohibition. [Citation.]" ( California Teachers Assn. v.
Board of Trustees (1978) 82
Cal. App. 3d 249, 257, [146 Cal. Rptr. 850].)

(Jordan v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2002)
100 Cal.App.4th 431, 450 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            Here, the legislature has not “appropriated”
any public money: indeed, Plaintiff may never recover any damages if he cannot
prove his case, and even if he does, as noted above, the payment of a judgment
does not constitute a gift.
 
            Defendant’s citation to Bourn v.
Hart (1892) 93 Cal. 321 is unavailing, as the legislature in that case
enacted a specific appropriation of public money payable to a named individual
or certain individuals—a situation that obviously does not exist here. Likewise
as to Conlin v. Board of Supervisors (1893) 99 Cal. 17, and Powell v.
Phelan (1903) 138 Cal. 271, upon which Defendant also relies.
 
            In
any event, even if considered a gift, the claims presentation elimination serves
a public, not private purpose, as can be gleaned from this legislative comment
to AB218 (Pltf’s RJN, Exh. 12, Page 2). 
 
COMMENTS: 
 
Childhood
sexual abuse continues to ruin children lives and continues to shock the
nation because, unfortunately, perpetrators continue to abuse, often
with impunity, and sometimes with the help of third parties who either choose
not to get involved or actively cover-up the abuse. Whether the abuse
occurred through gymnastics, swimming, school, or a religious institution, too
many children have been victims of abuse and their lives have been forever
impacted by that abuse. Despite the lifetime of damage that this abuse
causes its victims, the state's statute of limitations restricts how long
actions can be brought to recover for damages caused by childhood sexual abuse.
In an effort to allow more victims of childhood sexual assault to be
compensated for their injuries and, to help prevent future assaults by
raising the costs for this abuse, this bill extends the civil statute of
limitations for childhood sexual assault by 14 years, revives old claims for
three years, and eliminates existing limitations for claims against public
institutions. This bill applies equally to abuse occurring at public and
private schools and applies to all local public entities. Lastly, the bill
allows a victim of childhood sexual abuse to recover tremble [sic] damages
against a defendant if the sexual assault is the result of a cover-up by the
defendant of a prior sexual assault of a minor.
 
     (Bold emphasis added.)
 
            This
argument is not persuasive.
 
            B.        Re: The Revival of Statute of Limitations
Is Unconstitutional.
 
Further, Defendant
argues, AB 218’s revival of the statute of limitations for statutory claims
made against LAUSD is also prohibited on due process grounds under the Supreme
Court’s decision in Chambers v. Gallagher (1918) 177 Cal. 704. Defendant
argues that AB 218 is unconstitutional as applied to Los Angeles Unified School
District. In Chambers, the Supreme
Court rejected Campbell and
ruled that the Legislature could not enact a new limitations period which
effectively revived a cause of action after the original period had lapsed. (Id.
at 709-710.)

            However, in Liebig v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 828, 830, the court expressly
held that Civil Code, § 340.1 was valid and, to the extent a vested right
exists in the repose of a cause of action: 
 
. . . the law is clear that vested rights are not immune from
retroactive laws when an important state interest is at stake. (Citations omitted.) In this case the
important state interest espoused by section 340.1 is the increased
availability of tort relief to plaintiffs who had been the victims of sexual
abuse while a minor. While August
complains that the trial court had no "evidence" of public policy
before it, the identification of public policy can be as much an interpretive
as an evidentiary exercise. The language of the retroactivity provision of
section 340.1 indicates a clear legislative intent to maximize claims of
sexual-abuse minor plaintiffs for as expansive a period of time as possible.
The public policy is manifest from the text of the law.
 
 [*835] 
We adopt the distinction made in Nelson between statutory and common law causes of action,
and conclude that Chambers and its
cognate cases are inapposite to the common law torts alleged in Lisa's
complaint. Under the rationale of Nelson and Gallo, we hold that the Legislature has the power to expressly
revive time-barred civil common law causes of action. This holding is consistent with
the niche in our civil law occupied by statutes of limitations. "The
principle is . . . well established that ' [statutorily] imposed
limitations on actions are technical defenses which should be strictly
construed to avoid the forfeiture of a plaintiff's rights. . . .' [Citation.]
[There] is a 'strong public policy that litigation be disposed of on the merits
wherever possible.'" (Citations omitted)

     (Liebig,
supra, 209 Cal.App.3d at 834-35 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            Defendant argues that  the statutory basis for LAUSD’s liability
distinguishes this from Liebig, which only applied to reviving
time-barred common law causes of action. Here, the 2AC alleges four common law causes
of action: (1) negligence against the LAUSD; (2) negligence against Does 2
through 25; (3) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision against the LAUSD;
and (4) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision (Does 2 through 25).. .
 
Although
there is a statutory basis for holding Defendant LAUSD liable, these actually
state a basis for vicarious liability, and thus are derivative of the
underlying common law liability. 
 
(a) A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act
or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his
employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given
rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal representative.
 
(b) Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public entity is not
liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of an employee of the
public entity where the employee is immune from liability.

     (Gov.
Code § 815.2(a) & (b)[bold emphasis added].)
[1] 
A public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by a tortious act or omission of an independent contractor
of the public entity to the same extent that the public entity would be
subject to such liability if it were a private person. Nothing in this
section subjects a public entity to liability for the act or omission of an
independent contractor if the public entity would not have been liable for the
injury had the act or omission been that of an employee of the public entity.

     (Gov.
Code § 815.4 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            The
effect of Gov. Code, §§ 815.2 and 815.4 is to remove immunity to the extent
stated in the statutes. “[T]he Legislature enacted a comprehensive statutory
scheme that wipes the slate clean of common law liabilities and immunities and
replaces them with statutory provisions specifying the extent of liability
or immunity. (See Gov. Code,
§§ 815, 815.2, 820.)” (Leon v. County
of Riverside (2023) 14 Cal. 5th 910, 928.)
 
As such,
the holding of Campbell—and the distinction made by Liebig—does not
apply here to prohibit the revival of the above causes of action against the
LAUSD. 
 
            Notably, where
school district’s supervisory or administrative personnel knew or should have
known that a school employee sexually harasses or abuses a student, the school
district may be held liable for negligent hiring, retention and/or supervision
under Gov. Code, § 815.2:

We conclude plaintiff's theory of
vicarious liability for negligent hiring, retention and supervision is a
legally viable one. Ample case authority establishes that school personnel owe students under their
supervision a protective duty of ordinary care, for breach of which the school
district may be held vicariously liable. (Citations omitted.) If a
supervisory or administrative employee of the school district is proven to have
breached that duty by negligently
exposing plaintiff to a foreseeable danger of molestation by his guidance
counselor, resulting in his  [*866]  injuries, and assuming no
immunity provision applies, liability falls on the school district under
section 815.2.


(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 865-66 
[bold emphasis added].)
 
Within these limits, we conclude a
public school district may be vicariously
liable under section 815.2 for the negligence of administrators or supervisors
in hiring, supervising and retaining a school employee who sexually
harasses and abuses a student. Whether plaintiff in this case can prove the
District's administrative or supervisory personnel were actually negligent in
this respect is not a question we address in this appeal from dismissal on the
sustaining of a demurrer.


(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 879 [bold emphasis added].
 
            Defendant’s
argument on this basis is not persuasive.
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is
DENIED in its entirety.


