 Case Number:  23STCV27703    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.Plaintiff
alleges that she was discriminated against and retaliated against, resulting in
her termination, based on her disabilities and protected activities.
Defendant DTF Prep, LLC demurs to the Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant
DTF Prep, LLC’s demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED as to the first and
fourth causes of action, SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the second, third
and fifth causes of action, and is MOOT as to the sixth cause of action.
Plaintiff is given 30 days’ leave to amend
where specified. 
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Request
For Judicial Notice
            Defendants request that the Court
take judicial notice of the follows:
1. Plaintiff LAURA HERNANDEZ’s administrative charge
filed with the Civil 
Rights Department (Charge No. 202211-18899316) dated
November 21, 2022 as the “Date Filed,” produced in response to a California
Public Records Act request, (Request No. 202312-04978718). A true and correct
copy is attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Richard Mojica in Support
of Request for Judicial Notice [“Mojica Decl. RJN”]. 
 
2. A Letter from the CRD to Plaintiff LAURA
HERNANDEZ’s Counsel, Jack 
Bazerkanian, dated November 21, 2022 regarding
Plaintiff’s CRD charge, (Charge No. 202211-18899316), produced in response to a
California Public Records Act request, (Request No. 202312-04978718). A true
and correct copy is attached as Exhibit B to Mojica Decl. RJN. 
 
3. Notice of Case Closure and Right to Sue letter from
the CRD to Plaintiff LAURA HERNANDEZ, dated November 21, 2022, regarding her
CRD charge, (Charge No. 202211-18899316), produced in response to a California
Public Records Act request, (Request No. 202312-04978718). A true and correct
copy is attached as Exhibit C to Mojica Decl. RJN. 
 
4. The Certification in Response to Public Records
Request (Request No. 202312-
04978718) for CRD Case No. 202211-18899316 for
records of Plaintiff LAURA HERNANDEZ, dated December 27, 2023, is attached as
Exhibit D. to Mojica Decl. RJN.
            Pursuant to Evid. Code § 452(c), the Court may take judicial notice of
official records of an administrative agency (Ordlock v. Franchise Tax Bd. (2006) 38 Cal.4th 897, 912) and
official acts of a state agency (but not the truth of the matters asserted
therein). (Lent v. California Coastal Com. (2021) 62
Cal.App.5th 812, 854.)
Meet
and Confer
            The Declaration of Richard B. Mojica
reflects that Defendant’s counsel satisfied the meet and confer requirement set
forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41.
Discussion
Defendant DTF Prep, LLC demurs to the Complaint on the
following grounds.
1.         First
Cause of Action (Disability Discrimination In Violation of Gov. Code, §
12940(a).
            A.        Re: Failure To Plead Exhaustion of
Administrative Remedies.
            Defendant
argues that the FEHA requires that an employee file a charge with California’s
Civil Rights Department (“CRD”) (formerly the Department of Fair Employment and
Housing) that sets forth the particulars of any FEHA violations, prior to
filing a lawsuit. Although Plaintiff filed a charge with the CRD on November 21, 2022, she did not set forth
the requisite particulars to satisfy the FEHA’s exhaustion requirement. See Exhibit (“Ex.”) A
to Declaration of Richard Mojica; 11/21/22 CRD Charge; Request for Judicial
Notice (“RJN”). In this regard, Plaintiff’s charge lists protected categories,
but lacks any factual allegations relating to purported violations whatsoever.
            The purpose
of a DFEH complaint is simply to initiate an investigation:
In a related argument, respondents argue, in a
hypothetical manner, that to the extent that factual bases exist for his claims
of discrimination other than those fairly reflected in Jones's DFEH complaint,
those other unspecified bases are barred by the failure to exhaust
administrative remedies. Respondents do not specifically identify any
allegations in the complaint or any other claims made by Jones which are
purportedly not fairly reflected in the DFEH complaint. Aside from the fact
that such a factually disembodied and hypothetical legal proposition is
inappropriate for summary judgment or summary adjudication, we note that "allegations in a complaint [before the
FEPC, the predecessor agency to the DFEH] serve no purpose other than to get an
investigation in motion." (Citation omitted.)   Significantly, if
the DFEH decides to issue an accusation, the accusation "shall set forth
the nature of the charges . . . and shall require the respondent to answer the
charges at a hearing." (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (a).) Thus, it is erroneous to assume, as
respondents do, that because precise actions claiming to constitute racial
discrimination may not be specifically mentioned in a DFEH complaint, the
Department cannot investigate them and could not issue an accusation based
on the results of its investigation. Although no accusation was issued in
the instant case, there is no evidence that the Department did not investigate
all claims reflected in Jones's superior court complaint. We conclude that
respondents' claims that appellant failed to exhaust administrative remedies
are without evidentiary support in the record.


(Jones v. L.A. Cmty. College Dist. (1988) 198
Cal.App.3d 794, 810 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
            Here,
the CRD Complaint filed by Plaintiff on November 21, 2022,  contained the following factual allegations:
4.
Complainant alleges that on or about June 30, 2020, respondent took the 
following
adverse actions:
 
Complainant
was harassed because of complainant's race, sex/gender, disability (physical or
mental), medical condition (cancer or genetic characteristic), other, family
care or medical leave (cfra).
 
Complainant
was discriminated against because of complainant's race, ancestry,
national origin (includes language restrictions), sex/gender, disability
(physical or mental), medical condition (cancer or genetic characteristic),
other, association with a member of a protected class, family care or medical
leave (cfra) and as a result of the discrimination was terminated, laid
off, forced to quit, denied hire or promotion, reprimanded, denied equal pay,
suspended, demoted, denied any employment benefit or privilege, denied
reasonable accommodation for a disability, other, denied work opportunities
or assignments, denied or 
forced to
transfer, denied family care or medical leave (cfra).
 
Complainant
experienced retaliation because complainant requested or used a
disability-related accommodation, requested or used family care or medical
leave (cfra) and as a result was terminated, laid off, forced to quit, denied
hire or promotion, reprimanded, denied equal pay, suspended, demoted, denied
any employment benefit or privilege, denied reasonable accommodation for a
disability, other, denied work opportunities or assignments, denied or forced
to transfer, denied family care or medical leave (cfra).
 
(Bold
emphasis added.)
 
This is sufficient to exhaust Plaintiff’s disability
discrimination claim. As Jones, supra, 198 Cal.App.3d at 810
recognizes, specific instances are not required if there was sufficient
information to instigate a DFEH/CRD investigation, and the DFEH/CRD would,
after such investigation, notify the employer of the specific charges, to which
the employer would respond. 
            As
such, this ground for demurrer is not persuasive.
            B.        Re: Failure To Factual Plead
Elements. 
“A prima facie case for discrimination ‘on grounds of physical
disability under the FEHA requires [a] plaintiff to show: (1) he suffers from a
disability; (2) he is otherwise qualified to do his job; and, (3) he was
subjected to adverse employment action because of his disability.’” (Citation
omitted.) “[T]o establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a
plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the
employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer's action.”
(Citation omitted.) 
 
An “adverse employment action” is one that “materially affects the
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.” (Yanowitz, supra, 36 Cal.4th
at pp. 1036, 1051.) “In the case of an institutional or corporate employer, the
institution or corporation itself must have taken some official action with
respect to the employee, such as hiring, firing, failing to promote, adverse job
assignment, significant change in compensation or benefits, or official
disciplinary action.” (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 706, 708
[101 Cal. Rptr. 3d 773, 219 P.3d 749] (Roby) [demoting employee to answering
the office telephones during office parties and firing employee constituted
adverse employment actions].) An adverse employment action refers not only to
“ultimate employment actions such as termination or demotion, but also …
actions that are reasonably likely to adversely and materially affect an
employee's job performance or opportunity for advancement.” (Yanowitz, at p.
1054.) That said, “[m]inor or relatively trivial adverse actions or conduct by
employers or fellow employees that, from an objective perspective, are
reasonably likely to do no more than anger or upset an employee cannot properly
be viewed as materially affecting the terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment and are not actionable.” (Ibid.)
 
 (Doe v. Dep't
of Corr. & Rehab. (2019) 43
Cal.App.5th 721, 734.)
            Here,
Plaintiff pleads that her physical disability is a repetitive motion injury to
her right hand which she reported to Defendant on December 18, 2019, and for
which she had several emergency room visits and received treatment until March
2020, when she filed a workers’ compensation claim for her right-hand injury.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 12 – 16.)
            Plaintiff
alleges that she was discriminated against in that Plaintiff’s request to
switch to a morning shift was denied, despite other requests for that same time
being accommodated. However, this is personnel management action which is
merely not to Plaintiff’s liking, and does not constitute an adverse employment
action.
In California, an employee seeking
recovery on a theory of unlawful
discrimination or retaliation must
demonstrate that he or she has been subjected to an adverse employment action
that materially affects the terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment, rather than simply that the employee
has been subjected to an adverse action or treatment that reasonably would
deter an employee from engaging in the protected activity. (Citation
omitted.) “A change that is merely
contrary to the employee's interests or not to the employee's liking is
insufficient.” (Citation omitted.) “ ‘[W]orkplaces are rarely idyllic
retreats, and the mere fact that an
employee is displeased by an employer's act or omission does not elevate
that act or omission to the level of a materially adverse employment action.’
[Citation.] If every minor change in working conditions or trivial action were
a materially adverse action then any ‘action that an irritable,
chip-on-the-shoulder employee did not like would form the basis of a
discrimination suit.’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) The plaintiff must show the employer's retaliatory actions had a detrimental
and substantial effect on the plaintiff's employment. (Citations
omitted.)
(McRae v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 377, 386-87 [bold emphasis and underlining added].) 
            However,
Plaintiff’s termination on June 31, 2020, when she was informed while staying
home due to a positive Covid-19 test, that she would no longer be able to
return to work and was told to sign a resignation letter to receive a severance
check, is an adverse employment action. The inference to be drawn from
Plaintiff’s Complaint, which is to be liberally construed on demurrer[1],
is that Plaintiff was terminated due to her right-hand injury—for which she had
filed a workers’ compensation claim.
            For
purposes of demurrer, this cause of action is sufficiently pled.
            The
demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
2.         Second
Cause of Action (Failure to Accommodate Disability in Violation of Gov. Code §
12940(m).
            A.        Re: Failure To Plead Exhaustion of
Administrative Remedies.
“[W]hat is submitted to the DFEH must not only be construed
liberally in favor of plaintiff, it must be construed in light of what might be
uncovered by a reasonable investigation.” (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009)
178 Cal.App.4th 243, 268.)
A DFEH complaint will be deemed sufficient if
the omitted claim was like or reasonably related to those included on the DFEH
Complaint, even if such omitted claim occurred subsequent to the filing of the
DFEH Complaint:
Similarly in Baker v. Children's Hospital
Medical Center, supra, 209 Cal. App. 3d 1057, the court allowed the plaintiff to pursue claims not included in his
DFEH charge but that were "like or reasonably related to" the claim
that was made. . . . After discussing Sanchez, Oubichon, and other cases,
the court concluded that ". . . the
allegations of harassment and differential treatment encompass the
allegations of discrimination in his DFEH complaint. Moreover, it is reasonable that an investigation
of the allegations in the original DFEH complaint would lead to the
investigation of subsequent discriminatory acts undertaken by
respondents in retaliation for appellant's filing an internal grievance."
( Id. at p. 1065.) 
 
(Okoli v.
Lockheed Technical Operations Co. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1607, 1616 [bold
emphasis and underlining added].)
            Here, the
CRD Complaint filed by Plaintiff mentions failure to accommodate Plaintiff’s
disability and also disability discrimination. It is reasonable that an
investigation would uncover facts regarding failure to accommodate.
            This
argument is not persuasive.
            B.        Re: Failure To Factual Plead
Elements. 
To establish a failure to accommodate
claim, Brown must show (1) she has a disability covered by FEHA; (2) she can
perform the essential functions of the position; and (3) LAUSD failed
reasonably to accommodate her disability. (Jensen v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000) 85
Cal.App.4th 245, 256–257 [102 Cal. Rptr. 2d 55].) A “reasonable accommodation”
means a modification or adjustment to the workplace that enables the employee
to perform the essential functions of the job held or desired. (Scotch v. Art
Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1010 [93 Cal. Rptr. 3d
338].) Although an accommodation is not reasonable if it produces an undue
[*1108]  hardship to the employer, a
plaintiff need not initially plead or produce evidence showing that the
accommodation would not impose such an undue hardship. (Bagatti v. Department
of Rehabilitation (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 344, 356 [118 Cal. Rptr. 2d 443].)
Importantly, whether plaintiff's requested accommodation is reasonable cannot
be determined on demurrer. (Id. at pp. 368–369.)
 
(Brown v. L.A. Unified Sch. Dist. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1107-08.)
34.       After sustaining work related injuries,
Plaintiff had a qualified physical disability which was known to
Defendants.  Plaintiff alleges that
despite her injury, she could have performed the essential functions of her
job.  Plaintiff alleges that she asked
Defendants for reasonable accommodation of her physical disability.  However, Defendants never reasonably
accommodated her physical disability or possible restrictions. 
            Here,
at most, Plaintiff alleges that she requested the morning shift which was
denied. (Complaint, ¶ 18.) There is no indication that this was made as a
request to accommodate her disabilities. Nor does Plaintiff allege any other
requests for accommodation. In this regard, Plaintiff’s statutory claim is not
pled with specificity. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 604 [holding that FEHA are statutory claims that
must be pled with specificity.)
            This
ground for demurrer is persuasive.
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
3.         Third
Cause of Action (Failure to Engage in an Interactive Process in Violation of
Gov. Code § 12940(n).
            A.        Re: Failure To Plead Exhaustion of
Administrative Remedies.           
            For
the reasons discussed above re: 2.A, this argument is not persuasive.
            B.        Re: Failure To Factual Plead
Elements.
            For
the reasons discussed above re: 2.B, this argument is persuasive.
            The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
4.         Fourth
Cause of Action (Failure to Prevent Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code, §
12940(k).U
            A.        Re: Failure To Plead Exhaustion of
Administrative Remedies.
“The FEHA makes it a separate unlawful
employment practice for an employer to “fail to take all reasonable steps
necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring.” (§ 12940,
subd. (k).)”  (State Dept. of Health Services
v. Superior Court (2003) 31
Cal.4th 1026, 1040.) “The employer's duty
to prevent harassment and discrimination is affirmative and mandatory.” (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 288.)
“An employer is required to ‘take all reasonable steps to prevent
harassment from occurring,’ and the failure to do so is itself unlawful. (§
12940, subds. (j)(1), (k).)”  (Rehmani v. Superior Cour (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 945, 952.) 
As discussed above at 1.A., the CRD Complaint was
sufficient to encompass the disability discrimination claim and, thus, an
investigation by the CRD would reasonably be expected to uncover whether
Defendant took sufficient to steps to prevent such disability discrimination.
           This
argument is not persuasive.
            B.        Re: Failure To Factual Plead
Elements.
            Given
that the disability discrimination claim survives, the inference is that
Defendant failed to take reasonable steps to prevent disability discrimination
resulting in Plaintiff’s termination. The details—and evidence which is
presumptively in Defendant’s possession—can be ascertained through discovery.
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
5.         Fifth
Cause of Action (Retaliation for Engaging in Protected Activity).
            A.        Re: Failure To Plead Exhaustion of
Administrative Remedies.
            Here,
the CRD Complaint alleges that Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff because
she requested or used a disability-related accommodation, requested or used
family care or medical leave (cfra).
            The
Complaint does not allege that Plaintiff engaged in any protected activities:
she does not allege what accommodations she requested, nor does she allege that
she requested or used CFRA leave.
            However,
to the extent Plaintiff seeks to base this claim on her workers’ compensation
claim, this would come within the scope of her CRD Complaint, because an
investigation would reasonably be expected to uncover her workers’ compensation
claim for her disability.
            This
argument is not persuasive.
            B.        Re: Failure To Factual Plead
Elements.
            Plaintiff’s
filing of  workers’ compensation claim
for her injury (disability) would not constitute a protected activity, for
which Defendant could not retaliate against Plaintiff., “under this part” of
FEHA.
(h) For any employer, labor organization, employment
agency, or person to discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any
person because the person has opposed any practices forbidden under this
part or because the person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in
any proceeding under this part.
     (Civ. Proc. Code,
§ 12940(h).)
            Nor
does Plaintiff factually allege any other proceeding in which she participated
“under this part” of the FEHA, nor the opposition of any other practice
“forbidden under this part” of FEHA.
            This
argument is persuasive.
            The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
6.         Sixth
Cause of Action (Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy).
            On
January 29, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed this cause of action without prejudice.
As such, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is MOOT.


