  Case Number:  21STCV16419    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  P Hearing  Date:  February 6, 2024                        Moving Parties: Defendant Pacific  Maritime Association                  Responding  Party: Plaintiffs Pedro and Maria Chavarin         Motion  for Summary Judgment [or Summary Adjudication]               The  court considered the moving and opposition papers.   RULING             Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.    BACKGROUND               On May 7, 2021, Plaintiffs Pedro Chavarin  and Maria Chavarin filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against  Defendants Taylor Machine Works Inc., Cal-Lift Inc., Titan International Inc.,  OTR Wheel Engineering Inc., Rimex USA, Global Mining Products Inc., Bridgestone  Americas Inc., Pacific Maritime Association, American President Lines, CMA.CGM,  EQT Infrastructure III, P5 Infrastructure LLC, Crane Certification Services  Inc., Parkhouse Tire Inc., and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive. The FAC asserts  the following causes of action against multiple Defendants jointly and  separately: (1) Strict Products Liability; (2 Negligence – Products Liability;  (3) Negligence; and (4) Loss of Consortium.                           On November 21, 2023, Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association filed this instant Motion for Summary Judgment or  in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on  January 23, 2024. Defendant Pacific Maritime Association’s reply was due  January 30, 2024. As of February 1, 2024, no reply has been filed.               LEGAL AUTHORITY   The function of a motion for  summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an  opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to  enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v.  Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) The Code of Civil  Procedure § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all  the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the  evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there  is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion  for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the  affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of  fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of  Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.  Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)     As to each cause of action as  framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment or summary  adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to  show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established,  or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 437c(p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128  Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.)     Once the defendant has met that  burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one  or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion  must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau  (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)     DISCUSSION   Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association moves for an order granting summary judgment or in  the alternative, summary adjudication in its favor against Plaintiffs’ First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”) and each cause of action pled therein against  Defendant Pacific Maritime Association. This instant motion is made on the  grounds that Plaintiffs cannot establish one or more of the required elements  for each of their causes of action asserted against Defendant Pacific Maritime  Association.    Specifically,  Defendant Pacific Maritime Association argues Plaintiffs cannot prevail on  their claims for Negligence and Loss of Consortium asserted against Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association because the undisputed material facts demonstrate  that Defendant Pacific Maritime Association did not owe Plaintiff Pedro  Chavarin any duty of care. Defendant Pacific Maritime Association further  argues because the Negligence claim fails as a matter of law, Plaintiff Maria  Chavarin’s claim for Loss of Consortium likewise fails.    Issue No.  1: Fourteenth Cause of Action for Negligence    The FAC  alleges Defendant Pacific Maritime Association “is and was acting as an  Association of member companies that negotiates and administers maritime labor  agreements with the International Longshore and Warehouse Union and provides  technical and workplace safety training to longshoremen working in maritime  container terminals of Los Angeles County, California.” (FAC ¶ 89.) Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association “undertook the duty to train and instruct Jose  Santoyo and Pedro Chavarin on how, among other things, to safely perform  maintenance work on the rims and tires of the container top handler, by among  other things, placing a cage around the wheel and tire during the work.” (FAC ¶  90.) Defendant Pacific Maritime Association “failed to adequately instruct  Plaintiff Chavarin, and this failure was a direct and substantial cause of  Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin’s injuries causing economic and noneconomic loss.” (Id.)  As a direct and proximate result of Defendant Pacific Maritime Association’s  aforementioned conduct, “Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin suffered severe bodily injury  and resulting pain and suffering, disability, disfigurement, mental anguish, mental  and emotional pain and suffering, loss of capacity for the enjoyment of life,  expense of hospitalization, medical and nursing care and treatment, loss of  earnings, loss of ability to earn money, and possible activation and/or  aggravation of a possibly previously existing condition. The losses are either  permanent in nature or continuing and Plaintiff will suffer these losses in the  future.” (FAC ¶ 91.)   “To state  a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant  owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the defendant breached that duty, and  (3) the breach proximately caused the plaintiff's damages or injuries.” (Lueras  v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.)   Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association contends Plaintiffs’ cause of action against  Defendant Pacific Maritime Association for negligence fails as a matter of law  because Defendant Pacific Maritime Association had no duty to train Plaintiff  Pedro Chavarin regarding the servicing of split rim wheels and tires. Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association further argues the duty to train at issue is  specifically imposed on the employer pursuant to California Code of  Regulations, Title 8 Section 3326 and the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 29  Section 1910.177. As such, Defendant Pacific Maritime Association contends the  employer, Fenix Marine Services was responsible for training on servicing  split-rim tires and wheels safely. Moreover, Defendant Pacific Maritime  Association argues it did not assume the duty to train Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin  on how to service split rim wheels because Defendant Pacific Maritime  Association because it by virtue of an agreement reached between the employers  and the Union, provides general safety training to dockworkers.    Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association asserts it is undisputed that the General Safety  Training class that it administers for all of the approximately 24,000  longshore workers on the West Coast does not include training for mechanics on  how to service split rim tires. (UMF 26.) Defendant Pacific Maritime  Association further contends it is understood by all the employers, including  Fenix Marine Services, and by the workforce, that job-specific training for  mechanics is not provided by Defendant Pacific Maritime Association. (UMF 28,  31.) Moreover, Defendant Pacific Maritime Association asserts it is clear and  undisputed that the Mechanics Safety Series videos that commenced after  discussions between Defendant Pacific Maritime Association member employers and  the Union are still in development and productions, and have not been approved  for release or use in training by the employers and the Union. (UMF 40-41.)   In  addition, Defendant Pacific Maritime Association argues the Pacific Coast  Marine Safety Code provides no support for Plaintiffs’ position that Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association has liability in this action for failure to train.  Defendant Pacific Maritime Association contends the Pacific Coast Marine Safety  Code does not contain any provisions regarding how to safely service split rim  wheels and tires but merely states the duty of the employer to provide a safe  working place. Lastly, Defendant Pacific Maritime Association argues there was  no special relationship between Defendant Pacific Maritime Association and  Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin giving rise to a duty to train. Defendant Pacific  Maritime Association asserts it was not Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin’s employer and  did not control or supervise Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin’s work with Fenix Marine  Services. (UMF 16-18, 29.)   Here,  Defendant Pacific Maritime Association has met its initial burden of proof that  a genuine issue of material fact does not exist as to whether it had duty to  train Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin. Defendant Pacific Maritime Association  proffered the declarations of William Bartelson, Curtis Shaw, and Petra M.  Reinecke with supporting exhibits attached. Mr. Bartelson is the Vice President  of Contract Administration and Arbitration at Pacific Maritime Association and  submitted the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Pacific Maritime Association dated  March 6, 2019 attached as Exhibit A, which demonstrates Defendant Pacific  Maritime Association’s primary purpose is to oversee negotiation of contracts  with International Longshore and Warehouse Union on behalf of its member  companies. Mr. Bartelson’s declaration further indicates each member company  makes its own decisions as assigning jobs to dockworkers, which clients to  serve, which ports to operate, how to direct its workforce, and how many and  the type of longshore workers to hire. Moreover, Mr. Shaw is the Associate  Coast Director of Accident Prevention and Training Strategy for Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association and his declaration suggests the General Safety  Training program administered by Defendant Pacific Maritime Association does  not include specific or specialized training for mechanics, how to service  split rim wheels and tires, and how to safely change a tire on a top handler.  Finally, Ms. Reinecke is Defendant Pacific Maritime Association ‘s counsel of record  and submitted excerpts from the deposition transcript of Jeffrey Brown, who is  Fenix Marine Services Senior Safety Manager of Health, Safety, Security &  Environment. The deposition excerpts of Mr. Brown showcase that Fenix Marine  Services did not expect Defendant Pacific Maritime Association to provide  training to their mechanics on servicing split rim wheels and tires because its  General Safety Training program never provided that before. It also indicates  Fenix Marine Services was required to have safety training program for its  mechanics.    The  burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue of one or more  material facts do exist as to whether Defendant Pacific Maritime Association  had a duty to train Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin.    In  opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendant Pacific Maritime Association owed a duty  of care to the Jose Santoyo (“Decedent”) by undertaking to perform specific  safety training duties that Fenix Marine Services owed to its employees.  Plaintiffs further argue the California Code of Regulations, Title 8 Section  3326 and Code of Federal Regulations, Title 29 Section 1910.177 did not  preclude the employer from contracting a third party to provide the requisite  training. Plaintiffs contend experts David L. Miller and Vijar Gupta testified  that merely because Cal OSHA and OSHA names the employer as responsible for its  violation does not preclude other third parties including Defendant Pacific  Maritime Association as also being responsible. (AF 38, 43.) Moreover, Plaintiffs  argue substantial evidence that Defendant Pacific Maritime Association  undertook to provide specific training to Fenix Marine Services employees but  failed to comply with its undertaking with regard to the Decedent precluded  summary judgment. Plaintiffs expert Miller explains in his declaration that  Defendant Pacific Maritime Association was and is in charge of providing  skilled training for mechanics in their job requirements. (AF 10-11.)  Plaintiffs also assert to this end, Defendant Pacific Maritime Association had  an established practice of providing skilled training to specific categories of  dock workers. (AF 12, 16.) Additionally, Plaintiffs argues Fenix Marine  Services confirmed that it was Defendant Pacific Maritime Association who was  responsible for providing skill training to Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin and  Decedent. (AF 33, 35.) Lastly, Plaintiffs argue Gupta’s expert testimony  confirms that the subject explosion was directly connected to Defendant Pacific  Maritime Association’s failure to provide the training that it promises to  provide. (AF 40.)   Under Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, the court held that “where the  parties have had sufficient opportunity to develop adequately their factual  cases through discovery and the defendant has made a sufficient showing to  establish a prima facie case in his or her favor, in order to avert summary  judgment the plaintiff must produce substantial responsive evidence sufficient  to establish a triable issue of material fact on the merits of the defendant's  showing. For this purpose, responsive evidence that gives rise to no more than  mere speculation cannot be regarded as substantial and is insufficient to  establish a triable issue of material fact.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998)  68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163 (Sangster).)   Here,  Plaintiffs’ proffered declaration of Christopher F. Bostwick with supporting  exhibits of other declarations; and deposition transcript excerpts of Mathew  Dickinson, Jeffrey Brown, Matthew Hillyer. The proffered evidence suggests from  at least 1999 Defendant Pacific Maritime Association has had a pattern and  practice of implementing skills for training for specific categories of dock  workers. Furthermore, the proffered evidence indicates Defendant Pacific  Maritime Association’s serves several purposes including providing skills  training to specific categories of dock workers. Additionally, evidence  proffered showcases Defendant Pacific Maritime Association was requested to  provide specific skills training for Maintenance and Repair (“M&R”) work  under the terms of a 2009 arbitration decision. Thus, Plaintiffs have shown  beyond mere speculation that genuine issues of material facts exists as to  whether Defendant Pacific Maritime Association owed a duty to train Plaintiff  Pedro Chavarin as to the safe handling of split rim wheel and tire assemblies.    Therefore,  Defendant Pacific Maritime Association’s motion is DENIED as to this issue.    Issue No.  2: Twenty-First Cause of Action for Loss of Consortium   The FAC  realleges and incorporates by reference paragraphs 1 through 113, inclusive, as  though fully set forth herein. (FAC ¶ 114.) Alleges “as a direct and proximate  result of the wrongful conduct of the Defendants, and each of them, as fully  laid out above, and by reason of the Subject Incident thereby caused,  Plaintiff’s husband sustained significant physical injuries including complex  traumatic brain injury.” (FAC ¶ 115.) “As a direct and proximate result of her  husband injuries wrongfully caused by Defendants, Plaintiff has been deprived  of her husband comfort, companionship, affection, love, sexual relations,  fellowship, support, and physical assistance in maintaining the home, and has  suffered other damage to her marital relationship.” (FAC ¶ 116.)   To state  a claim for loss of consortium, plaintiff must prove: “(1) a valid and lawful  marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at the time of the  injury; (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff's spouse; (3) loss of consortium  suffered by the plaintiff; and (4) the loss was proximately caused by the defendant's  act.” (LeFiell Manufacturing Co. v. Superior Court (2012) 55 Cal.4th 275,  284.)   Defendant  Pacific Maritime Association contends Plaintiff Maria Chavarin’s cause of  action against Defendant Pacific Maritime Association for loss of consortium  fails as a matter of law because Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin’s cause of action for  negligence fails as a matter of law.    In  opposition, Plaintiffs argue Luz Florentina Santoyo Castillo has a viable claim  for loss of consortium. The Court notes this instant case is a related action to  Case No. 21STCV17960 and thus assumes this is a typographical error.  Nonetheless, Defendant Pacific Maritime Association’s motion as to this issue  is also DENIED for the reasons discussed above.               Prevailing party on motion is  ordered to give notice of ruling.