 Case Number:  23TRCV01411    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  P 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. P




BLADIMIR
  GONZALEZ, et al.


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01411




 
vs.


 


 
FINAL RULING
 




 
HONDA MOTOR
  COMPANY, LTD., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:                          February
5, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant
American Honda Motor Company
Responding Party:                  Plaintiffs
Bladimir Gonzalez and Nancy Brunda Aguila
 
Motion to Dismiss
for Forum Non Conveniens 
            
The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The
motion to dismiss is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On June 2, 2021, Plaintiff Bladimir Gonzalez
was seriously injured while he was traveling as the front passenger seat of a
2006 Honda Acura TL driven by Jesus Santiago. 
The vehicle rolled over and was not crashworthy when Jesus Santiago lost
control of the vehicle.  
            On May 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants Honda Motor Company, Ltd. (“HML”), American Honda
Motor Company, Inc. (“AHM”), Honda North America, Inc. and Honda of America
Manufacturing (1) strict product liability; (2) negligent product liability;
(3) exemplary damages; and (4) loss of consortium damages.  
            On January 9, 2024, defendant
American Honda Motors Company (hereinafter “AHM”) brought a motion to dismiss
this case on the basis that California is an inconvenient forum for the
litigation and trial.
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections—SUSTAIN Objection Nos. 1 and 2
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections—SUSTAIN Objection Nos. 1 and 2
DISCUSSION
APPLICABLE
LAW
            If the court finds that "in the
interest of substantial justice" an action filed in California should be
adjudicated elsewhere, it may stay or dismiss the action on such conditions as
may be just.  (CCP §410.30(a).)  The statute codifies the common law doctrine
of forum non conveniens. This is not a jurisdictional doctrine. Rather, it is
“an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a court to decline
the exercise of jurisdiction (to stay or dismiss) it has over a transitory
cause of action when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and
justly tried elsewhere.”  (Stangvik v.
Shiley, Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751. 
78.) 
            “A trial court considering a forum
non conveniens issue engages in a two-step process, the first of which is to
determine whether a suitable alternative forum exists.  Where there is a suitable alternative forum,
the court proceeds to the next step, consideration of the private interests of
the parties and the public interest in keeping the case in California.”  (National Football League v. Fireman's
Fund Ins. Co. (“NFL”) (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 902, 917 (quoting Stangvik).)
            “The defendant, as the moving party,
bears the burden of proof on a motion based on forum non conveniens.  It is the trial court's duty to weigh and
interpret evidence and draw reasonable inferences therefrom.”  (Id. at 918.)  “There thus must be evidence—not merely bald
assertions—to support the trial court's determination.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Insurance Co. of North America
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 604, 610.)  
            In determining whether to grant a
motion based on forum non conveniens, a court must (1) determine whether the
alternate forum is a ‘suitable’ place for trial and if so, (2) consider the
private interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in retaining
the action for trial in California. The private interest factors are those that
make trial and the enforceability of the ensuing judgment expeditious and
relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof, the
cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory
process for attendance of unwilling witnesses. The public interest factors
include avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested calendars,
protecting the interests of potential jurors so that they are not called upon
to decide cases in which the local community has little concern, and weighing
the competing interests of California and the alternate jurisdiction in the
litigation.” (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at 751.)  All the following factors must be weighed in
each case.  (Shiley, Inc. v. Sup.Ct.
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 126, 133-134.)  
            Where plaintiff is a California
resident for purposes of forum non conveniens, there is a strong presumption in
favor of plaintiff’s choice of forum.  (Stangvik,
supra, 54 Cal.3d at 754 (noting that factors underlying “strong
presumption” test apply only to residents of forum state); NFL, supra,
216 Cal.App.4th at 917). 
“Defendant’s residence is also a factor to be considered in the balance
of convenience.  If a corporation is a
defendant, the state of its incorporation and the place where its principal
place of business is located is presumptively a convenient forum.”  (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at
755.)  
            However, the presumption is
rebuttable and may be overcome based on the private and public interest
factors, which includes an analysis of the convenience of the parties and
public policy considerations.  (Id. at
755-756.)  Even where a plaintiff is a
nonresident, the plaintiff’s choice of forum should rarely be disturbed and a
defendant challenging the forum based on forum non conveniens must demonstrate
that California is a “seriously inconvenient forum.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Insurance Co. of North
America (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 604, 611.)  
 
APPLICATION
TO FACTS
            I.  Parties’ Positions
             Defendant AHM moves to dismiss the action
based on forum non conveniens. Defendant argues Colorado is a more convenient
forum than California.  Defendant argues
Colorado is a suitable alternative forum, because AHM will submit to the
Court’s jurisdiction in Colorado, Colorado recognizes the same claims and
damages asserted in Plaintiff’s complaint and Plaintiff’s claims would not be
time barred because Colorado employs a revival statute that applies to actions
commenced outside of Colorado and are ultimately dismissed for lack of
jurisdiction or improper venue.  Defendant
argues it would stipulate to waive statute of limitations if for any reason the
revival statute did not apply.  
            Defendant AHM argues all private
interest factors favor Colorado as the correct forum.  Defendant AHM argues the main sources of
proof are in Colorado, because the accident occurred in Colorado, Plaintiff
Bladimir’s injuries were treated in Colorado, Plaintiffs and all percipient witnesses
are Colorado witnesses, the first responders are located in Colorado and all
crash records are in Colorado.  Defendant
argues the costs of obtaining witnesses will be greater if the action proceeds
in California instead of Colorado. 
Defendant argues it will be unable to compel witnesses to attend the
trial in California and it will be forced to read deposition testimony into the
transcript or to rely on video testimony. 

            Defendant AHM argues all public
interest factors weigh in favor of dismissing Plaintiff’s lawsuit.  Defendant AHM argues dismissal avoids
overburdening the California courts, which are more congested than Colorado’s
courts.  Defendant AHM argues California has
little interest in a crash that occurred in Colorado involving Colorado
residents and Los Angeles County jurors have no interest in deciding the
complex factual issues raised by this complaint.  
            Defendant AHM argues Plaintiffs’
choice of forum is not presumptively convenient, because Plaintiffs are not
California residents.  Defendant AHM
argues a presumption of convenience only applies if the Plaintiffs are Colorado
residents.  
            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
California is presumptively a convenient forum because Defendant AHM is a
California corporation and its principal place of business is in Torrance, California.   Plaintiffs
argue Defendant fails to satisfy its burden of establishing that California is
an inconvenient forum.  Plaintiffs argue
the crash is not central to this case, because the complaint alleges products
liability.  Plaintiffs argue the location
of witnesses and evidence relating to the actual crash is therefore not grounds
to find California a seriously inconvenient forum.  Plaintiffs argue the key evidence pertains to
the design, manufacture and testing of the vehicle, which is located in
Torrance, CA, Japan and Ohio.  Plaintiffs
argue there is also no need to present live testimony from these witnesses for
these same reasons.  
            Plaintiffs argue most of the
discovery will take place outside of Colorado. 
Plaintiffs argue parties have entered a “streamlining agreement” whereby
all Defendants other than AHM would be dismissed and all AHM and Honda entity
depositions will take place in California or Ohio.  
            Plaintiffs argue Colorado is also
not a suitable alternative forum, because the statute of limitations has
undisputedly expired and the revival statute would not apply to dismissed
Defendants HML or Honda of America Manufacturing.  Plaintiffs argue HML and Honda of America
Manufacturing were dismissed pursuant to the parties’ “streamlining” agreement,
not improper venue or lack of jurisdiction. 
Plaintiffs argue the Colorado statute of limitations has run a to HML
and Honda of America Manufacturing, making Colorado an unsuitable forum as to
those two entities.  
            Plaintiffs argue AHM, HML or Honda
of America Manufacturing may raise personal jurisdiction issues based on their
lack of contact with Colorado. 
Plaintiffs argue none of these entities have agreed to submit to
personal jurisdiction in Colorado.
            Plaintiffs argue they cannot hold
AHM liable in Colorado because it follows the “innocent seller” rule.  Plaintiffs argue AHM is the distributor of
the vehicle, not the manufacturer. 
Plaintiffs argues AHM would not be liable in Colorado due to the
“innocent seller” rule and the manufacturer Defendants have already been
dismissed.
            Finally, Plaintiffs argue AHM fails
to demonstrate that the balance of interests fall strongly on the side of
Colorado.  Plaintiffs argue the most
pertinent evidence is outside of Colorado and the expense of obtaining evidence
in Ohio and Japan would be the same if the action proceeded in California or
Colorado.  Plaintiffs argue live witness
testimony is insufficient to establish that Colorado is a more convenient
forum.  Plaintiffs argue the
“streamlining agreement” proposed by AHM is evidence that California is a
convenient forum.
            Plaintiffs argue the public interest
factors also weigh against Colorado as the proper forum.  Plaintiffs argue California is presumptively
the proper forum given that AHM’s place of business is in Torrance.  Plaintiffs argue that court congestion is not
a factor, because there are only two plaintiffs and one remaining
defendant.  Plaintiff argues California
also has great interest in the action, because it involves a California
corporation’s injection of an allegedly defective product into the stream of commerce.
            In reply, Defendant argues
Plaintiffs misrepresented key facts to the forum non conveniens analysis.  Defendant argues Plaintiffs were required
under the streamlining agreement to dismiss all Defendants but AHM, but Plaintiffs
have not complied.  Defendant argues all
Defendants are still parties to this action and the revival statute would apply
to any Colorado complaint filed against them. 
Defendant argues all Defendants also agreed to toll any applicable
statute of limitations.  Defendant argues
personal jurisdiction should not be considered in determining whether Colorado
is a suitable forum, but Defendant AHM agrees that all Honda Defendants will
submit to personal jurisdiction in the Colorado courts.  
            Defendant also denies that the innocent
seller rule would preclude Plaintiffs from holding Defendant AHM liable.  Defendant argues that under Colorado law, if
jurisdiction cannot be obtained over a manufacturer, then manufacturer’s
principal distributor or seller would be deemed the manufacturer. 
            Defendant argues any presumption
that California is a convenient forum is overcome by the evidence that it is a
seriously inconvenient forum. Defendant reiterates that the private factors and
public interest factors weigh heavily in favor of Colorado and against
California.  
            II.  California is presumptively a convenient
forum based on AHM’s state of incorporation and principal place of business
            Defendant AHM does not dispute that
it is a California corporation with its principal place of business in
Torrance, CA.  As such, a rebuttable
presumption that California is a convenient arises.  AHM must establish that California is a “seriously
inconvenient forum” with evidence, “not merely bald assertions.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Insurance Co. of North
America, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at 610.)  
            III.  Defendant fails to establish that Colorado
is a suitable alternative forum
            “A forum is
suitable if there is jurisdiction and no statute of limitations bar to hearing
the case on the merits.”  (Chong v.
Sup.Ct. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1032, 1036-1037.)  A remedy must be available for the claim sued
on.  (Stangvik, supra, 54
Cal.3d at 754.)  
            Defendant AHM agrees to submit to
the jurisdiction of the Colorado courts. However, AHM did not submit a signed
stipulation to that effect.  In addition,
AHM makes no showing as to whether the other Honda Defendants agree to submit
to the jurisdiction of the Colorado courts. 
AHM states in its reply that all Honda Defendants agree to submit to the
jurisdiction of the Colorado courts.  Again,
AHM did not submit a signed stipulation or declaration attesting to this
agreement.  Moreover, AHM fails to submit
evidence establishing that it can agree on behalf of the other Honda defendants
to waive jurisdictional objections.  
            Defendant AHM is asking that the
Court dismiss, not stay, this action based on forum non conveniens.[1]  (Notice of Motion, 2:2-5.)  Defendant AHM fails to cite any authority
holding that it need not demonstrate jurisdiction as to all named Defendants to
obtain dismissal of the action.  Defendant
AHM relies on Hansen v. Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp.  (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 753, 758-759
to support its contention that it need not demonstrate personal jurisdiction as
to the other Defendants.  
            Hansen’s analysis pertained
to whether a defendant is required to demonstrate personal jurisdiction over
all named defendants if only a stay based on forum non conveniens is requested
and imposed.  (Hansen, supra,
51 Cal.App.4th at 758-759.) 
“Although a suit will not be dismissed if the moving defendant cannot be
subjected to jurisdiction in other states, we are aware of no authority a
moving defendant must show all defendants are subject to jurisdiction in
a particular alternative forum…”  (Id.
at 758-759.)  “[Defendant] concedes,
since the above three defendants have never been served in Montana, it is
unknown whether they are subject to jurisdiction in that state; however, no
abuse appears because the trial court, in staying these actions as
opposed to dismissing them outright, was directing appellants to bring
their actions in Montana to determine whether these defendants were subject to
jurisdiction there. If not, appellants could return to California and request
the stays be lifted.”  (Hansen, supra,
51 Cal.App.4th at 758-759.)  
            Moreover, the Court of Appeals in American
Cemwood Corp. v. American Home Assurance Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
431 held that defendant’s failure to demonstrate that “all defendants are
subject to jurisdiction in British Columbia” precluded application of forum non
conveniens.  (American Cemwood Corp.,
supra, 87 Cal.App.4th at 440.)  American Cemwood Corp. limited Hansen
to its facts and noted that “no other courts, in this state or elsewhere, have
cited it as support for” the argument that “a defendant need not demonstrate
all defendants are subject to jurisdiction in the same alternative forum.”  (Id. at 439, 440.)  The Court also noted that, unlike the 200
defendants in Hansen, plaintiff’s case only involved five
defendants.  (Id. at 440.)  
            Here, there are only four named
Honda Defendants, including AHM.  AHM
does not contend that it is unable to address whether Colorado can exercise
personal jurisdiction over them.  AHM
merely states that Colorado may exercise jurisdiction over all four Defendants
based on its long-arm statute.  However,
the existence of the long-arm statute does not establish personal jurisdiction
over all four defendants, only that personal jurisdiction is a possibility if
minimum contacts and notices of fair play and substantial justice are
satisfied.  AHM stops short of formally
stipulating or testifying in a declaration that personal jurisdiction exists
over the named Defendants.  The
“streamline agreement” does not qualify as either, because it was only executed
by AHM in connection with this action and it does not contemplate its
application in other forums. 
(Plaintiffs’ COE, Ex. 2.)  
            AHM also concedes that the statute
of limitations on Plaintiffs’ claims have expired in Colorado.  (Colo. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-80-106 (two-year
limitations period on any action against a manufacturer or seller of a product
for personal injury, death or property damage caused by or resulting from
manufacture, construction, design, etc.), 13-80-108 (a cause of action for
injury to person, property, reputation, possession, relationship, or status
shall be considered to accrue on the date both the injury and its cause are
known or should have been known by the exercise of reasonable diligence).)  More than two years have passed since the
accident occurred on June 2, 2021.  
            However, AHM asserts that Plaintiffs
could timely re-file their claims against Defendants in Colorado based on Colo.
Rev. Stat. §13-80-111.[2]  Plaintiffs claim the revival statute does not
apply to the other Honda defendants because they were voluntarily dismissed per
the streamlining agreement.  Plaintiffs
dismissed the other Honda defendants just prior to the hearing on this motion;
because that dismissal was not due to “lack of jurisdiction or improper venue” plaintiff
argues Colorado’s revival statute does not apply.
            Defendant AHM fails to demonstrate
with admissible evidence that all Defendants are subject to jurisdiction in
Colorado.  Defendant AHM also fails to
formally stipulate to personal jurisdiction in Colorado, nor has it
demonstrated that it can waive objections based on personal jurisdiction on the
other Defendants behalf.  Defendant AHM’s
motion to dismiss is denied on grounds that it failed to demonstrate that
Colorado is a suitable alternative forum. 

            IV.  Defendant also fails to establish that
California a “seriously inconvenient forum” compared to Colorado
            Defendant fails to establish that
California is a seriously inconvenient forum. First and foremost, Defendant’s
execution of the streamlining agreement is prima facie evidence that California
is not a seriously inconvenient forum.  The
streamlining agreement imposes obligations on Defendant in litigating the
California case, including responding to all discovery and payment of any final
settlement or judgment awarded against it. 
By its terms, the streamlining agreement is an implicit admission that
California is not a seriously inconvenient forum.  
            Defendant’s discovery also contradicts
any assertion that California is a seriously inconvenient forum.  Defendant has propounded extensive discovery
and responded to discovery.  (Plaintiff’s
COE, Exs. 4-7 and 17.)  
            Defendant also fails to establish
based on either the private or public factors that California is a seriously
inconvenient forum.  Defendant focuses on
the location of the accident, the percipient witnesses thereto and Plaintiff’s
treatment for his injuries in Colorado. 
However, Plaintiffs are alleging a products liability claim against
Defendants.  While the actual accident is
obviously relevant to the action, evidence regarding design and manufacture of
the subject vehicle is central to Plaintiffs’ products liability theory.  According to Defendants’ briefing, that
evidence would be in Ohio, Japan and California.  (Jongkind Dec., ¶¶9-10 (2006 Acura TL
primarily developed and assembled in Ohio.) 
The evidence located in Ohio and Japan would be equally inconvenient to
obtain in Colorado or California.  While
the evidence regarding the crash itself and Plaintiff’s medical treatment are
in Colorado, Defendant AHM’s principal place of business is in California, its
state of incorporation, and its employees and records would be located
here.  The mere possibility that
Defendant AHM may have to rely on video deposition testimony or deposition
transcripts for relevant, but not key, evidence does not establish that
California is a seriously inconvenient forum. 

            The public factors also do not
establish support a finding that California is a seriously inconvenient
forum.  California has a strong interest
in the case, because AHM is a California corporation with its principal place
of business in California.  Plaintiffs
are alleging that this California corporation injected into the stream of
commerce an allegedly defective automobile that resulted in severe and
permanent injury.  
            CONCLUSION
            Defendant AHM’s Motion to Dismiss
for Forum Non Conveniens is DENIED. 
Defendant AHM’s motion to dismiss is denied on grounds that (1) it
failed to demonstrate that Colorado is a suitable alternative forum; and (2) it
failed to rebut the presumption that California is a convenient forum with
evidence that it is a seriously inconvenient forum.    
 
            Plaintiff to give notice.


