 Case Number:  23TRCV00969    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  P 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. P




 
LINDA MARSHALL-SMITH and WILLIAM SMITH, 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00969




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING
 




 
CITY WIDE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT; HASSAN BOGSARA; SIMA BOGSARA;
  and DOES 1 to 25, inclusive,
 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:  February 6, 2024         
 
Moving Parties: Defendant
City Wide Property Management, et al.             
Responding Party: None         
Demurrer with Motion to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving papers.
 
RULING
            Defendant City Wide Property
Management, Hassan Bogsara, and Sima Bogsara’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
first and seventh causes of action and SUSTAINED with Leave to Amend as to the
sixth, eighth, and ninth causes of action. 
 
Defendant
City Wide Property Management, Hassan Bogsara, and Sima Bogsara’s Motion to
Strike is GRANTED with Leave to Amend
as to paragraphs 51 and 70 in accordance with the Demurrer and DENIED as to
paragraphs 28, 34, 60, and prayer for relief, No. 5. 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On April 3, 2023, Plaintiffs Linda
Marshall-Smith and William Smith filed a Complaint against Defendants City Wide
Property Management, Hassan Bogsara, Sima Bogsara, and DOES 1 to 25, inclusive
for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (3)
Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (4) Negligence; (5) Negligent
Maintenance of Premises; (6) Nuisance; (7) Common Law Fraud; (8) Wrongful
Eviction; and (9) Violation of COVID-19 Eviction Moratorium.
 
            On August 7, 2023, Defendants filed
this instant Demurrer with Motion to Strike. An opposition was due on January
25, 2024. As of February 1, 2024, no opposition has been filed. 
            
MEET AND CONFER
 
            Prior
to filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving party is
required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to
or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 430.41 and 435.5.)  
            
            Here,
Defendants advance the declaration of their counsel of record, Lilia Clement
discussing the following meet and confer efforts. Ms. Clement declares on July
5, 2023, she left a voicemail message for Plaintiffs’ counsel requesting a
telephonic meet and confer. (Clement Decl., ¶ 2.) Furthermore, Ms. Clement
declares she sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a meet and confer correspondence via
email outlining the grounds for seeking a demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint on
July 6, 2023. (Id., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Ms. Clements also declares the parties
were unable to come to an agreement regarding Defendants’ grounds for seeking a
demurrer to the Complaint. (Id., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) 
            The
Court finds that Defendants’ sufficiently met and conferred with Plaintiffs’
counsel prior to filing this instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike. 
            
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
 
“The
primary function of a pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may
prepare its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly
notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v.
City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)  
 
“A¿demurrer¿tests
the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff
v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to
whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or
discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read passages
from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we read the
complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court
“assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which
judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p.
240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions
or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  
 
A
general demurrer may be brought under Code of Civil Procedure Section 430.10,
subdivision (e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted or under section 430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All
other grounds listed in Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision
(f), are special demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited
jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)  
 
Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.)   
 
Finally,
Code of Civil Procedure Section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §
430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the
date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Demurrer
 
            Defendants
demur to Plaintiff’s Complaint on the grounds that the first, sixth, seventh,
eight, and ninth causes of action (1) fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action and (2) are uncertain. 
 
            First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
 
“Establishing that claim requires a showing
of “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse
for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of
America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.)
 
Defendants contend Plaintiffs’ Complaint
merely states that Defendants owed duties and obligations to Plaintiffs
pursuant to and in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Contract
without identifying which express terms or provisions of the Contract were
allegedly breach and the grounds for alleging that Defendants breach those
express terms. 
 
The Complaint alleges on or about April 13,
2016, Plaintiffs entered into a lease agreement of the Property with Defendant.
(Compl., ¶ 14, Ex. A.) Throughout tenancy at the Property and continuing up
until the time Plaintiffs vacated the Property, they were forced to endure various
unsafe, unsanitary, unhealthy, and uninhabitable conditions, all of which were
caused by Defendants’ failure to maintain the Property in a habitable and
tenantable condition. (Id.) These conditions include but are not limited
to: (a) mold throughout inside of the Property; (b) malodorous smell from mold
and mildew; (c) bulging walls; (d) leaking pipes; (e) water leaks; (f) roofing
issues; (h) damaged drywall; (i) plumbing issues; (j) sewage leaks; and (k)
severely damaged structural wood. (Compl., ¶ 15.) Defendants failed to
effectuate the necessary repairs to the Property and/or take the necessary
measures to timely render the Property in a habitable condition despite
repeated requests. (Compl., ¶ 16.) Sometime after moving into the Property,
Plaintiffs began experiencing headaches/migraines, allergy symptoms, asthma,
stuffy noses, wheezing, and/or nausea, all of which were due to the
uninhabitable conditions at the Property. (Compl., ¶ 17.) The written
residential rental agreement was a contract between Plaintiffs and Defendants
for the Property. (Compl., ¶ 19.) Defendants owed duties and obligations to
Plaintiffs pursuant to and in accordance with the terms and provisions of the
rental/lease agreement. (Compl., ¶ 20.) Plaintiffs have sustained general and
special damages as a legal and proximate result of Defendants’ breach of the
rental/lease agreement. (Compl., ¶ 21.) Plaintiffs are entitled to recover fees
and costs pursuant to the contract. (Compl., ¶ 22.)
 
The Court finds that the Complaint alleges
sufficient facts to support a cause of action for breach of contract. Plaintiff
attached the lease agreement to the Complaint, which alleges the existence of a
contract between Plaintiffs and Defendants for $2,200.00 rent in exchange for
possession/occupancy of the Property. Furthermore, the attached lease agreement
contains the express terms and provisions giving rise to Defendants duties and
obligations to effectuate the necessary repairs to the Property. Moreover, the
Complaint alleges Defendants failed to effectuate the necessary repairs
constituting a breach of the lease agreement. Lastly, the Complaint alleges
Plaintiffs’ suffered damages as a proximate cause of Defendants’ breach. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer as to the first cause
of action is OVERRULED.
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Nuisance
 
“[I]n determining whether a particular
activity constitutes a public nuisance, a court considers three elements: (1)
the proscribed act, (2) whether the result of the act interferes with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property, and (3) whether the act affects a
sufficient number of persons.” (People v. McDonald (2006) 137
Cal.App.4th 521, 535.)
 
Defendants contend Plaintiffs’ Complaint
combines the elements for public and private nuisance, making the cause of
action uncertain. Furthermore, Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ Complaint fails to
state any facts that support the conclusion that the purported uninhabitable conditions
affected a substantial number of persons beyond Plaintiffs. 
 
The Complaint realleges and incorporates by
reference every allegation contain the preceding paragraphs of this Complaint
as set forth in full. (Compl., ¶ 46.) Alleges the uninhabitable conditions,
including mold contamination, at the Property as described herein constituted a
nuisance within, but not limited to, the meaning of Civil Code Section
3479, et seq., in that these defective conditions were injurious to the
health and safety of Plaintiffs and the public at large, indecent and offensive
to the senses of Plaintiffs and the public at large, and interfered
substantially with Plaintiffs’ comfortable enjoyment of the premises. (Compl.,
¶ 47.) The nuisance had a deleterious effect on the public while at the same
time specially injuring Plaintiffs, who were exposed to defective conditions
not directly affecting the public at large. (Compl., ¶ 48.) Despite being
required by law to abate the nuisance, Defendants failed to correct the
conditions rendering the Property a nuisance. (Compl., ¶ 49.) Defendants knew
or reasonably should have known that Plaintiffs would be injured as a result of
this failure to abate the nuisance. (Id.) As a direct and proximate
result of Defendants’ failure to abate the nuisance, Plaintiffs have suffered
illness, physical injury, mental stress, emotional distress, annoyance,
discomfort, aggravation, humiliation, degradation and embarrassment, property
damage, and lost income, all to Plaintiffs’ damage. (Compl., ¶ 50.)
 
The Court finds that the Complaint does not
allege sufficient facts to support a cause of action for public nuisance. While
it is unclear whether Plaintiff is pleading a cause of action for private
nuisance or public nuisance, the facts asserted in the Complaint suggests
public nuisance. However, to the extent that Plaintiff intends to plead public
nuisance, Plaintiff does not state or allege any facts to support that
Defendants’ purported conduct affected a sufficient or substantial number of
persons. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer as to the sixth cause
of action is SUSTAINED with Leave to Amend.
 
 
 
 
Seventh Cause of Action for Common Law Fraud
 
“The essential elements of fraud, generally,
are (1) a misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to induce
reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.” (City of
Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211.)
 
Defendants contend Plaintiffs’ cause of
action for fraud fails to state facts that support the conclusion that
Plaintiffs’ rights to continue the tenancy survives Defendants’ notice to quit.
Defendants also contend Plaintiffs’ cause of action for fraud fails to state
facts that support its conclusion and/or position that Plaintiffs would have
been able to lawfully disregard the sixty days’ notice. Furthermore, Defendants
argue the circumstances that prompted the sixty days’ notice to quit were
necessary to enforce the notice to quit. Defendants assert pursuant to the
Contract, Plaintiffs’ agreed and understood that after th end of the ease term,
the tenancy could be terminated with thirty (30) days’ notice. Finally,
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ compliance with the notice to quit was a legal
requirement and not the product of justifiable reliance on Defendants’
explanation for giving notice. 
 
The Complaint realleges and incorporates by
reference every allegation contain the preceding paragraphs of this Complaint
as set forth in full. (Compl., ¶ 52.) Alleges on or about February 26, 2022,
Defendants represented to Plaintiffs that their family member intended to
occupy the Property in good faith as their primary residence. (Compl., ¶ 53.)
On or about March 14, 2022, Defendants represented to Plaintiffs that they were
legally required to vacate the Property because their family member intended to
occupy the Property in good faith as their primary residence. (Compl., ¶ 54.)
On or about March 18, 2022, Defendants again represented to Plaintiffs they
were legally required to vacate the Property because their family member
intended to occupy the Property in good faith as their primary residence.
(Compl., ¶ 55.) In reliance upon representations, Plaintiffs vacated the
Property. (Compl., ¶ 56.) Defendants’ representations were false because
Defendants’ family member never intended to move into the Property and never
intended to occupy the Property thereafter in good faith as their primary
residence. (Compl., ¶ 57.) Plaintiffs reasonably relied on Defendants’
representations because Defendants provided Plaintiffs with written
correspondence urging Plaintiffs to vacate the Property as soon as possible.
(Compl., ¶ 58.) Plaintiffs relied on the representations because they knew that
a lawsuit would be filed against them for unlawful detainer if they did not
move out. (Id.) As a proximate result of Plaintiffs’ reasonable reliance
on Defendants’ false representations, Plaintiffs have sustained economic and
non-economic damages. (Compl., ¶ 59.) Defendants acted with fraudulent intent
in evicting Plaintiffs knowing their family member had no intention of moving
into the Property but dispossessing Plaintiffs anyway, out of desire to
increase the value of Defendants’ real estate. (Compl., ¶ 60.) Defendants were
well aware of their obligations not to wrongfully dispose of Plaintiffs and
also aware that the value of the Property would increase by evicting
Plaintiffs. (Id.)
 
The Court finds that the Complaint alleges
sufficient facts to support a cause of action for common law fraud. The
Complaint alleges: 1) Defendants’ misrepresented to Plaintiffs’ that their
family member was intending on moving onto the Property and Defendants knew
their family member was not actually moving onto the Property; 2) Defendants
made these purported misrepresentations with the fraudulent intent to induce
Plaintiffs’ to move out of the property; 3) Plaintiffs’ justifiably relied on
these misrepresentations and vacated the Property as a result; and 4)
Plaintiffs’ suffered damages as a result of these misrepresentations.  By so doing, plaintiff stated a cause of
action for fraud.
 
Therefore, the demurrer as to the seventh
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Eighth Cause of Action for Wrongful Eviction
 
“If a tenant is forcibly removed from
premises without judicial process, such tenant can sue for wrongful eviction
and obtain actual damages, including consequential damages, and (upon a proper
showing) punitive damages.” (Munoz v. MacMillan (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th
648, 655.)
 
Additionally, Civil Code Section
1947.10, subdivision (a), states in pertinent part: “After July 1, 1990, in any
city, county, or city and county which administers a system of controls on the
price at which residential rental units may be offered for rent or lease and
which requires the registration of rents, any owner who evicts a tenant based
upon the owner’s or the owner’s immediate relative’s intention to occupy the
tenant’s unit, shall be required to maintain residence in the unit for at least
six continuous months. If a court determines that the eviction was based upon
fraud by the owner or the owner’s immediate relative to not fulfill this
six-month requirement, a court may order the owner to pay treble the cost of
relocating the tenant from his or her existing unit back into the previous unit
and may order the owner to pay treble the amount of any increase in rent which
the tenant has paid. If the tenant decides not to relocate back into the
previous unit, the court may order the owner to pay treble the amount of one
month’s rent paid by the tenant for the unit from which he or she was evicted
and treble the amount of any costs incurred in relocating to a different unit.
The prevailing party shall be awarded attorney’s fees and court costs.” (Civ.
Code, § 1947.10, subd. (a).)
 
Defendants contend Plaintiffs’ Complaint
lacks any assertion that Defendants’ rental property was within an area that
has rent control or that Defendants were required to comply with “registration
of rents” requirement. Defendants further argue the City of Redondo Beach is
not a rent controlled area and the property is not subject to the registration
of rents requirement, which is verifiable public information. 
 
The Complaint realleges and incorporates by
reference every allegation contain the preceding paragraphs of this Complaint
as set forth in full. (Compl., ¶ 61.) Alleges Defendants evicted Plaintiffs
from the Property based upon Defendants’ statements that their family member
intended to occupy the Property. (Compl., ¶ 62.) Defendants’ family member did
not move into the Property within three months, as required by law, and
thereafter did not maintain residence in the Property for some time. (Compl., ¶
63.) As a result thereof Plaintiffs have sustained actual damages and are
entitled to recover those damages from Defendants, in addition to their
attorneys’ fees and costs of suit pursuant to Civil Code Section
1947.10. (Compl., ¶ 64.)
 
The Court finds that the Complaint does not
allege sufficient facts to support a cause of action for wrongful eviction in
violation of Civil Code Section 1947.10. The Complaint does not allege
any facts that Defendants’ family member did not maintain residence in the unit
for at least six consecutive months as required under Civil Code Section
1947.10. Furthermore, the Complaint does not allege the city or county where
the Property is located is rent controlled and subject to the registration of
rents requirement. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer as to the eighth
cause of action is SUSTAINED with Leave to Amend.
 
Ninth Cause of Action for Violation of
COVID-19 Eviction Moratorium
 
The Los Angeles County COVID-19 Tenant
Protections Resolution (hereinafter “Resolution”), section VI created temporary
protection from evictions for tenants who were impacted by the COVID-19
crisis.  Those protections included a
prohibition on No-Fault termination of tenancies as contemplated under Civil
Code section 1946.2 et seq.  (Resolution
VI(A)(2)).  However, the Resolution
provided an exception to that prohibition when a landlord or landlord’s family
member intended to occupy the property.  (See
Resolution VI(A)(3).)
 
The Complaint realleges and incorporates by
reference paragraphs 1 through 17 of the General Allegations. (Compl., ¶ 65.)
Alleges in violation of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors COVID-19
Protection Resolution, Defendants served Plaintiffs a Sixty (60) Day Notice to
Quit. (Compl., ¶ 67.) As a result thereof, Plaintiffs have sustained actual
damages and are entitled to recover those damages from Defendants, in addition
to their attorneys’ fees and costs of suit. (Compl., ¶ 68.) As a direct and proximate
result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiffs have suffered illness, physical
injury, mental stress, emotional distress, discomfort, annoyance, anxiety,
property damage, and lost income, all to Plaintiffs’ damage. (Compl., ¶ 69.)
 
The Court finds that the Complaint fails to
state facts sufficient to support a cause of action for violation of COVID-19
Eviction Moratorium. The Complaint does not allege any facts that Plaintiffs’ were
impacted by COVID-19 and
thus entitled to the protections provided by Paragraph VI of the Resolution. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer as to the ninth cause
of action is SUSTAINED with Leave to Amend.
///
///
///
 
Motion to Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions
specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant
to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)
            
            Here,
Defendants move for an order striking paragraphs 28, 34, 51, 60, 70, and prayer
for relief No. 5 from Plaintiffs’ Complaint. This motion is made on the grounds
that the aforementioned portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint (1) constitute
irrelevant, false, and improper matter; and (2) constitute pleadings not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of the State of California. 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ claim for
punitive damages against them lack specific facts which would show malicious
conduct. Defendants further argue the second, third, and sixth causes of action
assert sparse facts that allege the presence of conditions that required repair
with no allegation that Defendants knew of the alleged condition or any
allusion to or description of conduct by Defendants that may be construed as
malice, oppression, or fraud. Finally, Defendants contend the fourth and ninth
causes of action assuming the misrepresentation is true, the misrepresentation
fact is immaterial because Plaintiffs were required to move in accordance with
Defendants’ notice to quit. 
 
To state a claim for punitive damages under
Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that
the¿defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042. The basis for punitive
damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any
factual assertions are insufficient. Id. A motion to strike may lie
where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the
defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.¿ 
 
“Malice” is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as
“conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined in
section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term
“despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales
& Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.¿¿“Fraud” is defined
in section 3294(c)(3) as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” 
 
To prove that a defendant acted with “willful
and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to
prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. Dawes v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87. Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts
demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible
manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the
substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations
must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct
was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” College Hospital
Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.
 
Paragraph 28 of the Complaint pleads
“Defendants’ conduct described herein further constitutes malice and conscious
disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to punitive
damages in the amount to be proven as to those causes of action which allow for
punitive damages.” (Compl., 5:19-21.) 
 
Paragraph 34 of the Complaint pleads “Defendants’
conduct described herein further constitutes malice and conscious disregard of
Plaintiffs’ rights, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to punitive damages in the
amount to be proven as to those causes of action which allow for punitive
damages.” (Compl., 6:13-15.) 
 
Paragraph 51 of the Complaint pleads
“Defendants’ conduct described herein further constitutes malice and conscious
disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to punitive
damages in the amount to be proven as to those causes of action which allow for
punitive damages.” (Compl., 9:3-5.) 
 
Paragraph 60 of the Complaint pleads
“Defendants acted with fraudulent intent in evicting Plaintiffs knowing their
family member had no intention of moving into the Property but dispossessing
Plaintiffs anyway, out of desire to increase the value of Defendants’ real estate.
Defendants were well aware of their obligations not to wrongfully dispose of
Plaintiffs and also aware that the value of the Property would increase by
evicting Plaintiffs. For those reasons, Defendants are liable to Plaintiffs for
punitive damages as allowed by Civil Code section 3294.” (Compl., 10:5-10.) 
 
Paragraph 70 of the Complaint pleads
Defendants’ conduct described herein further constitutes malice and conscious
disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to punitive
damages in the amount to be proven as to those causes of action which allow for
punitive damages.” (Compl., 11:16-18.) 
 
Prayer for Relief, No. 5 pleads “For punitive
and exemplary damages according to proof at the time of trial (as to the
Seventh Cause of Action only).” (Compl., 11:25.)
 
The Court finds that paragraphs 28, 34, 60,
and prayer for relief, No. 5 plead sufficient facts to support Plaintiffs’
request for punitive damages. The second and third causes of action reallege
and incorporate by reference every allegations contained in the preceding paragraphs
of the Complaint including, the allegations that set forth Defendants’
purported conduct that constitutes malicious conduct. (Compl., ¶¶ 23 and 29.)
Specifically, the Complaint alleges Plaintiffs were subject to the following
uninhabitable conditions throughout their tenancy: (a) mold throughout inside
of the Property; (b) malodorous smell from mold and mildew; (c) bulging walls;
(d) leaking pipes; (e) water leaks; (f) roofing issues; (h) damaged drywall;
(i) plumbing issues; (j) sewage leaks; and (k) severely damaged structural
wood. (Compl., ¶ 15.) Defendants failed to effectuate the necessary repairs to
the Property and/or take the necessary measures to timely render the Property
in a habitable condition despite repeated requests. (Compl., ¶ 16.) Plaintiffs
began experiencing headaches/migraines, allergy symptoms, asthma, stuffy noses,
wheezing, and/or nausea, all of which were due to the uninhabitable conditions
at the Property. (Compl., ¶ 17.) A reasonable jury could infer that Defendants’
were put on notice of these described uninhabitable conditions by Plaintiffs
via their repeated requests for repairs alleged in the Complaint and knowingly
disregarded the rights of Plaintiffs to have a habitable living space by
failing to effectuate the necessary repairs. As to paragraphs 51 and 70, the
sixth and ninth causes of action have been sustained with leave to amend in the
Demurrer. 
As to the other causes of action, plaintiffs
asserts that defendant fraudulently represented that a family member would be
moving into the rental unit when plaintiffs left and that without the
fraudulent assertion, the defendants would not have been able to legally serve
plaintiffs with a 60 day notice.
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is GRANTED
with Leave to Amend as to paragraphs 51 and 70 in accordance with the Demurrer
and DENIED as to paragraphs 28, 34, 60, and prayer for relief, No. 5.
 
            Moving
party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.