 Case Number:  24SMCV02209    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02209




MOTION


Motion
  to Compel Documents from Third Party




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs
  Michael Kibler and Ann Kibler




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiffs Michael Kibler and Ann Kibler
(“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants Liveone, Inc.; Podcastone, Inc.; Robert Ellin; Joshua Hallbauer; Aidan
Crotinger; Splitmind LLC; Siamak Khakshooy; Tanaz Koshki; and ABC Corps
(“Defendants”) alleging five causes of action for (1) violation of Beverly
Hills Municipal Zoning Laws; (2) public nuisance; (3) private nuisance; (4)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (5) aiding and abetting tort,
for allegedly operating a commercial office, business event center,
professional podcast interview and music recording studio in the middle of a
Beverly Hills residential community. 
(FAC ¶ 1.)
 
Plaintiffs now move for an order compelling third-party Crave LA LLC
(“Crave”) to produce documents requested pursuant to a business records subpoena
and to impose monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,260 for failure to comply
with the subpoena.  The motion is
unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion to Compel
 
“In California, discovery may
be obtained from a nonparty through an oral deposition, a written deposition,
or a deposition for the production of business records and things. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (a).)” (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior
Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1030 (“Board of
Registered Nursing”).) “To pursue the deposition of a nonparty, a party must
generally serve a deposition subpoena.” (Ibid.).)
 
“‘A deposition subpoena that
commands only the production of business records for copying shall designate
the business records to be produced either by specifically describing each
individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item, and
shall specify the form in which any electronically stored information is to be
produced, if a particular form is desired.’ [Citation.]” (Board of Registered
Nursing, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at p. 1030.)
 
“‘If a deponent fails to
answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.’ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)” (Board of Registered Nursing, supra,
59 Cal.App.5th at p. 1031.) “‘[D]iscovery conducted by
way of a business records subpoena is a
“deposition.”’ [Citation.]” (Id. at pp. 1031-1032.) “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by [a party or a witness] . . . may make an order . . .
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
 
            Crave
is a catering company that Plaintiffs contend was photographed at a corporate
event Plaintiffs allege Defendants hosted in violation of Beverly Hills zoning
laws.  (Ex. D to Halwani Decl.)  On June 12, 2024, Plaintiffs personally
served a deposition subpoena for the production of business records on Crave’s
registered agent, requesting production on July 12, 2024.  (Exs. A, C to Halwani Decl.)  The Deposition Subpoena requested the
following:
 
·       All
DOCUMENTS sufficient to identify the PERSON who hired YOU for catering services
at 516 N. Beverly Dr., Beverly Hills, CA 90210 on any day since 2023, including
on April 27, 2024, March 28, 2024 and February 3, 2024.
 
·       All
DOCUMENTS related to any catering services performed at 516 N. Beverly Dr.,
Beverly Hills, CA 90210.
 
·       All
DOCUMENTS related to any catering services performed for LiveOne, Inc.
 
(Ibid.)
 
            In
response, the owner of Crave sent Plaintiffs a letter, indicating, “After
conducting a thorough review of our business records and databases, we have
determined that Crave LA LLC has never engaged in any business transactions or
maintained any dealings with LIVEONE, INC. Consequently, we do not possess any
records, documents, or information pertaining to the defendant that would be
responsive to the subpoena.”  (Ex. B to
Halwani Decl.)  
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel responded that Crave’s company van was
photographed at the subject address and pointing out Crave did not formally
respond to the subpoena or otherwise verify or declare under penalty of perjury
that no responsive documents exist to the other categories of requested
documents.  (Ex. D to Halwani Decl.)  
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs have met their burden to demonstrate that they
are entitled to the requested documents and neither Defendants nor Crave have
opposed the motion or otherwise demonstrated otherwise.
 
Sanctions
 
            “The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).) 
 
            Here,
Crave did not oppose the motion to compel. 
Therefore, mandatory sanctions under section 2025.480, subd. (j) are not
warranted.  Further, the Court notes that
Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a).  But that section does
not authorize the issuance of monetary sanctions.   (See Notice
of Motion.)  
 
            Plaintiffs
also seek sanctions for misuse of the discovery process.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030
provides, “To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular
discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice
to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing,
may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a
misuse of the discovery process:
(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
            Misuses
of the discovery process include “Failing to respond or submit to an authorized
method of discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.010, subd. (d).)  But Article 4
(sections 2025.410-2025.480) does not authorize sanctions for misuse of the
discovery process. [1]
            Therefore,
Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions is denied.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
compliance with the subject subpoena for business records, and orders Crave LA
LLC to comply with the subject subpoena within 30 days of notice of the Court’s
order.   The Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
regarding the request for monetary sanctions. 

 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  September 10, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


