  Case Number:  22AHCV00979    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



JUSTIN BOOTH and CYNTHIA
  BOOTH,
 
                                           
  Plaintiffs,
vs.
 
GEOVEL,
  INC., a California corporation d/b/a I-10 CHRYSLER JEEP DODGE RAM; FCA US
  LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.:22AHCV00979
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
Date:   September
  26, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          
 
I.        INTRODUCTION
          Plaintiffs Justin and Cynthia Booth sue Chrysler Jeep Dodge
Ram and FCA US, LLC (FCA) for Song-Beverly Act violations. Plaintiffs allege
that they entered into a warranty agreement with Defendants in January 2021
regarding a 2021 Ram 1500. 
          Plaintiffs allege that defects and nonconformities
manifested themselves during the warranty period; including with the electrical,
engine, and transmission systems. Plaintiffs also allege that they delivered
the vehicle to an authorized repair facility for repair, but Defendants were
unable to conform the vehicle to warranty after a reasonable number of repair
attempts.
          Before the Court is Plaintiffs’ motion for an order
compelling FCA to provide further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
One, numbers 25, 31, and 45-48. FCA provided supplemental responses to these
interrogatories after the motion was filed. FCA’s Reply asserts in a footnote
that FCA’s responses to numbers 45-48 are still deficient; but it does not
specify how or why, and the reason is not obvious from an examination of the
responses themselves. These supplemental responses will likely require a
further meet and confer process before any motion to compel additional
supplemental responses is warranted. The motion is therefore denied without
prejudice.  Sanctions are also denied.
 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
          Code Civ. Proc. §2030.300 governs motions to compel further
responses to interrogatories. It provides as follows:
“(a)
On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any
of the following apply:
(1)
An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
(2)
An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.
(3)
An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”
Motions
must be made within 45 days of any response or supplemental response (Subdivision
(c)) and must be accompanied by a declaration demonstrating the parties met and
conferred to attempt informal resolution; they must also be accompanied by a
separate statement or concise outline. (Subdivision (b).) 
Subdivision
(d) authorizes the imposition of monetary sanctions against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses, unless the
court finds the party who would be subject to sanctions acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make sanctions unjust.
          
III.     ANALYSIS
          A. Procedural History
          Plaintiffs served FCA with Special Interrogatories, Set
One, on February 23, 2023. Declaration of Armando Lopez, ¶3 and Exhibit A
thereto. FCA served its responses on March 30, 2023. Id. at ¶4 and
Exhibit B. On May 11, 2023, Plaintiffs sent a meet and confer letter. Id. at
¶5 and Exhibit C. Because this exhibit is simply a copy of an email saying
“please see attached correspondence,” Plaintiffs did not provide competent  evidence as to what this letter says. FCA has,
however. See Declaration of Christopher M. Fisher, ¶3 and Exhibit 1 thereto. 
          By written agreement, the parties stipulated that
Plaintiffs had until June 27, 2023, to file a motion to compel further
responses. Lopez Declaration at ¶6 and Exhibit D. FCA wrote a responsive
meet and confer letter, agreeing to provide supplemental responses to some but
not all of the interrogatories mentioned in Plaintiffs’ meet and confer letter.
Id. at ¶7 and Exhibit E. Plaintiffs responded by requesting that FCA
provide all supplemental responses by June 20, 2023; this was done in
connection with the agreement to extend the motion filing date to June 27, 2023.
Id. at ¶8 and Exhibit D. 
          On June 6, 2023, FCA provided supplemental responses to Special
Interrogatory numbers 23, 29, 30, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 41, 43 and 44. Fisher
Declaration at ¶4 and Exhibit 2. On September 11, 2023, FCA provided
supplemental responses to Special Interrogatory numbers 25, 31 and 45-48. Id.
at ¶5 and Exhibit 3.      
B.
The Motion is Denied as Moot
This
motion to compel is moot. Based on the evidence provided, FCA has served
supplemental responses to each of the Special Interrogatories at issue in this
motion. As to numbers 45-48, which Plaintiffs’ Reply indicates are still
deficient, FCA’s supplemental responses are substantive. The responses state that
it “does not track R/1000 data,” but that Defendants will nevertheless conduct
a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and, subject to a protective order, agree
to “produce documents related to warranty claims data, failure rates, and
C/1000 data for the same make, year, and model of the Subject Vehicle.”
Although these are interrogatories and not document demands, these responses are
substantive in nature. To the extent that Plaintiffs believe that the responses
are still defective, they will be required to meet and confer further with FCA,
and attempt to reach an informal resolution prior to seeking an order
compelling further responses. 
On
the issue of monetary sanctions, the Court finds that they are not warranted under
these circumstances. The meet and confer letters evidence that the parties were
in the process of informal resolution and that further efforts on that front,
with continued extensions of the time to file a motion, would have been
expected. If FCA had expressed in its letters that it was not willing to
extend the motion deadline, some sanction award would most likely have been ordered.  But that is not the case here. 
 
IV.     ORDER
          Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant FCA to provide
further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, numbers 25, 31, and
45-48, is denied.  Supplemental responses
were provided during the pendency of this motion. This order is without
prejudice to any future motion to compel further responses that may be
appropriate, following further meet and confer efforts. Plaintiffs’ request for
monetary sanctions is also denied at this time. 
          Defendant is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.
 
 
 
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT