 Case Number:  21SMCV01405    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel further responses to a production
request.  Plaintiff brings the motion and
defendant Mazariat LLC opposes.
Plaintiff filed this action for breach of contract regarding
the restructuring of a property loan. 
Although Mazariat was not originally named, it has since been named as a
DOE.  Plaintiff served document
requests.  Request 5 sought all documents
reflecting Mazariat’s governing instruments and capital contributions.  Mazariat agreed to produce only materials in
the public record but otherwise objected on the basis of relevance.  Request 6 sought all documents reflecting the
sources of funds used to purchase, develop, or maintain the property.  Mazariat objected on the basis of
relevance. 
The court believes that the requests are proper and the
motion is therefore GRANTED, subject to the entry of a protective order.  In a motion to compel further responses, the
initial burden is on the moving party to demonstrate good cause for the
production.  (TBG Ins. Services Corp.
v. Superior Court (2002) 86 Cal.App.4th 443.)  However, the threshold is low.  The request must be relevant to the subject
matter of the litigation and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  Here, plaintiff
states that this information is needed to support alter ego allegations.  Alter ego requires a showing that there is a
unity of interests between the jural entity and its owner (or owners) such that
if the corporate veil is not pierced it will lead to fraud or injustice.  It also usually requires some showing that
the corporate form was disregarded by the alleged alter ego entity or
inadequate capitalization or something similar. 
Thus, if the showing is made, the plaintiff can sue an entity’s owner;
the corporate form will not limit liability to the entity alone.  Plaintiff alleges alter ego in this
action.  Even to the extent that there is
some privacy interest at stake (which is an objection the court is far from
confident Mazariat actually raised), the balance under Hill is in
plaintiff’s favor, at least if there is a protective order.  The discovery goes to the alter ego issue,
and it does not seem to seek information that would not be pertinent to such a
showing.
Mazariat contends that the alter ego allegations are
insufficient.  That is not a proper
argument in a discovery motion.  Perhaps
it could have been raised by way of demurrer (or not).  But it is in the complaint at the
moment.  Even if it were not, discovery
is proper even if what it does is assist a party in evaluating a case or
facilitating settlement.  (Gonzalez v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539.) 
Accordingly, even were the court to credit Mazariat’s argument, the
discovery would be pertinent as to whether plaintiff ought to amend, pursue, or
abandon the alter ego allegation. 
The court believes that the motion is well taken and it is
GRANTED.  Responses (with documents) are
due in 30 days. 
Although the motion was granted, there was sufficient
substantial justification in opposition such that the request for sanctions is
DENIED.