 Case Number:  SC125609    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  I The court has reviewed the application to continue the trial
and the partial opposition.  Putting to
one side the cause for the continuance, the court is satisfied that the matter
must be continued, and all parties seem to agree on that much.  The question is when the trial ought to be
set and what should happen to cut off dates.
Plaintiffs suggest a new date of 1/2/24.  The court is inclined to agree at this
point.  With the five-year deadline fast
approaching and no definitive extension set forth, there really are not many
choices.  As to cut-off dates, the
court’s prior ruling stands.  Any
discovery at this point needs to be approved by the referee.  The court will not issue a blanket
continuance of the cut off dates. 
If all parties are willing to extend the 5 year rule, the
court can consider other dates.  However,
absent that, 1/2/24 is about the only date that will work.
On a different note, the court has reviewed the referee’s
report and the objection to it and the response to the objection.  First, the court is still not 100% convinced
that the referee’s report is in the nature of a report because there is at
least some question whether the parties agreed that the referee’s
determinations would be binding.  But to
the extent that it is in the nature of a report and recommendation, the court
agrees with the referee and has approved the recommendation.  The court has given some weight to the
referee’s report, but not the “great weight” that defendants suggest.  This is not a situation where the referee
heard testimony, for example.  That said,
overall the court agrees with the referee’s determination here.  To assure that there is no improper conduct
by the experts, plaintiffs may have the court reporter and videographer present
at the witness’s location.  Plaintiffs
will have to arrange that, but it can be done there if plaintiffs choose rather
than in Los Angeles.  No one else will be
allowed to be in the same room as the witness unless a party or party’s counsel
chooses to be there.  While the court is
aware that there are costs involved in out-of-state depositions, they are
hardly extraordinary.  If plaintiffs want
to be present at the location, then they may be there, as the referee stated.  If they would prefer to stay in Los Angeles
and take the deposition remotely, that is ok as well.  As to the costs, the court agrees with the
referee here, but notes that travel costs are generally recoverable by the
prevailing party after trial.