 Case Number:  21SMCV01681    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  I This is a motion by defendants to compel further
responses.  Defendants propounded
requests for production a long time ago. 
Plaintiff indicated that it was conducting a full search of electronic
data.  Plaintiff eventually produced 77
documents, and there were no emails in the production.  Defense counsel inquired and was told by
plaintiff’s counsel that emails were searched and no responsive documents were
found.  Defense counsel followed up and
was later told that the problem was that plaintiff changed computers in 2016
and no emails or electronic messages were kept, which is why none were
produced.  (The donation in question was
made in 2009.)
Defendants did not let the matter go.  They deposed Ms. Savka, who was Joyce
Brandman’s assistant.  Ms. Savka did the
search not only of the Brandman Foundation, but perhaps of Joyce’s messages as
well.  (The court uses Joyce Brandman’s
first name to avoid confusing her with the Brandman Foundation.  It is for ease of reference only and no
disrespect is intended.)  At the
deposition, it became clear that what was done was just a name search in the
search window and that no effort was made to search the server on which
electronic communications had in fact been backed up (contrary to prior
representations).  Savka also seems to
have testified that she did review 50-75 documents that the search returned but
only a couple were relevant (and even those were not produced).  Defendants were upset by this and requested
that plaintiff re-do the search, this time with appropriate search parameters
and that counsel be involved.  Defense
counsel also questioned why Joyce’s personal account was deleted.  Plaintiff’s counsel has agreed to re-run the
search on the server, but has otherwise have not agreed to defendants’
requests.
Plaintiff’s counsel notes that Brandman is a non-profit and
has but two employees (Joyce and Savka), neither of whom is good with
technology.  Counsel states that Boolean
searches cannot be done using the current email applications and that a lot of
the search parameters will return irrelevant material; in short, plaintiff
argues that  this is a wild goose chase.
The court is not convinced by plaintiff’s opposition.  First, plaintiff fails to explain the
differing explanations as to why documents were not produced.  Initially they said that there were none,
then they said the documents were destroyed when the computer changed.  Then they said that the documents were not
destroyed but they did not look at the back ups.  And the problem is that plaintiff’s staff is
not really sophisticated enough technologically to do the job.  That is not sufficient. 
The court well understands why counsel does not want to get
involved with the document retrieval process. 
It is the least fun part of litigation. 
Where the client is sophisticated and has the capability and litigation
understanding to do the document retrieval in house, it is perfectly
appropriate to let the client do so. 
Indeed, often there is a general counsel overseeing the process where
the client is big enough.  But this is
not that.  Here, according to plaintiff’s
own counsel, the client is incapable of doing the search.  She does not understand how to do a full
search or have the ability to do so. 
That is not a criticism of Savka (or Joyce).  It is only to say that it is not sufficient
to leave the document production to one who is not capable of doing it
properly.
Plaintiff must do a reasonable search of the system.  That must include the back ups on the
server.  And to the extent documents can
be found from Joyce—either on her own device or a back up—they must be searched
as well.  It is clear counsel must direct
and oversee the search process.  Counsel
has admitted that the client cannot do so. 
And the search is not just what fits on the search bar in Outlook (or whatever
software plaintiffs use).  There are ways
to do true searches of emails and they must be done.  Boolean logic is a standard way to do the
search, and that is what must be done here. 
The court is not going to order plaintiff to buy a $100,000 software
package to do that, but the court has seen no showing from plaintiff as to the
burden of doing a proper search.  And
where the objection is undue burden, it is the responding party’s obligation to
specify with admissible evidence the burden of compliance.  That was not done here.  To the extent plaintiff must buy software,
they will have to do that so long as the cost is reasonable in the context of a
$10 million case.  That is not a
particularly low threshold.  As to the
search parameters, plaintiff ought to use those that defendants have suggested.  Remember, in today’s electronic world there
is far too much information for a human to lay eyes on everything.  Therefore, the search is a way to winnow the
universe of documents down to something that a human can review.  Just because a document is returned by the
search does not mean it is responsive; it means only that a human must decide
whether it is responsive.  Obviously,
some searches may need to be refined. 
For example, one would think “Chapman” would be an obvious term.  But if Joyce’s best friend’s name was
“Chapman,” it may have to be modified due to the quantity of irrelevant
documents retrieved.  That’s ok.  The key is to be reasonable.
Accordingly, the motion to compel is GRANTED IN PART.  Plaintiff will conduct a new search,
inclusive of all electronic locations in their possession, custody, or control
at which documents might be found or backed up. 
That will include Joyce’s personal electronic data.  The search will use Boolean logic and the
search terms will be determined through the meet and confer process, but starting
with defendants’ suggestions. 
Plaintiff’s counsel will oversee the search to ensure it is properly
done.  Further, verified responses will
be provided within 30 days.  They will be
provided without objection other than privilege (and privileged documents will
be logged).  If any documents cannot be
produced because they were lost or destroyed or given to a third party, a
declaration complying with CCP section 2031.230 will be provided as well.  All additional documents must be produced
within 30 days of the supplemental verified responses.
Defendants also seek an order requiring Joyce to sit for
another deposition.  That aspect of the
motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
Right now, we do not know what, if any, new documents will be
discovered.  It could be that even with a
full search there is nothing new under the sun. 
However, plaintiff should be aware that it will not take much for the
court to order the second sitting if any new documents are discovered.  The parties are well advised to work the
matter out themselves rather than to come back to court with another discovery
motion.
The court does not want to impose sanctions, but it might be
hard to avoid here.  In any case, it is
not before the court now.  As plaintiff
points out, to obtain sanctions as part of the motion to compel, more is
needed.  The notice must set forth the
amount of the sanction and against whom the sanction is to be imposed (as well
as the basis therefor).  All of that was
not done here.  That is because
defendants state that they will seek sanctions by subsequent motion.  Doing so is not improper.  (London v. Dri-Honing Corp. (2004) 117
Cal.App.4th 999.)  But the court is not
going to decide sanctions piecemeal—deciding now whether sanctions are
appropriate and later the amount. 
Defendants are free to bring their motion and the court will decide all
aspects of it then.  However, the court
STRONGLY urges the parties to meet and confer to discuss the issue and moot it
out.  The court notes that the amount of
sanctions is unlikely to be huge under the circumstances and the good-will
purchased by going light and resolving informally likely will far exceed the
monetary amount of any award.  Further,
the shoe might well be on the other foot later in the litigation.  On the other hand, the court can well
understand the concept that to induce defendants to moot the motion, money will
need to change hands in some amount.  The
court is not ordering the parties to moot out the issue; it is only giving
friendly advice.