  Case Number:  22STCV38725    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  74 John D.F.
Doe v. County of Los Angeles et al.
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File
a Second Amended Complaint
 
BACKGROUND 
            Plaintiff
John D.F. Doe sued the County of Los Angeles (as Roe 1) and Roes 2-25 on December
13, 2022. He asserts five causes of action arising from his alleged sexual
assault at the hands of one of the County’s agents in the 1970s.
            Plaintiff
filed the Certificates of Merit and Corroborative Fact required by Code of
Civil Procedure section 340.1 and filed a first amended complaint (FAC)
identifying Roe 1 as the County on April 10, 2023. On June 12, 2023, the County
filed its answer.
            On March
29, 2024, Plaintiff applied ex parte to specify a second Roe defendant, Roe 2.
On April 10, 2024, the Court denied the application and ordered Plaintiff to
proceed by noticed motion.
            On April
18, Plaintiff filed the instant noticed motion to file a second amended
complaint (SAC) naming Roe 2 separately from Roes 3-25. The following day,
Plaintiff filed Certificates of Merit under Code of Civil Procedure section
340.1(g).
            The motion
is unopposed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
¿¿ A party may file an amended pleading once
without leave of the court at any time before a demurrer or motion to strike is
filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed as long as it is served
no later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to
strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 472(a), 430.40(a).) Outside that timeframe, a
party must obtain leave of the court to amend its pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a)(1).) 
The court may
grant leave to amend a pleading, in its discretion, “upon any terms as may be
just,” if it finds that permitting the amendment would be “in furtherance of
justice,” and that the adverse party was noticed. (Ibid.) The court may grant
leave to amend at any stage of the proceeding, even “after commencement of
trial.” (Id., § 576; see Hirsa v. Superior Court
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489.)
Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, a motion to amend a pleading must: 
(1)  Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
(2)  State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
(3)  State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)
A separate
declaration must also accompany the motion and must specify: 
(1)  The effect of the amendment;
(2)  Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4)  The reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.
(Id., subd. (b).) 
 
DISCUSSION  
            Plaintiff
has satisfied all requirements, and the motion is granted.
            1. Code
of Civil Procedure Section 340.1(g)
            In any
childhood sexual assault case where the plaintiff is forty years of age or
older, Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1, subdivisions (f) through (o),
describes a multi-stage pleading procedure. A plaintiff subject to those
subdivisions must first file his complaint, naming the defendant(s) by
fictitious name only. (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1(f).) He must then submit
certificates of merit which demonstrate “reasonable and meritorious cause for
the filing of the action”, which upon court approval permit him to serve the
complaint on the known-but-fictitiously-named defendant(s). (Id., subds.
(g), (i).) Finally, he may file certificates of corroborative fact that permit
him to identify the defendants by name via amendment. (Id., subds. (m)-(n).)
            Plaintiff
filed certificates of merit as to proposed defendant Roe 2 on April 19, 2024. Based
on those certificates of merit, the Court finds there is reasonable and
meritorious cause of the filing of the action against Roe 2. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 340.1(i).) Plaintiff has yet to submit certificates of corroborative
fact as to Roe 2.
            2. Court
Rule 3.1324
            Plaintiff
submits a copy of his proposed second amended complaint and a redlined version
indicating which allegations will be added, amended, or deleted. (Burritt Decl.,
Exhs. 8-9.) Rule 3.1324(a) is satisfied.
            Plaintiff’s
motion also contains a declaration of counsel that explains: (1) the effect of
the amendment will be to identify Roe 2 separately from the other Roe
defendants; (2) the amendment is necessary so Plaintiff can obtain relief from
all parties at fault; (3) the facts identifying Roe 2 were uncovered during
discovery; and (4) the request was not made earlier because the discovery
responses that identified the new proposed defendant were not provided until
February 2024, less than two months before Plaintiff filed his motion. (Burritt
Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.) Rule 3.1324(b) is satisfied.
            3. Code
of Civil Procedure Section 473
            The
interests of justice also require that leave to amend be granted. Plaintiff
reasonably did not include Roe 2 in his complaint because Roe 2’s identity was
unknown. Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration, quoting defendant County of Los
Angeles’s discovery responses, demonstrates that if Plaintiff were not
permitted to amend, then he could not obtain relief from all culpable parties
even if he prevailed in this litigation. That result would prejudice both
Plaintiff and the County.
            Plaintiff
has shown amendment is warranted, and 
his motion is granted.
 
CONCLUSION 
Plaintiff’s motion is granted.
Plaintiff is ordered to separately file his operative second amended complaint
(SAC) within ten (10) days of this ruling.
Plaintiff shall give notice.