  Case Number:  23VECV01367    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



Clara Victoria cruz,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
WHOLE FOODS MARKET CALIFORNIA, INC., 14311 VENTURA
  DEVELOPMENT, LLC and DOES 1 TO 50, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV01367
 
ORDER
  GRANTING VENTURA PAVING MANAGEMENT INC.’S MOTON FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
 




 
AND ALL RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS.


)
)
)
)
)


    
  
 
 



 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This is a
personal injury action. Plaintiff Clara Victoria Cruz (“Plaintiff”) alleges she
was walking in the parking lot of Defendant Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food Markets
erroneously sued as Whole Foods Market California, Inc. (“Mrs. Gooch’s”) when
she tripped and fell over a parking block, sustaining significant injuries. (See
Complaint, pg. 4, ¶ GN-1.) 
Plaintiff
initially filed this action against Mrs. Gooch’s and Defendant 14311 Ventura
Development, LLC (“Ventura Development”) but later expanded her action to
include Ventura Paving Management, Inc. (“Ventura Paving”). 
Ventura
Development filed a Cross-Complaint against Mrs. Gooch’s. Mrs. Gooch’s filed a
Cross-Complaint against Ventura Development. Ventura Paving filed a
Cross-Complaint against Ventura Development.
Ventura
Paving now moves for summary judgment as to all causes of action in Plaintiff’s
Complaint or, alternatively, for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s second
cause of action for premises liability. 
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On March 28,
2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint, alleging (1) General Negligence; and (2)
Premises Liability.
On July 5,
2023, Ventura Development filed its Answer. 
On July 11,
2023, Ventura Development filed its Cross-Complaint, alleging (1) Express Indemnity;
(2) Implied Indemnity; (3) Contribution; (4) Breach of Contract; (5)
Declaratory Relief Duty to Defend; and (6) Declaratory Relief Duty to
Indemnify. 
On July 11,
2023, Plaintiff amended her Complaint to change Whole Foods Market California
Inc.’s name to Mrs. Gooch’s Food Markets, Inc. 
On July 24,
2023, Mrs. Gooch’s filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
On August 11,
2023, Mrs. Gooch’s filed its Answer to Ventura Development’s Cross-Complaint. 
On October
13, 2023, Mrs. Gooch’s filed its Cross-Complaint, alleging (1) Express
Indemnity; (2) Implied Contractual Indemnity; (3) Equitable Indemnity; and (4)
Declaratory Relief.  
On October
23, 2023, Ventura Development filed its Answer to Mrs. Gooch’s Cross-Complaint.

On February
26, 2024, Plaintiff amended her Complaint to add Ventura Paving as a Defendant.

On April 3,
2024, Ventura Paving filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
On April 3,
2024, Ventura Paving filed its Cross-Complaint, alleging (1) Equitable
Indemnity; (2) Contribution; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
On April 8,
2024, Plaintiff amended her Complaint to add Pacific Star Capital, LLC
(“Pacific”), as a Defendant. 
On July 30,
2024, Ventura Paving filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment (“Motion”). 
On August 2,
2024, Ventura Paving dismissed Pacific from its Cross-Complaint. 
On August 22,
2024, Plaintiff dismissed Pacific from her Complaint.
On October 3,
2024, Ventura Development filed an Opposition to Ventura Paving’s Motion. 
On October 4,
2024, Plaintiff filed her Opposition to Ventura Paving’s Motion. 
On October 9,
2024, Ventura Paving filed its Replies. 
On October
11, 2024, Mrs. Gooch’s filed a Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition. 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
The function
of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as
to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (See
Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In
analyzing such motions, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify
the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Thus, summary
judgment or summary adjudication is granted when, after the Court’s
consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable
inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist, and the moving party
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c) [1]; Villa
v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.) 
As to each
claim as framed by the complaint, the party moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting
facts to negate or establish an essential element. (See Scalf v. D.B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
be denied where the moving party’s evidence does not prove all material facts,
even in the absence of any opposition or where the opposition is weak. (See
Leyva v. Superior Court (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475; Salesguevara v.
Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384 & 387.) When a
plaintiff is the moving party, the plaintiff has a higher burden: it must “present
evidence that would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying
material fact more likely than not.” (See Aguilar, 25
Cal.4th at 845 (emphasis added).) “The burden of the moving party is to persuade
the court that there is no material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find.”
(PP Mortgage, Ltd. v. Bizar (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 773, 776 (emphasis in
original) (cleaned up).) 
Once the
moving party has met its burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to
show via specific facts that a triable issue of material fact exists to a cause
of action or a defense thereto. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(o)(2).)
IV.         
ANALYSIS
As a preliminary
matter, Ventura Development and Mrs. Gooch’s are not party to this Motion. However,
both parties filed papers opposing the Motion and Plaintiff’s Opposition,
respectively. Neither party addressed why the Court should consider their filings
or how they have standing to oppose. Accordingly, the Court will not consider
their filings for the purposes of the Motion. 
A.            
Evidentiary Issues
The Court
will rule on Ventura Paving’s evidentiary objections despite Ventura Paving’s
failure to comply with Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b)(3), which requires a
party “[q]uote or set forth the objectionable statement or material” in its
evidentiary objections. 
The Court OVERRULES
Ventura Paving’s evidentiary objections Nos. 5-7, 8-11, 13-18 and SUSTAINS Nos.
1, 2, 3, 4, 12.  
B.            
Undisputed Material Facts
On March 30, 202[1], Plaintiff visited
the Whole Food Market located at 14311 Ventura Blvd, Sherman Oaks, CA
(“Property”). (See Plaintiff’s Response to Ventura Paving’s Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) No. 1.) While visiting,
Plaintiff tripped and fell over a parking block (“parking block” or “wheel
stop”) in the parking lot. (See UMF No. 2.) The parking block Plaintiff
tripped and fell over was painted blue, in the exact same shade of blue as the
rest of the striping in the area. (See Ventura Paving’s Response to Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Additional Undisputed Material Facts (“AUMF”) No. 10.)
Ventura Paving does not own, operate
manage, supervise or maintain the Property. (See UMF No. 5.) Mrs.
Gooch’s leases the Property from Ventura Development. (See AUMF Nos. 22,
26.) Ventura Paving is a subcontractor hired in June 2020 by Ventura
Development to inter alia, “stripe all handicap parking spaces, arrows, and the
hash only designated to the handicap spaces, according to plans.” (UMF No. 6.) In
or about early September 2020, Ventura Development also hired Ventura Paving to
install wheel stops in the handicap designated parking spaces. (See UMF
No. 7.) In September 2020, Ventura Paving provided, installed and painted the
wheel stops at the handicap designated parking spaces in the parking lot at the
Property. (See UMF No. 8.) Ventura Paving was not notified of any
problem with the wheel stop at issue until served with the instant lawsuit on
February 29, 2024. (See UMF No. 11.) 
C.            
Ventura
Paving is Entitled to Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of
Action for Premises Liability. 
Plaintiff levies two claims
against Ventura Paving: general negligence and premises liability. (See Complaint.)
Ventura Paving moves for summary judgment as to both causes of action or, alternatively,
for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s premises liability claim only. 
“The elements of any negligence
cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.” (Peredia
v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.) “Everyone is
responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for
an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in
the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter
has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1714(a).) “The elements of a negligence claim and a
premises liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that
duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. Premises liability is grounded
in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage
the premises; accordingly, mere possession with its attendant right to control
conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for the imposition of an
affirmative duty to act. But the duty arising from possession and control of
property is adherence to the same standard of care that applies in negligence
cases.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158 (cleaned
up).) 
1.              
Summary
Judgment – Completed and Accepted Doctrine 
Ventura Paving argues it has no
duty to Plaintiff under either cause of action and is thus entitled to summary
judgment. (See Motion, pp. 3-6.) Ventura argues it “owed no duty to
Plaintiff because the law is clear that when a contractor's work has been
completed and accepted by the owner, the contractor is not liable to third
persons for injury suffered by reason of a patent defect caused by the
contractor's work. (Boswell v. Laird (1857) 8 Cal. 469; Sanchez v.
Swinerton & Walberg Co. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1461.).” (Motion, pg. 3.)
In support of its argument, Ventura Paving submits evidence (1) it was a
subcontractor hired by Ventura Development to perform painting and striping of
the parking lot and to install wheel stops at the Property; (2) it completed
the work it was hired to perform no later than October 31, 2020; (3) the
completed work was accepted; and (4) Ventura Paving was not notified of any
issues with the parking block until it was served with the instant lawsuit on
February 29, 2024. (See Motion, pg. 4, UMF Nos. 6-9.)
The Court finds Ventura Paving
has not met its burden of proof under the completed and accepted doctrine and
thus has not met his burden in negating the element of duty underlying
Plaintiff’s claims. “[W]hen a contractor completes work that is accepted by the
owner, the contractor is not liable to third parties injured as a result of the
condition of the work, even if the contractor was negligent in performing the
contract, unless the defect in the work was latent or concealed. The rationale
for this doctrine is that an owner has a duty to inspect the work and ascertain
its safety, and thus the owner’s acceptance of the work shifts liability for
its safety to the owner, provided that a reasonable inspection would disclose
the defect. Stated another way, when the owner has accepted a structure from
the contractor, the owner’s failure to attempt to remedy an obviously dangerous
defect is an intervening cause for which the contractor is not liable. The
doctrine applies to patent defects, but not latent defects. If an owner,
fulfilling the duty of inspection, cannot discover the defect, then the owner
cannot effectively represent to the world that the construction is sufficient;
he lacks adequate information to do so.” (Neiman v. Leo A. Daly Co.
(2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 962, 969 (“Neiman”)(cleaned up).)
Ventura Paving has presented no
evidence the parking block was a patent defect that Ventura Development had
awareness of, or should have had awareness of upon reasonable inspection, prior
to the incident. Ventura Paving’s only
evidence in support of its UMF No. 10, which states “Ventura Paving Management
Inc.’s work at 14311 Ventura Blvd., Sherman Oaks, CA was completed and accepted
by 14311 Ventura Development LLC, no later than October 31, 2020, the day the
store opened,” is the declaration of its CEO Benjamin Lopez (“Lopez”), whereby
Lopez merely restates the contents of UMF No. 10. (UMF No. 10, Declaration of
Benjamin Lopez filed July 30, 2024, ¶ 7.)
The Court of Appeal’s reasoning
in Neiman is instructive here. In Neiman, the lack of stripes on
a set of stairs was deemed a patent defect because “[i]t is undisputed [appellee’s]
plans and specifications called for contrast marking stripes to be placed on
the stairs at the Main Stage.” (Neiman, 210 Cal.App.4th at 969.) As
such, “[t]he alleged defect is patent as a matter of law; it would be
discovered by the inspection on owner would make in the exercise of ordinary
care and prudence in ensuring that obvious safety measures called for in the
plans and specifications were completed.” (Neiman, 210 Cal.App.4th at
970 (cleaned up).) Here, however, Ventura Paving has presented no evidence that
the parking block at issue was supposed to be painted a certain color or be
placed in a certain position or that Ventura Development knew or should
have known the parking block at issue was supposed to be painted a certain
color or be placed in a certain position. 
Nor has Ventura Paving presented
evidence the parking block presented an obvious and apparent danger. (See
Sanchez v. Swinerton & Walberg Co. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1461, 1470–1471
(“Sanchez”) (emphasis added).) In
Sanchez, discussed by Ventura Paving in support of its argument, the
Court of Appeal found standing water on a stairwell “obvious and apparent to
any reasonably observant person, as would the danger the water might create
slippery surfaces and cause one to slip and fall. In the context of a patent
defect, the word ‘patent’ refers to the patency of danger and not
merely to exterior visibility. Here, the danger itself was patent as a
matter of law; it would be discovered by the inspection an owner would make in
the exercise of ordinary care and prudence for, as a matter of ordinary
prudence, one would test whether water accumulated on the uncovered landings of
stairways into buildings. The obvious nature of the defect would allow the
owner and users to take steps to remedy the condition or to take precautions
against injury.” (Id. (cleaned up) (emphasis
added).)
Here, the only evidence Ventura Paving presents
that comes close to addressing the nature of the parking block (whether patent
or latent) is its evidence in support of UMF No. 14, which states, “Plaintiff
has produced photographs which depict the blue wheel stop in the same condition
as it was when Plaintiff tripped and show that the wheel stop was open, obvious
and visible.” (UMF No. 14.) The evidence in support of UMF No. 14, however,
consists of photos of the parking block and a portion of Plaintiff’s deposition
testimony discussing the photos. (See id.) At most, these documents
support an argument that the parking block was “exteriorly visible.” (Sanchez,
47 Cal.App.4th at 1470.) They do not, however, establish that the parking block
presented an obvious and apparent danger. (See id.)
In sum, the Court not persuaded
by Ventura Development’s evidence that the parking block is a patent defect and
that Ventura Paving is thereby absolved of any potential liability to Plaintiff
by virtue of the completed and accepted doctrine. Accordingly, the Court DENIES
Ventura Paving’s Motion for Summary Judgment on the grounds of the completed
and accepted doctrine.  
2.              
Summary
Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for Premises Liability
Cause of Action is Appropriate.
 “The elements of a negligence claim and a
premises liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that
duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. Premises liability is grounded
in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage
the premises; accordingly, mere possession with its attendant right to control
conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for the imposition of an
affirmative duty to act. But the duty arising from possession and control of property
is adherence to the same standard of care that applies in negligence cases.” (Kesner,
1 Cal.5th at 1158 (cleaned up).) 
Ventura Paving argues the parking block
constituted an open and obvious harm such that Plaintiff cannot establish that
Ventura Paving breached a duty to Plaintiff. (See Motion, pp. 4-6.)[2] Ventura Paving also argues that since it did not
own, lease, occupy, or control the Property and thus cannot be held liable to Plaintiff
under a theory of premises liability. (See id. at 6-8.) In support of
its arguments, Ventura Paving submits evidence that (1) Plaintiff wasn’t paying
attention when she tripped on the parking block; (2) there was no car parked in
the handicap designated parking area when Plaintiff tripped; (3) the parking
block was an open an obvious condition; and (4) Ventura Paving did not own,
lease, occupy or control the Property. (See UMF Nos. 5, 12-14.) 
The Court finds Ventura Paving has submitted
evidence sufficient to meet its burden on summary adjudication as to
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for premises liability. Ventura Paving has
submitted evidence that it does not own, lease, occupy or control the Property.
(See UMF No. 5.) Ventura Paving has submitted evidence that it was a
subcontractor hired to perform the work of striping all handicap parking spaces
and install the parking blocks in said spaces, but that its work was completed in
October of 2020. (See UMF No. 6-7, 10.) Ventura Paving has thus
submitted admissible evidence that it does not own, possess, or control the
Property and the burden
shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue of material fact.[3]
 
Plaintiff has not shown there is a triable issue
of material fact as to whether Ventura Paving owns, leases, occupies, or
controls the property. To the contrary, Plaintiff does not dispute that Ventura
Paving does not own, lease, occupy, or control the Property; nor does Plaintiff
dispute that Ventura Paving was hired to perform work that it ostensibly
completed. (See UMF Nos. 5, 6-7, 10.) In fact, Plaintiff submits
evidence that supports Ventura Paving’s position, as she submits
evidence that Ventura Development owns the Property and Mrs. Gooch’s leases the
Property from Ventura Development. (See
AUMF Nos. 22, 26.)
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Ventura Paving’s
Motion as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for premises liability only. 
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Ventura Paving’s Motion for Summary Judgment on the grounds of
the completed and accepted doctrine but GRANTS Ventura Paving’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for premises liability.
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      October 17, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


