 Case Number:  24STCP00555    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  26  Diya Finance, LLC v. Chute System, LLC, et al.PETITION  TO RELEASE MECHANIC’S LIEN (Civil  Code § 8480)      TENTATIVE RULING:   Petitioner Diya Finance, LLC’s  Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is DENIED.      ANALYSIS:    Petitioner Diya Finance, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed the  instant Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien against Respondent Chute  Systems, LLC (“Respondent”) on February 14, 2024. The Petition initially came  for hearing on July 9, 2024, at which time the matter was continued to give  Petitioner an opportunity to demonstrate service in accordance with the  statutory requirements. (Minute Order, 07/09/24.)   No proof of service of, nor response to, the Petition has  been filed to date.    Discussion   Petitioner moves to have the mechanic’s lien recorded  against their property by Respondent released. Under Civil Code section 8484  the petition for release order must be verified by the petitioner and allege  the following:   (a) The date of recordation of the  claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the  petition. (b) The county in which the claim of  lien is recorded. (c) The book and page or series number  of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded. (d) The legal description of the  property subject to the claim of lien. (e) Whether an extension of credit has  been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for  commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired. (f) That the owner has given the  claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and  record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do  so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found. (g) Whether an action to enforce the  lien is pending. (h) Whether the owner of the property  or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is  another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to  enforce the lien.   (Civil Code, § 8484.) The Petition contains all the required  information. However, Civil Code section 8486, subdivision (b) also requires  service of the Petition and Notice of Hearing to “be made in the same manner as  service of summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return  receipt requested . . . .” (Civ. Code, § 8486, subd. (b).) As the Court  previously noted, Petitioner has not filed any proof of service of the Petition  and the Notice of the Hearing Date. The Court cannot grant the Petition without  compliance with the statutory service requirements.   Conclusion   Therefore, Petitioner Diya  Finance, LLC’s Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is DENIED.     Court clerk to give notice.   