 Case Number:  24STLC01813    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  26 
California Injury, PLC v. Platinum Chiropractor Center, et al.MOTION FOR
DISCHARGE OF STAKEHOLDER AND ATTORNEY’S FEES, COSTS
(CCP §§ 386, 386.5)
 

 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Plaintiff California Injury PLC’s Motion to Discharge Interpleader
Stakeholder From Liability And Awarding Costs And Fees is DENIED.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On March 13, 2024,
Plaintiff California Injury, PLC (“Plaintiff”) initiated this interpleader action
against Defendants Platinum Chiropractor Center,
Shin Imaging LLC, Raad Jeiroudi, MD, Euclid Outpatient Surgery Center, and Cesar
Omar Ayala (“Defendants”). Following their failure to file responsive
pleadings, default was entered against all Defendants in June 2024. 
 
Plaintiff
filed the instant Motion to Discharge Interpleader Stakeholder From
Liability And Awarding Costs And Fees on
July 8, 2024. To date, no
opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Interpleader is a procedure whereby a person holding money
or personal property to which conflicting claims are being or may be made by
others can join the adverse claimants and force them to litigate their claims
among themselves. (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b).) Hancock Oil Co. v.
Hopkins (1944) 24 Cal.2d 497, 508 (i.e., an escrow-holder who receives
conflicting demands from the parties to the escrow regarding the funds or
documents he or she holds); City of Morgan Hill v. Brown (1999) 71
Cal.App.4th 1114, 1122.)
 
Once the stakeholder’s right to interplead is established
and he or she deposits the money or personal property in court, he or she may
be discharged from liability to any of the claimants. This enables the
stakeholder to avoid multiplicity of actions, and the risk of inconsistent
results if each of the claimants were to sue him or her separately. (Cantu
v. Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 874; City of Morgan
Hill, supra, 71 Cal.App.4th at 1122.)
 
“An interpleader action is traditionally viewed as two
suits: one between the stakeholder and the claimants to determine the
stakeholder's right to interplead, and the other among the claimants to
determine who shall receive the funds interpleaded ... As against the
stakeholder, claimants may raise only matters which go to whether the suit is
properly one for interpleader; i.e., whether the elements of an interpleader
action are present.” (State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. v. Pietak (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 600, 612.)
 
The stakeholder may seek reimbursement for its costs and
reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred.  
(UAP-Columbus JV 326132 v. Nesbitt (1991) 234
Cal.App.3d 1028, 1036.) The court may order payment thereof out of the funds
deposited by the stakeholder. (Ibid.) Ultimately, such payment may be
charged to one or more of the adverse claimants in the final judgment. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 386.6.) Finally, the Court may issue an “order restraining all
parties to the action from instituting or further prosecuting any other
proceeding in any court in this state affecting the rights and obligations as
between the parties to the interpleader until further order of the court.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (f).) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff requests an order to be discharged from liability
on the Complaint, which alleges in relevant part: Plaintiff is in possession of
funds in the amount of $7,000.00, which represents the gross settlement
proceeds received on behalf of Defendant Ayala in a personal injury matter.
(Compl., ¶1A.) The amount of attorney’s fees was $3,500.00 and attorney fees is
a priority lien. (Id. at ¶2.) The case costs totaled $955.00 and is a
priority lien. (Id. at ¶3.) The amount in controversy is $2,545.00,
which represents the net settlement proceeds after the priority lien for
attorney’s fees and costs, received on behalf of Defendant Ayala. (Id.
at ¶4.) There are four lien holders, each of whom provided medical care to Defendant
Ayala, and all of whom have asserted claims to the net settlement proceeds. (Id.
at ¶6.) The total amount of the medical liens far exceeds the available funds
necessary to satisfy each such lien. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff has not shown that it is properly an interpleader stakeholder
that can be discharged from liability. The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff is
in possession of settlement proceeds in the amount of $7,000.00 from the
underlying personal injury action. Plaintiff then claims more than half that
amount for its attorney’s fees and costs lien. No authority is provided in the
instant Motion to show that a stakeholder can allege its liens have priority
and seek to interplead only the net proceeds. Case law dictates that “[a]fter
the client obtains a judgment, the attorney must bring a separate, independent
action against the client to establish the existence of the lien, to determine
the amount of the lien, and to enforce it.” (Carroll v. Interstate Brands
Corp. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1168, 1173.) In an action to “establish the
existence of the lien, to determine the amount of the lien, and to enforce it”
the attorney cannot be a disinterested stakeholder, which is necessary to be an
interpleader stakeholder. The Court is aware of no authority that allows an
attorney to assert the right to an attorney fees lien via an interpleader
action as the alleged disinterested stakeholder of the remaining proceeds. To
the extent Plaintiff can point the Court to such authority, the Court will
gladly consider it. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff California Injury PLC’s Motion to Discharge
Interpleader Stakeholder From Liability And Awarding Costs And Fees is DENIED.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 