 Case Number:  24NNCV01645    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 9, 2024

APPLICATION
FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV01645

 



MP:  


BMW Bank of North America (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Classic Hardwood Flooring, Inc. &
  Azat Stepanyan (Defendants) [No Response] 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
BMW
Bank of North America (Plaintiff) brings this action against Classic Hardwood
Flooring, Inc. & Azat Stepanyan (Defendants) in connection with a Motor
Vehicle Retail Installment Contract. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants agreed
to purchase over time a 2022 BMW X5 Serial No. 5YMJUOCO5N9M64142 and
subsequently defaulted on payments. 
 
On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Complaint stating four
causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Common Count, (3) Claim
and Delivery, and (4) Conversion. 
 
Before the Court are two Applications
made by Plaintiff for a Writ of Possession as against Classic Hardwood Inc.
(Classic) and Azat Stepanyan (Azat) separately. Plaintiff seeks to recover the vehicle
so that it may recoup funds toward the defaulted agreement. Defendants have
filed no response to these applications. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
512.010 requires that the application for writ of possession be executed under
oath and include affidavits showing the following: 
 
(1)  
A showing
of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to
possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a
written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached. 
 
(2)  
A showing
that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in
which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the
best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the
detention. 
 
(3)  
A
particular description of the property and a statement of its value. 
 
(4)  
A
statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part
of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take
possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there. 
 
(5)  
A
statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine,
pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the
plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such
seizure. 
 
C.C.P. §
512.030 provides that before the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the defendant
must be served with:  
 
(1)  
a copy of
the summons and complaint; 
 
(2)  
a Notice
of Application and Hearing; and 
 
(3)  
a copy of
the application and any affidavit in support thereof.  
 
C.C.P. §
512.060 permits the Court to issue a writ of possession when the Court finds
the following: 
 
(1)  
the
plaintiff has established the probable validity of the plaintiff's claim to
possession of the property; and 
 
(2)  
the
undertaking requirements of C.C.P. § 515.010 are satisfied. 
 
C.C.P. §
515.010 provides: “The undertaking shall be in an amount not less than twice
the value of¿the¿defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount.”
 
“Before
issuance of a writ of attachment … the plaintiff shall file an undertaking to
pay the defendant any amount the defendant may recover for any wrongful
attachment by the plaintiff in the action.” (C.C.P. § 489.210.) But when a
defendant does not have any interest in the property, C.C.P. § 515.010(b)
permits the Court to waive the requirement of the plaintiff's undertaking and
set an undertaking for the defendant to keep possession or regain
possession. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
C.C.P. § 512.030 requires
personal service of an application for writ of possession in instances where
the defendant has not appeared in the action. Here neither Classic nor Azat
have appeared in this matter. The Proof of Service for both Classic and Azat
shows that notice of this motion was served via substitute service. It appears
the paperwork was left with Svetlana Stepanyan on June 15, 2024 at 7834 Laurel Canyon Blvd North Hollywood, CA
91605-2422
 
To effectively sub-serve an
individual, the plaintiff must first demonstrate that he cannot with reasonable
diligence effectuate personal service. C.C.P. §415.20(b). The term reasonable
diligence denotes a thorough, systematic investigation and inquiry conducted in
good faith by the party or his agent or attorney. (Watts v. Crawford
(1995) 10 Cal.App.4th 743, 749.) Ordinarily, three attempts at personal service
at an address known to be associated with the defendants is sufficient to
graduate to sub-service. (Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 175,
185.) Thereafter, the plaintiff may leave the summons and complaint at the
person's home with a competent adult member of the household whose relationship
with the person to be served makes it more likely than not that they will
deliver process to the named party. (C.C.P. §§ 415.20(b) and 416.90; Ellard
v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 546.) 
 
The Court finds that
Plaintiff appropriate served Defendants in this matter. The address of
substitute service is the same that appears on the Motor Vehicle
Retail Installment signed by Aza on behalf of Classic. (Phillips Decl. Exh. 1.)
This address also appears on the vehicle’s title document. (Phillips Decl. Exh.
2.) The proof of service is accompanied by a statement of due diligence,
showing the process server attempted three times to personally serve Azat but
was unable. Further, substitute service was made on someone identified as a
co-resident and sharing Azat’s last name, making it more likely than not Azat
received the papers. 
 
Plaintiff also provides the
declaration of Sarah Phillips, a Collections Legal and Replevin Analyst with
BMW Financial Services NA, LLC, to establish the facts relevant to the writ
application. Plaintiff has demonstrated an entitlement to possession of the
property claimed due to Defendants’ default under a written Motor Vehicle
Retail Installment and the
probable validity of Plaintiff's claims for breach of contract. (Phillips Decl.
¶¶ 14-17.) The evidence demonstrates the existence of the Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants. (Phillips Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. 1.) Additionally, Plaintiff has shown it
has the right to take possession of the vehicle conditioned upon Defendants’
default. (Phillips Decl. ¶ 16, Exh. 1.)
 
Plaintiff attests it has
performed all the conditions, covenants, and promises required under the terms
of the Agreement and Defendants defaulted in the terms, conditions, and
covenants of the Agreement by failing to make payment. (Phillips Decl. ¶¶ 13-14.)
Plaintiff demanded Defendants return the vehicle, however Defendants refused.
(Phillips Decl. ¶ 15.) Plaintiff believes the vehicle is in the control
and possession of Defendants at 7834
Laurel Canyon Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91605. (Phillips Decl. ¶ 21.) 
 
Plaintiff has also provided
a particular description of the property and the value of the property. (Phillips
Decl. ¶¶ 8, 22, Exh. 4.) Plaintiff has provided that the vehicle has
not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized
under an execution against the property of the plaintiff. (App. ¶ 8.)
 
Plaintiff has met its
burden in demonstrating their entitlement to a writ of possession. As a
result, Plaintiff must file an undertaking “in an amount not less than
twice the value of the defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount”
unless the court finds the defendant has no interest in the property. (C.C.P.
§§ 515.010(a) & (b).) “The value of the defendant's interest in the
property is determined by the market value of the property less the amount due
and owing on any conditional sales contract or security agreement and all liens
and encumbrances on the property, and any other factors necessary to determine
the defendant's interest in the property.” (Id.)
 
The approximate wholesale
value of the vehicle is $79,126.00. (Phillips Decl. Exh. 4.) Plaintiff contends
Defendant owes $136,411.94. (Phillips Decl. Exh. 3.) Since Defendant owes more
than the market value of the vehicle, they have no interest pursuant
to C.C.P. § 515.010. The Court thus waives the requirement to file an
undertaking for Defendants’ interest. 
 
In the event that a
defendant has no interest in the property, C.C.P. § 515.010(b) requires the
Court include in the writ the amount of Defendants’ undertaking sufficient to
satisfy C.C.P. § 515.020(b). C.C.P. § 515.020(b) permits the Court to determine
the amount to be posted for re-delivery when a defendant is found to have no
interest in the property. Here, the Court finds a re-delivery bond of $80,000
to be reasonable as that is the wholesale value of the vehicle, the bond may be
from one defendant or both defendants provided the total value of all
re-delivery bonds are at least $80,000. 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the
event a party requests a signed order or the Court in its discretion elects to
sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or
signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
BMW Bank of North
America’s Applications for Writ of Possession came on
regularly for hearing on August 9, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE APPLICATIONS
FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION ARE GRANTED. 
 
A
RE-DELIVERY BOND OF $80,000 IS SET FOR DEFENDANTS.
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
August 9, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 