 Case Number:  24STCV00744    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 9, 2024

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24STCV00744

 



MP:  


Obsidian Development, LLC (Defendant)




RP:  


Christina & Gene Chung Ching
  (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Christina & Gene
Chung Ching (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Obsidian Development, LLC (Obsidian).
Plaintiffs alleges that Obsidian was hired to construct a quadraplex on a
property they own. Plaintiffs further allege that Obsidian deficiently constructed
the building in violation of code and in breach of the parties’ contract. 
 
On March 15, 2024, default
was entered against Obsidian. On June 21, 2024, the Court heard Obsidian’s
motion to set aside default. The Court denied the motion without prejudice
because Obsidian failed to include a proposed responsive pleading in their
filing. 
 
Before the Court is a
renewed motion to set aside default. Plaintiffs oppose the motion, but Obsidian
has filed no reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
473(b) has both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory relief
provision. (Jackson v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Inc. (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 166, 173.)  The discretionary
provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), in pertinent part, reads as
follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of C.C.P. § 473(b) reads, in pertinent part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
general underlying purpose of C.C.P. § 473(b) is to promote the
determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar Construction
& Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th
830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no more than
six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault
attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the moving party
or its attorney. (C.C.P. § 473(b); English v. IKON Business Solutions
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Facts 
 
Obsidian
submits the declaration of its officer David Mirrafati (Mirrafati). Mirrafati
states that he was served “sometime in early February”. (Mirrafati Decl.
¶ 3.) A review of the proof of service filed in the matter reveals January
22, 2024 as the date of service. Mirrafati states that he attempted to call the
attorney’s number on the summons after being served, but he provides no details
as to when these calls were place or what happened when he placed the calls.
(Mirrafati Decl. ¶ 3.) Mirrafati also says that he had his staff reach out
unsuccessfully to Plaintiff’s counsel, but again does not specify how or when
this was done. (Mirrafati Decl. ¶ 5.) Mirrafati then says he began to call
Plaintiff’s counsel upon returning from out of the country, though he does not
specify when he left or when he returned. (Mirrafati Decl. ¶ 6.) Mirrafati
says he was always told the attorney was unavailable and once was told
something about an ‘MSC’ being on calendar. (Mirrafati Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)
Mirrafati says he was finally able to speak to Plaintiff’s counsel after Plaintiff’s
counsel called a related office, Alta Amira Realty. (Mirrafati Decl. ¶¶ 9-10.)
Mirrafati states that he asked Plaintiff’s counsel for more time to get an
attorney and that she denied knowing anything about an MSC. (Mirrafati Decl.
¶¶ 11-12.) Mirrafati concludes that he was never informed Plaintiff had
entered default and he believed the parties were working to resolve the matter.
(Mirrafati Decl. ¶¶ 14-15.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel, Sohaila Sageb (Sohaila), explains that this file changed hands shortly
after the Complaint was filed. (Sohaila Decl. ¶ 2.) Sohaila states that
prior to her taking over the file, the prior attorney had attempted to contact
Obsidian with respect to alternative resolution on four separate occasions.
(Sohaila Decl. Exhs. D-G.) Sohaila states that her first contact with Mirrafati
was on April 3, 2024, a few weeks after the March 15, 2023 entry of default.
(Sohaila Decl. ¶ 8.) Sohaila states that she believed Mirrafati’s calls
were not returned by the former attorney because of the change in assigned
attorney. (Sohaila Decl. ¶ 10.) Sohaila states that at no point in the
call did Mirrafati request the default be set aside nor did he request
additional time to secure counsel. (Sohaila Decl. ¶ 11.) Sohaila also
states that Mirrafati informed her he was leaving the country and would deal
with the lawsuit upon his return. (Sohaila Decl. ¶ 11.) Sohala concludes
that she followed up this conversation with an email memorializing its contents
and requesting that Mirrafati tender the claim to his insurance. (Sohaila Decl.
Exh. H.) 
 
Discussion

 
Obsidian
seeks relief from the entry of default purely on the grounds of its own
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. There is no affidavit of attorney
fault which would suggest Obsidian seeks mandatory relief. 
 
In a
motion to set aside a default judgment or order under Section 473(b), the
initial burden is on the moving party to prove excusable neglect by a
“preponderance of the evidence.” (Kendall v. Baker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d
619, 624.) 
 
The test
for whether neglect was “excusable” is whether a reasonably prudent person
under the same or similar circumstances might have made the same error. (Luri
v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1128.) Examples of excusable
neglect include where a litigant suffers a serious illness that prevents their
filing a timely response or a litigants inability to understand that they have
been served with process due to confusion. (See Kesselman v. Kesselman (1963)
212 Cal.App.2d 196, 207; In re Marriage of Kerry (1984) 158
Cal.App.3d 456, 466.) Examples of inexcusable relief include where a litigant
unreasonably believes they have not been properly served, the pressure of
business/family matters, or a litigant’s reliance on a friend/relative to take
of the matter with little to no oversight. (See Khourie, Crew & Jaeger
v. Sabek, Inc. (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1009, 1015; Ambrose v.
Michelin North America, Inc. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1354; Davis
v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 909.) 
 
Here,
Obsidian states that its neglect of the lawsuit was excusable by virtue of
Plaintiff’s attorney misleading Mirrafati into believing a resolution was being
reached. The Court finds the evidence presented does not support such a
conclusion. Mirrafati’s declaration is silent as to his receipt of the notice
of Plaintiff’s intent to move for entry of default. The record shows that this
notice was served via mail on March 14, 2024. It also does not appear that
Mirrafati raised any concern about a potential default at the time of the April
3, 2024 call.  While Plaintiff’s counsel
could have been more forthcoming during the course of the call regarding the
default, there is no indication that her not mentioning it was an attempt to
mislead. Further, any belief derived from the April 3 call is irrelevant to a
determination of excusable neglect. The excusable neglect claimed must relate
to the entry of default, any communication thereafter is of no import. (See Barragan
v. Banco BCH (1986) 188 Cal.App.3d 283, 301.) 
 
Looking
at the pre-default behavior of Obsidian, the Court is inclined to find
excusable neglect. Mirrafati has stated that he attempted to call Plaintiff’s
counsel several times after receipt of the summons. The Court finds that this
behavior is within the realm of reason, especially given the attempts of
Plaintiff’s counsel to informally resolve the matter with Obsidian prior to
litigation. Further, Plaintiff’s counsel does not deny that Mirrafati was
attempting to get into contact with them. Plaintiff’s counsel only states that
she believed Mirrafati’s phone calls were not returned because the case had
changed hands. While it is true that Mirrafati could be reasonably expected to
obtain counsel and file a responsive pleading, this does not make his attempts
to reach Plaintiff’s counsel and resolve the matter unreasonable. It is not a
great stretch of the imagination that a person unfamiliar with the litigation
process would believe that the first step to resolving a lawsuit is to contact
the other side. 
 
“[W]hen
relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public policy in favor
of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court.”
(Cruz v. Fagor America, Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.) In other
words, while C.C.P. § 473(b) requires a showing of excusable neglect, the bar
is set low for relief to be granted. While not every action of Mirrafati could
be deemed reasonable, the Court finds that he has shown excusable neglect in
his pre-default behavior sufficient to obtain discretionary relief. Further,
Obsidian has cured its previous procedural deficiency in providing a proposed
responsive pleading. (Mot. Exh. A.) 
 
Although
a proposed answer was attached to the motion to set aside the default, the
Court is unable to reclassify that exhibit as a filed answer.  Accordingly, the motion to set aside default
is GRANTED. Obsidian is to file its answer within 10 days.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Obsidian Development,
LLC’s Motion to Vacate came on regularly for hearing
on August 9, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order
for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then
and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT IS GRANTED.
 
OBSIDIAN IS TO FILE ITS RESPONSIVE PLEADING
WITHIN 10 DAYS.
 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS SCHEDULED FOR DECEMBER
12, 2024 AT 9:00 AM. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, OBSIDIAN TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
August 9, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 