 Case Number:  24NNCV00197    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 9,
2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV00197

 
MP:     Cynthia R. Sison & Nader Allahverdy
(Defendants) 
RP:     Larry
Pobre Viglia (Plaintiff) [No Opposition Rendered] 

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Larry Pobre Viglia (Plaintiff)
brings this action against Cynthia R. Sison & Nader Allahverdy
(Defendants). Plaintiff alleges Defendants conspired to induce a loan in the
amount of $20,000 and thereafter refused to repay the loan pursuant to their
agreement. Plaintiff’s Complaint contains causes of action for (1) Fraud, (2)
Conversion, (3) Breach of Contract, and (4) Damages Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code
§ 496(c). 
 
Defendants now demur to
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for Damages Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code §
496(c). Defendants argue that Cal. Penal Code § 496(c) does not authorize an
independent civil cause of action. Defendants also move to strike Plaintiff’s
claim for treble damages pursuant to Penal Code § 496(c) and his request for
attorney’s fees. Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to the demurrer or motion
to strike. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motion
to Strike 
 
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages.
(See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false
allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting
a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion
made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of
complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations
that are not essential to the claim or those not pertinent to or supported by
an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court
may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§
430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to
strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met.
(Tran Decl. ¶ 2.) 
 
Fourth COA –Damages pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 496(c) –
Overruled 
 
Defendant demurs to this cause of
action on grounds that it does not permit an independent right of action. Penal
Code § 496(a) provides in relevant part: 
 
Every person who buys or receives any property that has
been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or
extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals,
sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property
from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be
punished...
A principal in the actual theft of the property may be
convicted pursuant to this section. However, no person may be convicted both
pursuant to this section and of the theft of the same property.
Penal Code § 496(c) provides: 
 
Any person who has
been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for
three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff,
costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.
 
Defendants’ argument that Penal
Code § 496(c) does not permit an independent right of action is unpersuasive.
The statute explicitly states that, “Any person who has been injured by a
violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the
amount of actual damages…” By its plain language the statute authorizes an
independent cause of action and Defendants cite to no authority interpreting
the statute otherwise. Defendants’ argument that this cause of action is
subsumed by Plaintiff’s causes of action for fraud and conversion is similarly
unavailing for reasons that will be discussed below. 
 
Defendants cite to the recent
California Supreme Court decision in Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour,
which they argue stands for the idea that an action cannot be maintained under Penal
Code § 496(c) where a Plaintiff alleges only simple misrepresentation. The
Court finds this argument is not supported by the Court’s reading of the
holding in Siry. (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022)
13 Cal.5th 333).
 
The Court in Siry did
explain that not all consumer fraud or misrepresentations fall within the
purview Penal Code § 496. “To prove theft, a plaintiff must establish criminal
intent on the part of the defendant beyond mere proof of nonperformance or
actual falsity. If misrepresentations or unfulfilled promises are made
innocently or inadvertently, they can no more form the basis for a prosecution
for obtaining property by false pretenses than can an innocent breach of
contract.” (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour, supra, 13
Cal.5th at 362 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].) This quote
from Siry, presented in Defendants’ moving papers, simply does not
concern the sufficiency of pleadings. The Siry court was reinforcing
that a plaintiff must prove theft and intent to commit theft in order to
recover under the statute, they did not opine on the circumstances under which
a plaintiff’s pleadings concerning theft and intent were sufficient. 
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged that
Defendants purposefully defrauded him of $20,000 under the guise of needing
funding for a film project. (Compl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff further alleges that
Defendant Sison issued a predated check which was intended to fulfil the loan,
but thereafter closed the account the check was to draw upon. (Compl.
¶¶ 8-9.) It is unmistakable that Plaintiff alleges Defendants made the
fraudulent representations with the intent to deprive Plaintiff of the $20,000.  
 
The holding in Siry makes
clear that Plaintiff will eventually have to prove Defendants’ intent in
committing theft to succeed on his cause of action. This is an element which
separates the cause of action under 496(c) from those of fraud and conversion
such that the statutory cause of action is not duplicative. While Plaintiff may
ultimately be unable to prove the intent required to recover on this cause of
action, it does not follow that the cause of action is subject to demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike

 
Defendants move
to strike Plaintiff’s claim for treble damages pursuant to Penal Code § 496(c).
Defendants also move to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees and
related allegations, arguing there is no statutory basis for them. 
 
Defendants’
motion to strike is predicated on the success of their demurrer to Plaintiff’s
cause of action under Penal Code § 496(c). As the Court has overruled
Defendants’ demurrer, the motion to strike is without basis. Plaintiff
maintains a valid cause of action under Penal Code § 496(c) and the statute
provides the basis for the recovery of attorney’s fees. Accordingly, the motion
to strike is DENIED. 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records. 
 
ORDER
 
Cynthia R. Sison & Nader Allahverdy’ s Demurrer and Motion to Strike came on regularly
for hearing on August 9, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS OVERRULED.
 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED IN ITS ENTIRETY.  
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANTS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  August
9, 2024                                  _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 