 Case Number:  23BBCV01483    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 9, 2024

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01483

 
MP:     Arman
Yurman (Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant) 
RP:     Alek Orujyan and Limitless Trade Academy, Inc. (Defendants/Cross-Complainants)
 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS:
 
Arman Yurman (Yurman) brings this action against Alek Orujyan (Orujyan)
and Limitless Trade Academy, Inc. (Limitless) (collectively Defendants). Yurman
alleges that he worked with Orujyan and Limitless to create an online
educational company, of which both Yurman and Orujyan would be co-owners. Yurman
alleges that Orujyan improperly removed him from the Limitless filing with the
California Secretary of State and barred Plaintiff’s access to the Limitless
joint bank account.  Orujyan alleges that
Yurman improperly withdrew funds and assaulted Orujyan. 
 
Before the Court is a demurrer brought by Yurman to Defendants’
Cross-Complaint. Defendants’ Cross-Complaint contains causes of action for (1)
Assault, (2) Battery, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4) Breach of the Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (5) Promissory Fraud, (6) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (7) Conversion, (8) Violation of Penal Code § 496, (9)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (10) Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress. 
 
Yurman demurs to each cause of action except the third for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty. Defendants oppose and Yurman replies. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”)
§§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may
demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.           
MEET AND CONFER
 
C.C.P. § 430.41(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Scott Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
III.           
MERITS
 
General 
 
Yurman demurs to the first,
second, fourth, sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action on grounds
that they are barred by their relevant statute of limitations (SOL). In their
opposition, Defendants that the SOL for these causes of action has expired.
Regardless, Defendants ask the Court to consider these causes of action valid
under the doctrine of equitable tolling. Defendants argue that Orujyan’s fear
for his safety after Yurman previously assaulted him resulted in his reluctance
to bring these actions within the statutory time period. 
 
Equitable Tolling 
 
Equitable Tolling is a concept
which allows for the SOL on a cause of action to be tolled to avoid situations
in which manifest injustice would result from their application. The most
succinct explanation of Equitable Tolling is set out in the California Supreme
Court ruling in Saint Francis Memorial Hospital v. State Department of
Public Health. The California Supreme Court observed the following: 
 
Our equitable
tolling doctrine evolved from three lines of California cases, each relieving
plaintiffs of the duty to abide by the statute of limitations. Courts found a
basis to offer some flexibility from the statute of limitations when a
plaintiff was already involved in one lawsuit, and filed a subsequent case that
could lessen the damage or harm that would otherwise have to be remedied
through a separate case. So too did courts toll statutes of limitations in
situations where a plaintiff was required to pursue, and did indeed pursue, an
administrative remedy before filing a civil action.  In a third line of
cases, courts tolled the statute of limitations to serve the ends of justice
where technical forfeitures would unjustifiably prevent a trial on the merits. 
 
(Saint Francis Memorial Hospital v. State
Department of Public Health (2020) 9 Cal.5th 710, 724 [internal
citations and quotation marks omitted].)
 
As the above excerpt makes clear,
the most common use case for the doctrine of Equitable Tolling is one in which
a plaintiff has pursued an administrative or alternative remedy for their cause
of action. Defendants recognize that this situation does not apply to this
case, instead relying on the “third line of cases” described by the Supreme
Court in Saint Francis. Defendants’ argument is predicated on an
inherent misunderstanding of the Equitable Tolling doctrine.  
 
The “third line of cases”
acknowledged by Saint Francis still concerned instances in which the
plaintiffs pursued alternative methods of resolution such that the opposing
party was on notice. The case to which the Saint Francis court cited in
referencing this third line of cases is Addison v. State of California. Addison
concerned the application of equitable tolling where a plaintiff had first
brought an action in federal court which was subsequently dismissed for lack of
jurisdiction. (Addison v. State of California (1978) 21 Cal.3d 313,
316.) The cases upon which the Addison court relied also concerned
instances where a defendant would be on notice. (See Bollinger v. National
Fire Ins. Co. of Hartford, Conn. (1944) 25 Cal.2d 399 [equitable
tolling applied to exempt a plaintiff from the SOL where they had timely filed
a separate municipal action]; see also Friends of Mammoth v. Board of
Supervisors (1972) 8 Cal.3d 247 [equitable tolling applied where
plaintiff gave timely notice of suit, but it was filed in the wrong
court.].)  
 
The context in which equitable
tolling is available is further emphasized by the general requirements for its
application as espoused in Addisson. “Application of the doctrine of
equitable tolling requires timely notice, and lack of prejudice, to the
defendant, and reasonable and good faith conduct on the part of the plaintiff.”
(Id. at 319.) “When considering whether a plaintiff provided timely
notice, courts focus on whether the party's actions caused the defendant to be
“fully notified within the [statute of limitations] of plaintiffs’ claims and
their intent to litigate.” (Saint Francis supra 9 Cal.5th 710 at 726.)
 
Here, Defendants cite to no
authority that Orujyan’s fear of Yurman amounts to a “technical forfeiture”
within the meaning of Saint Francis. Nor has Orujyan alleged any facts
supporting that he gave timely notice to Yurman to file these claims through
any action whatsoever. Instead, Defendants rely on vague allegations that
Yurman strategically waited to file his Complaint so that any counterclaims
would be barred. The law indicates that to qualify for equitable tolling a
plaintiff must have done something to put the opposing side on notice of the
intent to litigate; Defendants did not do so. Defendants’ own facts demonstrate
that they were acutely aware of their causes of action and chose not to pursue
them in any way. The basis for the delay is not sufficient to justify relief
under the equitable tolling doctrine. 
 
The Court finds that Defendants
have not sufficiently demonstrated timely notice of their claims such that the
doctrine of equitable tolling applies. Defendants provide no further
explanation as to why their claims are within the SOL. This being established,
the Court will analyze each cause of action demurred to in order. 
 
First and Second COA- Assault
and Battery – Sustained without Leave to Amend 
 
The SOL for civil assault and
battery claims is two years as per C.C.P. § 335.1. Orujyan’s claims for assault
and battery are based on an alleged confrontation on July 7, 2020, and are
therefore untimely. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
first and second causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Fourth COA – Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing – Sustained without leave to Amend 
 
C.C.P. § 339 provides a broadly
applicable two-year SOL to all causes of action arising out of an oral
contract. Defendants allege that on or about March 10, 2020, Orujyan and Yurman
entered into an oral agreement to form Limitless. (CC ¶ 56.) Defendants further
allege that Yurman’s failure to attend to the business, beginning in April of
2020, constitutes a breach of the covenant. On its face Defendants’ claim is
barred by the applicable SOL. (CC ¶ 74.) Accordingly, the demurrer to the
first and second causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Fifth COA – Promissory Fraud/
False Promise – Overruled
 
Plaintiff does not contend that
this cause of action is barred by the applicable SOL. Instead, Plaintiff argues
that Defendants have alleged insufficient facts in stating their claim.
 
“Promissory fraud is a subspecies
of the action for fraud and deceit. A promise to do something necessarily
implies the intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made without such
intention, there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may be actionable
fraud. The elements of promissory fraud (i.e., of fraud or deceit based
on a promise made without any intention of performing it) are: (1) a promise
made regarding a material fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the
existence of the intent not to perform at the time the promise was made; (3)
intent to deceive or induce the promisee to enter into a transaction; (4)
reasonable reliance by the promisee; (5) nonperformance by the party making the
promise; and (6) resulting damage to the promise.” (Behnke v. State Farm General Insurance Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1443, 1453, citation and quotation marks omitted.) 
 
The facts constituting the
alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of
fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) 
 
Here, Defendants allege that
prior to entry of the 2020 contract, Yurman promised he would perform services
for the benefit of Limitless including his services as an educator. (CC ¶ 79.)
Defendants also state that Yurman promised to perform his part in teaching
Bitcoin trading strategy and conducting live trading sessions. (CC ¶ 79.)
Defendants allege that Yurman made these promises knowing he had no intention
of fulfilling them, (CC ¶ 80.) Defendants allege that they reasonably relied on
these representations in bringing Limitless into being and assuming the
financial responsibility associated. (CC ¶ 81.) Lastly, Defendants allege
that in 2024 they discovered an improper withdrawal by Yurman in 2020 of $3,800
from a bank account. (CC ¶ 82.) 
 
The Court finds the above
allegations are sufficiently particular to put Yurman on notice of the claims
he must defend. Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Sixth COA – Negligent
Misrepresentation – Sustained without Leave to Amend 
 
Defendants’ sixth cause of action
is similar to the overruled argument as to their Fifth. However, unlike the
Fifth Cause of Action, negligent misrepresentation requires that Defendant had
no reasonable grounds for believing a specific representation was true.  (CACI 1903). 
Based on the allegations asserted, the Court does not see how this was
sufficiently pled.  Furthermore, this
action appears to be barred by the Statute of Limitations.   The
allegations all appear to be based on intentional conduct not negligent
conduct, and the subsequent unauthorized withdrawal of money does not appear to
be connected to a misrepresentation leading to an inducement or a negligent
misrepresentation.  While Defendants
allege a form of fraud, their allegations are entirely unclear as to what
misrepresentation this claim is based on. If Defendants were able to articulate
the facts surrounding the withdrawal and representations made in connection,
this may support the cause of action or may not, and may be barred by the
statute of limitations. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to this
cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Seventh COA – Conversion –
Sustained without Leave to Amend 
 
C.C.P. § 338(c)(1) provides that
the SOL for a conversion action is three years. The SOL begins to run from the
date of conversion even where the injured person is ignorant of his rights. (Strasberg
v. Odyssey Group, Inc. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 906, 916.) Here,
Defendants’ claim for conversion is based on the allegedly improper withdrawal
in April of 2020. (CC ¶ 97.) As such, the claim is barred on its face. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Eighth COA – Violation of
Penal Code § 496 – Sustained without Leave to Amend 
 
Penal Code § 496(a) provides in
relevant part: 
 
Every person who buys or receives any property that has
been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or
extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals,
sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property
from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be
punished...
Penal Code § 496(c) provides: 
 
Any person who has
been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for
three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff,
costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.
 
Here, Defendants’ eighth cause of
action is predicated on the success of their cause of action for conversion.
Given the cause of action for conversion is time barred, so to must a claim
under Penal Code § 496. 

Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend. 
 
Ninth COA – IIED – Sustained
without Leave to Amend 
 
Causes of action for assault,
battery and intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED) are governed by
the two-year statute of limitations set forth in C.C.P.  335.1. (See Pugliese v. Superior Court (2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 1444, 1450.) Here, Defendants’ cause of action for IIED derives
from Orujyan’s alleged assault by Yurman in July of 2020. As such, the claim
for IIED is time barred on its face. 
 
Accordingly, the demurer to the
ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Tenth COA – Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress – Sustained without Leave to Amend 
 
As with IIED, Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED) is subject to a two-year statute of
limitations pursuant to C.C.P. § 335.1. As this cause of action also stems from
Yurman’s alleged July 2020 assault, it too is facially barred by the SOL. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
tenth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
--
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties request a signed order or the
court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will
be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the
court’s records. 
 
ORDER
 
Arman Yurman’s Demurrer came on
regularly for hearing on August 9, 2024 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST, SECOND, FOURTH, SEVENTH, NINTH, AND TENTH
CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE DEMURRER TO SIXTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS OVERRULED.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, YURMAN TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  August
9, 2024                                
_______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles