  Case Number:  23AHCP00478    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SEAN E. ROGERS, 
                    Petitioner(s),
          vs.
 
PASACA
   CAPITAL, INC., et al.,
 
                    Respondent(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCP00478
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: RESPONDENT PASACA CAPITAL, INC.’S MOTION TO SEAL UNREDACTED
   SUPPLEMENTAL DECLARATION OF SEAN E. ROGERS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   15, 2024




 


)


 



 
          On August 5,
2024, respondent Pasaca Capital, Inc. (“Pasaca”) filed this motion to seal a
supplemental declaration filed by petitioner Sean E. Rogers (“Rogers”). Pasaca
had filed a motion to stay the inspection of records while its appeal of the
Court’s order allowing such inspection was pending. Rogers opposed a stay and
on July 25, 2024, he filed his own declaration in support of his opposition. A
redacted copy was filed in the public record and an unredacted copy was lodged
conditionally under seal. Pasaca moves to seal portions of the unredacted
lodged declaration on the grounds that they describe Pasaca’s confidential
financial and business information. The motion is unopposed. 
          A motion or
application to file under seal must be accompanied by a memorandum and a
declaration¿containing
facts sufficient to justify the sealing. (CRC 2.551(b)(1).) “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only
if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5)¿No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest. (CRC 2.550(d).) “An order sealing the record
must: (A) Specifically state the facts that support the findings; and¿ (B) Direct the sealing of only those
documents and pages, or, if reasonably practicable, portions of those documents
and pages, that contain the material that needs to be placed under seal. All
other portions of each document or page must be included in the public file.”
(CRC 2.550(e).) 
“A request to seal a document must be
filed publicly and separately from the object of the request. It must be
supported by a factual declaration or affidavit explaining the particular needs
of the case.” (In re Marriage of Lechowick (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1406,
1416.) Here, Patrick J. Somers, Pasaca’s attorney, declares that Rogers’s
declaration attaches a confidential stock redemption agreement with
confidential financial information and refers to such information within the declaration.
(Somers Decl., ¶ 4.) The confidential information includes “information bearing
on [Pasaca’s] total number of shares, its valuation, and tax information.” (Ibid.)
Somers declares that public disclosure of this information “would reveal highly
sensitive private information between a former executive and [Pasaca]” and “could
negatively impact Pasaca’s ability to negotiate future contracts with
executives, its customer relationships, and could also be used by Pasaca’s
competitors to gain an unfair advantage in the marketplace by gaining
unrestricted access to Pasaca’ non-public and sensitive information.” (Ibid.)

The Court additionally notes that the
public interest in Exhibit A and its information is low because it is irrelevant
to the merits of Pasaca’s motion for a stay and indeed, was not considered when
the Court ruled on Pasaca’s motion. (See generally Juicero, Inc. v. iTaste
Co. (N.D. Cal. June 28, 2017) WL 8294276, at *1 [“Records attached to
motions that are not related, or only tangentially related, to the merits of a
case therefore are not subject to the strong presumption of access.”])
          Based on the
foregoing, Pasaca’s motion to seal is GRANTED as to page 2, lines 21 through
27, and Exhibit A of the Supplemental Declaration of Sean E. Rogers. 
Dated
this 15th
day of November, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 