 Case Number:  24NNCV01989    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JANE DOE (B.U.), et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MONTEBELLO
   UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV01989
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   15, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
Jane Does,
B.U. and S.V., (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against
defendants Montebello Unified School District (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through
10 on May 31, 2024, Plaintiffs allege that in or around 2004 and 2005, they
were minor students attending Bella Vista Elementary. (Compl., ¶ 23.)  During this time, they were groomed, sexually
assaulted, and sexually molested by Edward Portillo (“Portillo”), a teacher
employed by Defendant. (Compl.. ¶¶ 30, 33.)  
On July 8,
2024, Defendant filed a demurrer on the grounds that Plaintiffs did not present
a timely pre-litigation claim and the Legislature’s retroactive elimination of
the claim presentation element through AB 218 is unconstitutional and violates
Article XVI, § 6 (referred to as the “Gift Clause”). Defendant also argue that each
of Plaintiffs’ causes of action fail to state sufficient facts and are
uncertain. 
On August 15,
2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to stay and stayed proceedings for 3
months to see if the Second Appellate District would issue a ruling in Roe
#2 v. Superior Court (Case No. B334707). No opinion has been issued. 
On November
1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. 
On November
7, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. 
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the
alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of
the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are
subject to judicial notice.” (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
Procedural
Issues
The Court first addresses two
procedural issues raised by Plaintiffs. The first concerns the timing of this
demurrer. A demurrer must be made within 30 days of service of the complaint
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.40, subd. (a).) This demurrer was filed more than 30
days after service of the Complaint. However, the Court has discretion to
consider an untimely demurrer and exercises its discretion to do so here. (Jackson
v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 749.)
The second issue concerns the adequacy
of Defendant’s attempts to meet and confer with Plaintiffs before filing this
demurrer. “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was
insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule … a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.41(a)(4).) Therefore, whether Defendant appropriately met and conferred
is not a ground for overruling this demurrer. 
B.  
Constitutionality
of AB 218
Under the Government Claims Act, no
person may sue a public entity or public employee for money or damages unless a
timely written claim has been presented to and denied by the public entity. (County
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1267.) Absent
an applicable exception, failure to timely present a claim for money or damages
to a public entity bars a plaintiff from filing suit against that entity bars a
plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that entity. (State of California v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239.) 
Currently, claims brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 340.1 for damages resulting from childhood sexual abuse
are exempt from the claims presentation requirement.  (See Gov. Code, § 905, subd. (m).)  Before the passage of AB 218, Government Code
section 905, subdivision (m) limited the exception to the claim presentation
requirement to childhood sexual abuse claims arising out of conduct occurring
on or after January 1, 2009.  When AB 218
became law in October 2019, it amended section 340.1 to revive expired claims
and enlarged the time to file suit.  AB
218 also (1) amended Government Code section 905, subdivision (m) by deleting
the language limiting the claim presentation exception to claims arising out of
conduct occurring on or after January 1, 2009, and (2) added Government Code
section 905, subdivision (p), which made this change retroactive. 
Defendant argues AB 218 is
unconstitutional in that it violates California Constitution, Article XVI,
section 6, which prohibits gifts of public funds (also referred to by the parties
as the “Gift Clause”). The Gift Clause states, in relevant part, that the
Legislature shall have no “power to make any gift or authorize the making of
any gift, of any public money or thing of value to any individual, municipal or
other corporation whatever.” (Cal. Const., art. XVI, § 7.) “[T[he term ‘gift’
includes ‘all appropriations of public money for which there is no authority or
enforceable claim, even if there is a moral or equitable obligation.’” (Jordan
v. California Dept. of Motor Vehicles (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 431, 450
[citing Conlin v. Board of Supervisors (1893) 99 Cal.17, 21-22].) Defendant
argues that AB 218 is a gift of public funds that violates the Gift Clause by
excusing compliance with the Government Claims Act.  
Defendant’s argument relies on the theory that the
claims presentation requirement is a substantive element of Defendant’s
liability to Plaintiff under Section 340.1. However, this precise argument was
considered and rejected by the Court of Appeal in its recently published
opinion in West Contra Costa Unified School District v. Superior Court of
Contra Costa County (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1243, a case directly applicable
here. In West Contra Costa, the Court of Appeal specifically held that
the claims presentation requirement did not impose substantive liability on the
defendant school district for revived claims of childhood sexual assault. (103
Cal.App.5th at 1257.) Rather, the West Contra Costa Court found that
“the claim presentation requirement is a condition on the state’s consent to
suit, and not an aspect of the state’s substantive liability. … Accordingly,
the [Government Claims Act] itself makes clear that the District’s substantive
liability existed when the alleged wrongful conduct occurred; timely
presentation of a claim was a condition to waiver of government immunity, but
it was not necessary to render the underlying conduct tortious.” (Id. at
1261.)
Based on the ruling in West Contra Costa, the
Court finds that AB 218’s exemption to the claims presentation requirement does
not create substantive liability where none previously existed. Accordingly,
the Court follows West Contra Costa and finds that AB 218’s retroactive
waiver is not a gift of public funds. Defendant’s demurrer is overruled on this
ground. 
C.  
Plaintiffs’
First Cause of Action for Sexual Harassment
In their opposition brief, Plaintiffs state
that they will withdraw their First Cause of Action for sexual harassment.
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED as to this cause of action without
leave to amend. 
D.  Plaintiffs’ Second, Third, Fourth,
Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
remaining causes of action are duplicative and fail to state sufficient facts. These
causes of action include: negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, breach
of mandatory duty, negligent failure to warn, train, or educate, negligent
supervision of a minor, and negligence. 
As an initial matter, the Court
disagrees that these different causes of action are duplicative because they
each concern a different duty owed by Defendant to Plaintiffs to protect them
from Portillo. And, even if they were duplicative, this is not a ground on
which a demurrer my be sustained. (See Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown
Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 890.) Therefore, the demurrer on
this ground is OVERRULED. 
Second, Defendant’s overarching issues
with these causes of action concern the alleged failure to plead facts
demonstrating its actual or constructive knowledge of Portillo’s unfitness as
an employee or that Portillo was dangerous or committing child abuse. However,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s employees witnessed “Portillo having female
students, including Plaintiffs, sit on his lap during class, which is when
Portillo sexually abused them.” (Compl., ¶ 38.) Plaintiffs also allege that
before Portillo commenced his improper conduct towards them, Defendant “knew of
other student and parent complaints of serious misconduct made against
Portillo” but failed to properly and adequately investigate them and take
appropriate disciplinary action. (Compl., ¶¶ 59-60.) Plaintiffs additionally
allege that Defendant allowed Portillo to spend time alone with Plaintiffs
during school hours and after school hours. (Compl., ¶ 81.) Taken together,
these allegations, if proven true, would show that Defendant had constructive
notice of Portillo’s dangerous propensities. Therefore, the demurrer on this
ground is OVERRULED. 
Third, Defendant specifically
challenges Plaintiff’s Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action for negligent failure
to warn, train, or educate and negligent supervision as lacking a statutory
basis. This argument ignores Plaintiffs’ citation to Government Code sections
815.2 and 820. The demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action on this ground is
OVERRULED. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
The demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the
First Cause of Action and OVERRULED as to all others. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 15th
day of November
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 