 Case Number:  21STCV18457    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  1, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV18457




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Tevon Cullors-Tillman and
  Lycette Martinez’s Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiffs
Tevon Cullors-Tillman and Lycette Martinez’s Counsel (Plaintiffs) counsel of record, Boris Sargsyan (Counsel), moves to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs. Counsel contends relief is necessary
because there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship because
Plaintiffs are in prison.  
 
            No
opposition has been filed for these motions. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has
filed forms MC-051 and MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the
proposed order on form MC-053 as required. 
(Cal Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
Counsel states the instant motion is filed for the following reason: “[b]reakdown
in the attorney/client relationship as the client[s] [are] in prison and will
not be able to attend any further proceedings, nor has been responsive to
communications.” (MC-052.) The declarations of counsel, however, do not make
sense because they state that counsel appeared on a motion to withdraw on
November 1, 2023 (today’s date), the court denied the motion without prejudice,
and counsel “now” has had personal contact. (Sargsyan Dec. ¶ 3-5.) Moreover,
the declaration for Plaintiff Lycette Martinez, appears to be a duplicate of
the declaration for Tevon Cullors-Tillman.
 
Second, in both motions, Counsel
did not provide proof of service that all moving papers were served on
Plaintiffs under California Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362(d). Counsel only
provided proof of service that the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved
was served. Additionally, if both clients are in prison, the proof of service
does not indicate that the Notice was served to a prison. 
 
Third, Counsel has not listed all
future hearing dates in this case in form MC-052 and MC-053. There is an Order
to Show Cause Re: Dismissal scheduled for May 13, 2024. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the motions to relieve counsel. 
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the
Court’s ruling and file proofs of service of such.
 
 