  Case Number:  20STCV35977    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  1, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV35977




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside Dismissal




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Maria de Jesus Gutierrez Garcia




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 21, 2020, Plaintiff Maria de Jesus Gutierrez Garcia
(Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Jose Arreguin, Jorge Arreguin, Norma
Jimenez, and Does 1 through 50 for negligence and premises liability. By Doe
amendment, Angel Huerta and Norma Huerta were added as Defendants. 
 
After several hearings, the Court set an Order to Show Cause Re
Dismissal for Failure to Enter Default as to Jorge Arreguin and Norma Jimenez
and Order to Show Cause Re Sanctions for Failure to Serve (as to Jose Arreguin)
for September 16, 2022. Plaintiff’s counsel was ordered to appear personally.
(See Minute Order Dated September 9, 2022.) Counsel failed to appear personally
and therefore failed to show cause. (See Minute Order Dated September 16,
2022.) The Court dismissed without prejudice Defendants Jose Arreguin and Jorge
Arreguin.
 
On October 17, 2022, the Court set an Order to Show Cause Re Dismissal
Due to Delay in Prosecution and ordered counsel to appear personally on
November 9, 2022. (See Minute Order Dated October 17, 2022.) On November 9,
2022, counsel failed to appear personally and therefore failed to show cause.
(See Minute Order Dated November 9, 2022.) The Court therefore dismissed the
complaint without prejudice.
 
On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to set aside the
dismissals of Defendants Jose Arreguin, Jorge Arreguin, and Angel Huerta. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
“After six months from default, a
trial court may still vacate a default on equitable ground even if statutory
relief is unavailable.”¿ (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975,
981.)¿ A party may obtain equitable relief from
an entry of dismissal based on an extrinsic mistake when the moving party: (1)
has a meritorious case, (2) articulates a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action, and (3) demonstrates diligence in
seeking to set aside the dismissal once discovered.¿ (Id. at p. 982.)¿ 
 
An extrinsic
mistake is broadly defined “. . . to encompass almost any set of extrinsic
circumstances which deprive a party of a fair adversary hearing. It does not
seem to matter if the particular circumstances qualify as fraudulent or
mistaken in the strict sense.”¿(In re Marriage of Park (1980) 27 Cal.3d
337, 342.) An ‘extrinsic’ mistake means a mistake that deprived a party of the
opportunity to present a claim or defense while an ‘intrinsic’ mistake is one
that goes to the merits of a proceeding.¿ (In re Marriage of Stevenot (1984) 154
Cal.App.3d 1051, 1064-1065.)¿ 
 
A default cannot
be set aside when the complaining party’s negligence contributed to the rise to
the fraud or mistake.¿(See Kulchar v. Kulchar (1969) 1 Cal.3d 467,
473-474 [complaining party’s failure to investigate and assemble evidence at
trial as grounds for denying equitable relief sought].)¿An extrinsic mistake
may result from a disability when the disability renders the party incompetent or
incapacitated such that it deprives the party from asserting a claim or
defense. (See id. at pp. 471-472.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473b is untimely
because the dismissals occurred in September 2022 and November 2022. Because
Plaintiff filed this motion on July 17, 2023, the Court cannot set aside the
dismissals under section 473b. 
 
However, Plaintiff asks the Court to set aside the dismissal
on equitable grounds. Plaintiff
argues that her former counsel, John R, Rofael, failed to appear personally
because he was suffering from a medical condition. (Fradkin Decl. ¶10.) Also,
due to his medical condition, Mr. Rofael did not calendar the dates for the
hearings in the firm’s calendaring system. (Id.) In mid-June 2023, the
case was transferred to current counsel Igor Fradkin. (Id.) Mr. Fradkin
declares that upon discovering the dismissals, he promptly filed the instant
motion. (Id. ¶ 11.) He asserts that Plaintiff will be prejudiced if
relief is not granted since the dismissals deprive her of deciding her case on
the merits. 
 
The Court first notes that Mr. Rofael’s
medical condition (which is not described with particularity nor supported by
evidence) could be considered an external mistake if it resulted in a
disability that left him incapacitated. Plaintiff describes that Mr. Rofael
could not appear in-person due to his condition but does not describe attempts
to alert the Court of that fact, or if a remote appearance was possible. Also,
while Plaintiff has shown that counsel acted diligently after learning of the
dismissal, Plaintiff does not discuss whether she has a meritorious case. Accordingly, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s motion.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissals.
 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 