 Case Number:  21STCV29844    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  1, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV29844




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Cheesecake Factory




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Narine Karapetyan



 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 12, 2023, Plaintiff Narine
Karapetyan (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendant Cheesecake Factory
(Defendant) and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises liability related to a
slip and fall.  
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
testified that her daughters Maneh and Tina, witnessed her physical limitations
after the incident and had to assist with daily household activities. (Clancey
Decl., Exh. C, Pl. Depo. 18:10–24.) Defendant seeks to depose Maneh and Tina,
arguing that they are percipient witnesses to the damages Plaintiff alleges. 
 
On August 23, 2023, Defendant
served a Deposition Notice for Maneh and a Deposition Notice for Tina, set for
September 15, 2023. (Clancey Decl., Exh. D.) On September 8, 2023, Plaintiff
stated the depositions would not occur because Maneh and Tina are minors.
(Clancey Decl., Exh. F.) Maneh and Tina did not appear for deposition and now
Defendant moves to compel. The motion to compel Tina’s deposition is set for
hearing on November 2, 2023. The Court advances and vacates that hearing to
today’s date unless either party objects at the hearing.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies;
to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿¿A motion to
compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days after
completion of the deposition record, the date objections are served, or the
date specified for production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b); Board of Registered
Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th 1011,
1032-1033.) 
 
A “written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion
to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a
document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail¿or electronic service¿at an address¿or electronic service
address¿specified on the deposition record.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1346.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
testified that her daughters, Maneh and Tina, were witnesses to Plaintiff’s
physical limitations following the incident, and therefore they should be
compelled to sit for deposition. Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff has already
produced medical records and has retained an expert, so the depositions that
Defendant seeks will not lead to the discovery of new evidence. The Court finds
that the testimony of Plaintiff’s daughters is relevant because they can
describe the actual limitations Plaintiff presented on a day-to-day basis after
the incident. Such testimony is different from medical records based on
providers’ impressions during a medical visit. Plaintiff’s daughters are ages
14 and 17; Plaintiff does not argue that they are not competent to testify.
 
However, in its moving papers,
Defendant cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450(a) which governs
depositions of party witnesses. Here, Plaintiff’s daughters are not listed as a
party on the complaint. Therefore, in order to seek a deposition of a non-party
witness, Defendant must serve a deposition subpoena under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2020.010 et seq. Here, because Defendant only served a notice
of deposition, and not a subpoena, the motions to compel are denied as
procedurally defective. (See Clancey Decl., Exh. D.) 
 
Because the motions are denied, the
Court declines to award sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the motions to compel depositions of Manel Frangulyan
and Tina Frangulyan. The hearing on the motion to compel deposition of Tina
Frangulyan set for November 2, 2023, is advanced to today’s date and vacated.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice
and file a proof of service of such. 
 