  Case Number:  22STCV20693    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ALFREDO LOPEZ 
 
        
  vs.
 
MARTIN L.
  BERMAN, ESQ. et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV20693 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January 30, 2024



 
Defendants
Martin L. Berman, Esq.’s and Law Offices of Pflaster’s motions to compel
discovery from Plaintiff and have Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission deemed
admitted are MOOT. 
 
Plaintiff is
sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $1,000 per motion, for a total
of $4,000.00
 
On 6/24/2022,
Plaintiff Alfredo Lopez (Plaintiff) filed suit against Martin L. Berman, Esq.,
Law Offices of Pflaster, and Edward J. Siegler, Esq., alleging: (1) legal
malpractice; and (2) breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
            Now,
Defendants Martin L. Berman, Esq. and Law Offices of Pflaster (collectively,
Defendants) move to compel discovery responses from Plaintiff. 
 
            For
ease, the Court has consolidated its analysis into a single ruling. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
move to: (1) compel Plaintiff’s verified production of documents pursuant to
stipulation; (2) compel responses from Plaintiff to Requests for Production
(Set Two); (3) compel responses from Plaintiff to outstanding form and special
interrogatories; and (4) have their Requests for Admission (RFAs) deemed
admitted.
            
            In
opposition, Plaintiff clarified that all outstanding discovery has been
provided. As such, the substance of the motions is moot. 
 
            However,
full and complete production of outstanding discovery was only completed on
1/14/2023. Plaintiff did not provide any justification as to why compliance was
only completed until now. As such, these motions were still necessary and
sanctions are warranted.  
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motions are moot. Plaintiff is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $1,000.00 per motion, for a total of $4,000.00.
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 