  Case Number:  21STCV06126    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
16, 2023                                           TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Pedro
Gutierrez v. Walmart, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV06126
 





















 
MOTION
TO TRANSFER VENUE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Walmart Inc., et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Pedro Gutierrez
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            This
is an employment discrimination and wrongful termination action.  On February 16, 2021, Plaintiff, Pedro
Gutierrez, filed an unverified Complaint against Defendants, Walmart, Inc.,
Wal-Mart Associates, Inc., Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (collectively, “Walmart
Defendants”), Robert Alcazar, Jayme Bravo, and Jessica Blackwell, asserting causes
of action for:
 
1.     
Employment Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (Gov.
Code §12940(a));
2.     
FEHA Failure to Accommodate (Gov. Code §12940(m), Labor
Code § 230);
3.     
FEHA Failure to Engage in Timely & Good-Faith
Interactive Process (Gov. Code §12940(n));
4.     
FEHA Harassment (Gov. Code §12940(j)); 
5.     
FEHA Retaliation (Gov. Code §12940(h)(m)); 
6.     
Failure to Prevent/Remedy Discrimination and/or
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940(k)); 
7.     
Failure to Hire or Refusal To Hire in Violation of FEHA
(Gov. Code §12940(a)); 
8.     
Wrongful Discharge in Violation of Public Policy;
9.     
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
Plaintiff worked at Wal-Mart in Tulare
County from July 31, 2002 until March 8, 2019.   Plaintiff suffered from anxiety and
depression due to childhood domestic violence. 
Because of his anxiety and depression, Plaintiff took a medical leave of
absence.  His leave began on or about
February 12, 2018, and ended on January 31, 2019.  After he returned to work, Plaintiff alleges
Wal-Mart did not engage in an interactive process or accommodate his
disabilities.  On March 8, 2019,
Plaintiff alleges he was terminated.  Thereafter,
Plaintiff applied for other positions with Wal-Mart in Kern County, Tulare
County, and Los Angeles County.  Wal-Mart
refused to rehire him.  Plaintiff alleges
Wal-Mart refused to hire him because of his disabilities and because he engaged
in protected activities.  
 
            On December
15, 2023, Defendants filed this Motion to Transfer Venue from Los Angeles
County to Tulare County.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
A.   
 The Motion
and Opposition
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) §§ 397(a) and (c),
Defendants move to change venue to Tulare County because venue is not proper in
Los Angeles (§ 397(a)), and even if it were proper,
venue should be moved to Tulare County for the convenience of witnesses and in
the interests of justice (§ 397(c).)     
 
            Plaintiff
opposes arguing venue is proper in Los Angeles County pursuant to FEHA and Government Code (“Gov. Code”) §12965 (c)(3), and Defendants
fail to meet their burden to show venue should be moved to Tulare County
pursuant to CCP § 397(c).[1] 
 
Defendants motion improperly conflates CCP sections 397(a)
and (c) into one test. The statutory sections are different as are the factors
to be considered under each section.  The
court will address each statutory section in turn. 
 
   
B.    
Venue is Proper in Los Angeles County 
 
1.       The Governing Law
 
The general venue rule is that “‘the superior court in the
county where the defendants 
or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is
the proper court for the trial of the action.’  [Citation.]” (Fontaine
v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 837 (Fontaine).) A FEHA action
may be brought in the county where (1) the unlawful practice is alleged to have
been committed, (2) where the records relevant to the practice are maintained
and administered, or (3) where the aggrieved person
would have worked or would have had access to the public accommodation but for
the alleged unlawful practice.  (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd.
(c)(3).)  “[I]f the defendant is not found within any of these counties,
an action may be brought within the county of the defendant’s residence or
principal office.”  (Ibid.)  This includes related non-FEHA claims
brought under alternative theories but based on the same set of facts, such as
Plaintiff’s cause of action for wrongful termination in violation of public
policy.  (Brown v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 487 (Brown).) 
 
            As the court stated in Malloy v. Superior Court
(2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 543, 546:
 
California's Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) (Gov.
Code, § 12900 et seq.), enacted in 1980, establishes a comprehensive framework
to safeguard the right of all individuals to seek, obtain and hold employment
free from discrimination. (§ 12920; Brown
v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477,
485, 208 Cal.Rptr. 724, 691 P.2d 272 (Brown); Hirst v. City of Oceanside (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 774, 782, 187 Cal.Rptr.3d 119.) As
one means of furthering FEHA's express purpose to provide effective remedies
for discriminatory practices, a special venue provision allows plaintiffs to
file a lawsuit “in any county in the state in which the unlawful practice is
alleged to have been committed, in the county in which the records relevant to
the practice are maintained and administered, or in the county in which the
aggrieved person would have worked ... but for the unlawful practice.” (§
12965, subd. (c)(3); see Brown, at p. 486, 208 Cal.Rptr. 724, 691 P.2d 272 [“[T]he costs
of litigation pose a formidable barrier to the filing and prosecution of a FEHA
action. The Legislature recognized this barrier and sought to alleviate it by
providing those persons [victims of employment discrimination] with a wide
choice of venue”].)
 
2.     
Application
                
Plaintiff argues venue is appropriate in Los Angeles pursuant
to Gov. Code §12965, subd. (c)(3), which provides
for venue where “where the aggrieved person would
have worked or would have had access to the public accommodation but for the
alleged unlawful practice.”  Plaintiff
claims he would have worked in Los Angeles but for Wal-Mart’s alleged unlawful
conduct.  In his opposition, Plaintiff submits
his own declaration wherein he states he would have worked in Los Angeles
County but for the unlawful decision by Walmart.  Plaintiff attaches screenshots of Wal-Mart’s
purported hiring portal to corroborate his testimony.  Plaintiff argues the screenshots support his
contention that he applied for a job in Los Angeles.  The screenshots include a picture
showing 5 jobs available for unloading, stocking and price change.  One of the available job sites appears to be a
Wal-Mart supercenter in Santa Clarita CA 91350. 
Santa Clarita is in Los Angeles County. 

 
Defendants raise both a factual
and a legal challenge.  As a factual
matter, Defendants argue Plaintiff’s contention that he would have worked in
Los Angeles is untrue because he did not apply for a job in Los Angeles.  Relying on excerpts from Plaintiff’s deposition,
Defendants point out that Plaintiff could not recall when he filled out or
submitted his applications.   
 
            To
prevail on their motion, Defendants “must overcome the presumption that the
plaintiff has selected the proper venue. [Citation.] Thus, “[i]t is the moving
defendant's burden to demonstrate that the plaintiff's venue selection is not
proper under any of the statutory grounds.” [Citation.].”  (Fontaine
v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
830, 836.)
 
            Here, Defendants fail to rebut the presumption
and fail to demonstrate Plaintiff did not apply for a job in Los Angeles, let
alone refute his testimony that he would have moved to Los Angeles but for the
unlawful activity.  True, Plaintiff’s
failure to recall when he completed or submitted the forms is relevant to
attack Plaintiff’s credibility, but the screenshots are nonetheless corroborative.  Moreover, Defendants had the opportunity to present
evidence from their own records that Plaintiff did not apply to a job site in
Los Angeles.  No such evidence, by way of
Defendants’ affidavits, was submitted.  
 
            Next, Defendant
argues venue is not proper in Los Angeles as a matter of law.  Because the majority of the factors set forth
Gov. Code §12965(c)(3) weigh in favor of venue in Tulare County (the
unlawful practices are alleged to have been committed in Tulare, and the records
relevant to the practice are maintained and administered in Tulare), Defendants
submit venue in Tulare County is mandatory. 
But the FEHA statute and the government code section do not employ balancing
tests.  If a plaintiff satisfies any of
the three criteria, venue is appropriate in that location.  
 
            Defendants
rely on Ford Motor Credit Co. v. Superior Court (1996)
50 Cal.App.4th 306 (Ford).  Ford is distinguishable.  In Ford, the Appellate Court ordered
the matter transferred from Los Angeles County to Sacramento County because “at
least two of the three enumerated criteria” happened in Sacramento.  The Court did not discuss the application of
the third criteria – where the plaintiff would have worked but for the alleged
unlawful practice.  Moreover, based upon
the factual recitation in Ford, there was no evidence (or at least no
discussion) whether plaintiff would have worked for Ford in Los Angles County
but for the unlawful practice.[2]  
 
            Malloy
v. Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 543 (Malloy) is
more on point.  In Malloy, plaintiff
worked remotely from her home in Los Angeles County.  Her employer was located in Orange
County.  Malloy argued that “Los Angeles
County was the proper venue for her FEHA pregnancy discrimination, interference
and retaliation causes of action because the unlawful employment practices
occurred in Los Angeles while she was working from home or on protected
pregnancy disability leave, and she would have continued working in Los Angeles
at least until June 10, 2021 if not for the FEHA violations (including her
wrongful termination).” (Id. at p. 549.) 
The Appellate Court agreed with Malloy. “Construing the language of
section 12965, subdivision (c)(3), broadly to effectuate its purpose of ‘permitting
venue in a county which plaintiffs deem the most appropriate and convenient’” (Id.
at p. 555, [citation omitted].), the Malloy Court held that “venue was proper
in Los Angeles County as the ‘county in which the aggrieved person would have
worked… but for the alleged unlawful practice.’” (Id. at p. 556.) True,
Malloy lived and worked remotely in Los Angeles whereas Plaintiff herein resides
in Tulare County.  But that fact does not
change the plain meaning of the statute nor its application where Plaintiff
declares he would have worked in the location but for the alleged unlawful
conduct.[3]
   
 
C.   
 CCP Section
397(c) Does Not Support a Transfer  
 
1.     
 The
Governing Law
 
            Even if venue is proper in a
particular location, the court may change the place of trial when
the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the
change.  (CCP § 397(c).)  The moving party has the burden of proving
both conditions in Section 397, subdivision (c).  (Ryez v. Superior Court of San Francisco
Cty. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 824, 836.) 
 “Before the convenience
of witnesses may be considered as a ground for an order granting a change of
venue it must be shown that their proposed testimony is admissible, relevant
and material to some issue in the case as shown by the record before the court.
[Citation.] The declaration or declarations supporting the motion should set
forth the names of the witnesses, the nature of the testimony expected from
each, and the reasons why the attendance of each would be inconvenient.
[Citation.]” (Rycz v. Superior Court of San Francisco County (2022) 81
Cal.App.5th 824, 836, citations and quotations omitted.)  “The convenience of witnesses whose testimony
will be merely cumulative is entitled to little consideration.”  (Corfee v. S. California Edison Co. (1962)
202 Cal.App.2d 473, 477.)  Further, the
court does not consider as a factor the inconvenience of the parties
to attend trial in deciding a motion to change venue.  (Wrin v. Ohlandt (1931) 213 Cal. 158,
160.)(Emphasis added.) 
 
2.     
 Application
 
            CCP section 397, subd. (c) has two parts: convenience of the witnesses and the interests of
justice.  With respect to the convenience
of the witnesses, Defendants fail to present
any information about any witnesses in this case.  The only discussion presented by Defendants has
to do with the convenience of the parties in the case, which is not an
appropriate consideration for the court. (Wrin v. Ohlandt (1931)
213 Cal. 158, 160.)  Defendants fail to
meet their burden on the first prong of CCP section 397, subd. (c).  
 
            The second prong -- interest
of justice -- presents a closer call.  On
the one hand, Defendants are correct that most, if not all, of the relevant events
took place in Tulare County and the witnesses may be located in
Tulare County.  On the other hand,
Plaintiffs make a strong argument that Defendants delayed twenty-eight months after
filing their answer to bring this motion. 
Trial is currently scheduled in four months, June 24, 2024.  Defendants dispute the allegation of
delay.  Defendants contend they brought
the motion as soon as they learned Plaintiff could not recall the specifics of
his job application.  Defendants’ argument
lacks traction.  While Plaintiff’s deposition
may have unearthed concerns about Plaintiff’s job application to a job site in
Los Angeles, Plaintiff’s deposition did not suddenly reveal that the locus of
the events in this case and all the potential witnesses are all located in Tulare
County.  And that is the stronger point
for the court’s consideration.  
 
            On balance, Defendants
fail to meet their burden to demonstrate that under these circumstances the
interests of justice weigh in favor of a last-minute transfer to Tulare County.

 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Accordingly,
the Motion to Transfer Venue is DENIED.  
 
Moving party to give notice, unless
waived.  
 
 
Dated:   January 16,
2024                               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            


