Here is a summary of the Tentative Ruling in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Number: 24STCV18487
Plaintiff's Name: Susana Perez, Reyes Perez
Defendant's Name: Francisco Fragoso
People/Names: Susana Perez, Reyes Perez, Francisco Fragoso, Susuna Vasquez Gutierrez
Company/Names: Francisco Fragoso Trust
Places: Cudahy, California, 4728 Elizabeth Street, 4720 Elizabeth Street
Dates: July 24, 2024, August 14, 2024, August 21, 2024, October 14, 2024, October 21, 2024, November 12, 2024
Events: Demurrer, Meet and Confer, Judicial Notice, Res Judicata
Money: $1,740/month, $1,400/month
Intentions: To resolve the dispute between the parties
Facts: The parties are involved in a dispute arising from an alleged written rental agreement. The Defendant demurred to each cause of action alleged in the Complaint.
Disputes: The Defendant contends that the Plaintiff's claims are barred by res judicata and that the Plaintiff's Complaint is deficient in its allegations.
Acts: The Defendant filed a demurrer to the Complaint, and the Plaintiff opposed the demurrer.
Agreements: The parties have agreed to meet and confer regarding the issues raised in the demurrer.
Laws: California Evidence Code, California Code of Civil Procedure, Cudahy Municipal Code
Case Citations: Frommhagen v. Bd. of Supervisors of Santa Cruz Cnty., Postley v. Harvey, Berkley v. Dowds, Hahn v. Mirda, Boeken v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., Vella v. Hudgins, Landros v. Pankey, DKN Holdings v. Faerber, Struiksma v. Ocwen Loan Servicing LLC, Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist., Berstein v. Piller
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure ยง 430.30, California Code of Civil Procedure ยง 430.41, California Code of Civil Procedure ยง 435.5, California Evidence Code ยง 452
Roles:
  - Judge: The Judge is responsible for ruling on the demurrer and resolving the dispute between the parties.
  - Plaintiff: The Plaintiff is responsible for presenting their claims and defending against the Defendant's demurrer.
  - Defendant: The Defendant is responsible for presenting their defenses and challenging the Plaintiff's claims.
Significant Statements:
  - The Judge overrules the demurrer and allows the Plaintiff's Complaint to proceed.
  - The Defendant has not successfully proven the application of either issue preclusion or claim preclusion to the Plaintiff's present suit.
  - The Plaintiff's allegations cannot be viewed as vague because they put the Defendant on notice of the conduct Plaintiff intends to prove at trial.
```

Here is a summary of the Tentative Ruling in English text:

The court has issued a tentative ruling on the demurrer filed by the Defendant, Francisco Fragoso. The Defendant demurred to each cause of action alleged in the Complaint, arguing that the Plaintiff's claims are barred by res judicata and that the Plaintiff's Complaint is deficient in its allegations.

The court found that the Defendant has not successfully proven the application of either issue preclusion or claim preclusion to the Plaintiff's present suit. The court also found that the Plaintiff's allegations cannot be viewed as vague because they put the Defendant on notice of the conduct Plaintiff intends to prove at trial.

The court overrules the demurrer and allows the Plaintiff's Complaint to proceed. The Defendant shall file and serve an Answer to the Complaint on or before November 12, 2024.