 Case Number:  23STCP00854    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept.
F-51¿ 
Date: 8/1/24 
Case #23STCP00854
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

JULY
31, 2024
 

DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

Los
Angeles Superior Court Case # 23STCP00854

 

Demurrer
with Motion to Strike Filed: 4/29/24 
 
MOVING
PARTY: Respondent
County of Los Angeles Department of Regional Planning, Amy Bodek, Director
(“Respondent”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Petitioner
James Christopher Ball, in pro per (“Petitioner”)
NOTICE:
OK 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: Respondent
demurs to Petitioner’s entire first amended petition (“FAP”).
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend. The motion to strike is
moot.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE:
Respondent’s request for judicial notice is denied as to Exhibits A–M, and
granted as to Exhibit N.
 
Petitioner
is reminded that “except in a summary judgment or summary adjudication motion, no
opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages. … The page limit does
not include the caption page, the notice of motion and motion, exhibits,
declarations, attachments, the table of contents, the table of authorities, or
the proof of service.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1113(d).) Failure to comply with
these requirements in the future may result in papers being rejected, matters
being placed off calendar, matters being continued so documents can be
resubmitted in compliance with these requirements, documents not being
considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND 
 
Petitioner brings this action against Respondent in relation
to the Los Angeles County Department of Regional Planning’s (“DRP”) evaluation
and recommendation of conditions of approval in Petitioner’s Conditional Use
Permit (“CUP”) Application No. RPPL2019002661, through which Petitioner sought
to construct six single-family residences on six existing legal parcels in the
Santa Clarita Valley Planning Area. (Ex. 1 to FAP.)
 
The DRP prepared conditions to Petitioner’s CUP application,
and on 7/27/22, the County Regional Planning Commission heard and approved the
application. (Ibid.) On 8/8/22, Petitioner timely appealed the decision
to the County Board of Supervisors (“BOS”), challenging a condition involving
the requirement of a tribal monitor to oversee grading in the event tribal
cultural resources are discovered. (Ex. 3 to FAP.)
 
On 12/20/22, the BOS held a hearing on Petitioner’s appeal, accepting
testimony from both Petitioner and Respondent. Thereafter, the Board “instructed
the Interim County Counsel to prepare the necessary findings to affirm the
Regional Planning Commission’s approval of” Petitioner’s CUP application “and
denied the appeal” thereof. (Ex. 1 to FAP.) On 9/26/23, the BOS considered and
unanimously voted to adopt the findings and conditions. (10/25/23 Suppl. Status
Report.)
 
On 3/17/23, Petitioner filed his original petition against
Respondent, alleging the following causes of action: (1) CEQA Exemptions; (2)
Tribal Jurisdiction; (3) Biological Monitor; (4) Unannounced Drone Spying; (5)
Unnecessary Costs and Fees for Delayed Permits; and (6) Regional Planning Should
Clean Up Their Act. The petition sought writ of mandamus and declaratory relief
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1060, 1085, and 1086.
 
On 11/29/23, the Court sustained Respondent’s demurrer
against Petitioner’s fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action without leave to
amend, and against Petitioner’s first, second, and third causes of action with
leave to amend. On 1/2/24, Petitioner filed his FAP, alleging the following
causes of action: (1) Pretendian Woke Shakedown; (2) Biological Monitor for One
Parcel; and (3) Conditional Use Permit Conditions Require Clarification. The
parties settled Petitioner’s third cause of action.
 
On 4/29/24, Respondent filed the instant demurrer and motion
to strike. On 7/15/24, Petitioner filed his oppositions thereto. On 7/25/24, Respondent
filed its replies. 
 
DEMURRER 
 
Respondent demurs to Petitioner’s entire FAP on the basis
that¿each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of
action.
 
A.    Meet-and-Confer 
 
Respondent’s counsel declares that she engaged in settlement
discussions with Petitioner, including the settlement of his third cause of
action, but the parties were unable to come to an informal resolution with
regard to the remaining causes of action. (Decl. of Kathy Park, ¶¶ 4–10.)
Therefore, counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements
of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).
 
B.    
Pretendian Woke
Shakedown
 
Petitioner’s first cause of action alleges Pretendian Woke
Shakedown against Respondent, specifically that “my appeal was decided
by politicians who are biased in favor of the local tribe and without concern
for the costs imposed on me.” (FAP 8:22–24.) “AB52 is an attempt by the State
to make societal reparations to the surviving descendants of the red man tribes
for the slaughter and displacement of their ancestors by the white man tribes,
my ancestors.” (Id. at 13:6–8.) “This Petition asserts that Regional
Planning did not proceed in the manner required by law. There is no substantial
evidence that significant tribal resources might exist on my property. In
addition, Regional Planning did not follow the law because they failed to
consider feasible mitigation alternatives as required.” (Id. at
11:20–23.)
 
Respondent
argues that “the first cause of action stems from Petitioner’s policy and
political view that AB 52 is a ‘Pretendian Woke Shakedown,’ upon which the
Petition alleges wrongdoing by the County. This is not a legally cognizable
theory that gives rise to a legal right, legal remedy, and legal cause of
action in a court of law.” (Dem. 1:11–14.) “Petitioner’s challenge of a
legislative policy or political opinion is not a legally cognizable cause of
action and is subject to demurrer for failing to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Id. at 6:15–17.)
 
Petitioner
argues in opposition that the “First cause of action actually stems from the
abuse of discretionary authority that resulted in stupid and expensive
conditions that require me to pay unlimited costs for a professional
archaeologist to watch me run my bulldozer to look for stuff that ain’t there.”
(Opp. 3:10–12.) “In any action or proceeding, other than an action or
proceeding under Section 21168, to attack, review, set aside, void or annul a
determination, finding, or decision of a public agency on the grounds of
noncompliance with this division, the inquiry shall extend only to whether
there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion. Abuse of discretion is established
if the agency has not proceeded in a manner required by law or if the
determination or decision is not supported by substantial evidence.” (Pub.
Resources Code § 21168.5.)
 
 
Petitioner
also argues that the BOS was prejudiced against him at the 12/20/22 hearing on
his appeal, and that “this Court should recognize and understand the political
bias of politicians who judged my case.” (Id. at 3:6.) Specifically, Petitioner
argues that a land acknowledgment reading made at the start of the 12/20/22 BOS
meeting “is a declaration of bias and prejudice by those who soon after heard
my complaint against Regional Planning. It establishes that the BOS was
predisposed to find in favor of the tribe, despite the fact that there was no
evidence showing any likelihood of artifacts on my property.” (Id. at 4:7–11.)
 
Respondent
argues in reply that “Petitioner’s first cause of action is built upon a
misunderstanding of the scope and standard of judicial review permitted,
inadequate factual allegations, and consequently fails to establish facts
sufficient to support the cause of action.” (Reply 3:1–3.) “Petitioner may not
agree with latitude given to local agencies when implementing AB 52, or the
deference afforded to consulting tribes under AB 52, however that
dissatisfaction is misdirected at the County, for they are contests with the
State legislature.” (Id. at 1:19–21.)
 
The
Court agrees with Respondent that to the extent that Petitioner wishes to
challenge AB 52, “the Petitioner’s issue is with the State law as written.
Petitioner cannot ask this court to do what must be asked of the State
legislature.” (Id. at 4:18–20, citing Pub. Resources Code §§§ 21080.3.1,
21080.3.1, 21082.3; Government Code § 65352.4.) To the extent that Petitioner bases
this cause of action on the BOS’ abuse of discretion in denying his appeal, the
Court finds that Petitioner has sufficiently alleged the elements of this cause
of action. However, the demurrer is nevertheless sustained against Petitioner’s
first cause of action on the ground that it is uncertain.
 
C.   
Biological
Monitor for One Parcel
 
Petitioner’s second cause of action alleges Biological
Monitor for One Parcel. Respondent again argues that “the second cause
of action is defective because Petitioner failed to exhaust administrative
remedies to challenge Respondent’s condition regarding biological monitors.”
(Dem. 1:14–16.)
 
“A party seeking relief for an injury for which an
administrative remedy is available ordinarily must pursue relief from the
administrative agency before seeking relief in court.” (City of Fillmore v.
Board of Equalization (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 716, 725.) To withstand a
demurrer for failure to allege exhaustion of available administrative remedies,
a plaintiff must allege facts showing that he exhausted these remedies or facts
showing that he was not required to do so. (Tejon Real Estate, LLC v. City
of Los Angeles (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 149, 156.) A plaintiff may not
ordinarily advance a new theory in the court that was not presented to the
administrative agency. (Hoag Mem. Hosp. Presbyterian v. Kent (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th
413, 425–426.) To satisfy the exhaustion of administrative remedies
requirement, “the exact issue raised in the lawsuit must have been presented to
the administrative agency so that it will have had an opportunity to act and
render the litigation unnecessary.” (Harrington v. City of Davis (2017)
16 Cal.App.5th 420, 441.)
 
Here, the Court previously found that “nowhere in
the appeal document does Petitioner directly reference … Biological Monitor. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, upon further review of Petitioner’s appeal, the Court finds that
Petitioner’s third cause of action is linked to his first cause of action for
CEQA Exemptions.” (11/29/23 Min. Order, p. 6.)
 
Petitioner
appears to concede that “County says I haven’t exhausted my administrative
remedies with respect to the Biological Monitor conditions. That statement has
some merit. I have stated in my opposition that I was prevented by County from
doing so, because it was concealed from me until the Interlocutory period that
the findings that resulted in those conditions were not supported by any
evidence.” (Opp. 15:24–16:1.)
 
Respondent
argues in reply that “Petitioner abandoned his claim on the CEQA exemption on
the record. Therefore, Petitioner failed to pursue the inventive nexus that
allowed leave to amend a challenge that was never appealed through the
administrative process.” (Reply 7:5–7.) The Court agrees with Respondent that
the Court’s previous ruling allowed for Petitioner’s Biological Monitor cause
of action to withstand demurrer because it was related to his now-withdrawn
cause of action for CEQA Exemptions. As amended, and as Petitioner concedes,
Petitioner’s Biological Monitor cause of action no longer satisfies the exhaustion
requirement.
 
The
Court notes that Biological Monitor is not a legally cognizable cause of
action. To the extent that Petitioner alleges that his failure to appeal the
biological monitor condition was based on false or concealed information, the
Court finds that Petitioner has failed to allege facts sufficient to constitute
those related causes of action. Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer
against Petitioner’s second cause of action.
 
D.   
Leave to Amend
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it
is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada
Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).¿  
 
Here, Petitioner
seeks leave to file a second amended petition. Accordingly, under the Court’s
liberal policy of granting leave to amend, the Court grants Petitioner 30 days
leave to amend his petition to cure the defects set forth above.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
As the Court sustains the demurrer with 30 days leave to
amend, the motion to strike is moot. (B. F. G. Builders v. Weisner &
Coover Co. (1962) 206 Cal.App.2d 752, 758–759.)
 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend. The
motion to strike is moot. The Court wants to get this case set for a hearing on
the merits.  