 Case Number:  23AHCV01273    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      December 7, 2023                                           TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         FELIPE PEREZ, v.
SHINE CHANG; and DOES 1 to 20.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01273
 
            
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Shine Chan
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Felipe Perez
 
SERVICE:                              Filed November 30, 2023 (served September
27, 2023)
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed November 21, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   No reply filed.  
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for exemplary and punitive damages. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Felipe
Perez’s claim that Defendant Shine Chang (“Defendant”) negligently operated his
vehicle and reversed into Plaintiff’s person. Plaintiff filed this complaint on
June 5, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant’s
motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive and exemplary damages is
GRANTED with 15 days leave to amend. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is
not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive and exemplary damages.
 
            Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a). A plaintiff seeking punitive damages “must include
specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages. [Citation.]
Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
1137, 1193.) 
 
            Civil Code
section 3294 provides a definition for each basis for punitive damages. Malice
is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is defined as
“despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Fraud is defined as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) 
 
            Plaintiff’s
allegations contain general or conclusory statements that Defendant acted with
malice or oppression. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant drove at dangerous
speeds while reversing out of a parking spot. However, one of the cases cited
by Plaintiff undercuts his argument that his allegations are sufficient. In Daws
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90, the Court approvingly cited
language that argued that allegations of “intoxication, excessive speed,
driving with defective equipment of the running of a stop signal, without more,
do not state a cause of action for punitive damages.” Plaintiff’s allegations
fail to allege that Defendant acted with malice or oppression sufficient to
plead a prayer for punitive damage. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s
motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive and exemplary damages is
GRANTED with 15 days leave to amend. 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   December 7,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
