 Case Number:  23AHCV00240    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
7, 2023                                           TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         JIANG XU, an
individual; HUI CAO, an individual, v. GARAGE KITCHEN, INC., a California
corporation; XIUQING, an individual; and DOES 1-100, inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00240
 
            
 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DISMISSAL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Jiang Xu and Hui Cao
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed November 3, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiffs move to set aside
dismissal entered against them on September 20, 2023.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Jiang Xu
and Hui Cao wage and hour claims against Defendants Garage Kitchen, Inc. and
Xiuqing Huang. Plaintiffs filed this complaint on February 2, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiffs’ motion for an order setting aside dismissal
is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiffs move for an order setting aside dismissal. On September 20,
2023, there were no appearance for Plaintiffs at an Order to Show Cause
hearing, and Plaintiffs’ complaint was ordered dismissed. Plaintiffs’ make this
motion on the basis that their failure to appear was caused by the mistake of
counsel. 
 
“Section
473(b) provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief. [Citation.]” (Pagnini v.
Union Bank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.) “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party
or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ.
Proc. section 473, subd. (b).) 
 
Plaintiffs provide that the attorney previously assigned to this
case, Ronald Norman, had left the firm around mid-September and had missed deadlines
in other matters. (Braugh Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs provide that the failure to appear was based on
error of counsel and should be subject to mandatory relief. However, Code of
Civil Procedure section 473 provides for relief where the motion “is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake”. Here the declaration attests to another counsel’s mistake.
Nonetheless, the court finds that the dismal was entered against Plaintiffs
based on mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect because of
Plaintiffs’ previous counsel’s failure to appear in this matter. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiffs’ motion for an order setting aside dismissal
is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $500
within 30 days pursuant to Section 473(c)(1)(A) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   December 7,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



