  Case Number:  21STCV25218    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATIONPlaintiffs Laverne
Montano, Dennis Montano, Michael Montano, Stephen Montano, Donald Montano, and
Laurie Reay allege Eugene Montano developed mesothelioma as a result of
exposure to asbestos from Defendant Hajoca Corporation’s products.  (Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) 1.)  On July 5, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for
summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages. 
When the motion targets a
request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play. “Although
the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not
impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at
summary judgment [or summary adjudication.’ 
[Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the
plaintiff’s ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence,
the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to
prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence
presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]” 
(Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “
‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.’ ” ’. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1159.) 
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ [Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc.
(2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A
plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing agent’ requirement ‘through evidence
showing the information in the possession of the corporation and the structure
of management decision making that permits an inference that the information in
fact moved upward to a point where corporate policy was formulated.’  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1091.) 
“ ‘[I]ntentionally
marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is
‘highly reprehensible.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.
ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a
defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.) 
Defendant argues
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses are factually deficient, citing Plaintiffs’
responses to special interrogatories that asked for all facts, documents, and
witnesses supporting the punitive damages claim.  (Motion at pp. 2-3; UMF 4.)  Plaintiffs responded that Eugene Montano purchased
and worked with Defendant’s asbestos-containing products between 1959 and the
late 1980s, including cement sewer and vent pipes, replacement gaskets for
furnaces and water heaters, etc.  (Defendant’s
Index, Ex. E at pp. 2-4.)  Plaintiffs
also stated Defendant knew or should have known about the dangers of asbestos in
the 1970s by referring to scientific articles, and they listed various
individuals with knowledge.  (Id.
at pp. 5-7, 10.)  Providing a laundry
list of names is not sufficient.  (Weber,
supra, 143 Cal.App.4th at p. 1440.)  The
responses also did not contain specific evidence that Defendant saw the
scientific articles or otherwise had knowledge about the hazards of asbestos in
its products at the relevant time. 
Defendant also cites
Plaintiffs’ responses to requests for production relating to punitive damages.  (UMF 12.)  Plaintiffs’ responses referred to the
deposition testimony of Defendant’s employees and expert witnesses, Decedent
and Plaintiffs, discovery responses, Decedent’s records, and Defendant’s
business records.  (Defendant’s Index Ex.
F at pp. 1-4, 6-7.)  The responses did
not provide specific evidence concerning Defendant’s knowledge, intent to harm,
malice, oppression, fraud, or conscious disregard for the safety of others.  Therefore, Defendant shifted the burden.
In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant knew of the hazards of asbestos due to a lawsuit in 1976, but
continued to sell its products without warnings, testing, or design change.  (Opposition at pp. 1-2; Rosenthal Decl., Ex. 5
at p. 40.)  In addition, Defendant faced at
least ten additional lawsuits in the 1980s for asbestos-related injuries.  (Rosenthal Decl., Ex. 4 at pp. 170-171).  Yet Defendants did not take specific action, such
as testing and providing material safety data sheets and warnings and instead relied
on manufacturers to take any action on and give warnings about asbestos in the
products Defendant sold.  (Id. at
pp. 236-237, 241; Rosenthal Decl., Ex. 5 at pp. 34-35, 100-103.)  
Plaintiffs’ evidence shows
disputed issues of material fact about Defendant’s knowledge of the hazards of
asbestos and its lack of action after having knowledge that some of the
products it sold might contain hazardous asbestos that was harming users.  The court cannot conclude that no reasonable
jury could find clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud, or oppression.  The motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED.
The moving party is to
give notice. 