  Case Number:  23SMCV05402    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Sokolow v. Rexford
Flats, LLC et al., Case No. 23SMCV05402
Hearing Date March
20, 2024 
Defendants Power
Brokers, Beverly Hills Fine Homes & Arbid’s Demurrer to Complaint
Defendants Rexford’s
Motion to Strike Damages
 
Plaintiff alleges
defendant Mehrdad and defendants Rexford Flats and Bedford Flats’ property
manager entered her apartment, causing her dog to escape and be struck by a
car. Plaintiff alleges Mehrdad was acting in her capacity as a real estate
agent working for defendants Arbid and Power Brokers, Inc.
 
Defendants Power
Brokers International, Beverly Hills Fine Homes and Arbid (collectively “PBI”)
demur, as do defendants Rexford Flats, Rexford 52 and Mehrdad (collectively
“Rexford”). Rexford also moves to strike special and punitive damages. 
 
Defendants PBI
Demurrer
Negligence 
The elements of a
cause of action for negligence are (1) duty, (2) breach, and (3) causation. Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917. 
 
PBI argue they
owed plaintiff no duty of care because they were not parties to her lease and
did not negligently allow the dog to escape. The complaint alleges Mehrdad was acting
within the scope of employment by Power Brokers and Arbid. Complaint ¶¶5, 7. On
demurrer, these allegations must be treated as true. C&H Foods, Co. v.
Hartford Ins. Co. (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 1055, 1062. The employment
allegations create a basis for vicarious liability against Power Brokers and
Arbid, regardless of whether they directly caused the dog to escape. 
 
Additionally, the
duty plaintiff alleges Mehrdad breached is not solely based on her failure to
give sufficient notice of entry (a duty arising from the landlord-tenant
relationship) but on allegations that she negligently allowed the dog to escape,
despite being warned the dog was scared of strangers (a general duty of care).
Complaint ¶¶36-39. This alleged duty is not based on a prior landlord-tenant
relationship, so does not serve as a basis for demurrer.  
 
Finally, the
complaint alleges BHFH is Power Brokers’ alter ego but does not allege sufficient
facts showing that treating the entities as separate would “sanction a fraud,
promote injustice, or cause an inequitable result.” Misik v. D’Arco (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 1065, 1073. The complaint merely concludes “it would be unfair
to plaintiff if the acts set forth in this complaint were treated as those of
Power Brokers alone.” Complaint ¶9. This is insufficiently specific. Plaintiff
must set forth specific facts.
 
OVERRULED as to
Power Brokers and Arbid; SUSTAINED with ten days leave to amend as to defendant
BHFH. 
 
Negligent Hiring,
Supervision and Retention
An employer is
liable for negligent hiring, supervision and retention if it “knew or should
have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and
that particular harm materializes.” Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139. 
 
PBI argues the
complaint does not allege Mehrdad was unfit and incompetent to perform the work
for which she was hired or that PBI knew she was unfit. The court agrees. The
complaint alleges “Ms. Mehrdad was unfit and incompetent to perform the work
for which she was hired,” because “her real estate salesperson’s license was
previously suspended in 2021 and 2022.” Complaint ¶¶34, 43, 44. The complaint does
not identify the “particular risk or hazard” created by hiring Mehrdad, nor how
that hazard materialized. Plaintiff must clarify how Mehrdad’s alleged
incompetence as a realtor created a specific risk that she would allow a dog to
escape an apartment. SUSTAINED with ten days leave to amend. 
 
Trespass/Trespass
to Chattels
PBI argues these
causes of action are subject to demurrer because the complaint does not allege
they entered Sokolow’s unit or interfered with her use or possession of the dog.
As above, while the complaint does not allege the PBI defendants did these
things directly, it does allege they did them vicariously via the actions of
their employee, Mehrdad. E.g., Complaint ¶¶22-30. For purposes of pleading,
this is sufficient to survive demurrer. OVERRULED. 
 
Breach of the
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
The covenant of
quiet enjoyment is implied in all leases, protecting lessee from any “act or
omission by the lessor, which interferes with the lessee’s right to use and
enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the lease.” Avalon
Pacific-Santa Ana, L.P. v. HD Supply Repair & Remodel, LLC (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 1183, 1191. 
 
PBI argues the
lease states “[l]andlord and [t]enant are not represented by any real estate
brokers[.]” Complaint exh. A. ¶41. The court agrees. The lease agreement does
not name PBI as parties, nor does it indicate Mehrdad was their agent. Absent a
landlord-tenant relationship, there is no covenant of quiet enjoyment. This
cause of action fails as to the PBI defendants. SUSTAINED without leave to
amend. 
 
Rexford Defendants

 
Negligence
Defendants Rexford
Flats and Rexford 52 argue the complaint does not allege they were aware of the
circumstances leading to the alleged negligent conduct of defendant Mehrdad
such that they had an opportunity to eliminate any potential danger. Nor has plaintiff
established facts the Rexford defendants had control over the actions leading
to the alleged negligence. 
 
As plaintiff notes,
Rexford’s argument is based on the [incorrect] assumption that the negligence
cause of action arises from premises liability. The negligence cause of action does
not allege premises liability; it is based on allegations that Mehrdad herself breached
a general duty of care by entering the apartment without permission, allowing the
dog to escape. Complaint ¶¶24-30, 37. It seeks to hold the Rexford defendants
liable on a respondeat superior/vicarious liability theory, alleging
Rexford employed Mehrdad, and she was acting within the scope of that employment
when she allowed the dog to escape. Complaint ¶¶7, 22. These allegations are
sufficient on demurrer. OVERRULED.
 
Trespass/Trespass
to Chattels 
Rexford demurs to
the trespass causes of action, arguing “[p]laintiff has not established that
the Rexford defendants, in their capacity strictly as landlords of the building
either entered or caused a third person to enter her apartment.” Demurrer pg.
6. As above, plaintiff pleaded respondeat superior liability; she
alleges Mehrdad, in her capacity as Rexford’s property manager, entered the
apartment without permission and caused the death of the dog. Complaint
¶¶21-30. 
 
In reply, Rexford argues
the complaint makes clear Mehrdad was not working in her capacity as a property
manager but was acting as a real estate agent, since she was showing plaintiff’s
unit to a prospective tenant when the dog escaped. It is not obvious on the
face of the complaint that showing the unit falls outside the scope of her
employment as apartment manager. For purposes of pleading, the court must treat
allegations that she was working in both capacities as true. OVERRULED.
 
Rexford’s Motion
to Strike 
 
Special Damages
(Emotional Distress) 
Generally, absent
physical injury, a cause of action for negligence based on property damage
cannot give rise to an award of special damages for emotional distress. Lili
Butler-Rupp, et al. v. Lourdeaux (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1220, 1228. Emotional
distress damages are available when a plaintiff alleges trespass to chattels
based on intentional injury to a pet. Plotnik v. Meihaus (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1590.
 
Rexford argues emotional
distress damages are not available for damage to personal property (the dog). Emotional
distress damages are not available via the negligence claim. Under Lili
Butler-Rupp, plaintiff suffered no physical injury, so cannot recover for
emotional distress. Plotnik does not allow recovery of emotional
distress damages for trespass to chattel. Plaintiff did not allege intentional
injury to the dog, only that Mehrdad opened the door and allowed the dog to
escape, knowing such an outcome was likely. This is not analogous to Plotnik,
where defendant intentionally struck a dog with a baseball bat. GRANTED. 
 
Punitive Damages 
Punitive damages
are available “[f]or wrongful injuries to animals being subjects of property,
committed willfully or by gross negligence, in disregard of humanity[.]” Cal.
Civ. Code §3340. 
 
Rexford argues
Sokolow did not adequately allege malice or outrageous conduct justifying
punitive damages. A reasonable finder of fact could conclude Mehrdad acted with
“gross negligence” by entering the apartment, despite being explicitly warned
not to by plaintiff, and allowing the dog to escape, as plaintiff warned it
might. This is sufficient to support a punitive damages award under §3340 on
demurrer. DENIED. 