 Case Number:  23STCV15058    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  52 Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Natalya Vydrug’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Answer and Motion to Strike
Cross-Complaint
Demurrer to Answer
            Plaintiff Natalya Vydrug demurs to the 2nd
through 28th affirmative defenses alleged in the answer by defendants Nelli
Khlebnikova and Karolina Khlebnikova.  
Plaintiff demurs to these affirmative
defenses for failure to “state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.”  (CCP § 430.20(a).)  Rather than denying the plaintiff’s
allegations, affirmative defenses assert “new matter constituting a defense” that
would defeat the plaintiff’s claims. 
(CCP § 431.30(b)(2); accord FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 367, 383-385.) 
Affirmative defenses must not be pled as “terse legal conclusions,” but
“rather … as facts averred as carefully and with as much detail as the facts
which constitute the cause of action and are alleged in the complaint.” (In re Quantification Settlement Agreement
Cases (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 758, 812-13, internal quotes and citations
omitted.) 
None of these affirmative defenses allege
facts sufficient to constitute a defense. 
They allege mere legal conclusions. 
For example, the fifth affirmative defense of unclean hands alleges
plaintiff “is guilty of unclean hands” but does not assert what inequitable
conduct plaintiff committed that supports denying recovery for unclean
hands.  (See Brown v. Grimes
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 265, 282-283.)  Similarly,
the 12th affirmative defense alleges, “[B]y reason of the conduct of the
Plaintiff, which constituted a breach of contract, tortious conduct, waiver,
unclean hands and latches [sic], Plaintiff is estopped to assert any right to
relief as against these Answering Defendants.” 
But the answer does not identify plaintiff’s conduct that warrants
estoppel.  The 24th affirmative defense
(erroneously labeled 26th), meanwhile, asserts, “[T]his action should be dismissed…
for the failure of Plaintiffs to join an indispensable party or parties” but
does not identify the alleged indispensable party.
Moreover, some of the affirmative defenses do
not constitute “new matter” (CCP § 431.30(b)(2)) but instead merely deny
plaintiff’s allegations.  For example,
the 25th affirmative defense of “speculative damages” merely negates one of the
elements of some of plaintiffs’ causes of action.
Plaintiff also demurs to these affirmative
defenses as uncertain.  (CCP §
430.20(b).)  Code of Civil Procedure
section 431.30, subdivision (d) provides, “The defenses [in an answer] shall be
separately stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the causes of action
which they are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be
intelligibly distinguished.”  Failing to
do so can make the answer uncertain. 
(See Grappo v.
McMills (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 996, 1014 [complaint may be uncertain for
failing to identify defendants to whom each cause of action is against].)  None of the answer’s affirmative defenses
specify which causes of action they are intended to answer.  
Motion to Strike Answer
            Plaintiff Natalya Vydrug moves to strike the
entire answer or in the alternative, numerous parts of it.  As to striking the affirmative defenses, the
motion to strike is moot.      
Plaintiff moves to strike the entire answer by defendant Karolina
Khlebnikova on the grounds that she did not verify it under oath.  A court may “[s]trike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” 
(CCP § 436(b).)  “When the
complaint is verified, the answer shall be verified.”  (CCP § 446(a).)  Plaintiff verified her complaint.  (Comp., p. 12.)  Defendant Nelli Khlebnikova verified the
answer under oath (Answer, p. 12), but defendant Karolina Khlebnikova did not
sign or verify the answer as required.  
Plaintiff also moves to strike several
portions of the answer stating, “[T]hese answering Defendants object to the
extent this paragraph contains legal conclusion[s].”  (Answer, ¶¶ 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 11-18.)  Plaintiff moves to strike these portions as “false.”
(CCP § 436(a).)  Plaintiff argues, “[T]he
objections are untrue because the allegations are not ‘legal conclusions’, and
therefore portions ##5-14 must be stricken as false.”  (Motion, pp. 8-9.)  That is not a proper basis for moving to
strike these portions of the answer.  “[A] court may strike false, i.e. untrue,
matters contained in a pleading whenever their falsity or untruthfulness is
revealed by facts which are judicially noticed.”  (Garcia
v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d
17, 21.)  Even assuming these objections are
legally incorrect or otherwise improper on some other basis, they are not
“false” or “untrue.”  
Finally, plaintiff moves to strike a portion of the answer by which
defendants pray “[f]or reasonable attorney’s fees.”  (Answer, p. 11, line 10.)  A party may move to strike a
“demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.”  (CCP § 431.10(b)(3).)  A prevailing party may only recover attorney fees
when authorized by contract, statute, or other law.  (CCP § 1033.5(a)(10).)  The answer alleges no such basis for
recovering attorney fees.
Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint
Cross-defendant Natalya Vydrug moves to
strike five portions of the cross-complaint by Nelli Khlebnikova and Karolina
Khlebnikova.  Cross-defendant moves to
strike the portions of the prayer for relief seeking “reasonable counsel fees”
or “attorneys fees” for the cross-complaint’s causes of action for partition (page
11, lines 14 and 20), corporate dissolution (page 12, line 6), breach of
fiduciary duty (page 12, line 11), and “on all cause[s] of action” (page 12,
line 13).   
  As
discussed above, a prevailing party may only recover attorney fees when authorized by
contract, statute, or other law.  (CCP §
1033.5(a)(10).)  In contrast with the
third cause of action for violation of Corporations Code § 1600 et seq., for
the other causes of action the cross-complaint alleges no contractual,
statutory, or other legal basis for a prevailing party to recover attorney fees.  The court therefore will strike these
portions of the cross-complaint as demands for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations.           
Disposition
Plaintiff Natalya Vydrug’s demurrer to the
second through 28th affirmative defenses alleged in the answer by defendants
Nelli Khlebnikova and Karolina Khlebnikova is sustained with 20 days’
leave to amend.
Plaintiff Natalya Vydrug’s motion to strike
portions of defendants’ answer is granted in part with 20 days’ leave to
amend.  The court hereby strikes:
(1) the entire answer by Karolina Khlebnikova; and (2) the text “For reasonable
attorney’s fees” (page 11, line 10).
Cross-defendant Natalya Vydrug’s motion to
strike portions of cross-complainants Nelli Khlebnikova and Karolina
Khlebnikova’s cross-complaint is granted with 20 days’ leave to
amend.  The court hereby strikes
the following portions of the cross-complaint: (1) “including reasonable
counsel fees” (page 11, line 14); (2) “including attorney’s fees” (page 11,
line 20); (3) “attorneys fees” (page 12, line 6); (4) “Attorneys fees” (page
12, line 11), and “attorneys fees” (page 12, line 13).  