This is a construction defect case.  On February 2, 2023, Plaintiff Mary Mellone filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) breach of contract, (2) negligence, (3) fraud, and (4) negligent misrepresentation.  On August 30, 2022, Terry J. Horist filed a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1-50 for (1) implied equitable indemnity, (2) contribution, (3) declaratory relief, and (4) negligence.On November 15, 2022, California Reflections, Inc. (“CR”) was identified as Roe 12.CR now seeks for the Court to determine that its settlement with Horist was made in good faith.  The settlement primarily requires CR to tender $21,750 to Horist in exchange for a release with respect to the aforementioned Cross-Complaint.Because no oppositions were filed, the Motions may be granted without consideration of the Tech-Bilt factors and on the basis of setting forth the ground for good faith determination and a brief background of the case.  (See City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [“[W]e . . . conclude that only when the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.”)  CR indicates that “[t]he total amount billed by CRI for materials and work is $10,125.00. Horist demanded $21,750.00 to settle with CRI, twice the amount CRI billed for this project. Horist did not enter into a written subcontract with CRI and therefore Horist does not have a claim for contractual indemnity or contractual defense from CRI. Conditions at Plaintiff’s home as revealed in the site inspection show there are [ ] no issues with CRI’s work or materials. The one possible exception, an allegedly misaligned shower door, would be fixed by an adjustment of the door and is not a defect.”Under the circumstances, the Court cannot find that “the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the Tech-Bilt] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)  Accordingly, the Court finds that the settlement was made in good faith.  The Motion is granted.  The RJN is granted.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 