This is an employment action.  On November 8, 2021, Plaintiff Nicole Dickson filed the operative Complaint against Defendant Associated Health Professionals, Inc. for (1) FEHA discrimination, (2) FEHA failure to provide accommodations, (3) FEHA failure to engage in the interactive process, (4) FEHA retaliation, (5) FEHA failure to prevent retaliation and discrimination, and (6) wrongful termination.   Defendant now seeks summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication of all causes of action, as well as the claim for punitive damages.The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)DiscriminationTo analyze claims of discrimination under the FEHA based on a theory of disparate treatment, courts employ a three-step, burden-shifting test.  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355 (“Guz”).)  Because evidence of intentional discrimination is rare, the law permits the inference of discrimination based on facts that create “a reasonable likelihood of bias and are not satisfactorily explained.”  (Id. at p. 354.)  The tiered approach assists the Court in identifying such facts.  The approach proceeds as follows:  Once the plaintiff establishes a prima facie case of discrimination, a presumption of discrimination arises.  The burden then shifts to the employer to dispel the presumption by producing admissible evidence that its action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.  Finally, the burden shifts back to the plaintiff, who then has the opportunity to attack the employer’s proffered reason as pretext for discrimination, or to offer other evidence of discriminatory motive.  (Id. at pp. 355-356.)Under the FEHA, a prima facie case of discrimination generally consists of the following elements: (1) the plaintiff is a member of a protected class, (2) the plaintiff was qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing competently in the position he or she held, (3) the plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action, and (4) some other circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive.  (Guz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 355.)With respect to motions for summary judgment, “ ‘the employer, as the moving party, has the initial burden to present admissible evidence showing either that one or more elements of plaintiff's prima facie case is lacking or that the adverse employment action was based upon legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors.’ ”  (Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 861.)  “If the employer meets its initial burden, the burden shifts to the employee to ‘demonstrate a triable issue by producing substantial evidence that the employer's stated reasons were untrue or pretextual, or that the employer acted with a discriminatory animus, such that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the employer engaged in intentional discrimination or other unlawful action.’ ”  (Ibid.)Plaintiff is a certified nursing assistant (“CNA”).  Defendant staffs hospitals and other healthcare facilities.  While working, Plaintiff injured her neck, back, and legs, which limited her movements.  Plaintiff claims disability discrimination, and this claim survives summary judgment.  Defendant focuses on accommodation requests from March-May 2021, but in June/July 2021 Plaintiff made several requests to work after having obtained subsequent letters from a MD and PA from Concentra stating that she did not have work restrictions.  Defendant failed to respond to the correspondence in June 2021; Defendant only responded in August 2021—after Plaintiff retained counsel and counsel sent Defendant a letter.  Thus, there are triable issues as to whether Plaintiff was terminated.  Defendant can tell its side of the story to a jury, but there is nothing dispositive here.Defendant also claims that the aforementioned Concentra letter somehow proves Plaintiff was not disabled such that Plaintiff was not part of a protected class upon the supposed termination.  Defendant conflates work restrictions with the existence of a disability.  The letters do not state that Plaintiff is a non-disabled individual.  Defendant also seeks to cast doubt on the Concentra letters, but this merely goes to the weight of the evidence. Furthermore, based on the circumstances surrounding the parties’ discussions from May through August 2021, particularly Defendant’s failure to reply in June 2021 and a prior failure to directly confirm Plaintiff’s work status, there are facts supporting both a prima facie case, as well as pretext.  (See DeJung v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 533, 554 [“[T]he same evidence can be used both to set forth a prima facie case of discrimination, and to demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of fact on the issue of pretext.”].)  The Motion is denied as to the discrimination claim.Reasonable Accommodations & Interactive ProcessThe elements of a reasonable accommodation cause of action are (1) the employee suffered a disability, (2) the employee could perform the essential functions of the job with reasonable accommodation, and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the employee's disability.  (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 373.)  “The ‘interactive process' required by the FEHA is an informal process with the employee or the employee's representative, to attempt to identify a reasonable accommodation that will enable the employee to perform the job effectively. [Citation.] Ritualized discussions are not necessarily required.”  (Scotch v. Art Inst. of California (2009) 173 Cal. App. 4th 986, 1013.)According to Plaintiff’s evidence, she did not need an accommodation in June 2021 because she did not have work restrictions.  Plaintiff contends she was terminated at this time when Defendant failed to respond to Plaintiff’s inquiries.  Prior to this time, Plaintiff was apparently on leave.  From March to May 2021, Plaintiff attempted to obtain some other accommodation, but Defendant did not provide any other accommodation.  While on leave, Plaintiff had work restrictions; notably, among other things, she could not lift more than 10 pounds and could not engage in repeated grasping with her right wrist.  Based on the job description for a CNA, the Court is not convinced that there was any accommodation other than a leave that could have been viable, given safety concerns for patients.  Even Plaintiff admits that these “restrictions . . . were the most challenging . . . . Lifting more than 10 pounds at no specific height requirement is a routine part of a CNA’s job and can occur multiple times throughout a typical shift.”  Plaintiff contends that a “[r]easonable accommodation for this restriction includes the use of assistive devices, task modification, environmental adjustments, work schedule adjustments, assistance from coworkers, leave for six weeks, or position reassignment.”  The Court finds this assertion to be overly generalized and without foundation.  Defendant did not fail to provide a reasonable accommodation.  Based on the totality of the circumstances, there was also not a failure to engage in the interactive process.  The Motion is granted as to the second and third causes of action.Retaliation Courts employ the same burden-shifting approach to analyze claims of retaliation under the FEHA.  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042 (Yanowitz).)  Thus, the plaintiff has the initial burden to establish a prima facie case by showing (1) he or she engaged in protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.  (Ibid.)  Once the employee establishes the prima facie case, the burden shifts to the employer, who must present a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action.  (Ibid.)  If the employer carries this burden, the court no longer presumes retaliation, and the burden shifts back to the employee to prove intentional retaliation.  (Ibid.) Defendant makes a meritless argument that Plaintiff cannot show protected activity because requesting an accommodation is alone insufficient.  On the contrary, it is unlawful for “an employer . . . to retaliate or otherwise discriminate against a person for requesting accommodation under this subdivision, regardless of whether the request was granted.”  (Gov. Code § 12940(m)(2).)  The Court considered sanctioning Defense counsel.   Further, based on the facts discussed above for the discrimination claim, there are likewise triable issues with respect to retaliation.  Failure to Prevent & Wrongful TerminationThe claims for failure to prevent misconduct and wrongful termination are derivative and survive to the same extent as the discrimination and retaliation claims.Punitive Damages Punitive damages are available when the plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice by clear and convincing evidence.  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  Malice means “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)  In this context, despicable conduct is conduct considered “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Oppression means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).)  Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Id. § 3294(c)(3).) A motion for summary judgment “should be granted unless it appears that actual malice may be proved at trial by clear and convincing evidence.”  (Basich v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1119.)   At this time, the Court believes there are triable issues as to whether there was malice. Summary  In sum, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted as to the second and third causes of action.  The Motion is otherwise denied.  The objections are overruled.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 