  Case Number:  22STCV24300    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  39 CRT
Compliance Testing Services Co., Ltd. v. Consumer Testing Technology Co., Ltd.
Case
No. 22STCV24300
Motion
to Quash
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
CRT Compliance Testing Services Company, Ltd. (“Plaintiff”) filed this case
against Consumer Testing Technology Company, Ltd. (“CTT”) and Zhejiang Consumer
Testing Technology Company, Ltd.  (“ZCTT”)
(collectively, “Defendants”).  Both Plaintiff
and Defendants are companies located in the People’s Republic of China.  Defendants now move to quash service of the
summons and complaint, which Plaintiff opposes. 
The motion is continued to afford Plaintiff’s counsel an opportunity to
conduct (limited) jurisdictional discovery. 

 
PLAINTIFF’S ALLEGATIONS 
 
            Plaintiff
is a technology company that provides for certified testing, inspection, and
auditing of consumer products manufactured in China.  (Complaint, ¶ 1.)  Plaintiff has its principal place of business
in China.  (Complaint, ¶ 2.)  One of Plaintiff’s customers was Torrid LLC (“Torrid”),
an American retail company based in California. 
(Complaint, ¶ 9.)  On or about
August 27, 2021, Torrid “disallowed its vendors from conducting tests with CRT
and removed CRT from Torrid’s list of approved lab testing companies.”  (Complaint, ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff alleges that CTT, which is another
of Torrid’s approved lab testing companies, “made false and defamatory
publications of CRT to Torrid, which ultimately led to Torrid’s August 27
email.”  (Complaint, ¶ 13.)  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges Defendants informed
Torrid that Plaintiff’s predecessor lost its certification in China due to
“laboratory fraud” and was subject to fines by the Chinese government.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 14-19.)  CTT then publicized Torrid’s decision to
delist Plaintiff, thereby further injuring Plaintiff’s reputation and
goodwill.  (Complaint, ¶ 17.)     
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
            Plaintiff
filed Case Number 21STCV40766 against CTT, Peiqing Fang, Nana Li, and Haixia
Ling (collectively, “Defendants”) asserting the same causes of action based
upon the same allegations.  The
defendants in that case specially appeared and moved to quash service for the
summons and complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction.  The Court granted that motion on April 25,
2022, because Plaintiff’s counsel served Defendants through someone in
California who was not an agent for service of process.  Plaintiff filed the instant action and
intends to proceed through the Hague Convention.  ACTT has been served under the Hague
convention, but Plaintiff is still awaiting the proof of service.  (See Declaration of Xiuyuan Hu, ¶ 8.)  It is unclear whether CTT has been
served.  (See ibid.; see also Declaration
of Zinzhu Li, ¶ 24.)    
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Under the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, state courts may
exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who have “minimum contacts”
with the forum state.  Minimum contacts
exist when the relationship between the nonresident and the forum state is such
that the exercise of jurisdiction does not offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (International Shoe Co. v. Washington
(1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316, internal quotations omitted.)
 
“Personal jurisdiction may be either general
or specific.  A nonresident defendant may
be subject to the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or
her contacts in the forum state are substantial[,] continuous and
systematic.  In such a case, it is not
necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the
defendant's business relationship to the forum. 
Such a defendant's contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging that they
take the place of physical presence in the forum as a basis for
jurisdiction.”  (Vons Companies, Inc.
v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445-446, internal
quotations and citations omitted.) 
 
Even if a nonresident defendant does not have
sufficient contacts with California such that the defendant is subject to suit
in California generally, the defendant may nonetheless be subject to
jurisdiction in California for claims based on the defendant’s activities in
the state.  To assert “limited” or
“specific” personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant, the plaintiff
must demonstrate that: (a) the out-of-state defendant purposefully established
contacts with the forum state; (b) the plaintiff's cause of action “arises out
of” or is “related to” defendant's contacts with the forum state; and (c) the
forum’s exercise of personal jurisdiction in the particular case comports with
“fair play and substantial justice.”  (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985)
471 U.S. 462, 477-478.)
 
“[W]hen jurisdiction is challenged by a
nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to demonstrate
that ‘minimum contacts’ exist between defendant and the forum state to justify
imposition of personal jurisdiction.”  (Elkman v. National States Ins. Co.
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1313.)  If the
plaintiff meets the initial burden, “it becomes the defendant’s burden to
demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th
1353, 1362.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            There
appears to be no general jurisdiction within the State of California.  CTT is a corporation organized and existing
under the laws of the People’s Republic of China.  (Declaration of Xinzhu Li, ¶ 2.)  ZCTT is a wholly-owned subsidiary of
CTT.  (Id., ¶ 13.)  Defendants conduct testing for consumer and
healthcare products for domestic and international companies whose products are
manufactured in China.  (Id., ¶¶ 2,
13.)  Defendants have only one customer
located in the State of California.  (Id.,
¶¶ 2, 13.)  Defendants have no designated
agent for service of process in California, and had none during the relevant
time period.  (Id., ¶¶ 3, 14.)  CTT is not licensed or otherwise authorized
to do business in California, and was not during the relevant time period.  (Id., ¶¶ 4, 15.)  CTT does not have any employees in the State
of California, and had no employees during the relevant time period.  (Id., ¶¶ 5, 16.)  CTT does not own or lease any property within
the State of California, and did not during the relevant time period.  (Id., ¶¶ 6, 17.)  CTT does not maintain any bank accounts
within the State of California, and did not during the relevant time
period.  (Id., ¶¶ 7, 18.)  CTT is not subject to California state or
local taxes, and was not during the relevant time period.  (Id., ¶¶ 8, 19.)  CTT has never made any general appearance in
any lawsuit as a plaintiff or defendant. 
(Id., ¶¶ 9, 20.)  CTT does not
advertise within the State of California. 
(Id., ¶¶ 10, 21.)  
 
            Plaintiff
relies on a declaration from Pengfei Wang, who worked for CTT between 2011 and
2013.  (Declaration of Pengfei Wang, ¶
3.)  According to Wang, “[w]hile [he] was
at CTT . . .  [Defendants] made concerted
efforts to expand their business into the United States, including in the state
of California.”  (Id., ¶ 4.)  This does not benefit Plaintiff, because Wang
stopped working at CTT in 2013, and the allegations giving rise to this
complaint occurred in or after August 2021. 
(See Complaint, ¶¶ 9-17.) 
 
            Nor
is there specific jurisdiction within the State of California.  Plaintiff’s complaint and opposition do not
provide any clarity on how Defendants “publicized” Torrid’s decision to delist
Plaintiff.  If this “publication”
occurred in China, i.e., not in California, there is no basis for specific
jurisdiction.  Even if Defendants posted
defamatory statements on their website, that is not sufficient to confer
specific jurisdiction (especially given the declaration of Xinzhu Li, which
suggests that the website is not hosted within the State of California).  A website that merely posts information—without
any effort to direct California residents to the website—is not sufficient to establish
minimum contacts.  (See Pavlovich v.
Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269; see also ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff
(2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 218-219; Burdick v. Superior Court (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 8, 20-21.)  Plaintiff does
not allege that Defendants publicized Torrid’s decision to delist Plaintiff within
California.  
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants made a defamatory statement to Torrid.  Again, the complaint and opposition do not
make clear whether the statement was posted on Defendants’ website,
communicated to Torrid’s representatives in China, or communicated to Torrid’s
representatives in California.  Even if
the latter, a single communication, e.g., an email, from Defendants in China to
Torrid in California is not sufficient to confer jurisdiction within the State
of California.  (See ViaView, supra, 1
Cal.App.5th at pp. 218-219.)  The “minimum
contacts” analysis “looks to the defendant’s contacts with the forum State
itself, not the defendant’s contacts with persons who reside there.”  (Id., p. 216, citing Walden v. Fiore, 134
S.Ct. 1115, 1121-1122 (2014).)  Mere
injury to a forum resident is not a sufficient connection to the forum.  (Id., citing Walden, supra, 134 S.Ct. at p.
1125.)    
 
The only
concern is Defendant’s purported office in California.  There is no dispute that Defendants’ website
purported to have an office in the United States.  CTT purportedly maintained an independent
sales relationship with ACT Lab LLC in Long Beach, California, and the website
identified this as being the “CTT US office.” 
(Declaration of Xinzhu Li, ¶ 12.) 
Defendants claim this was an error that has since correct to identify
ACT Lab LLC as a “Strategic Partner” of CTT. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s evidence
confirms that this representation was on CTT’s website.  (See Declaration of Pengfei Wang, ¶ 7.)  Therefore, the Court grants jurisdictional
discovery on the narrow issue whether CTT maintained an office in Long Beach,
California, as purported on the website. 

 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants the motion to quash as
it relates to ZCTT.
 
            2.         The Court continues the motion as it
relates to CTT.
 
            3.         Following service upon CTT, the Court
shall permit jurisdictional discovery on the sole and narrow issue whether CTT
maintained an office in Long Beach, California during the operative time
period.
 
            4.         The motion is continued to ___________.
 
            5.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 