  Case Number:  21STCV25741    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 7, 2024                                    TRIAL DATE:  November
12, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Nandini Mehta v. Netflix,
Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      21STCV25741
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL PURSUANT TO 
CODE
OF CIVIL PROCEDURE § 2031.285(d)(1) 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Nandini Mehta
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants Netflix,
Inc. and David B. McLean
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
On July 13, 2021, Plaintiff Nandini Mehta filed this
employment action against Defendants, Netflix, Inc. (“Netflix”), and David B.
McLean, arising from her alleged wrongful termination from employment with
Netflix.  
 
On October 21, 2023, in response to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set Two, Defendants made a supplemental production of
documents which were redacted in part or in whole, on the basis of privilege.  Pursuant to Plaintiff’s request, on December
8, 2023, Defendants served a privilege log. 
The privilege log identified 199 different documents.  Plaintiff further requested Defendants to
produce unredacted copies of the at-issue documents.  Defendants refused as to 198 of the documents.  Meet and confer efforts did not resolve the
dispute. 
 
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Compel
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.285(d)(1).  Plaintiff seeks an order compelling
Defendants to produce unredacted copies of the 199 documents from Defendants’
supplemental production.
 
Defendants filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff’s motion is a procedural anomaly.  Plaintiff seeks a determination on Defendants’
claim of privilege as to 198 documents under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.285.  Section 2031.285 provides the
procedure to “clawback” inadvertently produced electronically stored
information (ESI).  “If electronically
stored information produced in discovery is subject to a claim of privilege or
of protection as attorney work product, the party making the claim may notify
any party that received the information of the claim and the basis for the
claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.285,
subd. (a).)  “If the receiving party
contests the legitimacy of a claim of privilege or protection, he or she may
seek a determination of the claim from the court by making a motion within 30
days of receiving the claim and presenting the information to the court
conditionally under seal.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.285, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, however, no documents have been inadvertently
produced.  Moreover, the producing party
(Defendants), are not seeking the return of any of the documents for which they
have asserted a privilege.  Indeed, there
are no (unredacted) documents that have been filed with the court conditionally
under seal for which a claim of privilege has been asserted. Plaintiff does not
point to any authority which supports Plaintiff’s use of Section 2031.285 in
this matter.
 
 At bottom, Plaintiff
takes issue with Defendants’ claim of privilege.  This sounds like a  motion to compel further.  Under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310, parties may move for a further response to requests for production of
documents where an objection is without merit or too general.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., 2031.310, subd. (a)(1).)  Plaintiff
should have brought a motion to compel further. 

 
            Prior to a
hearing for a motion to compel further response, litigants in Department 31
must participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  The parties have not satisfied the IDC
requirement for this discovery dispute.  The
court further notes that Defendants have asserted a claim of privilege as to 199
documents.  Should Plaintiff pursue a
motion to compel further, the court, on its own motion, will appoint a
discovery referee.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 639 and California Rules of
Court, rule 3.921 provide for the appointment of a referee on motion of a party
or by the court.  A referee can be
appointed for discovery disputes. (Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (a)(5) “[A
referee may be appointed:] (5) When the court in any pending action determines
that it is necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and determine
any and all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action
and to report findings and make a recommendation thereon.”].)¿¿¿Appointment
requires a court finding of “exceptional circumstances.” (Id., § 639,
subd. (d)(2).)
 
Here, the court expressly finds the volume of the instant discovery
dispute presents exceptional circumstances to appoint a discovery referee for
the limited purpose of determining Defendants’ claims of privilege.  The court will specially set a hearing
regarding the appointment of the referee.  If the parties cannot agree on a referee, the parties
are directed to each serve and file a list of three candidates with their
resumes.  The parties may concurrently
file objections, if any, to the opposing party’s list of candidates. 
 
III.       CONCLUSION
 
            Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2031.285(d)(1) is DENIED without prejudice.   
 
            If
Plaintiff indicates the desire to pursue a motion to compel further, the court,
on its own motion, will appoint a discovery referee for the limited purpose of
determining the Defendants’ claim of privilege as to the 198 documents.  The court will hear from counsel.
 
            If the
court were to appoint a discovery referee the court would set a Status
Conference re: Discovery Referee for June 18, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.  If the parties cannot agree on a referee, the
parties are directed to each serve and file a list of three candidates with
their resumes by May 22, 2024.  The
parties may concurrently file objections, if any, to the opposing party’s list
of candidates by May 29, 2024. 
 
 
Clerk of the court to give notice.
 
Dated:   May 7, 2024                          




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 