  Case Number:  23STCV07274    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  49 Brittany A Jackson, et al. v. Hawkins Real Property Management, Inc., et al.DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendants Hawkins Real Property Management, LLC, erroneously sued as Hawkins Real Property Management, Inc.; and Todd Hawkins, an individual and trustee of the Todd Tr & Taylor Hawkins TrustsRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Brittany A. Jackson and Sylvia SheridanSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  Plaintiff Brittany Jackson alleges she moved into the property at 1426 W 25th Street in Los Angeles, CA, to care for her ailing grandmother, Katie Mae Hawkins. On November 9, 2022, Hawkins passed away. Plaintiff Sylvia Sheridan is the daughter and successor in interest to decedent Hawkins. Plaintiff Jackson alleges she continued to pay rent after her grandmother’s death. On December 1, 2022, Defendant(s) Hawkins Real Property Management, LLC and/or Todd Hawkins allegedly changed the locks on the unit and removed Plaintiff’s belongings. Plaintiffs now bring causes of action for (1) Wrongful Eviction, (2) Tenant Harassment, (3) Nuisance, (4) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Conversion, (7) Trespass to Chattels, (8) Breach of Implied in Fact Contract, (9) Breach of Duty of Good Faith, (10) Unjust Enrichment, and (11) Unfair Business Practices.Defendants now demurrer to each cause of action in the Complaint. Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the demurrer but later filed an untimely First Amended Complaint. Defendants did not file a Reply.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Demurrer to each cause of action in the Complaint is SUSTAINED, with 30 days leave to amend.Defendants’ Demurrer to Punitive Damages is OVERRULED for the reasons stated herein.   Alternatively, it is MOOT, given that the demurrer was sustained in its entirety.The parties are free to stipulate that the recently filed First Amended Complaint.shall constitute the current amended complaint in this matter, and that it need not be re-filed nor re-served.  If there is such a stipulation, the Defendant must file a responsive pleading to same within 30 days of this date.  Otherwise, absent such a stipulation the recently filed FAC is hereby stricken, and Plaintiff must file and serve a standalone FAC consistent with this ruling.Moving parties to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Meet and ConferThe Declaration of Lacey N. Sipsey, Counsel for Defendants, reflects that the parties met and conferred.II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  III. AnalysisA. Plaintiffs’ Amended Complaint is UntimelyPlaintiffs initially filed an opposition to the demurrer defending the allegations in the pleading. However, Plaintiffs tacitly conceded the defects by asserting “any ambiguity will be completely resolved by allowing Plaintiffs leave to amend their Complaint.” (Opp. 2: 9-11.) Indeed, Plaintiffs attached a proposed First Amended Complaint with their opposition to the demurrer. (See Young Decl., Exh. A.)Then, on September 25, 2023, Plaintiffs actually filed a First Amended Complaint. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 472, subdivision (a), a plaintiff may amend a complaint “after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike. A party may amend the pleading after the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike, upon stipulation by the parties.” (Emphasis added.) An opposition must be filed “at least nine court days…before the hearing.” (CCP § 1005(b).)Because Plaintiffs’ failed to timely file the First Amended Complaint before the due date for their opposition to the demurrer, the filing is untimely. The court will therefore treat the Demurrer as opposed and consider the Demurrer on its merits.  It will, however, consider the First Amended Complaint as Plaintiffs’ “offer of proof” as how Plaintiffs would amend the Complaint if given leave to do so.B. Demurrer to All Causes of ActionDefendants demurrer to each cause of action in the Complaint, arguing that each is uncertain or fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. As to uncertainty, Defendants contend the Complaint is uncertain because Plaintiffs fail to allege which Plaintiffs are asserting which causes of action. Similarly, Plaintiffs fail to identifywhich defendant(s) alleged committed which acts, or otherwise distinguish between the Defendants. The Complaint shifts between using plural and singular versions of these terms, often within the same causes of action. Defendants also contend the Complaint fails because Plaintiffs do not allege if the Plaintiffs’ tenancies are governed by a written lease. Plaintiffs allege that Decedent Hawkins “was a residential tenant for approximately 60 years at the Subject Property with no interruptions in her tenancy.” (Compl. ¶ 16.) It is unclear if any written lease existed. As to Plaintiff Jackson’s tenancy, Plaintiffs allege the existence of  an “implied in fact” contract between Plaintiff Jackson and Defendants, although it is unclear if Plaintiffs are referring to an implied in fact lease agreement. (Id. ¶ 79.) Finally, as to Plaintiff Sheridan, it is unclear if that Plaintiff contends to have an independent tenancy, or rather, brings this action only as Decedent Hawkins’s successor in interest.Generally, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored,” and are strictly construed “because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of discovery.”  (Lickiss v. Fin. Indus. Regul. Auth., (2012) 208 Cal. App. 4th 1125, 1135.) But here, as evidenced by the deficiencies raised by Defendants—and by Plaintiffs having voluntarily filed a proposed First Amended Complaint—the operative complaint is uncertain.Defendants also argue that all claims fail as a matter of law based on California Civil Code section 1943. This section provides: “If the hiring of a thing is terminable at the pleasure of one of the parties, it is terminated by notice to the other of his death or incapacity to contract. In other cases it is not terminated thereby.” (Civ. Code § 1943.) This argument is based on the assumption that there was no existing lease(s) for the property, such that the Decedent Ms. Hawkins was a month-to-month tenant. Even assuming Defendants’ contention is correct, the ambiguity regarding the existence or absence of a lease agreement may be resolved by an amended pleading (which, as already discussed, is necessary here).Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to each cause of action in the Complaint is SUSTAINED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)The court has considered the nature of the allegations along with Plaintiffs’ proposed First Amended Complaint as an “offer of proof” regarding leave to amend. The issues raised in this Ruling on the Demurrer for uncertainty are based on ambiguities in the pleading, caused or compounded by Plaintiffs’ failure to include necessary allegations.There is, however, a reasonable possibility that Plaintiffs can remedy these issues by supplementing or clarifying the allegations. In other words, there is no indication that any cause of action in the Complaint is necessarily barred as a matter of law. Thus, Plaintiffs are granted leave to amend each cause of action. Of course, Defendants may attack the causes of action at a later time if the law and allegations permit.C. Demurrer to Punitive DamagesDefendants also demurrer to Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages. Generally, the appropriate vehicle to attack a request for punitive damages is a motion to strike, not a demurrer. A general demurrer challenges only the sufficiency of the cause of action pleaded, and must be overruled if any valid cause of action is pleaded; a demand for improper relief does not vitiate an otherwise valid cause of action. (Venice Town Council, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1996) 47 Cal. App. 4th 1547, 1561-1562.)Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to Punitive Damages is OVERRULED.To the extent the court has discretion to construe the demurrer as a motion to strike, such a motion is MOOT because Defendants’ Demurrer to each cause of action has been sustained with leave to amend.Moving parties to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 27, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court  Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.