  Case Number:  21STCV24836    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO SUBSTITUTE TERRENCE POWELL AS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST      I.         INTRODUCTIONThis is a wrongful death action. Plaintiffs JP, AD, and XP, through their
Guardians Ad Litem— Dominica Mitchell, Lynette Grullon, and Tewitt Powell—and
the Estate of Kevin Powell, Sr. (hereinafter “Plaintiffs”), filed this action
against Defendants First to Serve, Inc., Vagabond Inn Corporation, and other
parties (collectively, “Defendants”). Plaintiffs assert claims for (1) wrongful
death; (2) negligence; (3) survival action; and (4) negligent hiring, training,
and retention. Plaintiffs filed the original complaint on July 6, 2021, and
subsequently filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC) on January 1, 2022. 
On December 22, 2020, decedent Kevin Powell, Sr. suffered a fatal
epileptic seizure while living at Vagabond Inn as part of Project Roomkey, a
transitional housing program. Plaintiffs allege that, around 4:30 AM, Powell’s
neighbors were alarmed by his loud grunting and crying— typical signs of an
epileptic seizure. Knowing Powell’s history of seizures, the neighbors alerted
Nurse Olivia Cobain, an employee of Vagabond, and urged her to conduct a
wellness check and provide medical assistance. Plaintiffs claim that Nurse
Cobain and Vagabond staff failed to act, resulting in Powell’s death.
Party’s Request
Plaintiff TeWitt Powell, the
previous personal representative for the Estate of Kevin Powell, the decedent
in this case, passed away on September 24, 2024, while this action was pending.
Plaintiffs now move to substitute TeWitt Powell’s son and the decedent’s
brother, Terrence Powell, as the successor in interest to continue the action
on behalf of the Estate.
This motion is unopposed. On
October 7, 2024, counsel for both Plaintiffs and Defendants met and conferred,
resulting in a stipulation permitting Plaintiffs to request that the Court
approve the substitution of Terrence Powell as the successor in interest for
the Estate of Kevin Powell, Sr
Plaintiffs filed the motion on
October 22, 2024, and subsequently filed an amended declaration of Terrence
Powell on October 28, 2024.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
            California
Code of Civil Procedure section 377.30 provides that the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, the decedent’s successor in interest may commence a
decedent’s cause of action that survives decedent’s death. (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.30; see Adams v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.)
Further, section 377.20 provides that a cause of action is not lost upon the
decedent's death but survives, subject to the applicable statute of
limitations.
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.32 provides that a person who seeks to commence such an action as
the decedent’s successor in interest must file an affidavit or declaration
providing certain information, including the decedent’s name, date and place of
decedent’s death, and statements regarding whether the estate has been
administered and that the affiant or declarant is the successor in interest on
decedent’s claim. (Id., § 377.32(a).) A certified copy of the decedent’s
death certificate must also be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id.,
§ 377.32(c).)
III.      ANALYSIS
The Court finds that Terrence Powell’s declaration complies with Section
377.32, subdivision (a) by providing the following information. Terrence Powell
identifies the decedent as Kevin Powell, Sr. (Powell Decl., ¶ 2). He further
provides the date and place of the decedent’s death, listing it as December 22,
2020, in Glendale, California (Powell Decl., ¶ 3). Additionally, the
declaration confirms that no proceedings are pending in California for the
administration of Kevin Powell, Sr.’s estate, and no probate proceedings are
anticipated (Powell Decl., ¶ 7). 
Terrence Powell also affirms that he is the decedent’s successor in
interest, with no other person having a superior right to be substituted for
the decedent in this action, and that he is authorized to act on behalf of the
Estate of Kevin Powell, Sr. (Powell Decl., ¶¶ 8-10). Finally, Terrence Powell
declares under penalty of perjury under California law that the information in
his declaration is true and correct (Powell Decl., p.2).
In compliance with
California Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32, subdivision (c), Terrence
Powell has attached a certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate to his
declaration (Powell Decl., ¶ 3; Exhibit 1-2). This attachment satisfies the additional
statutory requirement for substitution.
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Terrence Powell has
sufficiently demonstrated his right to continue this action as the successor in
interest to the Estate of Kevin Powell, Sr. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
Plaintiffs Motion to Substitute Terrence Powell as Successor in Interest for
the deceased, Kevin Powell, Sr.
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs motion and the Court appoints Terrance Powell
as Kevin Powell Sr.'s successor in interest.
Plaintiff is to give notice. 
            
Dated: November 13, 2024
 
                                                                                    
 
                                                                                                JARED
D. MOSES          JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                               