  Case Number:  23AHCV01895    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



VALARIE B. PHILLIPS, an
  individual
 
                                           
  Plaintiff,
vs.
 
RUSNAK
  PASADENA dba RUSNAK VOLVO CARS, Does 1-5, inclusive,
 

                                           
  Defendants.



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 23AHCV01895
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER WITH LEAVE TO AMEND, AND TAKING MOTION TO STRIKE
  OFF CALENDAR
 
Date:   December
  12, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          In this action, Plaintiff Valarie B. Phillips (Phillips),
who is representing herself in pro per, sues Defendant Rusnak Pasadena
(Rusnak). Phillips alleges that Rusnak undertook an obligation to repair her
2003 Volvo S40 in August of 2021. She apparently alleges Rusnak is liable for
breach of contract, and that they were negligent for failing to notify her of
the status of the vehicle and the repairs. The Complaint is prepared on Judicial
Council forms, and appears to contain four causes of action for negligence,
fraud, intentional tort and negligence.  (However,
in the main part of the form Complaint, Phillips checked the box indicating her
claim is for breach of contract.)
           
Before
the Court are Rusnak’s challenges to the Complaint. For the reasons that
follow, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend. The motion to strike is denied
as moot, as there is no operative complaint from which to strike any material.
 
II.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The
notice of motion indicates that Defendant Rusnak will be seeking judicial
notice of something. However, no request for judicial notice was submitted with
the papers. 
 
III.     DEMURRER
A. Legal Standard
Code
Civ. Proc. Section 430.10(e) provides for a demurrer on the basis that a
complaint fails to state a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A demurrer tests
the legal sufficiency of a complaint. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  
Code
Civ. Proc. Section 430.10(f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is
uncertain. (CCP § 430.10(f).) Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and are
only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible a defendant cannot
reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v.
Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
Per
CCP Section 430.10(g) provides for a demurrer where “[i]n an action founded
upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral or is implied by conduct.” (CCP § 430.10(g).)
          B. The Meet and Confer Requirement Has Been Satisfied
          The Declaration of Steven A. Garcia is offered in support
of counsel’s compliance with Code Civ. Proc. Section 430.41. Garcia declares
that he sent a meet and confer letter both by mail and email to Plaintiff on
September 29, 2023. (Garcia Declaration ¶ 4, referencing Exh. A.) Plaintiff did
not respond, nor did Garcia receive any indication that the email or mail could
not be sent. (Garcia Decl., ¶¶ 5 ,6.) 
          In opposition, Phillips argues that Rusnak did not meet and
confer with her. (Opposition, p. 3.) However, she does not provide any evidence
as to why that is the case. The meet and confer letter was sent to her correct
mailing address and her correct email. If she did not receive these or there
was an error, she does not indicate that clearly or support such a contention. 
Consequently,
the Court concludes that the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied. 
          C. Demurrer to the Entirety of the Complaint
          Rusnak demurs to each of the four causes of action on the
grounds that the claims are uncertain. The Complaint apparently arises from an
alleged breach of a vehicle repair contract. However, Plaintiff has stated at
one place in the Complaint that she is asserting a claim for breach of contract,
yet she attaches four different causes of action to her pleading.  Under these circumstances, the Court agrees
that it is difficult for Rusnak to reasonably respond to the allegations.   
Secondly,
Rusnak urges that the demurrer should be sustained because, assuming the claim
is one for breach of contract, it is unclear whether the purported contract is
oral or written, whether the allegations fall within the terms of the contract,
and whether a contract even existed. (Motion, p. 2: 20-22.) No contract is
attached to the Complaint nor are the terms referenced. Per applicable case
law, for causes of action based on an alleged contract, the Complaint must
plead the essential terms of the contract, and how the present situation fits
within said contract. (See Myers Building Industries, Ltd. v. Interface
Tech., Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 949, 968-969.) Per
CCP Section 430.10(g), a party may demur if “[i]n an action founded upon a
contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is
written, is oral or is implied by conduct.” (CCP § 430.10(g).) 
In
opposition, Plaintiff Phillips indicates that she is suing based upon an
alleged violation of the California Business and Professions Code. (Opposition,
p. 2.) She urges that Defendant is required to operate in compliance with this
statutory scheme. (Id.)  However,
this argument does not elucidate the nature of the contract alleged between the
parties. 
The
Court notes that Rusnak also advanced an argument as to the statute of
limitations applicable to actions for breach of an oral contract. (CCP § 339(1).)
However, inasmuch as the type of contract is unclear, the Court declines to
consider this argument at this stage of the case.
          Accordingly, pursuant to CCP Section 430.10(f) and (g), the
demurrer is sustained. Notwithstanding this ruling, the Court provides the following
additional analysis to the parties. 
          D. Demurrers to The First and Fourth Causes of Action Are Sustained
          Rusnak
additionally demurs to the first and fourth causes of action, both for negligence,
on the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. 
With
regard to these causes of action, Rusnak urges that Plaintiff has failed to
adequately allege the duty and breach of duty elements of a negligence claim.
(Motion, p. 8:14-15.) The elements of a negligence claim are: duty, breach of
duty, causation, and damages.  (Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
404, 411.) 
Rusnak’s
argument in this regard is well-taken. The first cause of action contains no
mention of the duty Rusnak is alleged to have owed Plaintiff. The fourth cause
of action also does not allege Rusnak owed a duty to Plaintiff, nor how that duty
was breached. To the extent that Phillips is urging that the duty owed to her
is compliance with the Business and Professions Code, she does not allege what
specific duty she is complaining about, and how it was subsequently breached.
(Opposition, p. 2.)
Rusnak
additionally argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege the acts or omissions
that constitute the purported negligence. (Motion, p.8: 10-11.) In support,
Rusnak cites Guilliams v. Hollywood Hospital and Berkeley v. Dowds
for the proposition that Plaintiff must allege the specific acts or omissions
the plaintiff urges were negligent. (Guilliams v. Hollywood Hosp. (1941)
18 Cal.2d 97, 101; Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 527.)
This argument is less persuasive.  Rusnak
is directed to ¶ GN-1 on page 7, where Phillips alleges “Defendants failed to
reply to numerous requests from plaintiff[,]… failed to conduct the
inspection[,] … failed to contact the plaintiff and/or respond…” (Complaint
p.7, ¶ GN-1.)
          D. The Demurrer to the Second and Third Causes of Action
Is Sustained
          Rusnak is correct that fraud is subject to a heightened
pleading standard. Each element must be pleaded with particularity. (Glaski
v. Bank of America (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1090.) That particularity is
missing here, as to the second cause of action for fraud. Additionally, the
third cause of action for “intentional tort” is based on the allegation that Rusnak
“intentionally fraudulently represented that repairs had been completed
February 20, 2023.”(Complaint p. 6, ¶ IT-1.) This cause of action does not
specifically plead each element of a claim for fraudulent misrepresentation,
which is also subject to the heightened pleading standard.    
 
IV.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
           As the demurrer is being sustained, there will
be no operative pleading from which to strike any matter. The motion to strike
is therefore denied as moot. 
 
V.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 Rusnak’s demurrer is sustained as to all of the causes of
action asserted against it in the Complaint. The motion to strike is denied
as moot.
          Phillips is given 20 days’ leave to amend her Complaint. 
Rusnak
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT