  Case Number:  20STCV36767    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DJAMILEH MAHJOUBI, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DAVID E. FERMELIA, MD,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV36767
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTIONS
  TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENAS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 7, 2023



 
On September 27, 2021, Plaintiff
Djamileh Mahjoubi filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant David
E. Fermelia M.D.
On
March 29, 2023, Defendant served similar deposition subpoenas for business records
on Eiriny T. Eskander M.D., Marshall Grossman M.D., and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.  On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed motions to
quash those subpoenas.
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant does not have the right to her entire medical history and
records.
“‘[F]or
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party
in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement’ and ‘[a]dmissibility
is not the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might
reasonably lead to admissible evidence.’ 
These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery . . . and (contrary
to popular belief) fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.”  (Cruz v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th
646, 653, citations omitted.)  The Court must
“balance the public need against the weight of the privacy right,” and only serious
invasions of privacy will bar discovery. 
(Crab Addison, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 958,
966.)  There is not an egregious invasion
of privacy every time there is a request for private information, and courts must
“place the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent
and seriousness of the prospective invasion.” 
(Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)
Plaintiff
alleges medical malpractice and emotional distress after her September 2019 thyroid
surgery with Defendant.  There is no privilege
for communications relevant to a patient’s health if that issue has been tendered
by the patient.  (Slagle v. Superior Court
(1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1309, 1313.)  “A patient
tenders the issue of his physical health if he files an action for personal injuries
but only as to information which relates to the claimed injuries.”  (Ibid.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff has put her physical health
at issue for injuries to her hormonal glands and intrusions to her chest cavity,
along with mental and emotional injuries. 
(FAC ¶¶ 6, 10, 11, 19.)
However,
Defendant’s subpoenas are overbroad.  They
request all records from January 1, 2013 to the present for any and all of Plaintiff’s
medical and billing records.  Defendant is
entitled only to records related to Plaintiff’s injuries that are at issue in this
action.
Plaintiff
also argues that the subpoenas violate the Court’s March 13, 2023 protective order.  Defendant does not address this argument in his
oppositions.
In
the March 13, 2023 order, the Court granted in part Plaintiff’s motion to quash
a subpoena served on Dr. Nojan Toomari and ordered Defendant to amend the subpoena
to Dr. Toomari so that it was limited to records related to Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries and from after the date of the subject surgery in September 2019.  The Court also noted that Defendant had already
issued a significant number of other similar subpoenas, so it granted Plaintiff’s
request for a protective order.  The Court
ordered Defendant to limit his subpoenas to records related to Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries and records from after the date Plaintiff received the surgery that is
the subject of this action.  The Court specified
that “[t]he protective order parameters only apply to physicians who treated Plaintiff
after the surgery.”
Defendant
served the subpoenas at issue on March 29, 2023—after the Court’s March 13, 2023
protective order.  Defendant did not significantly
modify the subpoenas after the protective order.  The main difference between the subpoenas issued
on January 18, 2023 and these subpoenas issued on March 29, 2023 appears to be the
substitution of “THE RECORDS REQUESTED ARE from 01/01/2023 to present” in place
of “THE RECORDS REQUESTED ARE regardless of date.”  This amendment does not comply with the Court’s
protective order to “limit his subpoenas to records related to Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries and records from after the date Plaintiff received the surgery that is
the subject of this action.”
Accordingly,
the motion to quash is GRANTED IN PART.  The
request is modified to seek production of records related to Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries and records from after September 2019.
Eiriny
T. Eskander M.D., Marshall Grossman M.D., and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center are ordered
to produce the requested records pursuant to the subpoenas, subject to this modification,
within 60 days.
The
request for sanctions is denied.  Defendant
does have a legitimate discovery interest in Plaintiff’s medical records related
to her claimed injuries.  Therefore, the Court
finds that Defendant was substantially justified in opposing the motion.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.090, subd. (d).)  Additionally, as a self-represented litigant,
Plaintiff is not entitled to attorney fees.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 