 Case Number:  22STCV22161    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ENGINEER.AI CORPORATION, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
TALKDESK, INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV22161
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING RENEWED APPLICATION
  FOR ADMISSION PRO HAC VICE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 7, 2023



 
Sangyoon
Nathan Park seeks to be admitted pro hac vice to represent Plaintiffs Engineer.ai
Corporation, Engineer.ai Global Ltd., and Engineer.ai India Private Ltd. in this
action.
An
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction who is not be a resident of California,
regularly employed in California, or regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities in California may apply to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in California.  (California Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(a).)  The attorney must
a verified application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State
Bar of California at its San Francisco office. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c).)  The applicant must also pay a $50.00 fee to the
State Bar of California.  (California Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(e).)
The
application must state (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2) the
courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3) that the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts; (4) that the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of
each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone
number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
in the local action.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 9.40(d).)
On
September 14, 2023, the Court denied Sangyoon Nathan Park’s prior application, finding
that his four previously undisclosed and still-pending matters constitutes his engagement
in “substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of California.”
(California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a)(3).) 
At the hearing on the application, the Court expressed that it may reconsider
its decision if a future submission were consistent with local counsel’s representations
that three of the four cases were “really one federal action that morphed into three
matters, including a related bankruptcy case.” 
(Park Decl., Ex. A at pp. 19-21 [transcript].)
The
renewed application complies with the requirements, and the $500.00 application
fee has been paid.  (Gov. Code, § 70617, subd.
(e)(1).)  With this application, Sangyoon
Nathan Park declares that three California matters all arise from a single dispute
between Travelers Property Casualty Company of America and the same individual.  (Park Decl. ¶ 12.)  He has also withdrawn his application in the fourth
case due to unrelated internal staffing needs at the firm.  (Park Decl. ¶ 13.)  With these disclosures, the Court will now approve
counsel’s pro hac vice admission in this case.
Accordingly,
the renewed application for admission pro hac vice is GRANTED.
On
or before November 7, 2024, counsel must pay the annual renewal fee of $500.00.  (Gov. Code, § 70617, subd. (e)(2).)
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Annual Pro Hac Vice Renewal Fees by Sangyoon Nathan
Park is scheduled for 11/13/2024 at 9:00 AM in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse
(November 13, 2024).
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 