 Case Number:  22STCV07210    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BASILIA PUERTO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
AUXILIARY RESIDENTIAL CARE, INC. dba MARIPOSA
  HOME, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV07210
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 7, 2023



 
On February 28, 2022, Plaintiff Basilia Puerto (individually
and as Successor in Interest of decedent Javier Jaime Puerto) filed this action
against Defendant Auxiliary Residential Care, Inc. dba Mariposa Home.
On July 27, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint.  Plaintiff later named
Teresita Raflores, Ronnie Olarte, William Tuazon, Diana Canty,
and Elizabeth Villaruel as Doe Defendants.
On October 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to
file a second amended complaint (“SAC”).

The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
Plaintiff
identifies the proposed amendments and provides a copy of the FAC.  (Meenan Decl. ¶ 22 & Ex. 1.)  The SAC add “more specific facts supporting her
allegations of malice, fraud, and oppression, punitive damages, and a new cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.”  (Meenan Decl. ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff discovered these facts when, on June
15, 2023, Defendants produced a report dated May 25, 2023 of an investigation by
the California Department of Social Services. 
(Meenan Decl. ¶ 14.)
Defendants
argue that the request for leave to amend is not timely and the allegations “could
have been plead well before receiving defendants’ discovery responses on June 15,
2023” because Plaintiff knew of an April 16, 2020 email “from which plaintiff inferred
defendants may be spinning facts to deflect from the tortious conduct.”  (Opposition at p. 3.)  Defendants also argue that they will be prejudiced
by the significant delay before their anticipated demurrer to the SAC and
anticipated motion to strike can be heard, because the next available hearing date
is July 18, 2024.  (Id. at p. 4.)  However, Defendants can move to advance or specially
set those hearings if needed. 
Additionally, no Final Status Conference or trial dates have been set.
Because
there is no showing of prejudice, the motion for leave to file an amended complaint
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to file
and serve the SAC within five days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 