 Case Number:  22STCV31501    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DIANA LANDS NATHANSON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ALEXANDER GERVASI,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV31501
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION
  TO COMPEL DISCOVERY
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 7, 2023



 
On October 6, 2023, Defendant
Alexander Gervasi aka Sacha Gervasi filed a motion to compel Plaintiff Diana Lands
Nathanson’s responses to Request for Inspection.
A
party may demand to inspect, copy, test, or sample electronically stored information
in the possession, custody, or control of the party on whom demand is made.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (d).)  Upon receipt of a response, the demanding party
may move to compel a further response if a statement of compliance with the demand
is incomplete; a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The demanding party must set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
Request
for Inspection No. 1 asks Plaintiff to “[p]roduce all DEVICES in YOUR possession,
custody, or control for INSPECTION for RELEVANT MESSAGES.”  (Elsea Decl., Exs. 2-3.)
“‘DEVICE’
means any electronic device on which MESSAGES may be sent or received.”  (Elsea Decl., Ex. 2.)  “‘RELEVANT’ means relating to Sacha Gervasi (‘Gervasi’)
in any way without limitation as to time (including all communications to, from,
or including Gervasi); relating to YOUR allegations that Gervasi assaulted, falsely
imprisoned, inappropriately touched, and/or made sexual advances towards YOU in
any way without limitation as to time; and/or relating to any damages YOU claim
YOU have suffered in this action as a result of any conduct by Gervasi.”  “‘MESSAGES’ means any text messages and/or any
form of instant messaging and includes, without limitation, text messages, SMS,
MMS, iMessage, WhatsApp, Telegram, and Facebook Messenger.”
Plaintiff
objected on multiple grounds: privilege, confidential business or proprietary information,
irrelevance, failure to designate the documents specifically or with reasonable
particularity, undue burden, annoyance and harassment, failure to state why documents
cannot be produced from less burdensome means, no regard for whether the ESI is
reasonably accessible, privacy, redundance, overbroad, and redundance.  (Elsea Decl., Ex. 3.)
A
request for all messages relating to Defendant in any way without limitation as
to time (including all communications to, from, or including Defendant) is grossly
overbroad.  The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff
and Defendant have known each other for more than 20 years, since the late 1990s.  (Complaint ¶¶ 2, 9.)  However, the Complaint alleges claims based only
on sexual battery and assault occurring on July 9, 2021 and January 3, 2022.  (Complaint ¶¶ 19, 28.)  All messages relating to Defendant prior to those
events are not relevant to Plaintiff’s claims or damages.  Any “warm friendship” perceived by Defendant will
not prove or disprove events occurring on later dates.  (Motion at p. 11; see id. at p. 12 [messages
one day before the first assault and a few days before the second assault].)
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART.  Within 60 days,
Plaintiff must permit inspection of her devices (as defined by the Request for Inspection)
for messages relating to (1) Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendant assaulted, falsely
imprisoned, inappropriately touched, and/or made sexual advances towards her on
July 9, 2021 and January 3, 2022; and/or (2) any damages Plaintiff claims that she
suffered in this action as a result of any conduct by Defendant.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 