 Case Number:  22STCV03446    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue filed by Defendant MV Transportation,
Inc.
 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On January 27, 2022, Plaintiff Jeanett Gertrudiz
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant MV Transportation, Inc.
(“Defendant”), and Does 1 to 50, for damages from an injury sustained while
aboard Defendant’s bus on January 31, 2020. Defendant filed its
answer on April 7, 2022.
 
On filing, the case was assigned a trial date of
July 27, 2023.  
 
Based on the stipulation of the parties, the
Court continued the trial in May 2023 to January 31, 2024.  In January 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s
motion (over Plaintiff’s opposition) and continued the trial date to June 25,
2024. 
 
On June 3, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to continue
trial. On June 11, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte application and
advanced the hearing on the motion to June 21. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion on June 17, along with a
request for sanctions.
 
At the Final Status Conference on June 18, 2024, the
Court heard from counsel and, based on scheduling issues, continued the trial
date to August 27, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Defendant requests that trial be continued to January 2025 for
essentially three reasons: (1) so that its motion for leave to amend its answer
may be heard; (2) so that the parties may mediate; and (3) so that Defendant
may file a motion of summary judgment.
The continuance that the Court has already ordered (after the motion
was filed) takes care of the first two reasons. 
Defendant’s motion for leave to amend its answer is set for hearing on
July 22, and, after discussing the matter at the Final Status Conference, the
Court has ordered the parties to mediate through the Resolve Law LA program.
The third reason is not a sufficient basis, on this record, for a
continuance.  If a recently formed expert
opinion about a potential defense to liability were a basis for a continuance
of trial, it would be difficult to get any case to trial on schedule.  The trial date in this matter has already
been continued three times, and Defendant has had plenty of opportunity to
conduct discovery and gather fact and opinion testimony in a diligent manner to
support its defenses.  Defendant has not
shown, on this record, sufficient diligence or other good cause for yet another
continuance so that Defendant can work on a summary judgment motion. 
Accordingly, the
motion is denied.
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is denied.  The Court
finds that the request for a continuance, although denied, was made in good
faith and with substantial justification.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES
Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED. 
 
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.