 Case Number:  22STCV19492    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel
Physical Independent Medical Examination of Plaintiff 
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On June 15, 2022, Irina Strekneva (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Jennifer Weldon and Does 1 through 10 for negligence arising
from a dog bite on July 26, 2020.
On November 3, 2022, Plaintiff amended her
complaint to name “Estate of Jennifer Weldon” in place of the incorrectly named
“Jennifer Weldon.” 
On May 31, 2023, Estate of Jennifer Weldon (“Defendant”)
answered, noting that it had been named as defendant pursuant to Probate Code sections
550 through 554.
On September 26, 2023, Defendant served a
demand for Plaintiff to appear for an independent medical examination on
October 26.  (Campbell Decl., ¶ 5 &
Exh. B.)  Plaintiff did not object and
did not appear.  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Defendant then served a new demand for an
independent medical examination on January 30, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 7 & Exh. C.)  Plaintiff did not object and did not appear.  (Id., ¶ 8.)  
On
March 11, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to compel Plaintiff to appear for a
physical examination.  Defendant also
seeks monetary sanctions.
On March 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed a substitution of attorney.  Plaintiff is now representing herself.
Plaintiff did
not file any opposition to this motion.
On June 14,
2024, Defendant filed a supplement declaration of counsel seeking an order
dismissing the case.
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal
injury action, the defendant may demand one physical examination of plaintiff
as of right, without advance leave of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)  
A demand for a physical
examination of the plaintiff is subject to a number of procedural requirements
set forth in the governing statutes.  One
of these is that the demand “shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions,
scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the
specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (c).)
 
Within 20 days of
service of a demand for a physical examination, the plaintiff to whom the
demand is directed must respond in writing and state that the plaintiff “will
comply with the demand as stated, will comply with the demand as specifically
modified by the plaintiff, or will refuse, for reasons specified in the
response, to submit to the demanded physical examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.230, subd. (a).)  Failure to serve a timely response waives any
objection to the demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.240, subd. (a).)
If a plaintiff
fails to comply, the defendant may move for an order compelling plaintiff to
appear at and submit to a physical examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240,
subd. (b), and § 2032.250, subd. (a).) 
The motion “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.250, subd. (a).)
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for
a physical examination, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.250, subd. (b).)
In
Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d),
defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond
to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in
misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in
the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id.,
§ 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Discussion
 
Defendant seeks an order compelling Plaintiff
to appear for and submit to a physical (orthopedic) examination by Dr. Jeffrey
L. Rosenberg on July 5, 2024.
 
Under the Civil Discovery Act, Defendant is
entitled, as of right, to one physical examination of Plaintiff.  To obtain a court order for such an
examination, however, Defendant must comply with all of the procedural requirements
set forth in the governing statutes.  One
of those requirements is that the motion to compel the physical examination “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.250, subd. (a).)
 
There is no meet and confer declaration submitted
with the moving papers.  Accordingly, the
motion is denied without prejudice.
 
The Court also denies Defendant’s request for
an order of dismissal.  This request is
made for the first time in Defendant’s reply papers.  Plaintiff was not given proper notice of this
request and did not have an opportunity to respond.  
 
(The Court also notes that the reply was
served electronically.  That is not proper
service on a pro per plaintiff, absent proof that the plaintiff agreed to accept
service in this manner.)
Conclusion

The Court DENIES, without prejudice, Defendant’s motion to compel
Plaintiff to appear for and submit to a physical examination
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 