  Case Number:  20STCV44120    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 1
Plaintiffs seek to
exclude during voir dire questions about Covid, cancer, corporation, and
sympathy.  This is not a proper motion in
limine as it does not seek to exclude evidence. 
Attorney questions during voir dire are not evidence.  The trial court will have its own rules about
how to conduct voir dire.  The motion is
denied.
Plaintiffs also seek to
exclude all evidence about background asbestos because there is no evidence of
background asbestos.  An expert may be
able to establish a foundation for the existence and relevance of background
asbestos.  Also, pursuant to the July 8,
2022 CMO, motions to exclude evidence as speculative or unsubstantiated are
deemed made and denied.  Plaintiffs did
not show good cause to depart from that order. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs move to
exclude all evidence of government use of asbestos.  This is too vague.  The motion does not identify any specific
evidence to exclude.  There could be
scientific articles relied upon by experts that discuss government use of
asbestos.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
The motion seeks to
exclude any statements that God or Mother Nature made asbestos. This motion is
too vague.  Scientific articles and
studies relied upon by experts could mention that asbestos is a naturally
occurring mineral, and an expert might be able to establish a basis for relying
on and describing such studies.  Further,
there might be evidence that asbestos comes from mines, making it part of
nature.  The fact that it is naturally occurring
is not prejudicial.  If a party starts
talking about God at trial, the opposing party can object at that time.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 2
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence that other defendants were sued but are not at trial and the
contents of the complaint because the complaint is not a judicial admission.
Pursuant to the July 8,
2022 CMO, a motion to modify the caption to refer only to defendants remaining
in the case is deemed made and granted but not to affect any allocation of
fault under Proposition 51.  To the extent
the motion seeks to exclude all evidence of other defendants not at trial, the
motion is denied as too vague.  For
example, a deposition testimony of a witness of another defendant may be
admissible, or evidence of other defendants may be relevant for Proposition 51
purposes.
“ ‘The admission of fact
in a pleading is a “judicial admission.” ’ 
[Citation.]  A judicial admission
in a pleading is not merely evidence of a fact; it is a conclusive concession
of the truth of the matter. 
[Citation.]  ‘Well pleaded
allegations in the complaint are binding on the plaintiff at trial.’  [Citation.] 
‘The trial court may not ignore a judicial admission in a pleading , but
must conclusively deem it true as against the pleader.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 187.)  Based on this caselaw, the complaint may
contain judicial admissions of fact.  The
court therefore cannot conclude at this time that the entire complaint and its
exhibits are inadmissible.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at
trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 3
Plaintiffs seek to
exclude any expert testimony about which asbestos fibers caused the disease and
exactly when the disease started as contrary to the law on causation.  First, this motion is too vague.  It does not identify any specific expert
testimony to be excluded.  Second, under
the July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion about the term
“substantial factor” are deemed made and denied without prejudice to objections
at trial.  Plaintiffs did not show good
cause to depart from this order.  The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 4
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude reference to the immigration status of Jose Martinez and Plaintiffs,
in particular that they once lived in Mexico. 
Defendants argue that their work history is relevant to this case and
where Jose Martinez was exposed to asbestos, including working and exposure in
Mexico.
            Defendants
can inquire about work history and where Jose Martinez was exposed to asbestos
without discussing immigration status. 
Referring to someone living in Mexico does not implicate their U.S. immigration
status.  
            The
motion is granted as to immigration status and denied as to Plaintiffs or Jose
Martinez living and working in Mexico at one time without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 5
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude references to “sheets of asbestos” as appears in the Jose
Martinez’s medical records.  Plaintiffs
argue the reference is not accurate because there was no translator.  Defendant contends the doctor making the notes
in the medical record is a native, fluent Spanish-speaker.
A party’s claim that a
document does not accurately represent what the party stated is not a reason to
exclude the evidence.  If the medical
records are admitted, Plaintiffs can provide evidence that the medical record
are inaccurate.  Plaintiffs contend the
reference in the medical records is hearsay. 
While the medical records themselves may contain hearsay, the doctor who
wrote the medical records may be able to testify about the statements she wrote
in the medical records and what Jose Martinez told her.  Plaintiffs can then cross-examine the doctor
about whether she accurately understood what Jose Martinez was telling her and
whether she accurately recorded his statements in the medical records.
            The
motion is granted as to the medical records until a party seeking to admit the
medical records establishes that they are not hearsay and are otherwise
admissible.  The motion is otherwise
denied.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
            Defendant
Squires-Belt moves to exclude a December 15, 1944 article and September 11,
1987 article as irrelevant and prejudicial. 
One article is about a child labor violation.  The other is about a spill causing a traffic
jam.  Neither is about asbestos.  Those two articles are irrelevant, will
consume an undue amount of time, and are prejudicial.
            The
motion is granted as to the two articles. 
To the extent it seeks to exclude unidentified other articles, the
motion is denied as vague without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
Defendant Amcord, Inc.
moves to exclude a March 12, 1974 memorandum about blue asbestos in gun plastic
as irrelevant, prejudicial, and misleading. 
Defendant contends the reference to “blue asbestos” in the memo is to a
brand name, not to a specific type of asbestos. 
If the memo is otherwise admissible (e.g., it is authenticated), then
Defendant can have a witness explain that “blue asbestos” is a brand name and
can cross-examine any witness who contends that “blue asbestos” refers to
something other than a brand name.  The
jury will be able to understand the difference between a brand name and a
specific type of asbestos, and the jury can decide who is correct.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
Defendant Amcord, Inc.
moves to exclude photographs from the deposition of Juan Martinez as
unauthenticated, irrelevant, and hearsay. 
If Plaintiffs attempt to use the photographs at trial without first
authenticating them, Defendants should object at that time.  Photographs are not statements made by a
person; they are made by a camera.  One
of the photos shows bags with a label that seems to say “Riverside Gun
Plastic.”  Whether that photograph
contains hearsay depends on how Plaintiffs plan to use the photograph at
trial.  For example, if Plaintiffs use the
photograph to show that the particular bags depicted in the photo actually
contained Riverside Gun Plastic, the hearsay objection may be meritorious.  But there could be non-hearsay uses of that
photograph.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 3
Amcord moves to exclude
any evidence of lobbying activities.  The
motion is too vague and does not identify any specific evidence to be
excluded.  Defendant refers generally to
deposition transcripts from prior cases. 
Objections to deposition transcripts from prior cases and designations
of former testimony are to be handled via the process set out in the July 8,
2022 CMO.
Therefore, the motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 4
Amcord moves to exclude
evidence of working conditions at Amcord’s facility as irrelevant and unduly
prejudicial because Jose Martinez was never employed at the facility.  This motion is too vague.  If “working conditions” refers to something
like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like
workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos
exposure at the facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 