 Case Number:  23STCV11355    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
            Defendants’
MIL Re Sean Fitzgerald
            Defendant
Colgate-Palmolive Company seeks to exclude testimony from Sean Fitzgerald that
Plaintiff’s use of Cashmere Bouquet exposed her to asbestos because Fitzgerald’s
testing was invalid.  This was already
addressed in the court’s prior ruling on Defendant’s MIL No. 6.  As the court stated previously, there is insufficient
time before trial on January 22, 2024 to hold an evidentiary hearing in this
preference case.  The trial court can
choose to hold an evidentiary hearing during the trial (for example on jury
dark days), or if Fitzgerald does not establish the admissibility and
foundation for his conclusions, the trial court can strike his testimony.  The motion is deferred to the trial court.
            Defendant’s
MIL Re Fragments
            Colgate-Palmolive
seeks to exclude expert testimony about cleavage and mineral fragments as based
on unreliable and unaccepted methods.  The
motion complains that Plaintiffs’ experts use an improper definition of
asbestos.
            That Plaintiffs’
experts define asbestos differently than Defendant’s preferred definition does
not mean necessarily mean that Defendant is right and the experts are
wrong.  The definition of “asbestos” and
what actually falls into that definition is a disputed issue for the trier of
fact after hearing from the experts on both sides.  (See, e.g., Strobel v. Johnson &
Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, 811-812, n.9, n.10 [discussing the
conflicting definitions of asbestos and “cleavage” and concluding the
“difference of views between the opposing experts is consistent with reported
lack of consensus among causation experts in asbestos litigation generally”].)
            Defendant
refers to the Kelly/Frye test, suggesting that Plaintiffs’
experts’ asbestos definitions are novel and therefore subject to a Kelly/Frye
analysis.  (Motion at p. 8.)  But Defendant does not identify a new,
unaccepted methodology to which Kelly/Frye would apply.  While Defendant cites various publications
about how Plaintiffs’ experts’ definitions are incorrect, Defendant does not mention
the publications or other evidence upon which Plaintiffs’ experts’ rely for
their definitions.  Because Defendant does
not address the bases for Plaintiffs’ expert’s definitions, Defendant does not
show that those expert’s opinions have no foundation or are based on unreliable
matters.  The fact that some publications
and experts disagree with Plaintiffs’ experts is not enough to exclude their
opinions.  
The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 