 Case Number:  23VECV03809    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  W JUAN CARLOS
ANTONIO, et al. vs MARTHA MEJIA CAMPOS, et al.
 
DEFENDANTs’ demurrer with motion to
strike the first amended complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        May
9, 2024                                       Trial
Date:       None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03809
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Martha Mejia Campos and Cristine Annete Mejia Johnson
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Juan Carlos Antonio and Belen
Solano 
Meet and Confer:      Attempted. (Reyes Decl. ¶¶3-5.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 31, 2023, Plaintiffs Juan
Carlos Antonio and Belen Solano filed a complaint against Defendants Martha
Mejia Campos and Cristine Annete Mejia Johnson for Violation Rent Stabilization
Ordinance, Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Unlawful and
Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Business and Professions Code §17200,
and Implied Warranty of Habitability. The parties entered into a rental
agreement. Plaintiffs allege the unit they rented, however, was unpermitted and
had several habitability issues. Plaintiffs further allege Defendants did not
properly file a Declaration of Intent to Evict in Order to Comply with a
Government Agency’s Order. 
 
On March 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
First Amended Complaint. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Martha Mejia Campos and
Cristine Annete Mejia Johnson demur to the first and fourth causes of action on
the grounds Plaintiff has failed to state facts sufficient to support a claim
for Violation of Rent Stabilization Ordinance or Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability. 
 
First Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of
action of for Violation of Rent Stabilization Ordinance on the grounds Plaintiffs
do not have a private right of action to sue under the RSO.
 
“Adoption of a regulatory statute does
not automatically create a private right to sue for damages resulting from
violations of the statute. Such a private right of action exists only if the
language of the statute or its legislative history clearly indicates the Legislature
intended to create such a right to sue for damages.” (Vikco Ins. Services,
Inc. v. Ohio Indem. Co. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 55, 62.) 
 
Defendants argue in the instant matter,
Plaintiffs’ FAC fails to cite any authority providing a private right of action
to sue for violation of the RSO. Plaintiffs only cite to LAMC § 151.05 which
merely refers to registration of a rental unit, notification of registration to
tenants, and posting of the registration notice. Defendants contend said
municipal code does not provide any private right of action in support of
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action. Likewise, LAMC §§ 151.02, 151.04, and
151.09(A) do not afford Plaintiffs a private right of action to sue for
violation of the RSO.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Los
Angeles Municipal Code section 151.10 does provide for a private right of
action. Section 151.10 provides “Any person who demands, accepts or retains any
payment of rent in excess of the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, or any regulations or orders
promulgated hereunder, shall be liable in a civil action to the person
from whom such payment is demanded, accepted or retained for damages of three
times the amount by which the payment or payments demanded, accepted or
retained exceed the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent which could be
lawfully demanded, accepted or retained together with reasonable attorneys’
fees and costs as determined by the court.” (emphasis added.) Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants for violation of sections 151.04 and 151.05. However,
Plaintiff has not alleged or demonstrated that 151.05 entitles Plaintiff to damages
pursuant to section 151.10. (See Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th
759, 766.) While Section 151.04 would entitle Plaintiff to damages, Plaintiff
has not alleged an actual violation. Plaintiff’s allegations generally allege
Defendant has not complied with Section 151.04(C) and continues to fail to
comply with the section because it did not correct the issues for the
unpermitted rental unit. However, that section refers to demand or requirement
of electronic funds transfer. As a result, some of the allegations do not
support Plaintiff’s private right of action under Section 151.10. The complaint
should focus on only the illegal collection of rent if that is what Plaintiff
complains thereof. 
 
There is no private right of action for
violations of sections 151.05 and 151.11; those sections allow the tenant to
withhold the rent, but not sue for liability. (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014)
225 Cal.App.4th 759, 768.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the first cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.             
 
Fourth Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the fourth cause of
action for implied warranty of habitability on the grounds the cause of action
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a claim against Defendants. 
 
The essential elements of a cause of
action for breach of implied warranty of habitability are: (1) a materially
defective condition of the property affecting habitability; (2) the defective
condition was unknown to the tenant at the time of occupancy; (3) the effect on
habitability of the defective condition was not apparent on reasonable
inspection; (4) notice was given to the landlord within a reasonable time after
the tenant discovered, or should have discovered, the breach; and (5) damages.
(Quevedo v. Braga (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 7—8 (Quevedo),
overruled on other grounds by Knight v. Hallsthammar (1981) 29 Cal. 3d
46, 55 [disapproving of the element that landlord must have been allowed
reasonable time to repair].) 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs fail to
allege that notice was provided to Defendants about a material defective condition
affecting the premises habitability, fails to allege that Plaintiffs provided
notice to the Defendants of the condition within a reasonable time after
Plaintiffs’ discovery of the condition, and fails to allege that Defendants
were given reasonable time to correct the deficiency. Plaintiff’s FAC also
fails to allege specific damages caused by the alleged breach of Implied Warranty
of Habitability. 

In opposition, Plaintiff argues an
illegally converted unit without certificate of occupancy or permitted
electrical, plumbing, etc. are presumptively defective. Plaintiff contends one
would imagine that the illegal conversion was done in a manner that the
Property owner would be aware of, or at least have constructive knowledge, of
the illegal condition. Moreover, the complaint outlines the facts satisfying
the elements of implied warranty of habitability. (FAC ¶¶78-96.) 
 
The court finds the allegations
insufficient. A tenant can reasonably expect that the landlord will maintain
the property in a habitable condition by repairing promptly any conditions, of
which the landlord has actual or constructive notice, that arise during the
tenancy.  (Peterson v. Superior Court (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1185,
1205-26.) As such, Plaintiff’s allegations Defendant had knowledge of the fact
the rental unit never had proper licenses for rental or construction permits is
sufficient to meet the notice requirements. However, it is unclear from the
complaint that that is the material defect Plaintiff complains thereof. The
fourth cause of action is dedicated to issues with the unit but fails to allege
how that is related to Defendants’ knowledge that the unit was constructed
without proper licenses or construction permits. Plaintiff’s complaint need
allege only the relevant facts. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants move to strike portions of
Plaintiff’s complaint including Plaintiff’s demand for rent and request for
relocation assistance as well as Plaintiff’s request for attorney fees. 
 
Defendants first argue Plaintiffs’
demand for past rent collected in the amount of $67,000.00 and relocation
assistance in the amount of $20,850.00 are improper as Plaintiffs’ FAC fails to
allege any specific Los Angeles Municipal Code or ordinance that Defendants
allegedly violated, nor do Plaintiffs cite any authority providing them a
private right of action to sue for violation of the RSO. More importantly,
Plaintiffs fail to allege any statute or case law entitling them to seek
recovery of past rent collected and relocation fees under the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.
 
As the court has sustained the
demurrer, the motion to strike is moot. The court notes Plaintiff must allege
the section for relocation assistance/fees. Section 151.10 provides the rent
paid in excess could be lawfully demanded, accepted or retained together with
reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs as determined by the court.
 
Next, Defendants argue Plaintiffs
cannot recover attorney fees in connection with the first, second, and fourth
causes of action on the grounds Plaintiffs’ FAC fails to allege any specific
LAMC or ordinance Defendants allegedly violated. If Plaintiff can properly
allege a cause of action against Defendants, Plaintiff has grounds for attorney
fees pursuant to Section 151.10 and unlawful violation of Business and
Professions Code 17200. However, the court agrees Plaintiff has not alleged
recovery of attorney fees under the second and fourth cause of action. There
are no allegations supporting such a recovery. As for the third cause of
action, “[i]f a plaintiff prevails in an unfair competition law claim, it may
seek attorney fees as a private attorney general pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1021.5.” (Walker v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1158, 1179.) Accordingly, the request for attorney fees
is sufficient at this time with respect to that cause of action.  Since leave to amend is granted, plaintiffs
should clarify the cause of action for which they seek fees and the statutory
or other basis for such fees.   