 Case Number:  23VECV02049    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  W NICHOLAS
VILCHIS vs MICHELLE KARASICK, et al.
 
MOTION TO AMEND
DEFENDANTS SOCAL SELF STORAGE, LLC’S AND SOCAL SELF STORAGE-COLORADO BOULEVARD,
LP’S RESPONSES AND OBJECTIONS TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE
 
Date of Hearing:        May
9, 2024                           Trial Date:       None
set 
Department:              W                                            Case No.:        23VECV02049
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Socal Self Storage, LLC and Socal Self Storage–Colorado Boulevard, LP
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Nicholas Vilchis 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 10, 2023, Plaintiff Nicholas
Vilchis filed a complaint against Defendants Michelle Karasick, Matthew
Vasquez, Socal Self Storage-Colorado Boulevard LP (“SSS-COLORADO”), Socal Self
Storage LLC (“SSS”), and On The Move Inc. for 1. Negligence/Negligence Per-Se; 2.
Premises Liability; and 3. Negligent Hiring, Retention & Supervision.
Plaintiff alleges while in a parking lot owned and operated by SSS and
SSS-Colarado, Defendant Karasick caused her truck to crash into a dolly nearby,
which was positioned in front of Plaintiff, causing Plaintiff to fall over and
sustain severe neck injuries. 
 
On August 4, 2023, On The Move, Inc.
filed a cross-complaint against SSS and SSS-Colorado for equitable indemnity,
implied indemnity, contribution, and express indemnity.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Motion to Amend Responses and
objections to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One is GRANTED.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff
submits evidentiary objections to the declaration of Zojeila I. Flores offered
in support of Defendant’s Motion to Amend SoCal Self Storage, LLC’s and SoCal
Self Storage—Colorado Boulevard, LP’s Responses and Objections to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Admission, Set One.
 
The court
OVERRULES objections nos. 1-4. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Socal Self Storage, LLC and
Socal Self Storage–Colorado Boulevard, LP move the court for leave to file
amended responses and objections to Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set One
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300. Specifically, they seek to
amend response to Request for Admission No. 15.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.300 provides that “[a] party may withdraw or amend an admission made in
response to a request for admission only on leave of court granted after notice
to all parties.”  (CCP §
2033.300(a).)  “The court may permit
withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the
admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and
that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced
in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.”  (CCP § 2033.300(b).)  “The court may impose conditions on the
granting of the motion that are just, including, but not limited to, the
following: [¶] (1) [a]n order that the party who obtained the admission be
permitted to pursue additional discovery related to the matter involved in the
withdrawn or amended admission[;] [¶] (2) [a]n order that the costs of any
additional discovery be borne in whole or in part by the party withdrawing or
amending the admission.”  (CCP §
2033.300(c).) 
 
Defendants argue Socal Defendants
mistakenly and inadvertently admitted at least one Green Truck depicted in
Exhibit A of Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions Set One was improperly parked.
At the time, the admission was made based on an employee of SSS-Colorado
looking at Plaintiff’s Exhibit A photograph and believing the green truck
behind Plaintiff’s truck was parked improperly. After Defendants’ professional
engineer inspected the subject property in February 2024, Defendants learned
the green truck originally thought to be parked improperly, was actually parked
properly in a marked loading zone. Therefore, the correct response to Requests
for Admission No. 15 should have stated “Deny”. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants’ motion fails to establish that mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect caused both SoCal Defendants to twice admit
the truth of RFA 15(sic). Plaintiff contends Defendants’ authorized agent,
Allan Farnsworth, did not respond to RFA 15(sic) based on information and
belief. Rather, his response, twice made on behalf of each SoCal Defendant, was
a clear unequivocal admission absent any objections. Moreover, rather than
submitting declarations of the unidentified “professional engineer” and unidentified
employee, the motion is based entirely on Defense Counsel’s word. Plaintiff
further argues they will suffer prejudice if the discovery is amended because Defendants
precluded Plaintiff from deposing or otherwise challenging the opinion of
Defendants’ unnamed engineer and unnamed employee. Defendants have not provided
any justification for relief from objections. Plaintiff argues if the court is
inclined to grant the motion, Plaintiff should be permitted to comment on any
change made by Defendants in any forthcoming amended response to RFA 15(sic). 
 
The court finds the admission was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, and/or excusable neglect. Defendants have
presented evidence the initial response was based on an employee reviewing the
Exhibit A. (Flores Decl. ¶4.) The employee mistakenly believed the Green Truck
was improperly parked. (Flores Decl. ¶4.) Once further investigation was
conducted, Defendants learned the area where the green trucks were parked as
depicted in Plaintiff’s Exhibit A Photograph were marked loading areas. (Flores
Decl. ¶6.) This is sufficient and any doubts in applying section 2033.300 must
be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. (New Albertsons, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420.) Moreover, the court
finds Plaintiff has not shown prejudice. Plaintiff may continue discovery
against the employee or originally examined Exhibit A and/or Defendants’
expert. (See CCP §2033.300(c).) 
 
The court declines Plaintiff’s request
he be “permitted to comment on any change SoCal Defendant’s make to RFA 15(sic)
throughout the case and at trial.” As noted above, Plaintiff may pursue
additional discovery into the amended admission. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to
Amend Responses and objections to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One
is GRANTED. 