 Case Number:  23STCV05549    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Clare Weber, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV05549




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Board of Trustees of the California State University, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 21, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Protective Order
Moving Party: Defendants Board of Trustees of the
California State University, Jake Zhu and Tomás Morales 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Clare Weber and Anissa
Rogers
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving
papers and opposition.  
 
“The court, for good cause shown, may make
any order that justice requires to protect any party or other person from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (CCP § 2031.060(b).)
Defendants ask the Court to enter
a protective order precluding Plaintiffs from deposing President Morales on
questions surrounding institutional policies and procedures, training, funding,
staffing, and other department-level issues – information which can be sought
through lower-level employees, written discovery, and/or a person most
knowledgeable deposition under the Apex deposition doctrine. 
 
This doctrine provides that
the deposition of a high-level member of corporate management (an “Apex
deposition”) is not permitted unless: (1) the noticing party makes a showing of
“good cause that the official has unique or superior personal knowledge of
discoverable information;” and (2) the noticing party demonstrates “exhaustion
of less intrusive discovery methods.” (Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v Super. Ct.
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1287, 1289.) Defendants assert that Plaintiffs have
continually asked President Morales questions better answered by lower-level
management and have requested a third day of deposition for President Morales. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs
dispute that President Morales is unable to answer the questions posed in
deposition. Plaintiffs assert that this motion is an improper attempt to
prevent Morales from providing evidence relevant to Plaintiffs’ claims.
 
The Court declines to enter a
protective order. President Morales is alleged to have had personal involvement
in the matters underlying Plaintiff’s claims; there is evidence supporting
those allegations. Defendants have not shown that President Morales lacks
personal knowledge. And depositions of other, lower-ranking employees have been
taken. Plaintiffs may question President Morales concerning institutional
policies and procedures, training, funding, staffing, and other
department-level issues. If President Morales does not know the answer to these
questions, he may so state. 
 
Defendants’ motion is DENIED.


 