 Case Number:  21STCV34143    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Robert Farias, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV34143




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Brenda Dietlein, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 21, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel
Moving Party: David A. Cordier, counsel of record
for Defendant Glendale Centre Theatre
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:       THE MOTION IS GRANTED. COUNSEL TO FILE
PROOF OF SERVICE OF ORDER ON DEFENDANT WITHIN 5 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
COUNSEL WILL BE RELIEVED UPON FILING OF PROOF OF SERVICE OF ORDER.
 
COUNSEL TO NOTICE.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received.
 
The Court may issue an order allowing
an attorney to withdraw from representation, after notice to the client.  (CCP § 284.) 
The attorney may withdraw from representation where the withdrawal would
not result in undue prejudice to the client’s interest—for example, counsel
cannot withdraw at a critical point in the litigation.  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.
App. 4th 904, 915; see California Rule of Professional Conduct 3-700.) 
 
David A. Cordier, counsel of record for
Defendant Glendale Centre Theatre seeks to withdraw from representation of
Defendant. Counsel states that Defendant Dietlein has failed to obtain new
counsel for Defendant Glendale Centre Theatre, necessitating this motion. Trial
is set for April 21, 2025; no prejudice will result from counsel’s withdrawal. Counsel
has complied with CRC 3.1362. 
 
There is good cause for counsel’s
withdrawal. The motion is GRANTED.  


 



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Robert Farias, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV34143




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Brenda Dietlein, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 21, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Leave to Amend
Cross-Complaint;
Motion to Reopen Discovery
Moving Party: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Brenda
Dietlein aka Brenda-Lee Malley
Responding Party: None
 
T/R: DIETLEIN’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND CROSS-COMPLAINT IS
CONTINUED TO FEBRUARY 21, 2025 AT 9:00AM.
DIETLEIN TO FILE AND SERVE A CONFORMING DECLARATION NO LATER THAN
JANUARY 27, 2025.
THE MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY IS DENIED.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers
and objection to motion for leave to amend.
 
A. Motion for
Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint
 
The Court may allow, in furtherance of
justice, and “upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars….”  (CCP
§ 473(a)(1).)  A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that
specifies (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary
and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  (CRC Rule 3.1324(b).)
It is not an abuse of discretion of the court
to grant the motion unless there is a “showing that actual unfairness or
obvious prejudice has resulted from the allowance of such an amendment”.  (Posz v. Burchell (1962) 209
Cal.App.2d 324, 334.)  “Counsel on the
firing line in an actual trial must be prepared for surprises, including
requests for amendments of pleading.”  (Ibid.)  Absent a showing of prejudice, delay alone is
insufficient grounds for denial.  (See
Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d 558, 564–65.)
Dietlein moves for leave to amend her cross-complaint to add factual
allegations and claims uncovered in discovery. The Court previously continued
hearing on the motion to allow Dietlein to file a proposed amended
cross-complaint and a declaration that complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b). On
December 16, 2024, Dietein filed the proposed amended cross-complaint but again
failed to file a declaration that complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).
 
The Court will allow Dietlein one additional chance to file a
declaration under CRC Rule 3.1324(b) which states, (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
The motion for leave to amend is CONTINUED to February 21, 2025 at
9:00AM. Dietlein is ordered to file a declaration no later than January 27,
2025.
 
B. Motion to
Reopen Discovery
 
CCP §
2024.050 provides,  
 
(a) On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete
discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer
to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has
been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040. 
 
(b) In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court
shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested,
including, but not limited to, the following: 
 
(1) The necessity and the reasons for the
discovery. 
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier. 
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party. 
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set,
and the date presently set, for the trial of the action. 
 
Dietlein moves to reopen discovery to obtain various
records from Plaintiff. These records include, “an alleged rental lease
agreement, evidentiary quality authenticated and certified by a third-party
licensed and bonded forensic accountant, a detailed audit per GAAP and IFRS
standards, verifying the complete claim with all authenticated source documents
per UCC 9-210 for alleged loan(s) allegedly owed by GLENDALE CENTRE THEATRE and
a separate distinct detailed evidentiary quality authenticated audit per UCC
9-210, GAAP and IFRS standards for alleged loan(s) allegedly owed by BRENDA
DIETLEIN...” 
 
Dietlein also requests that the Court order all parties
to produce any discovery produced to other parties to Dietlein, and represents
that reopening is necessary after becoming unrepresented by counsel.
 
The Court declines to reopen discovery. It is unclear
from the motion why discovery was not completed earlier. It is also unclear
what Dietlein is seeking from Plaintiffs.
 
The motion to reopen discovery is DENIED.
 
 
 
                                                             
 
 