  Case Number:  23TRCV02013    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
ARLIN
  BLAZEVIC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02013




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  DENIED
 




 
TORRANCE
  MEMORIAL MEDICAL CENTER; JOHN BLAKEY, M.D.; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
9, 2024          
 
Moving Parties:          Plaintiff Arlin Blazevic
Responding
Party:      Defendant John Blakely M.D.  
HEARING: REDACT
PORTIONS OF THE COMPLAINT
            The Court considered the moving
papers and opposition papers.
RULING
The Court denies
the Motion to Redact Portions of the Complaint.
 
BACKGROUND
On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff Arlin Blazevic
filed the Complaint against Defendants Torrence Medical Center and John Blakely,
M.D., alleging a single cause of action for professional negligence resulting
from a breast cancer misdiagnosis.
 
On August 30, Plaintiff filed the instant
Motion to Redact Portions of the Complaint.
 
On September 26, Defendant filed the Opposition.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The sealing of court records is governed by
California Rules of Court rules 2.550 and 2.551.¿ (Mercury Interactive Corp.
v. Klein¿(2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 68.)  The presumption of open
access to court records does not apply to “records that are required to be kept
confidential by law.” ¿(Cal.¿Rules Court, rule 2.550(a)(3).)¿ A party seeking
to seal a court record or seeking to file a record under seal must do so by
motion or application supported by a declaration showing facts justifying the
record’s sealing.  (Ibid., rule 2.551(b)(1).) 
 
California Rules of Court rule 2.550(d)
states: “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it
expressly finds facts that establish:¿ 
 
(1)
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record; 
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record;¿ 
(3)
A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed;¿ 
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and¿ 
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”¿¿ 
 
Once sealed, a record can only be unsealed by court
order.  (Ibid., rule 2.551(h)(1).)  So long as it remains
under seal, all parties must refrain from filing anything not under seal that
would disclose the sealed matter.  (Ibid.., rule 2.551(c).) 
If a party files a new document referring to a sealed matter, it must submit an
unredacted version of the document under seal and a redacted one for the public
record.  (Ibid., rule 2.551(b)(5);¿H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe¿(2007)
151 Cal.App.4th 879, 889.)¿ 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Plaintiff requests that the Court redact page 2, paragraph 9, page 3,
paragraph 10, and page 3, paragraph 11 of the complaint in their entirety. 
            
Overriding Interest
 
Plaintiff argues
that there is a compelling overriding interest in maintaining the
confidentiality of her medical information. Her cancer diagnosis and recurrence
are highly sensitive and personal and, thus, not matters of public concern.
Disclosure of such information could lead to stigmatization and discrimination.
The plaintiff emphasizes that her situation is particularly sensitive because
it involves cancer, unlike more routine medical cases such as a surgery gone
wrong or a failure to diagnose a fracture. Therefore, she contends that the
nature of her medical condition warrants greater protection of privacy.
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff's interest is speculative. Under Rule 2.550(c); there must be a
"substantial probability" that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the records are not sealed, and mere speculation is insufficient.
While Plaintiff fears potential impacts on her dating and professional life,
she has provided no factual evidence to show actual harm. Even if such harm
existed, it would not outweigh the public's right to access public records,
especially since the plaintiff filed a medical malpractice claim, making the
details part of the public record. Additionally, concerns about the ease of
finding the Complaint online due to her unique name do not create an overriding
interest. Plaintiff has not demonstrated that anyone has associated the
Complaint with her, and without more identifying information in the Complaint,
her concerns remain speculative. Given the time the Complaint has already been
publicly available, any harm would likely have already occurred.
            
The Court finds
that Plaintiff has not shown that there is an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of the public to access court records. While the Court has
found that one has a privacy interest in medical records, the public’s right to
access court records outweighs one's privacy rights when the information is
closely related to the litigation. (See, Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th
1036, 1070; Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th
1, 37.) Here, Plaintiff’s cancer diagnosis is a major factor in determining
whether Plaintiff should succeed in her malpractice action. Plaintiff asserts
that the diagnosis in the instant cases is more sensitive than a surgery gone
wrong or a broken bone. However, they provide no analysis or evidence to prove
this assertion.
 
            Therefore, the Court denies the Motion to Redact Portions
of the Complaint.
 
 
 