 Case Number:  24TRCV01036    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
ZHAOHONG
  WU, an individual


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01036




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  OVERRULED




 
MEDICAL
  DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORY, LLC; AIRPORT DIAGNOSTIC INSTITUTE, LLC, and RUBIO
  PUNZALAN, M.D., PhD; and DOES 1-10, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
9, 2024          
 
Moving Parties:          Defendants Medical Diagnostic
Laboratory, LLC and Dr. Rubio Punzalan, M.D., PhD.
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Zhaohong Wu
HEARING: DEMURRER TO
THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
            The Court considered the moving and
opposition.  
RULING
            The Court overrules the Demurrer.
 
BACKGROUND
            On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff Zhaohong Wu
filed the Complaint against
Defendants Medical Diagnostic Laboratory, LLC, and Dr. Rubio Punzalan, M.D.,
PhD.
 
            On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint “FAC” alleging causes of action for
breach of contract, fraud, and violations of the Consumer Legal Remedy Act resulting
from an alleged falsely labeled COVID test sent to the Chinese Embassy. 
 
            On August 26, 2024,
Defendants filed the instant Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint.
 
            On September 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed the Opposition.
 
            On October 3, 2024,
Defendants filed the Reply. 
 
            No trial date has
been set.
 
            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside
the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) 
 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
In March 2021, Plaintiff planned to travel to
China to care for his seriously ill father, which required a negative COVID
test for entry. Because Plaintiff had been vaccinated, the N & S Protein
IGM test ("Test 1") was unsuitable, as it would falsely indicate a
positive result. Instead, the Chinese Embassy required the N Protein IGM test
("Test 2"). Plaintiff contracted with Defendants, a facility
designated by the Chinese Consulate, to administer Test 2. However, after
mistakenly conducting Test 1, Defendants promised to conduct Test 2 but failed
to do so. Instead, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants falsely represented that
they had done so and provided Plaintiff with a fraudulent report labeled Test
2.
 
Plaintiff allegedly discovered that Defendants
had never performed Test 2 and had sent the results of Test 1, mislabeled as
Test 2, to the Chinese Embassy in December 2021. As a result, Plaintiff was
denied entry to China and was unable to care for his father, who later passed
away before Plaintiff could say goodbye. Plaintiff filed the current lawsuit
for breach of contract, fraud, and violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies
Act (CLRA) to recover damages from Defendants for their failure to perform Test
2 and for fraudulently representing that they had done so.
 
 
 
 
 
A.    Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, “the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41 subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff’s counsel provides a
declaration showing the parties’ meet and confer efforts and that they were
unable to informally resolve the dispute. (Napper Decl. ¶ 2.) The Court finds
this sufficient to satisfy the meet and confer requirement. 
 
B.    Prep Act
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff's claims are barred
by the PREP act. 
 
The Public
Readiness and Emergency Preparedness (PREP) Act, enacted in 2005, provides liability
immunity to certain individuals and entities for claims arising from the use of
medical countermeasures during public health emergencies, except in cases of
willful misconduct. The PREP Act was amended by the Pandemic and All-Hazards
Preparedness Act (PAHPRA) in 2013 to include additional pandemic-related
products and technologies under its scope. It allows the Secretary of Health
and Human Services (HHS) to issue declarations granting this immunity when a
public health emergency is determined.
 
During the COVID-19
pandemic, then-Secretary Alex M. Azar II declared a public health emergency in
January 2020, which extended liability immunity to manufacturers, distributors,
and healthcare providers involved in the development and administration of countermeasures
such as vaccines, drugs, and diagnostics. This immunity covers claims related
to the use of these countermeasures through October 1, 2024.
 
Defendants allege that
Plaintiff's claims against healthcare providers related to COVID-19 testing
fall under the PREP Act’s immunity protections. As the actions or inactions
alleged are considered covered countermeasures, and there are no claims of
willful misconduct resulting in death or serious injury, Plaintiff’s claims are
barred by the PREP Act. 
 
Plaintiffs argue
that the PREP Act does not shield Defendants from liability for their inaction.
(Lutz v. Big Blue Healthcare (2020) 480 F.Supp.3d 1207, 1216; Estate
of Maglioli v. Andover Subacute Rehabilitation Center I (2020) 478
F.Supp.3d 518, 531) Since Plaintiff's harm stems from Defendants’ failure to
administer the test rather than the actual use of a countermeasure, the PREP
Act’s immunity provisions do not apply.
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff’s claims are not barred by
the PREP Act. Plaintiff has shown that the PREP Act does not apply to cases of
inaction. (Lutz, 480 F.Supp.3d 1207, 1216.) Plaintiff’s fraud claim does
not arise out of the mishandling of the first test but the failure to perform
the second test. The FAC states, “The fraud claim in this case is not about the
wrong test administrated and the wrong report (1st report) issued, it is about
the fraudulent 2nd report.” (FAC p. 4.) 
Furthermore, the language of the breach of contract and CLRA claims mirrors
that of the fraud claim. Therefore, because Plaintiff’s claims arise not out of
the mishandling of a COVID test but the alleged fraudulent failure to perform
the second test, thus, the PREP Act does not apply. (See, Lutz, 480
F.Supp.3d 1207, 1216; Maglioli, 478 F.Supp.3d 518, 531.)
 
C.    Res Judicata and Collateral Estoppel
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff's current case should be barred by the doctrines of res judicata
and collateral estoppel because it is based on the same underlying facts as a
prior case that was dismissed with prejudice. Res Judicata requires three
elements: (1) A claim or issue raised in the present action is identical to a claim
or issue litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior proceeding resulted in
a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom the doctrine is
being asserted was a party or in privity with a party to the prior proceeding.
(Paul Zevnik v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County, et al (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 76, 82-83.) Collateral estoppel prevents the relitigation of an
issue only if five conditions are met: (1) the issue is identical to one
decided in a prior proceeding, (2) the issue was actually litigated, (3) the
issue was necessarily decided, (4) the prior decision was final and on the
merits, and (5) the party against whom collateral estoppel is asserted was
either involved in the prior proceeding or in privity with someone who was. (Lucido
v. Superior Court (1990) 51 Cal.3d 335, 341) Additionally, the court may
choose not to apply collateral estoppel in the interest of fairness or public
policy. (Id. at 342.)
 
      Defendants
assert that the claims and issues in the current lawsuit are identical to those
raised in the previous case, which was resolved by a final judgment, a
dismissal with prejudice. Since the same parties are involved, and the issues
were already litigated and decided, Defendants argue that res judicata and
collateral estoppel prevent Plaintiff from relitigating the same matter.
Therefore, they request that the court sustain their demurrer and dismiss Plaintiff’s
case without leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff argues
that Defendants’ reliance on the doctrine of collateral estoppel to bar the
current case is misplaced. Res judicata prevents the relitigation of the same
cause of action between the same parties, while collateral estoppel precludes
the relitigation of issues that were argued and decided in prior proceedings.
However, Plaintiff emphasizes that these doctrines only apply if the issues are
identical, were actually litigated, and were necessarily decided in the
previous case. In the prior case, Plaintiff’s claim focused solely on
negligence related to the administration of Test 1. In contrast, the current
case involves three separate causes of action—breach of contract, fraud, and a
violation of the CFRA—arising from Defendants' conduct related to Test 2. Since
these causes of action were not previously litigated, the doctrines of res
judicata and collateral estoppel do not apply.
 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff’s claims are not barred by res judicata or collateral estoppel.
Both res judicata and collateral estoppel require the relitigation of an
identical claim or issue. (Zevnik, 159 Cal.App.4th 76, 82-83; Lucido, 51
Cal.3d 335, 341.) However, neither Plaintiff’s claims, nor the issue underlying
those claims in the present case are identical to the prior case. The prior
case merely focused on the negligence of the first test, while the current case
focuses purely on the fraudulent aspects of the second test. Therefore, res
judicata and collateral estoppel do not apply because neither the claims nor
issues at hand are identical to the prior case. (See, Zevnik, 159
Cal.App.4th 76, 82-83; Lucido, 51 Cal.3d 335, 341.)
 
 
D.    CLRA Statute of Limitations
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff's claim under the Consumers Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) is barred
by the statute of limitations. According to California law, a lawsuit based on
a CLRA violation must be filed within three years of the alleged violation. (Civ. Code, § 1783.) The alleged violation
occurred on March 28, 2021, but Plaintiff did not file the CLRA claim until
July 11, 2024, well beyond the three-year limit. Since no tolling agreements
were in place to extend the deadline, Plaintiff is barred from pursuing this
claim. 
 
            Plaintiff argues that the CLRA claim is timely as it
relates back to the filing of the original complaint. Plaintiff filed the
original action on March 26, 2024, within three years of the alleged fraudulent
conduct on March 28, 2021. An amended complaint "relates back" to the
original complaint if it arises from the same set of facts, seeks recovery for
the same injuries, and involves the same incident. (See, Barrington v. A.H.
Robins Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 146, 150, 216.) Since the CLRA claim is based
on the same facts as the fraud and breach of contract claims in the original
complaint, it relates back to the original filing date.
 
            The Court finds that the CLRA claim relates back to the
original filing date and is, therefore, not barred by the statute of
limitations. (See, Barrington, 39 Cal.3d 146, 150, 216.) Plaintiff’s claims
regarding the CLRA arise from the same allegedly fraudulent COIVD test that the
breach of contract and fraud claims arise from the original Complaint. (FAC
Exhibit b; Complaint p. 3-5.) Furthermore, in the original complaint, Plaintiff
gave notice that they would be amending the Complaint to file a CLRA claim.
(Complaint p. 6)
 
E.    Breach of Contract
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff's breach of contract claim is insufficient because Plaintiff
failed to include a clear and specific contract or its material terms in FAC. Plaintiff
attached what appears to be an application for a COVID-19 test and a paper
affixed to a door as purported contracts, but it is unclear if these documents
are the contracts being referenced and whether Plaintiff is claiming the
contract was written, oral, or implied.
 
Defendants
highlight that for a breach of contract claim, Plaintiff must establish the
existence of a contract, Plaintiff’s performance or excuse for non-performance,
Defendant’s breach, and damages. (San Diego Housing Com. v. Industrial
Indemnity Co. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 526, 536. Furthermore, “[a]
written contract which is the foundation of a cause of action may be pleaded in
haec verba rather than according to its legal effect, either by setting forth
a copy in the body of the pleading or by attaching a copy as an exhibit and
incorporating it by reference.” (Bates v. Daley’s (1935) 5 Cal.App.2d
95, 102.) Plaintiff did not include the specific contract language in the FAC
nor clarify how the exhibits form the basis for the breach of contract claim.
As a result, Defendants argue that the FAC is defective and request that the
demurrer be sustained without leave to amend, asserting that no clear contract
exists.
 
Plaintiff argues that
Plaintiff alleges the creation of a written agreement and recites the essential
terms in the FAC. (FAC p. 7.)
 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to state a cause of action. At the
Demurer stage, the Court must treat all alleged facts as true. (Aubry, 2
Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) Therefore, Plaintiffs statement regarding the creation
of a contract in the FAC is sufficient to state a cause
of action for breach of contract. (FAC p.7.)
 
The Court Overrules
the Demurrer.


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
ZHAOHONG
  WU, an individual


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01036




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted in Part/ Overruled in part




 
MEDICAL
  DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORY, LLC; AIRPORT DIAGNOSTIC INSTITUTE, LLC, and RUBIO
  PUNZALAN, M.D., PhD; and DOES 1-10, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
9, 2024          
 
Moving Parties:          Defendants Medical Diagnostic
Laboratory, LLC and Dr. Rubio Punzalan, M.D., PhD.
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Zhaohong Wu
HEARING: MOTION TO
STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
            The Court considered the moving and
opposition papers.  
RULING
The Court grants the motion as to page
2, section 10d and page 3, section
BC-5. The Court denies the motion as to page 2, section 10c and page 6, 2nd paragraph, line 3. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
            On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff Zhaohong Wu
filed the Complaint against
Defendants Medical Diagnostic Laboratory, LLC, and Dr. Rubio Punzalan, M.D., PhD.
 
            On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint “FAC” alleging causes of action for
breach of contract, fraud, and violations of the Consumer Legal Remedy Act resulting
from an alleged falsely labeled COVID test sent to the Chinese Embassy. 
 
            On August 26, 2024,
Defendants filed the instant Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended
Complaint.
 
            On September 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed the Opposition.
 
            No reply has been
filed.
 
            No trial date has
been set.
 
            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time
in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436
subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) 
 
                        
DISCUSSION 
 
In March 2021, Plaintiff planned to travel to
China to care for his seriously ill father, which required a negative COVID
test for entry. Because Plaintiff had been vaccinated, the N & S Protein
IGM test ("Test 1") was unsuitable, as it would falsely indicate a
positive result. Instead, the Chinese Embassy required the N Protein IGM test
("Test 2"). Plaintiff contracted with Defendants, a facility
designated by the Chinese Consulate, to administer Test 2. However, after
mistakenly conducting Test 1, Defendants promised to conduct Test 2 but failed
to do so. Instead, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants falsely represented that
they had done so and provided Plaintiff with a fraudulent report labeled Test
2.
 
Plaintiff allegedly discovered that Defendants
had never performed Test 2 and had sent the results of Test 1, mislabeled as
Test 2, to the Chinese Embassy in December 2021. As a result, Plaintiff was
denied entry to China and was unable to care for his father, who later passed
away before Plaintiff could say goodbye. Plaintiff filed the current lawsuit
for breach of contract, fraud, and violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies
Act (CLRA) to recover damages from Defendants for their failure to perform Test
2 and for fraudulently representing that they had done so.
 
            Defendants request
that the court strike Plaintiff's requests for punitive damages and attorney
fees found in Page 2, Section 10c, Page 2, Section 10d, Page 3, Section BC-5,
and Page 6, 2nd paragraph, line 3.
 
 
 
 
A.    Punitive Damages
 
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes
the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code § 3294 subd. (a).) “‘Malice’
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code
§ 3294 subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a
person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights. (Civ. Code § 3294 subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code §
3294 subd. (c)(3).)  Punitive damages thus require more than the mere
commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 894-95.) Specific facts must be pleaded in support of punitive damages.
(See Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374,
391-92.)   
 
            Defendants argue that
Plaintff’s claim for punitive damages should be dismissed because it lacks the
necessary specificity. Punitive damages can only be awarded in non-contract
cases if clear and convincing evidence proves that the defendant acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not
provided specific facts to demonstrate such conduct, relying instead on vague
and conclusory allegations. (See, Brousseau v. Jarrett, (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872; G.D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court, (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d
22, 29.)
 
Defendants highlight that punitive damages
require a showing of intent to cause harm or despicable conduct with a willful
disregard for the plaintiff’s rights. However, the plaintiff’s allegations,
particularly regarding the alleged fake report, do not meet this standard. Defendants
assert that the complaint fails to provide clear allegations of any defendant’s
intent to injure the plaintiff or engage in reprehensible conduct. Furthermore,
the defendants argue that the FAC does not specify which defendants committed
the alleged acts and lacks detailed factual support for claims of oppression,
fraud, or malice. As a result, the defendants request that the court strike the
plaintiff’s punitive damages claim, as it fails to establish the necessary
elements for such a claim.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff merely asserts that “Plaintiff's
allegations of fraud in his amended complaint are sufficient to state a claim
for punitive damages in connection with his causes of
action for fraud and for
violation of the CLRA.” (Opposition p. 4.) Plaintiff points to no particular
section of the FAC to show that the requirements for punitive damages have been
met.
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff has not pleaded sufficient
facts to justify punitive damages. Specific facts must be pleaded in support of
punitive damages, and Plaintiff cannot rely on vague and conclusory allegations
to prove punitive damages. (See, Hillard, 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92; Searle,
49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.) In the FAC, Plaintiff merely concludes that the
Complaint is about Defendants' “fraudulent conduct.” (FAC p.8.)
            
Therefore, the Court strikes Page 2, Section
10d from the FAC with leave to amend.
 
B.    Attorney’s
Fees
“In the absence of some special agreement, statutory
provision, or exceptional
circumstances, attorneys’ fees are to be paid
by the party employing the attorney.” Prentice v. North American Title
Guaranty Corp., Alameda Division, (1963) 59 Cal.2d 618, 647
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff is not entitled to recover attorney's fees because there
is no special agreement, statute, or exceptional circumstance that allows for
such recovery. Therefore, the Defendants request that all references to
attorney's fees in the FAC be stricken.
 
Plaintiff
argues that they are entitled to attorney fees under Civil Code, section 1780, subd. (e).

 
“The availability of costs and attorneys fees to
prevailing plaintiffs is integral to making the Consumer Legal Remedies Act an
effective piece of consumer legislation, increasing the financial feasibility
of bringing suits under the statute.” (Broughton v. Cigna Healthplans of
California (1999) 21 Cal.4th 1066.) Plaintiff’s third cause of action
alleges a breach of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, and therefore, The FAC
pleads sufficient facts to warrant a request for attorney’s fees for
Plaintiff’s third cause of action. However, Plaintiff has provided no statute
to show he is entitled to attorney’s fees regarding his first cause of action
for breach of contract.
 
Therefore, the Court denies the Motion to Strike as
to page 2, section 10c and page 6, 2nd paragraph, line 3. The Court grants the
Motion to Strike as to page 3, section BC-5.