 Case Number:  23STCV07567    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MTI LOGISTICS, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ROADONE INTERMODAL LOGISTICS, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV07567
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  TO DISMISS OR STAY ACTION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 16, 2023



 
On
April 5, 2023, Plaintiff MTI Logistics, Inc. filed this action against Defendants
RoadOne Intermodal Logistics, Inc. and RoadOne LogisticSolutions, Inc.
On
September 20, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to dismiss pursuant to a contractual
forum selection clause.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of the parties’ contract is granted.  The Complaint references the parties’ contract,
so it is an appropriate matter for judicial notice.  (See Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009)
179 Cal.App.4th 949, 956, fn. 6.)  Additionally,
Plaintiff acknowledges the contract and its Dispute Resolution provision at paragraph
21 (Opposition at p. 2), thereby admitting its authenticity.  (Evid. Code, § 1414.)
DISCUSSION
“In
California, the procedure for enforcing a forum selection clause is a motion to
stay or dismiss for forum non conveniens pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
410.30 and 418.10.”  (Berg v. MTC Electronics
Technologies (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358 (Berg).)  “[A] motion based on a forum selection clause
is a special type of forum non conveniens motion.  The factors that apply generally to a forum non
conveniens motion do not control in a case involving a mandatory forum selection
clause.”  (Ibid.)  Instead, “the test is simply whether application
of the clause is unfair or unreasonable, and the clause is usually given effect.”  (Ibid.)
A.        There Is a Mandatory Forum Selection Clause.
On
October 5, 2020, Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a contract that contained
a forum selection clause.  (RJN, Ex. 1.)  Specifically, “[a]ll such disagreements or disputes
shall be submitted to any court of and in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts having
subject matter jurisdiction and the PARTIES hereby agree to the exclusive jurisdiction
of the courts located in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.”
Plaintiff
does not dispute that this is a mandatory forum selection clause.  (Opposition at p. 2.)  Instead, Plaintiff argues that the forum selection
clause is unreasonable.  (Id. pp. 2-4.)
B.        Plaintiff Has Not Shown That Application
of the Forum Selection Clause Would be Unfair or Unreasonable.
Plaintiff
argues that the work and services were performed in California.  (Opposition at p. 4.)  “Claims that the previously chosen forum is unfair
or inconvenient are generally rejected.  [Citation.]  A court will usually honor a mandatory forum selection
clause without extensive analysis of factors relating to convenience.  [Citation.] 
‘“Mere inconvenience or additional expense is not the test of unreasonableness
. . .”’ of a mandatory forum selection clause. 
[Citation.]”  (Berg, supra,
61 Cal.App.4th at pp. 358-359.)
Plaintiff
states only that “all the work and services were performed in California by a California
business, without any involvement or activity in Massachusetts, Delaware, or any
other location.  [¶]  Under the circumstances, it would be extremely
unfair to require Plaintiff to file an action in Massachusetts, Delaware or another
location when the events occurred in California, Plaintiff is a California business,
Plaintiff did not do any business in Massachusetts, Delaware or other states relating
to this transaction.  [¶]  Denying Plaintiff the use of California courts
would be extremely unfair under the circumstances.”  (Opposition at p. 4; see Murat Decl.)
Plaintiff’s
conclusory assertion of unfairness is insufficient to show that application of the
forum selection clause is unfair or unreasonable.
CONCLUSION
The
motion to dismiss or stay action is GRANTED. 
This action is STAYED pending litigation in Massachusetts.
The
Court sets a Status Conference Re: Massachusetts Litigation for 11/19/2024 at 8:30
AM.  Five court days before, the parties are
to file a joint report on the status of the action in Massachusetts.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 16th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 