  Case Number:  21STCV44517    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  11 Reynoso (21STCV44517)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion for Class Certification
 
Date:                           7/11/24
Time:                          2:30
pm
Moving Party:           Antonia Reynoso (“Plaintiff”) 
Opposing Party:        Investco Wings, Inc. (“Defendant” or
“Investco Wings”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for class certification is continued.
 
During oral arguments, the Court intends to discuss the prospect of
certifying facial-challenge issue classes as to the meal-break and rest-break
claims.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
Investco Wings owns and operates a restaurant.  Plaintiff used to work there.  She alleges that Defendant subjected her and
other current and former employees to numerous wage-and-hour violations.
 
Here, Plaintiff
moves for class certification.
 
LAW
 
The plaintiff bears the burden of
demonstrating that class certification is proper.  (See City of San Jose v. Superior Court
(1974) 12 Cal.3d 447, 460; see also Caro v. Procter & Gamble Co.
(1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 644, 654.)  To do
so, [t]he party advocating class treatment must
demonstrate the existence of an ascertainable and sufficiently numerous class,
a well-defined community of interest, and substantial benefits from
certification that render proceeding as a class superior to the alternatives.”  (Brinker Restaurant Corp. v. Superior
Court (2012) 53 Cal.4th 1004, 1021.) 

 
DISCUSSION
 
Ascertainability
 
A class is “ascertainable when it is defined ‘in terms of objective
characteristics and common transactional facts’ that make ‘the ultimate
identification of class members possible when that identification becomes
necessary.’”  (Noel v. Thrifty
Payless, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 955, 980.)
 
“The
class must be ‘numerous’ in size.  But
there is no fixed minimum or maximum number . . . The numerosity analysis is
limited to how many individuals fall within the class definition and
whether their joinder is impracticable, not how many ‘net’ class members there
might be after considering affirmative defenses.”  (Edmon & Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2023 Update) ¶ 14:21,
emphasis in original.) 
 
“A party seeking class
certification bears the burden of satisfying the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 382, including numerosity, and the trial court is entitled to
consider ‘the totality of the evidence in making [the] determination’ of
whether a ‘plaintiff has presented substantial evidence of the class action
requisites.’”  (Soderstedt v. CBIZ S.
California, LLC (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 133, 154.)
 
Plaintiff seeks to certify four
class claims – failure to provide meal periods, failure to provide rest
periods, failure to pay for off-the-clock work, and failure to reimburse
uniform expenses.  The class claims are
different and have different facts and elements.  
 
The proposed class definition is
“all non-exempt employees who worked for Investco Wings in the South Pasadena
Wingstop between December 30, 2015 and the date of class certification.”  (Motion, p. 1.)
 
The putative class consists of 52
putative members.  (See id. at p. 8.)
 
Plaintiff contends:
 
* the fact that Defendant has
already identified the putative members demonstrates that the putative class is
“easily ascertainable” (ibid.); and 
 
* 52 putative members is enough
to meet the numerosity requirement.  (See
ibid.)
 
Defendant does not contest this
prong.  (See Opposition, pp. 6-15.) 
 
The Court finds the current
definition overbroad in that it applies to all employees, regardless of whether
they experienced some (or all) of the alleged violations.  Plaintiff is granted leave to propose
subclass definitions.
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff
as to the numerosity requirement; 52 putative members is more than enough.  (See Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:21.1
[instructing that “[n]o minimum number of plaintiffs is required as a matter of
law for maintenance of a state court class action”]; see also id. at ¶ 14:21.3
[finding a class of 10 permissible]; Hendershot v. Ready to Roll
Transportation, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1222-1223
[reversing denial of a nine-member class].) 

 
Commonality
 
“[T]he proponent of certification
must show, inter alia, that questions
of law or fact common to the class predominate over the questions affecting the
individual members[.]” (Washington Mutual Bank, FA v. Superior Court
(2001) 24 Cal.4th 906, 913.) This means “each member must not be
required to individually litigate numerous and substantial questions to
determine his [or her] right to recover following the class judgment[.]”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶
14:11.6.)  “[T]he issues which may be
jointly tried, when compared with those requiring separate adjudication, must
be sufficiently numerous and substantial to make the class action advantageous
to the judicial process and to the litigants.” (Ibid.)
 
Meal Breaks
 
An employer shall
not employ an employee for a work period of more than five hours per day
without providing the employee with a meal period of not less than 30 minutes,
except that if the total work period per day of the employee is no more than
six hours, the meal period may be waived by mutual consent of both the employer
and employee.
 
(Cal. Labor Code § 512, subd.
(a).)
 
“Employers
need not ‘ensure’ that no work is performed during a meal period.  So long as the employer relieves the employee
of all duties, the employer is not liable for a meal period premium if the
employee chooses to work (unless the employer deters or discourages the
employee from taking the meal period).” 
(Chin, et. al., Cal. Prac. Guide: Employment Litigation (The Rutter
Group 2022) ¶ 11:829.18, emphasis in original.) 
 
“Plaintiff’s
theory of recovery alleges that meal periods were routinely and
consistently interrupted – by the requirement that employees work during
meal breaks – such that employees were entitled to meal period penalty
pay.”  (Motion, p. 9, emphasis in
original; see also Reply, pp. 6-7.) 
Plaintiff claims “Defendants’ meal period policies were uniform, and
communicated via the same employee handbooks throughout the class period, did not
provide for penalty pay for interrupted meal periods.”  (Motion, p. 9-10, emphasis in original.)  “Moreover,” she claims “the policies
permitted managers to schedule meal breaks based on business needs.”  (Id. at p. 10.)  She contends “[t]here [] is a predominating
common issue of whether a meal or rest break is legally compliant if class
members are required to have on duty meal breaks that are interrupted.”  (Ibid.; see also Reply, pp. 5-7.)
 
Defendant disagrees.  Defendant says “[i]t is well-established that
if an employee voluntarily continues working during an off-duty meal period,
the employer will not be liable for premium pay; at most, it will be liable for
straight pay, and then only when it knew or reasonably should have known that
the worker was working through the authorized meal period.”  (Opposition, p. 7.)  Defendant claims Plaintiff’s evidence, at
most, shows that Plaintiff may have suffered violations but does not show
common harm to the putative class.  (See
id. at pp. 8-10.)
 
In reply, Plaintiff cites Donohue
v. AMN Services, LLC (2021) 11 Cal.5th 58 for the proposition
that “records showing non-compliant meal periods give rise to a rebuttable
presumption that the employer did not provide a compliant meal period.”  (Reply, p. 5.)
 
The Court turns to the
evidence.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration attaches four pieces of evidence – Defendant’s responses to special
interrogatories, which primarily concern ascertainability, Defendant’s break
policy, Defendant’s appearance policy, and Plaintiff’s declaration.  (See Segal Decl., Exs. 1-4.)  For meal breaks, Plaintiff’s moving brief
only cites the break policy and Plaintiff’s declaration.  (See Motion, pp. 6-7, 9-11.)  The break policy states:
 
In accordance with
state and local laws, non-exempt employees will be provided with meal and break
periods. Break periods of less than 20 minutes will be paid. Break periods
lasting longer than 20 minutes will be unpaid. 
 
Non-exempt employees
must be fully relieved of their job responsibilities and are not permitted to
work during unpaid break and meal periods of more than 20 minutes. If for any
reason a non-exempt employee does not take the applicable meal and rest period
that they are provided, the employee must notify his or her supervisor
immediately. 
 
INVESTCO WINGS INC
will schedule meal and break periods in order to accommodate Company operating
requirements.
 
* * *
 
Supervisors will
schedule meal and break periods in order to accommodate INVESTCO WINGS INC
operating requirements. Employees must take their meal and break periods, but
if for any reason a non-exempt employee does not take the applicable meal or
break period, the employee must notify his or her supervisor immediately.
 
(Segal Decl., Ex. 2, p. 17, §
4.6, p. 18, § 4.7.)  Plaintiff’s
declaration states:
 
8. Defendants did
not schedule meal or rest breaks for myself or other employees at my location. 
 
9. While working at
Wingstop, I commonly did not receive 30-minute uninterrupted meal breaks.
Further, approximately once or twice a week I was not provided with a meal
break until after the 5th hour of work. This would happen often
because the restaurant was busy and we were short staffed. I often was required
by Defendants to work through my meal break to care for customers. I estimate
that I worked through my meal breaks at least 30 times during my employment at
Wingstop. I saw my coworkers working through their meal breaks as well. 
 
10. My manger Joel
sometimes instructed me and my coworkers to clock out for a meal break and
continue working. Due to the heavy customer flow and being understaffed,
Defendants expected me and my co-workers to clock out and continue working
during meal breaks. 
 
11. My meal breaks
and rest breaks were sometimes interrupted by my supervisor telling me to come
back to work to assist them due to the heavy workload. My meal and rest breaks
were often interrupted by supervisors, general mangers, cashiers, cooks and customers.
My meal breaks were interrupted approximately 3 times a week. My rest breaks
were interrupted approximately 3 times a week. I saw that my co-workers meal
and rest breaks were also often interrupted. 
 
12. I often was not
able to take a meal or rest break due to being short staffed. Sometimes the
only employees in the restaurant were me, my manager Joel and the cook. 
 
13. I complained to
my Manager Joel multiple times that I was not able to take meal or rest breaks
due to the restaurant being busy and short staffed. 
 
14. During my
employment with Wingstop, I was not provided with another, thirty (30) minute
uninterrupted meal break at any time. 
 
15. On the occasions
that I worked a shift of 8 hours or more, I sometimes was not provided with a
second meal break.
 
(Id. at Ex. 4, ¶¶ 8-15.)  
 
The Court agrees with
Defendant.  Plaintiff’s evidence
indicates that Plaintiff worked through meal breaks and had interrupted meal
breaks on multiple occasions and that she sometimes saw similar things happen
to other employees.  What is missing,
however, is common proof of common harm. 
As applied to the other employees (and the putative class), Plaintiff
does not have personal knowledge.  The
other employees are unidentified; the dates of the incidents Plaintiff
witnessed are unidentified; there are no time records, declarations, or
deposition testimonies from the other employees showing that Defendant did not
pay them for the missed and interrupted meal breaks; and, although the break
policy states that “[s]upervisors will schedule meal and break periods in order
to accommodate INVESTCO WINGS INC operating requirements” (Id. at Ex. 2, p. 18,
§ 4.7), the policy language, alone, is inadequate to prove each element.  Bottom line, Plaintiff’s evidence lacks
foundation, is speculative, and does not constitute common evidence.
 
The Court finds that the hearing
should be continued.  The Court is
inclined to give Plaintiff a chance to file supplemental evidence.
 
As a matter of guidance, the Donohue
presumption is inapplicable.  Plaintiff’s
evidence does not include time records, let alone noncompliant ones.
 
Last point.  Plaintiff appears to make a facial challenge
to the meal-break policy.  (See Motion,
pp. 9-10.)  While it is within the
Court’s discretion to certify a facial-challenge issue class, Plaintiff does
not request it in her briefs.  The Court
intends to discuss this option at the hearing and will either reject the option
at that time or order supplemental briefing. 

 
Rest
Breaks
 
Where mandated by “a state law” (including statutes,
regulations, standards and orders of the IWC, the Occupational Safety and
Health Standards Board and the Division of Occupational Safety and Health),
employers must provide rest and recovery periods that “shall be
counted as hours worked” and “for which there shall be no deduction from
wages.” [Citation.]
 
In general, employers must provide paid rest periods of a
specified minimum duration (generally 10 minutes of rest for every 4 hours
worked). For shifts of less than 4 hours, employees are entitled to a
10-minute rest period after 3 1/2 hours. [Citations.]
 
Rest periods are to be permitted in the middle of
the shift “insofar as practicable” [citations]. According to one California
opinion, “departure from the preferred schedule is permissible only when the
departure (1) will not unduly affect employee welfare and (2) is tailored to
alleviate a material burden that would be imposed on the employer by implementing
the preferred schedule.” [Citation.]
 
(Chin, supra, at ¶¶ 11:829.5, emphasis in original.)
 
“An
employer who fails to provide compliant rest periods must pay the employee one
additional hour of pay at the employee’s “regular rate” for each day that a
rest period was not provided.”  (Id. at ¶
11:829.9.)
 
Plaintiff
asserts:
 
Defendant’s rest
break policy is deficient because it does not provide for premium pay, and
because it allows managers to schedule breaks based on business needs.
[Citation.] 
 
Plaintiffs also
pursue a theory of recovery that rest period penalty pay is owed to class
members for having their rest breaks interrupted by the off-the-clock
work. As shown above common issues of both fact and law predominate regarding
whether or not the off the clock work to assist clients qualified as “hours
worked” and were, therefore, compensable. 
 
The question of
whether these activities interrupted rest breaks implicates many of the same
common questions of law and fact since an employee must be relieved of all
duties and employer control during a rest break. [Citation.] When an employee
is required to submit to an employer’s control or work during a rest period the
“employee essentially performs ... ‘free’ work, i.e., the employee receives the
same amount of compensation for working through the rest periods that the
employee would have received had he or she been permitted to take [off-duty]
rest periods” [Citation.]
 
(Motion, p. 11, emphasis in
original; see also Reply, pp. 7-8.) 
 
Defendant responds:
 
An employer must
“authorize and permit” such breaks, “subject to a duty to make a good faith
effort” to schedule such breaks “in the middle of each work period,” but may
deviate “where practical considerations render it infeasible.” [Citation.]
 
Setting aside
Plaintiff’s self-serving declaration, her actual testimony noted that employees
worked out with each other when to take breaks and that when Plaintiff was in
charge, she did not interfere with employee-selected break times and always
tried to ensure employees received breaks.
 
(Opposition, p. 7; see also id.
at p. 8 [contending Plaintiff fails to “provide common proof”].)
 
The Court agrees with
Defendant.  Plaintiff cites the same
documents that she cites in support of the meal-breaks claim.  (See Motion, pp. 6-7, 11-12.)  Again, the break policy and Plaintiff’s
declaration do not suffice as common proof. 
They do not identify the other employees or the dates of the incidents
Plaintiff saw, nor do they establish that Defendant failed to pay the other
employees for missed and interrupted rest breaks.  (See, e.g., Segal Decl., Ex. 4, ¶¶ 16-18.).[1]  
 
Plaintiff’s cases do not change
the outcome.  The absence of common
evidence renders them distinguishable. 
(See Motion, pp. 11-12 [citing, for example, Safeway v. Superior
Court (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1138, Alberts v. Aurora
Behavioral Health Care (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 388, Bufil v.
Dollar Financial Group, Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1193, and Jimenez
v. Allstate Ins. Co. (9th Cir. 2014) 765 F.3d 1161].)
 
The hearing is continued, and Plaintiff
is granted leave to submit supplemental evidence.
 
The option of certifying a
facial-challenge issue class will be addressed at the July 11th
hearing.
 
Off-the-Clock
Work
 
“An
employer must compensate nonexempt employees for ‘off-the-clock’ work (before
punching in or after punching out on a time clock) if the employer knows or
should have known the employees were working those hours.”  (Chin, supra, at ¶ 11:827.5, emphasis in
original.)
 
Plaintiff
claims:
 
Defendants’ policies
and practices give rise to predominate common questions of fact and law.
Employees were required by managers to perform off-the-clock work during meal
and rest breaks and prior to and after their shifts. 
 
Plaintiff’s theory
of recovery gives rise to predominate common questions of law, the most
important being whether or not employees should have been compensated for the
time spent working before and after their scheduled shifts, such as time spent
waiting for another employee to arrive and for time spent training. . . .
 
(Motion, p. 13; see also Reply,
pp. 8-11.)
 
Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff
fails to show” a common “policy of requiring off-the-clock work[.]”  (Opposition, p. 10.)  In fact, Defendant contends its policies “expressly
prohibit” such work.  (Ibid.,
emphasis in original; see also id. at pp. 10-11.)
 
The Court agrees with
Defendant.  Plaintiff cites paragraph 22
of her declaration (see Motion, pp. 6-7, 13-14), which merely discusses
Plaintiff’s paychecks:
 
22. My paychecks
were often inaccurate. My paychecks would not reflect all the meal or rest
period premiums I was owed when I could not take meal or rest breaks. Nor did
any paycheck include a reimbursement for the uniform I purchased for work at
Wingstop. Defendants often did not pay me for all hours worked. Sometimes my
paystubs would reflect that I works 2-7 hours less than I actually worked.
Sometimes Defendants seemed to have omitted overtime hours from my paystub, or
paid overtime hours at the regular hourly rate rather than paying me time and a
half for overtime hours worked. I confronted my managers including Joel about
the pay problems. Joel said he would look into it, but the issues were not
corrected. I also complained to my supervisor Carlos about the pay discrepancy,
but nothing was done by him to correct the issues.
 
(Segal Decl., Ex. 4, ¶ 22.)  Paragraph 23, which is uncited, states:
 
23. I heard my
co-workers complaining to our supervisor Carlos that they were not paid for all
hours worked. My co-workers complained with each other that they were not paid
for all hours worked and that Carlos did not resolve their complaints about not
being paid for all hours worked.
 
(Id. at Ex. 4, ¶ 23.)  The statement amounts to hearsay, is
speculative, and fails to show a common policy, common misconduct, and common
harm.  
 
Plaintiff cites Cicairos v. Summit Logistics, Inc. (2005) 133
Cal.App.4th 949, claiming “Defendants cannot argue that the lack of
records somehow weighs against certification, liability, or damages.”  (Motion, p. 14; see also Reply, p. 10.)  
 
True, “[e]mployees are not penalized because of their employer’s
failure to keep adequate records.” 
(Chin, supra, at ¶ 11:439.)  “They
can meet their burden of proof in wage actions by their own testimony showing
that they have in fact performed work for which they have not been properly
compensated.”  (Ibid.)  “They need not prove the precise hours
worked; they need only produce sufficient evidence to show the amount and
extent of such work as a mater of a just and reasonable inference.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)
 
“The burden then shifts to the employer to come forward with evidence of the precise amount of work
performed or that negates the reasonableness of the inference the employee's
evidence supports.”  (Id. at ¶
11:440.)  “If the employer fails to
produce such evidence, the court may then award damages to the employee, even
though the result is only approximate.” 
(Ibid.)
 
In Cicairos, truck drivers
alleged meal-break, rest-break, and wage-statement violations against their
employer.  The Court of Appeal denied the
employer’s motion for summary judgment because the computer systems installed
on the trucks had not scheduled or recorded meal breaks.  (See Cicairos, supra, 133 Cal.App.4th
at 962-963.)  The justices determined
that the lack of data in the computer systems should be held against the
employer.  As a result, they found that
the employer failed to meet its burden to show that meal breaks had been
provided.  (Id. at 963.)
 
The situation here is different.  Plaintiff bears the burden at the
certification stage.  Her evidence is
objectionable, fails to show a common
policy, common misconduct, and common harm, and does not support an inference
in her favor.
 
The Court continues the hearing and grants Plaintiff permission to file
supplemental evidence.
 
Uniform
Reimbursement
 
“[A]n
employer must indemnify its employees ‘for all necessary expenditures or losses
incurred by the employee in direct consequence of the discharge of his or
her duties . . . .”  (Chin, supra, at
¶3:2, emphasis in original.)  
 
This
rule applies to uniforms.  “If the
employer requires its employees to wear uniforms at work, the employer must furnish
the uniform and pay for its upkeep.” 
(Id. at ¶ 5:1402, emphasis in original; see also id. at ¶ 11:462
[same].)
 
Plaintiff
contends Defendant required the putative class to wear Wingstop shirts.  She claims Defendant provided one to two
shirts per employee but did not maintain them. 
She says she and “her coworkers were faced with the choice of
either washing their uniforms themselves every night or purchasing extra
uniforms at their own expense.”  (Motion,
pp. 1; see also Reply, pp. 11-12.)
 
Defendant
states:
 
Plaintiff admits
that she never had to purchase the Wingstop uniform in her deposition.
Defendant has a policy where an employee may be reimbursed for preapproved
expenses, provided they submit expense reports, and Plaintiff admits that she
never did so. Plaintiff cannot claim she was not reimbursed for a business
expense when she never asked for a reimbursement or establish a common policy.
Additionally, even if Plaintiff was required to purchase such items, black
pants and shoes are the type of “basic wardrobe item” that is generally usable
in the occupation without reimbursement. Lastly, even if Plaintiff had to
launder her uniform, she presents no evidence whatsoever that this required
“special laundering,” or “more than ‘minimal care’ by modern standards.”
[Citation.]
 
Plaintiff therefore
presents no common proof that employees are not reimbursed for uniforms, and no
uniform policy that employees are required to purchase uniforms in the first
place.
 
(Opposition, p. 12.)
 
The Court agrees with
Defendant.  Plaintiff relies on
Defendant’s appearance policy and her declaration, paragraph 21.  (See Motion, pp. 1, 7, 14.)  The appearance policy states that “[o]nly
company approved uniforms” “are considered appropriate workplace attire[,]”
except when “management designates ‘casual days[.]’”  (Segal Decl., Ex. 3, p. 32, § 6.4.)  It does not address the number of shirts,
maintenance, replacement, who pays, etc. 
Paragraph 21 provides:
 
21. Plaintiff and
the putative class members were required to maintain uniforms that Defendants
required they wear on the job on their own time and at their own expense.
Defendants only provided me and my coworkers with 1 or 2 Wingstop shirts.
Defendants would admonish me and my coworkers for having dirty uniforms despite
only providing one or two Wingstop t-shirts to us. Me and my coworkers
repeatedly requested additional shirts, but they were not provided. This meant
that me and my coworkers had to wash our Wingstop uniform ourselves every night
or every other night, or purchase extra uniforms at our expense.
 
(Id. at Ex. 4, ¶ 21.)  It contains hearsay and is speculative as to
the putative class.  Neither document
demonstrates common harm or a predominating common question.
 
The hearing is continued.  Plaintiff is free to file supplemental
evidence.
 
Typicality
 
“The ‘test
of typicality is whether other members have the same or similar injury, whether
the action is based on conduct which is not unique to the named plaintiffs, and
whether other class members have been injured by the same course of conduct.’”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:29
[quoting Martinez v. Joe’s Crab Shack Holdings (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th
362, 375].)
 
“That
the purported class representative's claims must be ‘typical’ does not mean
they must be identical to the claims of other class members.  It is sufficient that the representative is
similarly situated so that he or she will have the motive to litigate on behalf
of all class members.”  (Id. at ¶
14:29.2.)  “Thus, it is not necessary
that the class representative have personally incurred all of the
damages suffered by each of the other class members.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)
 
The
class representative’s claim is atypical “if it is subject to ‘factually
intensive or legally complex unique defenses that pose any significant risk
of diverting [plaintiff’s] attention from class
issues.’”  (Id. at ¶ 14:35.10 [citing Fireside
Bank v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 1069] emphasis in
original.) 
 
Defendant claims Plaintiff is
atypical because she worked as a shift leader, and she fails to “show that
compliant, off-duty meal periods were not made available to her[.]”  (Opposition, p. 14.)
 
The Court disagrees.  Plaintiff’s claims and the putative class
members’ claims derive from “the same events, practices, or courses of conduct”
and are “based on the same legal theories.” 
(Motion, p. 15.)  Her declaration
and her deposition testimony demonstrate multiple potential violations during
her employment period.  (See, e.g., Segal
Decl., Ex. 4, ¶ 22 [declaring that Defendant did not pay Plaintiff for all of
the missed and interrupted breaks]; see also, e.g., Grant Decl., Ex. A, pp.
27-28, 44-45, 75-78, 93-94.)  She is
typical.[2]  
 
Defendant’s “shift leader”
argument is unavailing.  Plaintiff was a
shift leader for two of the four years that Defendant employed her.  (See Reply, p. 3.)  When she was a cashier, she and the putative
class members were similarly situated.  
 
Adequacy
 
“The
class representative, through qualified counsel, must be capable of ‘vigorously
and tenaciously’ protecting the interests of the class members.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:36.)
 
“The
prospective class representative must file a declaration stating that he or she
desires to represent the class and understands the fiduciary obligations of
serving as class representative.  Counsel’s
declaration to that effect will not suffice.” 
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff does not understand her fiduciary duties.  (See Opposition, p. 15.)
 
The
Court disagrees.  Plaintiff’s declaration
and Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration contain the necessary information.  (See Segal Decl., ¶¶ 3-7; see also id. at Ex.
4, ¶¶ 24-26.)
 
Defendant’s
citation to Plaintiff’s deposition transcript, pages 90-94, is
unpersuasive.  On those pages, Plaintiff
says she did not keep a log or documentation of her missed and interrupted
breaks.  (See Kohler Decl., Ex. 1, pp.
90-94 [further stating that her fiduciary responsibility is to “do [her] best”
to “say[] everything that happened”].) 
The statements do not establish that she fails to understand her
obligations as a class representative.
 
Manageability
and Superiority
 
“The
proponent of class certification must demonstrate that the proposed class
action is manageable [citation].”  (Edmon
& Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:11.10.)  “This
requires the trial court ‘to carefully weigh the respective benefits and
burdens of a class action, and to permit its maintenance only where
substantial benefits will be accrued by both litigants and the courts alike.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original.)  
 
“In certifying a class action,
the court must also conclude that litigation of individual issues, including
those arising from affirmative defenses, can be managed fairly and
efficiently.”  (Duran v. U.S. Bank
Nat. Assn. (2014) 59 Cal. 4th 1, 28-29.) 
“Trial courts must pay careful attention to manageability when deciding
whether to certify a class action.  In
considering whether a class action is a superior device for resolving a
controversy, the manageability of individual issues is just as important as the
existence of common questions uniting the proposed class.”  (Id. at 29.)
 
“A class action is not ‘superior’ where there are numerous and substantial questions affecting each class
member's right to recover, following determination of liability to the class as
a whole.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at
¶ 14:46, emphasis in original.)
 
Plaintiff contends this prong is satisfied because common
questions predominate, and she claims she does not need to file a trial
plan.  (See Motion, p. 17; see also
Reply, pp. 12-14; cf. Opposition, pp. 12-13 [stating that “Plaintiff presents
absolutely no trial plan, and fails to otherwise address how the individualized
issues and defenses may be tried in a manageable way”].)
 
In light of the commonality analysis, the Court
disagrees.  Trial plan or not, the class method is inferior on the current record
because Plaintiff fails to demonstrate predominating common issues.
 
There
is a possible exception.  If the Court
ends up certifying facial-challenge issue classes for the meal-break and
rest-break claims, the class method will be manageable and superior for that
purpose.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


