

Hearing Date:             July 26, 2024
Case Name:                 Blaine Gregory Roque, et al.
v. Knight Claremont, Inc., et al.
Case
No.:                    24STCV01536
Motion:                       Motion
to Compel Arbitration
Moving
Party:             Defendant Knight
Claremont Inc.

Responding Party:      Plaintiffs Blaine Gregory Roque, Michael
Alexander Luna, Sean Michael Henderson


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted.
 

 
This is a wrongful termination
action.  Plaintiffs Blaine Gregory Roque
(“Roque”), Michael Alexander Luna (“Luna”), and Sean Michael Henderson
(“Henderson”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) initiated this action against
Defendants Knight Claremont, Inc. and Knight Automotive Group, LLC, alleging
the following causes of action: (1) whistleblower retaliation in violation of
Labor Code § 1102.5; (2) negligent supervision and retention; (3) breach of
express oral contract not to terminate without good cause; (4) breach of
implied-in-fact contract not to terminate employment without good cause; (5) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy; and (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress. 
 
On March 26, 2024, Defendant Knight
Claremont Inc. filed its answer to the Complaint. 
 
On June 12, 2024, Plaintiffs
voluntarily dismissed Defendant Knight Automotive Group, LLC without prejudice.
 
On June 14, 2024, Defendant Knight
Claremont Inc. (hereinafter, “Defendant”) filed a motion to compel arbitration.
Thereafter, on June 17, 2024, Defendant filed an amended motion to compel
arbitration pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), 9 U.S.C. § 2, and
Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1281.2 and 1281.4 on the ground that Plaintiffs
entered into valid and enforceable arbitration agreements in connection with their
employment with Defendant. Defendants further request the current action to be
stayed during the pendency of arbitration. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
California law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained
in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of
arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.) The petitioner bears
the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The Court is empowered by Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes
pursuant to an agreement to do so.  
 
The party petitioning to compel arbitration under written arbitration
agreement bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and the party opposing the
petition must meet the same evidentiary burden to prove any facts necessary to
its defense. The trial court acts as the trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2; Provencio v. WMA Securities, Inc.
(2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.)  
 
Discussion
 
A.   
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement
 
Under the California law,
arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such
grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the
court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the court
in making this determination. (Mendez v.
Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) With
respect to the moving party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of
an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present
a copy of the contract to the court.” (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218.)
 
Here, the Court finds that
Defendant has satisfied its initial burden by submitting evidence that
Plaintiffs each signed separate arbitration agreements in connection with their
employment with Defendant. As to Plaintiff Roque, Defendant has shown that he
signed two separate arbitration agreements. Plaintiff Roque first signed an
arbitration agreement on September 16, 2022, along with other employment
documents. (David. Decl. ¶¶ 23-26, Exh. 1-2.) Notably, even though this
agreement contained an opt-out provision, Plaintiff Roque made no attempt to
exercise this option. (Id. at ¶¶ 27-30.) Thereafter, Plaintiff Roque
electronically signed a second arbitration agreement on February 3, 2023 via
HRHotlink.com. (Davis Decl. ¶¶ 18-21, 33-34; Exh. 4.) This agreement also
included an opt-out provision that specified the methods in which an employee
can exercise this option. Again, however, Plaintiff Roque did not elect to opt
out of arbitration. (Davis Decl. ¶¶ 35-37; Benbow Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. 16.)
 
With regard to Plaintiff Luna,
Defendant has shown that he electronically signed two separate arbitration
agreements. Plaintiff Luna first signed an arbitration agreement on November
17, 2022 as part of the application process. (Davis Decl. ¶¶ 8-12, 40,48; Exhs.
7, 9.) Plaintiff Luna also signed a separate arbitration agreement on November
23, 2022. (Davis Decl. ¶¶ 39, 41-42; Exh. 5-6.) 
 
On October 4, 2022, Plaintiff
Henderson, as part of the application process, electronically signed an
arbitration agreement. (Davis Decl. ¶¶ 6-13, 53-54, 56; Exhs. 10-12.) 
 
Defendant submitted the declaration
of Brandy Davis, who explained the safety precautions associated with using
HRHotlink.com in order to ensure the authenticity of the signatures collected.
(Davis Decl. ¶¶ 8, 20.) Namely, employees are required to use their own unique
email address and password to access the website before being directed to the
documents that need to be signed. The employee’s email address must be verified
first before proceeding with the process. Thus, Defendant has authenticated the
electronic signatures of the each Plaintiff. (See Espejo v. Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1062
[discussing how an electronic signature is properly authenticated].)
 
Based on this evidence, the Court finds that Defendant has met its
initial burden to show that there are arbitration agreements that exist between
Defendant and each Plaintiff. Furthermore, as indicated in the aforementioned
agreements, the FAA is the governing law. (Ibid.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contest
the validity of certain agreements. Plaintiff Roque argues that he signed the
September 16, 2022 arbitration agreement under duress because the human
resource manager, Stephen Miarecki, stated that Plaintiff Roque could not be
paid until he signed all of the onboarding documents. (Roque Decl. ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff Roque further attests that Mr. Miarecki stated that he could not take
the documents to look them over. Economic duress occurs when a party is induced
by an act so coercive as to cause a reasonably prudent person faced with such
act to have no reasonable alternative and agree to an unfavorable contract
regardless of its terms. (Tarpy v. County of San Diego (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 267, 277.) Economic duress applies only when one party does a
wrongful act that is sufficiently coercive that a reasonably prudent person
would feel there is no alternative and agree to the contract. (CrossTalk
Productions, Inc. v. Jacobsen (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 644; Rich &
Whillock, Inc. v. Ashton Development, Inc. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 1154,
1158.) Based on Plaintiff Roque’s declaration, the Court concludes that the
signature procured on September 16, 2022 was not the result of economic duress.
Mr. Miarecki’s statements do not suggest that Plaintiff Roque could not have
reviewed the documents when they were presented to him. Thus, a reasonably
prudent person would not have felt they had no alternative but to agree to the
arbitration agreement. After all,
Plaintiff’s “failure to take measures to learn the contents of the document
[he] signed is attributable to [his] own negligence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 431.) 
 
In any case, it is undisputed that
Plaintiff signed a subsequent arbitration agreement on February 3, 2023. As to
this agreement, Plaintiff Roque contends that he opted out of the arbitration
agreement signed on February 3, 2023 because he had submitted a letter opting
out 
with Diane Agapay, a human resource employee. (Roque Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. 3.)
However, this method did not comply with the opt out procedure set out within
the arbitration agreement. In it, it states that an employee must provide
notice of opting out of the arbitration agreement by either (1) personally
delivering a letter to the Human Resource manager, or (2) sending an email to smiarecki@sunriseford.com.
(Davis Decl., Exh. 4 at pg. 2.) The evidence submitted by Plaintiffs does not
suggest that Ms. Agapay is a Human Resource manager, and there is no evidence
to show that Plaintiff Roque provided notice to Mr. Miarecki via email.
Therefore, an agreement to arbitrate exists between Plaintiff Roque and
Defendant. 
 
Plaintiffs Henderson and Luna deny
signing their respective arbitration agreement on October 19, 2022 and November
23, 2022. (Henderson Decl. ¶ 8; Luna Decl. ¶ 8.) Athough these plaintiffs do
not recall electronically signing an arbitration agreement that was presented
to them during the application process (Henderson Decl. ¶ 6, Luna Decl. ¶ 6),
Defendant has authenticated these signatures. Therefore, an agreement to
arbitrate exists between these plaintiffs and Defendant.
 
Accordingly, the Court shall next
address whether these arbitration agreements are unconscionable.
 
B.   
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiffs argue that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable because
it is substantively and procedurally unconscionable.  (Opposition at pp. pp. 6-11.)
 
An agreement is unenforceable if it is both procedurally and
substantively unconscionable.  (OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125; Sanchez v. Valencia Holding
Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 910.) 
But procedural and substantive unconscionability need not be present in
the same degree.   (OTO, supra,
8 Cal.5th at 125.)  Courts use a “sliding
scale” approach—“the more substantively unconscionable the contract term, the
less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Armendariz v. Found Health Psychcare
Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)  
Under general contract principles, unconscionability has both a
procedural and substantive element, with the former focusing on oppression or
surprise due to unequal bargaining power, and the latter focusing on overly
harsh or one-sided rules (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
114.)  Both procedural and substantive unconscionability must be
present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to
enforce a contract on the basis of unconscionability.  (Stirlen v.
Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1533.)
 
                                
i.        
Procedural Unconscionability
 
“Procedural unconscionability pertains to the making of the agreement; it
focuses on the oppression that arises from unequal bargaining power and the
surprise to the weaker party that results from hidden terms or the lack of
informed choice.”  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012)
203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)  Arbitration clauses are often found in
adhesion contracts (standardized contracts drafted by a party of superior
bargaining power and presented to the weaker party on a take-it-or-leave-it
basis).  (See, e.g., Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at
113-114.)  
 
Here, Plaintiffs first argue that the arbitration agreements is
procedurally unconscionable because it is an adhesion contract. (Opposition at
pp. 7-8.) The mere fact an adhesion contract is involved does not per se
render the arbitration provision unenforceable because such contracts
are “an inevitable fact of life for all citizens—businessman and consumer
alike.”  (Graham v. Scissor-Tail, Inc.¿(1981) 28 Cal.3d 807,
817.) 
 
Second, Plaintiffs argue that oppression was present because the parties
are unsophisticated to understand the implications of the arbitration agreement
as they were unfamiliar with the legal jargon used within those agreements.
(Opposition at pg. 8; Roque Decl., ¶ 6, Henderson Decl. ¶ 6, Luna Decl. ¶ 6.) This
argument is unpersuasive because Plaintiffs’ declarations do not set forth
their respective educations and experience to suggest that they were truly
unsophisticated parties. In any case, Plaintiffs failed to read the agreements
before signing them.
 
Third, Plaintiffs argue that they were never advised of the significance
the arbitration agreements, and they were never provided a copy of the
agreements once they were signed. (Opposition at pp. 8-9.)  Defendant asserts that the arbitration
agreements prominently explained that by agreeing the Plaintiffs gave up a
right to a jury trial. Each Plaintiff was presented with an arbitration
agreement along with several onboarding documents.
 
Fourth, Plaintiffs contend there is evidence of surprise because the
arbitration agreements were buried within other documents unrelated to
arbitration and the agreements themselves are not conspicuously written. (Reply
at pp. 9-10.) These arguments are only slightly persuasive. Surprise occurs
“where the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed
form.” (Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.)
As stated above, the arbitration agreements were included with several other
documents. The text of the arbitration agreements is conspicuously written and
easy to read.
 
Lastly, Plaintiffs argue that they were never provided with a copy of the
arbitration rules, and the arbitration agreements that Plaintiffs Luna and
Henderson signed were vague as to which rules are followed. (Reply at pg. 10; Roque
Decl. ¶ 8, Henderson Decl. ¶ 9, Luna Decl. ¶ 11.) But the arbitration agreement
that Roque signed states that the arbitration rules from JAMS would apply, and
the agreement includes a link to find where these rules can be found. (Davis
Decl. Exh. 4.) Thus, while the applicable rules were not provided, they were
not artfully hidden from Plaintiff Roque. (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246.) Also, the failure to attach a copy of the
arbitration rules is not in of itself an indication of procedural
unconscionability. (Lane v. Francis Cap. Mgmt, LLC (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 676, 692.)  
 
With regard to Plaintiffs Luna and Henderson, the absence of arbitration
rules does raise an issue. Other than stating that arbitration would be
governed by the Federal Arbitration Act and the California Arbitration Act,
these arbitration agreements fail to articulate the specific rules that would
apply during arbitration or where to find them. 
Although the procedure for selecting the arbitrator is disclosed, the
governing arbitration rules are not.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that
there is a slight degree of procedural unconscionability because the
arbitration agreements are adhesion contracts and, as to Plaintiffs Luna and
Henderson, a moderate degree of procedural unconscionability because the arbitration
rules were not referenced or included.
 
                               
ii.        
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Substantive unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the
agreement and evaluates whether the terms create overly harsh or
one-sided results as to shock the conscience.  (Suh v. Superior Court (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515; Sanchez, supra, 61 Cal.4th at
910-911 [an “old-fashioned bad bargain” or a contract term which “merely
gives one side a greater benefit” insufficient].) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreements have a high degree of
substantive unconscionability for the following reasons.  First, Plaintiff contends that the
arbitration agreements are indefinite in scope and duration.  (Opposition at pp. 9-13, relying on Cook
v. University of Southern California, et al., (2024)102 Cal.App.5th 312.)
As to the arbitration agreements signed by Plaintiffs Henderson and Luna,
Plaintiff references the following language to show that the agreements are
indefinite in duration and scope: “Our agreement to arbitrate includes any and
all claims which arise out of the employment context or any other
interaction/relationship we had, have or may have in the future.” (David. Decl.
¶¶ 50-51, 54, Exh. 9, 12 at ¶ 4.) Also, these arbitration agreements are
intended to cover “the Company’s owners, directors, officers, managers,
employees, agents, partners, attorneys, sister companies…affiliated
persons/entities, independent contractors…” (Ibid.) But Plaintiffs
ignore language that defines what claims are covered by these arbitrations, all
of which arise from the Plaintiffs’ employment with Defendant. Thus, in
actuality, the arbitration agreements are limited in scope to claims that arise
during or related to Plaintiff’s employment.
 
            As to
Plaintiff Roque, Plaintiffs contend that the following language is
impermissibly overbroad: “Employee and Dealership agree to resolve by final and
binding arbitration any dispute, claim, or controversy, including but not
limited to those related to Employee’s employment with or termination of
employment by Dealership, its affiliated entities, or their respective
officers, directors, employees, or agents.” (David Decl. ¶ 34, Exh. 4 at ¶ 1.)
This exact language has been found to be reasonable. (Little v. Auto
Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1069-1070.) Therefore, there is no
basis to substantiate the Plaintiff Roque’s argument that his arbitration agreement
is substantively unconscionably on this ground.
 
            Lastly, Plaintiffs
argue that the arbitration agreements are substantively unconscionable because
it prevents them from engaging in collective action but allows Defendants to
join other plaintiffs to the instant action. (Reply at pg. 13.) This argument
is unpersuasive. There is no indication that Plaintiff’s claims give rise to a
class action or that other individuals could be joined in this action. 
 
            Consequently, Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden
in showing that there is any degree of substantive unconscionability in the
arbitration agreements that they executed. Accordingly, the Court declines to
find that these agreements are unconscionable. 

 
Plaintiffs alternatively request the Court to hold an evidentiary hearing
pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1306 in order to present
extrinsic evidence and oral testimony before the Court. The Court finds no
basis for this request; it is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
The motion to compel arbitration is
granted.