  Case Number:  20STCV38914¿    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, June 13, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   20STCV38914¿
CASE NAME:                        Emsaffa
Corporation, a Delaware Corporation v. Steven Powers, as trustee under Amended
and Restated Trust Agreement for R.E.I. 401(k) Trust entered into December 29,
2009 and effective as of January 1, 2009, et al.¿
MOVING PARTY:                 Cross-Defendants Ahmad M.
Alomani and Markab Capital General Trading Co. SPC
OPPOSING PARTY:             Cross-Complainant Marquez Pacific
View, LLC
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to Second Amended
Cross-Complaint with Motion to Strike
OPPOSITION:                        31 May 2024
REPLY:                                  6
June 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Cross-Defendants Alomani and Markab’s
demurrer to the SACC is sustained with leave to amend. Cross-Defendants’ Motion
to Strike is also granted with leave to amend. Cross-Complainant is granted 30
days leave to amend. A Non-Appearance OSC re: Amended Complaint is set for July
26, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Cross-Defendants
to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This
is an action for quiet title arising in connection with various properties with
APN numbers 4419-015-196, 4419-015-197, 4419-015-022 and 4419-015-026 (the
“Properties”). Plaintiff Emsaffa Corporation (“Emsaffa”) alleges that
Defendants Steven Powers, as trustee under Amended and Restated Trust Agreement
for R.E.I. 401(k) Trust entered into December 29, 2009, and effective as of
January 1, 2009 (“Powers”), Marcos Vivian (“Vivian”) and Marquez Pacific View,
LLC (“MPV”) each claim an interest in the Properties. Emsaffa alleges that
because it is the lender and beneficiary of the Properties, it holds a Deed of Trust
secured by the Properties and now seeks to secure that interest.¿¿ 
 
Emsaffa’s Complaint alleges two causes of action: (1) quiet
title, and (2) declaratory relief.¿¿ 
 
On January 20, 2021, MVP filed
a Cross-Complaint against Emsaffa and Cross-Defendants, Ahmad M. Alomani
(“Alomani”), Vicino Limited Partnership (“Vicino”), Markab Capital Will, a
Kuwait Company. (“Markab”). According to the Cross-Complaint, Cross-Defendants,
who are lenders and investors, have allegedly implemented a scheme to obtain
property owned by MVP by preventing MVP from redeeming on the loan, charging
usurious interest, and conducting other improper lending practices.¿
On February 13,
2024, the court sustained Cross-Defendants Alomani and Markab’s demurrer to the
First Amended Cross-Complaint. On March 14, 2024, Cross-Complainant MPV filed
the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”). 
 
The SACC alleges
eleven causes of action: 1) Declaratory Relief as to the existence of
usury and amount due on usurious contract against Emsaffa, (2) Declaratory
Relief as to the 18% default interest rate against Emsaffa, (3) Declaratory
Relief as to other amounts demanded by Emsaffa, (4) Declaratory Relief as to
notice of default against Emsaffa, (5) Cancellation of Instrument against
Emsaffa, (6) Breach of Contract against Emsaffa, (7) Intentional Interference
with Prospective Economic Relations against all Cross-Defendants, (8) Negligent
interference with Prospective Economic Relations against Alomani and Markab,
(9) Intentional Interference with Economic Relations against Alomani and
Markab, (10) Fraud against all Cross-Defendants, and (11) Unfair, Unlawful and
Fraudulent Business Acts and Practices against all Cross-Defendants.¿¿ 
 
Cross-Defendants
Alomani and Markab now demurrer to the SACC as to seventh, eighth, ninth,
tenth, and eleventh causes of action and move to strike the SACC. Cross-Complainant
MPV opposes the motions. The matter is now before the court. 
 
request
for JUDICIAL notice
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d), and (h).) 
 
Cross-Defendant
Alomani and Markab request judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
That certain NOTICE OF
DEFAULT AND ELECTION TO SELL UNDER DEED OF TRUST, which was recorded in the
official records of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on December 14,
2018, as Instrument No.: 20181268882, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit
A.
 
2)    
That certain ASSIGNMENT OF
DEED OF TRUST, which was recorded in the official records of the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office on October 25, 2019, as Instrument No.: 20191147840, a
copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B. 
 
Cross-Defendants
request for judicial notice is granted. “Taking judicial notice of a document
is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a
particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986)
184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
Demurrer
with motion to strike[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th
861, 872.)¿For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the
demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
 
A.        Summary of
Allegations against Cross-Defendants


The SACC alleges that in 2019, MPV had an economic relationship
with Vicino Limited Partnership (“Vicino”) consisting of a Promissory Note and
Deed of Trust (collectively the “Loan”). (SACC, ¶¶ 22, 128.) On or about August
5, 2025, MPV borrowed $1,600,000 from Cross-Defendant Vicino pursuant to a
Promissory Note Secured by Deed of Trust of that date (the “Promissory Note”).
(SACC, ¶ 10, Ex. A.) Concurrently with the Promissory Note, MPV executed a Deed
of Trust, Assignment of Leases And Rents, Fixture Filing, and Security
Agreement; Request for Notice (the “Deed of Trust”) on several parcels of land
owned by MPV (the “Property”). (SACC, ¶ 14, Ex. B.) 
 
The Loan was modified four times and on December 14, 2028, Best
Alliance Foreclosure and Lien Services, Corp. (“Best Alliance”), as trustee
under the Deed of Trust, pursuant to instructions from Vicino, purportedly
recorded a “Notice of Default and Election to Sell Under Deed of Trust” against
the Property (the “Notice of Default”) claiming that MVP had defaulted under
the Promissory Note by failing to pay “the balance of principal and interest
which became due on 8/1/2018.” (SACC, ¶¶ 22-27.) The SACC alleges that in March
2019, Cross-Defendants Alomani and Markab entered negotiations for purchasing
the Property, but rather than purchasing the property from MPV, Alomani and
Markab created Emsaffa to purchase the Loan from Vicino despite “knowing that
an invalid and void Notice of Default had already been recorded, in order to
strong-arm Marquez Pacific into selling the Property to Alomani and Markab
Capital for a much lower sale price than the parties had previously discussed.”
(SACC, ¶ 38.) 
 
In the meantime, from April to August 2019, MPV was in
negotiations about obtaining a forbearance and modification of the Loan from
Vicino while MPV continued discussing the sale of the Property to Alomani and
Markab. (SACC, ¶¶ 39-40.) The forbearance was due to end on October 1, 2019.
(SACC, ¶ 45.) As Alomani and Markab had a membership interest in MPV, MPV was
under the belief that Alomani and Markab were working on obtaining a
forbearance and/or modification on the Loan to help MPV and allow time for the
proposed purchase of the Property by Alomani and Markab. (SACC, ¶¶ 33, 43, 44.)
“Alomani and Markab Capital empowered themselves by dangling the prospect of an
investment or purchase of the Property in front of [MPV] while simultaneously
inserting themselves into discussions between Marquez Pacific and Vicino
relating to a loan forbearance or modification.” (SACC, ¶ 45.) The SACC alleges Alomani and Markab were
involved in the discussions about obtaining a forbearance and/or loan
modification and were in a confidential relationship with MPV. (SACC, ¶¶
48-55.)
 
On
September 6, 2019, Alomani and Markab emailed MPV and told them that the
transaction did not make business sense and the newly proposed terms were not
at all agreeable to MPV. (SACC, ¶ 57.) On September 11, 2019, Vicino's proposed
terms for a forbearance/modification/ extension on the Loan “were much worse”
for MPV. (SACC, ¶¶ 59, 60.) On information and belief, MPV states that Vicino
stopped all further discussions about a forbearance/modification/ extension
after September 11, 2019, because Emsaffa approached Vicino about purchasing
the Loan. (SACC, ¶ 62.) “Alomani, and Markab
Capital, had convinced Vicino to stop negotiating with [MPV] and instead sell
the Loan to Emsaffa Corp. Alomani, Markab Capital, Emsaffa Corp., and Vicino
entered into a conspiracy to prevent [MPV] from obtaining a forbearance or modification
of the Loan[.]” (SACC, ¶ 62.) By purchasing the Loan from Vicino, Alomani and
Markab could leverage “the wrongfully inflated Loan” and invalid Notice of
Default to obtain a low purchase price for the Property and continue to inflate
the amount of the Loan and fail to provide proper statements so that MPV could
not redeem the Loan and was under threat of foreclosure. (SACC, ¶ 62.) 
 
Emsaffa was incorporated on or about September 19, 2019, in
Delaware and registered in California on December 30, 2019, after it had
purchased the loan on the Property. (SACC, ¶ 63.) “Emsaffa Corp. is controlled
by Alomani and Markab Capital and, on information and belief, owned by Alomani
and Markab Capital and/or their affiliates. Alomani is the Chief Executive Officer,
Secretary, and Chief Financial Officer of Emsaffa Corp.” (SACC, ¶ 64.) Emsaffa
purchased the Loan on September 26, 2019, for $3,384,484.02 by entering into a
Letter of Intent, signed by Alomani, Marab, Emsaffa, and Vicino, with the sale
being finalized on October 25, 2019. (SACC, ¶¶ 67, 74.) The fourth Loan
modification form was not assigned to Emsaffa and the SACC asserts that the
rights under the fourth Loan Modification are held by Vicino such that “Emsaffa
Corp. is not the true owner or beneficial holder of the Loan.” (SACC, ¶ 75.) 
 
MPV was unaware of the sale and on October 3, 2019, MPV emailed
Vicino about the Loan and Vicino responded by stating that it needed more time.
(SACC, ¶ 68, 70-71, 76, 77.) MPV did not learn about the sale of the Loan until
October 25, 2019. (SACC, ¶ 78.) On November 11, 2019, Alomani and Markab
emailed MPV that the offer to buy the Property was still present but that the
purchase price had been reduced by 70%. (SACC, ¶¶ 79, 80.) “Beginning in
mid-2020, Alomani, Markab Capital, and Emsaffa Corp. began to threaten to
foreclose on the Loan unless Marquez Pacific sold Alomani the Property at a
greatly discounted price.” (SACC, ¶ 80.) 
 
MPV told Emsaffa that it intended to redeem the loan and requested
an accounting and payoff statement. (SACC, ¶ 82.) On or about November 3, 2020,
Emsaffa provided a one-page itemization of payoffs and charges that included
miscellaneous charges that were completely unsupported and failed to reflect
several hundred-thousand-dollar payments. (SACC, ¶ 84.) The itemization also
included a “usurious” interest rate of 18% that was not properly applied under
the Loan documents. (SACC, ¶ 84.) The second and third itemizations, provided
on December 22, 2020, and December 30, 2022, were similarly deficient. (SACC,
¶¶ 86, 87.) Emsaffa’s failure to provide an accurate accounting of the Loan
prevented MPV from redeeming the Loan and this was purposefully designed so
that Alomani and Markab could obtain the Property at a favorable purchase price
or through a wrongful foreclosure. (SACC, ¶ 88.)
 
MPV
asserts the Loan is usurious because it exceeds the maximum legal rate of 10%
under California law. (SACC, ¶ 89.) “The Promissory Note
contains a usurious interest rate of 12% and a usurious “interest on default”
rate of 18%.” (SACC, ¶ 89.) Alomani, Markab, and Emsaffa knew that the interest
rate was usurious when they purchased the Loan and knew the “‘interest on
default’ also constitutes unenforceable liquidated damages and is
unconscionable.” (SACC, ¶ 89.) Alomani, Markab, and Emsaffa continue to inflate
the amount due on the Loan by hundreds of thousands of dollars to obtain the
Property at a discounted price and prevent MPV from redeeming the Loan. (SACC,
¶¶ 90-93.) Moreover, the Loan amount due fails to account for the fact that the
Loan amount was not completely dispersed and fails to include all payment
credits MPV has made on the Loan. (SACC, ¶¶ 94, 95.) 
 
The SACC does not allege that the Property has been sold or that
MPV cannot sell the Property now that the Loan has been transferred to another
creditor. The SACC also does not allege that Emsaffa has proceeded to foreclose
on the Loan. 
 
B.        
Tenth Cause of Action – Fraud
 
“[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are:(1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent
to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) “In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and  conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Specificity “necessitates pleading facts which show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Id.
at 631.)
 
The SACC alleges
that in September or October of 2019, Cross-Defendants and Vicino intentionally
failed to disclose and concealed that they were in discussions to sell the Loan
to Emsaffa. (SACC, ¶ 171.) Even after the Loan was purchased, Cross-Defendants
concealed the sale from MPV. (SACC, ¶ 171.) Alomani and Markab “had a duty to disclose
these facts due to the confidential relationship they had with” MPV. (SACC, ¶
175.) “Alomani and Markab Capital undertook to and purported to advise [MPV]
with respect to the Loan and obtaining a forbearance with [MPV]’s interest
purportedly in mind.” (SACC, ¶ 175.) “Alomani and Markab Capital used the
information they obtained from [MPV] about the Loan as a result of their
relationship with [MPV] to obtain an advantage over [MPV] and go behind [MPV]’s
back to purportedly purchase the Loan through their newly-formed affiliate
Emsaffa Corp.” (SACC, ¶ 175.) The confidential relationship between Alomani,
Markab and MPV arose “as a result of the confidential relationship they had
with Marquez Pacific since 2016 in brokering the purchase of membership
interests by the affiliates the Alomani Members and representing the Alomani
Members in their interactions with Marquez Pacific since that time.” (SACC, ¶
176.)
 
Cross-Defendants
Alomani and Markab assert MPV fails to allege reliance or damages due to
Cross-Defendants concealment. The SACC alleges that due to Alomani and Markab’s
representations on August 30, 2019, and September 4, 2019, that it was
negotiating with Vincino about the Loan, MPV did not act to obtain additional
funding, redeem the Loan, cure the default, and/or prevent the sale of the Loan
to Emsaffa. (SACC, ¶¶ 181, 182.) 
 
On September 11,
2019, Vincino made an offer directly to MPV and MPV rejected the offer of
modification/forbearance. (SACC, ¶¶ 59, 60.) There are no allegations in the
SACC that after September 11, 2019, Alomani and Markab represented to MPV that
it was negotiating new and more favorable terms on the Loan on its behalf such
that MPV reasonably relied on such representations and took no action on the
Loan. As MPV rejected the terms of the September 11, 2019,
modification/forbearance offer, the SACC fails to allege that it was damaged by
Cross-Defendants’ actions because MPV fails to allege that it could in fact
redeem the Loan at the time of the sale and cure the default. Moreover, as the
Property has not been sold and there has been no foreclosure on the Loan, MPV
has not yet been damaged by the transfer of the Loan to a new creditor. While MPV
does seek declaratory relief on the Loan against Emsaffa, MPV’s causes of
action against Aloani and Markab fail to show that MPV was damaged and an
adequate legal remedy at law exists to remedy the harm. 
 
Lastly, the SACC
alleges that because the fourth Loan modification form was not assigned to
Emsaffa, the rights under the Fourth Loan Modification are held by Vicino and
“Emsaffa Corp. is not the true owner or beneficial holder of the Loan.” (SACC,
¶ 75.) Such allegation suggests that Emsaffa cannot foreclose on the Loan,
precluding any injury to MPV due to the sale of the Loan. 
 
Based on the above the demurrer to the tenth cause
of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
            C.        Seventh
Cause of Action - Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Relations 
 
The
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic relations is the
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage. (See Della
Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th
376, 378 [Analyzing the burden of proof and the “the elements of the tort
variously known as interference with ‘prospective economic advantage,’
‘prospective contractual relations,’ or ‘prospective economic relations’[.]”].)  Subsequently, in Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153 and Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th
1130, 1141, the California Supreme Court reiterated that the correct name of
the tort was intentional interference with prospective economic advantage. 
 
To state a claim for the
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage (IIPEA),
the claimant must allege: (1) an economic relationship between the claimant and
some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the
claimant; (2) the defendant or cross-defendant’s knowledge of the relationship;
(3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant or cross-defendant designed
to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the claimant proximately caused by the acts of the
defendant.¿(Marsh v. Anesthesia Services Medical Group, Inc. (2011) 200
Cal.App.4th 480, 504.)
 
“[A]s our Supreme Court has said time and again, an actor’s
breach of contract, without more, is not ‘wrongful conduct’ capable of
supporting a tort [citations], including the tort of intentional interference
with a prospective economic advantage.” (Drink Tank Ventures LLC v. Real
Soda in Real Bottles, Ltd. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 528, 533.)
‘“[T]o state a claim for interference with an at-will contract
by a third party, the plaintiff must allege that the defendant engaged in an independently
wrongful
act.’” (Pech v. Doniger (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 443, 457.) “[A]n
act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed
by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other
determinable legal standard.” (Korea Supply, supra, 29 Cal.4th at
p. 1138.) “[W]e treat[] interference with
contractual relations and interference with prospective economic advantage as two
species of the same tort. [Citation.] Each tort contained the same
elements with the exception that interference with contractual relations
required the existence of a binding contract.” (Ixchel Pharma, supra, 9 Cal.5th at p. 1141.) 
 
Cross-Defendants Alomani and
Markab assert that the seventh cause of action fails because the SACC fails to
allege the probability of a future economic benefit to MPV, intentionally
wrongful conduct by Cross-Defendants, and actual disruption of the relationship
and economic harm proximately caused by Cross-Defendants. Cross-Defendants
assert that after MPV defaulted on the loan, there was nothing stopping Vicino
from foreclosing on the Property and extinguishing MPV’s interest on the Loan.
Therefore, there was no probability that MPV would have benefitted economically
as Vicino had the right to pull out of the negotiations for forbearance/ modification
at any time and sell the Loan to anyone. 
 
The SACC alleges that on April
1, 2019, MPV and Vicino agreed to a forbearance on the Loan and Notice of
Trustee’s Sale until October 1, 2019. (SACC, ¶ 39.) While
the SACC alleges that Alomani and Markab were involved in discussions related
to obtaining a further Loan forbearance/modification, the SACC fails to allege
that but for Cross-Defendants' interference, MPV would have obtained an
“economic benefit” from Vicino in terms of the Loan. Specifically, there
existed a probability that Vicino would have offered a modification/ forbearance
on terms that would have been favorable to MPV. 
 
The SACC alleges that
“[o]n
September 11, 2019, Vicino responded and proposed different terms for a
potential forbearance” and that “new terms proposed by Vicino were much worse
for Marquez Pacific.” (SACC, ¶ 59.) However, MPV found the terms were
unfavorable because the terms were “a long way from” MPV’s proposal and would
put “undue cash flow strain on the project[.]” (SACC, ¶ 60.) Therefore, Vicino
did offer a Loan modification/forbearance, but MPV did not accept the offer
because it found the terms unfavorable.  There
are no allegations in the SACC that Cross-Defendants Alomani and Markab's
interference caused Vicino to offer a Loan modification/forbearance with
unfavorable terms to MPV and that without Cross-Defendants’ interference, Vicino’s
offer of modification/forbearance would have carried the probability of more
favorable terms and of a future economic benefit to MPV. 
 
Cross-Defendants
Alomani and Markab further assert that the seventh cause of action fails
because MPV fails to allege independent wrongful conduct. The SACC alleges that the independent wrongful conduct is that
Alomani, Markab, Emsaffa, and Vicino entered a conspiracy whereby Emsaffa would
purchase the Loan from Vicino at an inflated price and Alomani and Markab would
then use the Loan as leverage to force MPV to sell the Property at a reduced
price. (SACC, ¶ 132.)
 
“In
order to maintain an action for conspiracy, a plaintiff must allege that the defendant
had knowledge of and agreed to both the objective and the course of action that
resulted in the injury, that there was a wrongful act committed pursuant to that agreement, and
that there was resulting damage.” (Berg & Berg Enterprises,
LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc. (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 802, 823.)
“The essence of the claim is that it is merely a mechanism for imposing
vicarious liability;
it is not
itself a substantive basis for liability. Each member of the conspiracy
becomes liable for all acts done by others pursuant to the conspiracy,
and for all damages caused thereby.” (Ibid.) MPV fails to explain how the
purchase of the Loan at an inflated price was legally wrongful such that
Cross-Defendants can be held vicariously liable for engaging in such an act. In
other words, the SACC fails to allege what statute, regulation or law was violated
when Cross-Defendants conspired to purchase the Loan at an inflated price. 
 
The
SACC further alleges that “Alomani and Markab Capital abused their
confidential relationship with [MPV] and fraudulently concealed from [MPV] that
they had formed Emsaffa Corp., negotiated a purchase of the Loan by Emsaffa
Corp., and actually purchased the Loan through Emsaffa Corp.” (SACC, ¶ 132.)
Therefore, MPV’s IIPEA claim is dependent on the vitality of the tenth cause of
action for fraud to show the existence of independent wrongful conduct by
Alomani and Markab. As the demurrer to the tenth cause of action has been
sustained, the seventh cause of action fails. 
 
The
SACC also alleges that because Vicino did not assign the Fourth Loan
Modification to Emsaffa, “Vicino’s rights under the Fourth Modification are
still held by Vicino and not Emsaffa Corp. and Emsaffa Corp. is not the true
owner or beneficial holder of the Loan.” (SACC, ¶¶ 75, 93.) Accordingly,
Emsaffa does not control the Loan and cannot foreclose on it and MPV can still
negotiate a forbearance/modification with Vicino. As a result, there was no
economic disruption as Vicino still retains all rights under the Loan.
 
Lastly,
MPV fails to allege how it was damaged by Emsaffa purchasing the Loan as the
Property has not been sold. MPV fails to explain why the property cannot be
sold at a fair market price to another buyer to prevent the sale of the
Property at a reduced purchase price. Moreover, there has been no foreclosure
on the Loan. Accordingly, MPV’s damages appear to be speculative, and any harm
that may occur related to redeeming the Loan is addressed in MPV’s request for
injunctive relief.  
 
Based
on the above, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action
is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
D.        Eight Cause of Action – Negligent
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations
 
Cross-Defendants
demurrer to the eighth cause of action on the basis that the court granted MPV
leave to amend the eighth cause of action for Intentional Interference with
Economic Relations, and not to allege a new cause of action for Negligent
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations (NIPEA). Cross-Complainant MPV
argues that adding a new cause of action is permissible “because the new cause of action directly responds to the court's
reason for sustaining the earlier demurrer. “(Patrick
v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
995, 1015.) MPV asserts that the NIPEA is based on the same facts as the
seventh cause of action and responds directly to the court’s earlier demurrer
about no independent wrongful conduct being alleged. The court finds that the
eighth cause of action, which is pled in the alternative to the seventh cause
of action, is permissible. 
 
The tort of negligent interference with a
prospective economic advantage (“NIPEA”) differs in that the defendant's act
disrupting the economic relationship does not need to be intentional. (Venhaus
v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078.) “The tort of negligent interference
with economic relationship arises only when the defendant owes the plaintiff a
duty of care.” (Stolz v. Wong
Communications Limited Partnership
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1811, 1825 [italics original].)  For both IIPEA and
NIPEA, the interference must be wrongful by some legal measure other than the
fact of the interference itself. (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A.,
Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 378.) “[A]n act is independently wrongful if it
is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Korea Supply
Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1159.)
 
The eighth cause of action alleges that
Cross-Defendants Alomani and Markab owed a duty of care due to the special
relationship Cross-Defendants had with MPV. (SACC, ¶¶ 47, 48, 147.)
Cross-Defendants breached that duty when they induced Vicino to cease negotiations
regarding the forbearance/modification of the Loan and concealed the sale of
the Loan to Emsaffa. (SACC, ¶ 149.) The
conduct was wrongful because the Cross-Defendants conspired to purchase the
Loan at an inflated price. (SACC, ¶ 59.) Despite the confidential relationship
Alomani and Markab had with MPV, they “fraudulently concealed” that they had
formed Emsaffa to purchase the Loan. (SACC, ¶ 150.) 
 
As stated above, it is not sufficient for MPV to allege that Cross-Defendants
interfered with negotiations because the SACC alleges that on September 11,
2019, Vicino offered a Loan modification/forbearance, but  MPV rejected the offer because it disagreed
with the terms. (SACC, ¶¶ 59, 60.) The SACC fails to allege that
Cross-Defendants’ interference induced or caused Vicino to offer a
forbearance/modification on terms that MPV would find unfavorable and that
would result in MPV not accepting Vicino’s September 11, 2019, offer. There are
no allegations that after the September 11, 2019, offer, Vicino would have made
a subsequent offer on the Loan forbearance/modification that MPV but for
Cross-Defendants’ interference and that such an offer would have resulted in
the probability of an economic benefit to MPV. 
 
Moreover, as stated above, the SACC asserts that Vicino retained
all rights to foreclose on the Loan, negating the element of interference. (SACC, ¶¶ 75, 93.) Lastly, the SACC fails to allege damages from
the interference. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the eighth cause of action is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
            E.        Ninth Cause of Action – Intentional Interference with
Economic Relations 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for intentional interference
with contractual relations are ‘(1) the existence of a valid contract between
the plaintiff and a third party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of that
contract; (3) the defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.’ ” (Redfearn v.
Trader Joe's Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 997, citing Reeves v. Hanlon
(2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1148.) 
 
The ninth cause of action alleges that Alomani and Marab
interfered with MPV’s existing contractual relations with Emsaffa by
intentionally causing a breach and/or disruption of MPV’s contractual relations
with Emsaffa by causing Emsaffa to improperly inflate the amount due on the
Loan. (SACC, ¶ 164.) “Alomani and Markab Capital
are not parties to the Loan, nor were they acting as agents of Emsaffa Corp.”
(SACC, ¶ 164.) The court finds that regarding the contract between MPV and
Emsaffa, the SACC fails to allege independent wrongful conduct by Alomani and
Markab. “[C]onduct amounting to a
breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty
independent of the contract arising from principles of tort law.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551.) Moreover, while the Loan amount is inflated, MPV fails to allege
that the inflation has resulted in actual damage to MPV because the Loan has
not been foreclosed on nor has the Property sold. Accordingly, MPV’s damages
remain prospective and any relief from the Loan is addressed in MPV’s claims
for injunctive relief. 
 
Lastly, the SACC alleges that Cross-Defendants are agents and
alter-egos of each other. (SACC, ¶ 6.) Cross-Defendant Alomani is alleged to be
the owner, direct affiliate, Chief Executive Officer,
Secretary, and Chief Financial Officer of Emsaffa. (SACC, ¶ 3.) Alomani is also
alleged to be the Chairman of Markab. (SACC, ¶¶ 4, 174.) “The tort duty not to interfere with the contract falls only on
strangers—interlopers who have no legitimate interest in the scope or course of
the contract's performance.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v.
Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514.) For this reason, a party who is not a stranger to the contract or
economic relationship cannot be held liable in tort for conspiring to interfere
with its own contract. (Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. v.
Actelion Ltd. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 945, 961; Mintz v. Blue Cross of
California (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1594, 1603.) As IIPEA is part of
the same tort as intentional interference with contract rights, the
Cross-Complainant cannot allege that Cross-Defendants interfered with their own
prospective economic relationships because Cross-Defendants and Emsaffa and the
Alomani Members are alleged to be controlled and represented by
Cross-Defendants. 
 
Furthermore, the ninth cause of action alleges that MPV had a
contractual relationship with the Alomani member and that Alomani and Markab
disrupted the relationship by requiring MPV to “use over $1,000,000 of the
money invested by the Alomani Members to purchase an unrelated loan from ‘Shata
Family Holdings Limited’ at an inflated price.” (SACC, ¶ 168.) The ninth cause
of action fails to allege that because Alomani and Markab required MPV to
purchase the Shata Loan, the Alomani members ceased doing business with MPV or
caused MPV to not meet its contractual obligations to MPV. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the ninth cause of action is
sustained with leave to amend.  
 
F.        Eleventh Cause of
Action – Unlawful, Unfair, and Fraudulent Business Acts and Practices
 
Business and Professions Code § 17200 (“UCL”) prohibits “any
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50
Cal.4th 605, 610.) To plead this statutory claim, the pleadings must state with
reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the
violation. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)
 
“An unlawful business practice or act is an act or practice,
committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by
law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) “A
business practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates
established public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or
unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.) Lastly, a
fraudulent business practice claim under section 17200 “is not based upon proof
of the common law tort of deceit or deception, but is instead premised on
whether the public is likely to be deceived.” (Pastoria v. Nationwide Ins.
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1499.)
 
The SACC alleges: 
 

“Alomani and Markab Capital
     committed acts constituting unfair, unlawful, and fraudulent business acts
     and practices pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 17200 by,
     among other things, (1) interfering with Marquez Pacific’s negotiations
     with Vicino regarding an extension and/or modification of the Loan, (2)
     fraudulently concealing its negotiation and purchase of the Loan from
     Marquez Pacific, (3) brokering the purchase of a membership interest in
     Marquez Pacific without proper licensing, and (4) requiring over
     $1,000,000 of the money the Alomani Members purported ‘invested’ in
     Marquez Pacific be used to purchase an unrelated loan from ‘Shata Family
     Holdings Limited’ at an inflated price.” (SACC, ¶¶ 189.) 

 

“As a precondition of the Alomani
     Members purchase of their membership interest, Alomani and Markab Capital
     also required that over $1,000,000 of the money invested by the Alomani
     Members be used to purchase the unrelated “Shata Family Holdings Limited” loan
     at an inflated price to benefit Alomani and Markab Capital. This action
     was unfair within the meaning of Business and Professions Code section
     17200, et seq.” (SACC, ¶ 191.) 

 
As stated above, Cross-Complainant MPV’s claims for interference
and fraudulent concealment fail as they are inadequately pled. MPV fails to
cite what specific law or statute requires Alomani and Markab to obtain a
license to obtain a membership interest in a Delaware corporation such as MPV
or what California license Alomani and Markab require to purchase a property or
Loan. The SACC fails to explain how purchasing an unrelated loan constituted an
unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent business practice under the UCL. 
 
In opposition, MPV lists various statutes that Cross-Defendants
violated but these statutes are not included in the SACC. Furthermore, the
first four causes of action related to the Loan being usurious are alleged
against Emsaffa only and not against Alomani and Markab. (SACC, ¶¶ 96-118.) The
SACC does not allege that Alomani and Markab conspired with Emsaffa in relation
to the claims alleged in the first four causes of action in the SACC.
Therefore, that the SACC alleges that Alomani and Markab conspired with Emsaffa
in regard to the other causes of action does not save the eleventh cause of
action from demurrer. 
 
Lastly, MPV fails to state how it is entitled to restitution or
injunctive relief due to Alomani and Markab’s violation of the UCL. “In a
private unfair competition law action, the remedies are “‘generally limited to
injunctive relief and restitution.’ ” (Kasky v. Nike, Inc. (2002)
27 Cal.4th 939, 950, 119.) MPV fails to allege that it lost money to
MPV or what specific injunctive relief it seeks against Alomani and Markab. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
As the demurrer as to all causes of action alleged against Alomani
and Markab have been sustained, Alomani and Markab’s motion to strike the SACC’s
request for punitive is also granted with leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendants
Alomani and Markab’s demurrer to the SACC is sustained with leave to amend.
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike is also granted with leave to amend. Cross-Complainant
is granted 30 days leave to amend. A Non-Appearance OSC re: Amended Complaint
is set for July 26, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Cross-Defendants
to give notice.

 
 


