 Case Number:  23STCV20030    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
15, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Neil H. Cogan v. Automobile Club of Southern California, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV20030
 





















 
MOTION
TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Automobile Club of Southern California and Interinsurance Exchange of the
Automobile Club
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Neil H.
Cogan
 
 
            This is a breach of contract action.  Plaintiff Neil H. Cogan purchased homeowners’
insurance from Automobile Club of Southern California (“Auto Club”), Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club (“Interinsurance”), and American Automobile
Association.  During the policy period, a
patio wall at Plaintiff’s residence collapsed due to poor weather
conditions.  Plaintiff submitted a
claim.  Four claims adjusters reviewed
the claim.  The first, second, and third
claims adjusters determined there was coverage. 
However, more than five months after the collapse occurred, the fourth
claims adjuster determined the collapse of the patio wall was either not
covered because 1) the wall collapse or 2) the patio was not covered under the
policy. Plaintiff alleges the denial was erroneous because the fourth claims
adjuster ignored relevant weather reports, overruled contemporaneous decisions
of the three prior claims adjusters, and hired a civil engineer to justify the
false conclusion that the collapse took place on March 1, 2023 when the weather
was mild.  Plaintiff also alleges the
civil engineer trespassed onto Plaintiff’s property.
 
Plaintiff commenced this action on August 21, 2023.  Plaintiff is self-represented.  On November 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants Auto Club, Interinsurance, and
American Automobile Association, alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing; Violation
of Unfair Insurance Practices Act & Ins. Code Sections 785, 790, (3) Fraudulent
Business Practice: Violation of Unfair Competition Law, Business and
Professions Code Section 17200, (4) Breach of the Unruh Civil Rights Act;
Failure to Protect Against Discrimination, and (5) Tortious Breach of Land and
Privacy.  Attached as Exhibit A to the
FAC were various documents including, but not limited to, a renewal offer,
renewal bill, renewal declarations, building ordinance or law coverage disclosure,
and residential insurance disclosure.  The
policy was not included.  
 
            On December
22, 2023, Auto Club and Interinsurance (hereafter, “Defendants”) filed a
demurrer and motion to strike the requests for punitive damages in the FAC.  On February 13, 2024, the court sustained the
demurrer on the grounds that the FAC was uncertain.  Leave to amend was granted.  In granting leave, the court stated, “Plaintiff
will need to identify each Defendant’s conduct that establishes that particular
Defendant’s liability under each cause of action.”
 
            On March
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint (SAC). The SAC alleges
causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith & Fair Dealing; (3) Negligent Misrepresentation; (4) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (5) Violation of Unfair Insurance Practices Act & Ins.
Code Sections 785, (6) Tortious Trespass to Land, and (7) Tortious Trespass to
Chattels.  
 
            Defendants
filed a demurrer and motion to strike the punitive damages request in the SAC.  The court sustained the demurrer in part and granted
the motion to strike punitive damages from the second and sixth causes of
action.  Leave to amend was granted solely
to allow Plaintiff to file and serve a Third Amended Complaint to remove the
objectionable causes of action and requests for punitive damages.  
 
            On August
30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Third Amended Complaint (TAC).  The TAC seeks punitive damages.
 
            Defendants
now move to strike the punitive damages requests as exceeding the court’s order
previous order.  
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff acknowledges he was not granted leave to request punitive
damages and explains its inclusion was an oversight.  Plaintiff requests leave to file a Fourth
Amended Complaint which omits the punitive damages request.
 
            In reply,
Defendants request that the court strike punitive damages instead of allowing Plaintiff
to file an amended pleading.  
 
            Given there
is no dispute that the punitive damages requests should be stricken, the motion
is GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff is directed to serve and file the Fourth Amended
Complaint which omits references to or requests for punitive damages. 
 
Defendants are to file their answer within 20 days of
service of the amended pleading.
 
Defendants to give notice. 

 
Dated:   October 15,
2024                                         





   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            