  Case Number:  23CHCV00418    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  F51 
FEBRUARY 5,
2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Special
Interrogatories, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV00418

 
Motion
filed: 9/29/23
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs
Emmanuel Gutierrez-Munoz; Kevin Zaguilan; and Reyna Espino (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An order
compelling Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories,
Set One, specifically: Special Interrogatory Nos. 45–48. Plaintiffs further
request monetary sanctions to be imposed against Defendant and its counsel in
the amount of $2,207.50.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is denied.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On 5/3/23, Plaintiffs served their first set of discovery
requests on Defendant. (Decl. of Zachary Powell ¶ 3.) On 6/6/23, Defendant
served its responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 4.)
 
On 9/29/23, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to compel further
responses to their first set of Special Interrogatories. On 1/24/24, Defendant
filed its opposition. On 1/30/24, Plaintiffs filed their reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs seek to compel Defendant’s additional responses
to Special Interrogatory Nos. 45–48, arguing
that Defendant’s objections thereto are without merit.
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that on 8/22/23, 9/8/23,
9/13/23, 9/14/23, and 9/21/23, counsel for both parties met and conferred
regarding the issues set forth in the instant motion but were unable to come to
a resolution. (Powell Decl. ¶¶ 5–10.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel
has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2030.300, subdivision (b)(1) and 2031.310, subdivision
(b)(2).
 
B.    
Scope/Relevance
 
“Interrogatory Nos. 45-48 ask Ford to state the anticipated
range for repairs per thousand vehicles sold at the time of the release for
2019 Ford Expedition vehicles (No. 45); state the repairs per thousand vehicles
sold for 2019 Ford Expedition vehicles (No. 46); identify the five symptoms with
the highest repairs per thousand for 2019 Ford Expedition vehicles, and the
corresponding repairs per thousand (No. 47); and identify the five components
with the highest repairs per thousand for 2019 Ford Expedition vehicles, and
the corresponding repairs per thousand (No. 48).” (Def.’s Opp. 4:16–22; Ex. A
to Powell Decl.)
 
Defendant objected to each of the subject interrogatories
as “overly broad, unduly burdensome, and seeks information that is
irrelevant in that it is not limited to a relevant timeframe, to any vehicle or
customer, any specific claim, any alleged malfunction, problem or concern, or
to Plaintiffs or the allegations in Plaintiffs’ Complaint.” (Ex. B to Powell
Decl.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs argue that “the information sought is relevant because it would tend
to show whether a widespread defect or nonconformity—of the same type that
Plaintiff experienced—exists in these types of vehicles. This information could
refute FMC’s affirmative defenses claiming that Plaintiff and/or others misused
or abused the vehicle or engaged in unauthorized or unreasonable use as the
cause of the problems with the vehicle.” (Pl.’s Mot. 4:24–5:1.)
 
Defendant
argues in opposition that the subject interrogatories are overly broad “because
they are not limited to a relevant timeframe, to Plaintiffs, to the subject
Ford Expedition, to any specific claim or repair, to any specific or alleged
malfunction, problem or concern, or to the allegations in this case.” (Def.’s
Opp. 4:23–26.) “Systems, components and parts that were never repaired on
Plaintiffs’ vehicle, and which are not at issue in their Complaint, are plainly
not relevant, as information about them is not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible information.” (Id. at 8:5–8.)
 
On
reply, Plaintiffs argue that “Interrogatories 45-48 would be probative of
whether Ford had reason to know that its 2019 Ford Expedition vehicles were
experiencing an abnormally high number of warranty repairs regarding the same
problems that Plaintiffs experienced with their vehicle. Not only would this
information be relevant to demonstrating that a defect likely exists in
Plaintiffs’ vehicle, but it would also show that Ford failed to provide remedy
to Plaintiffs even though it knew that these vehicles were suffering from
widespread warranty problems.” (Pl.’s Reply 2:10–15.)
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court agrees with Defendant that the subject
interrogatories, as written are overly broad in scope, as they are not limited
to any relevant time frame or any specific claim, repair, or component of
similar vehicles. Accordingly, the Court sustains Defendant’s objections thereto
and denies Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to
Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatory Nos. 45–48.
//
//
//
C.   
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290, subd.
(c).)
Here, Plaintiffs request sanctions in the total amount of $2,207.50
to be imposed on Defendant and its attorney. While the Court denies the instant
motion, the Court finds that based on the parties’ good faith dispute regarding
Defendant’s interrogatory responses, Plaintiffs acted with substantial
justification in bringing the instant motion. Accordingly, the Court declines
to impose monetary sanctions against either party.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied.