 Case Number:  24SMCV02142    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02142




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Hinano Café




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTIONS
 
This case arises from an alleged physical attack at a café.  On May 7, 2024, Plaintiff David Sharpe
(“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Defendants Hinano Café (“Hinano”) and
Constantine A. McDemas as Trustee of the McDemas Family Trust (“McDemas”),
alleging six causes of action for (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (4) negligence; (5) negligent hiring,
supervision and retention; and (6) premises liability.  The first three causes of action are alleged
against Doe defendants only.
 
Hinano demurs to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action for
failure to state facts to constitute a cause of action and for uncertainty
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f),
respectively.  Hinano also moves to
strike the phrase “Hinano Café” from the allegations of the complaint.  Both motions are unopposed.
 
PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
A party may amend its pleading
once without leave of the court if the amended pleading is filed and served no
later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to
strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 472.)  Further, “the filing of an amended complaint
renders moot a demurrer to the original complaint.”  (JKC3H8 v. Colton (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 468, 477.)
 
The hearing in this matter is
set for December 5, 2024, and there are court holidays on Thursday, November 28
and Friday, November 29, making Opposition papers due on November 20.  On November 21, in lieu of filing an
opposition, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.  
 
Because Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint was filed a day late, the Court cannot accept it as filed and
operative.  Therefore, Hinano’s demurrer
to the original complaint is not mooted by virtue of the late-filed First
Amended Complaint.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Although Hinano argues in the memorandum of points and authorities
that the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action are uncertain, Hinano does
not demonstrate that any portions of the Complaint are so bad that Hinano
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against it.  
 
The Court thus declines to sustain Hinano’s demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
“The elements of a cause of
action for negligence are (1) a legal duty to use reasonable care, (2) breach
of that duty, and (3) proximate [or legal] cause between the breach and (4) the
plaintiff's injury.”  (Phillips v. TLC
Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.)  
 
“An employer may be liable to
a third person for the employer's negligence in hiring or retaining an employee
who is incompetent or unfit.”  (Phillips
v. TLC Plumbing, Inc., supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at p. 1139.)  “Liability for negligent hiring . . . is
based upon the reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics
which might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the enterprise
should bear the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit
employees.”  (Ibid.)  “Negligence liability will be imposed on an
employer if it “knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.”  (Ibid.)  The two elements necessary to establish a
duty in negligent hiring and retention cases are (1) an employment
relationship; and (2) foreseeability of injury. 
(Id. at p. 1142.)
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S.
Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998, citation omitted.) “Those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk
of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
32, 37.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges:
 
7. The location of the incident(s) giving rise to
this action occurred at or near 15 Washington Blvd., Venice, CA 90292 , in the
State of California, County of Los Angeles (“The Subject Premises”).
 
8. On or about October 28, 2023, Plaintiff was a
patron at the subject premises. As Plaintiff was seated in the patio area of
the subject premises, he was approached and verbally harassed by Defendants
DOES 1 TO 5. Defendants DOES 1 TO 5, suddenly and without warning, physically
attacked and assaulted Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff suffered
injuries and damages. 
 
9. The force of Defendants DOES 1 TO 5’s assault
on Plaintiff's body caused Plaintiff to suffer physical injuries and damages. 
 
10. At no time before, during or after the attack
did Plaintiff batter or attempt to batter Defendants DOES 1 TO 5. 11. As a
result of the aforementioned conduct, Plaintiff was physically and
psychologically damaged, incurred medical bills, sustained disability and had
to retain an attorney and has incurred legal costs in connection therewith in
order to prosecute this action.
 
[…]
 
33. Defendants, and each of them, had an
affirmative legal duty to use due care for the protection of Plaintiff against
unreasonable risk of harm. 
 
34. Defendants, and each of them, formed a
special relationship between the patrons and/or guests and subject premises
resulting in the affirmative duty on Defendants’ employees to take all
reasonable steps to protect the occupants of the subject premises. 
 
35. Additionally, because of the special
relationship between Plaintiff and the subject premises, Defendants HINANO
CAFE, an unknown entity; CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS
FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 11 TO 100, inclusive, had a duty to control Defendants
DOES 1 TO 5 and protect Plaintiff from physical and mental harm. 
 
36. Defendants, and each of them, breached their
duty of care for the protection of Plaintiff when Defendants DOES 1 TO 5 in the
presence of others, aggressively approached Plaintiff in a harmful manner such
that it reasonably appeared that Defendants DOES 1 TO 5 was about to carry out
the threat; Defendants DOES 1 TO 5 physically assaulted Plaintiff with such
force that Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages. 
 
37. As a direct result of the breach of their
affirmative duty to protect Plaintiff from physical or psychological injury
while at the subject premises, the malfeasance and/or nonfeasance of
Defendants, and each of them, was the proximate or legal cause of Plaintiff’s
injuries. 
 
38. The conduct of Defendants, and each of them,
was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. 
 
39. As a result of the conduct of Defendants, and
each of them, the Plaintiff was physically and psychologically damaged,
incurred medical bills, sustained disability and had to retain an attorney and
has incurred legal costs in connection therewith in order to prosecute this
action.
 
[…]
 
41. Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity;
CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 11 TO
100, inclusive, knew or should have known that Defendants DOES 6 TO 10 were
incompetent and unfit and that their incompetence and unfitness created a
particular risk to others, including Plaintiff. 
 
42. Defendants DOES 6 TO 10’s incompetence and
unfitness harmed Plaintiff. 
 
43. As a result of the conduct of Defendants, and
each of them, the Plaintiff was physically and psychologically damaged,
incurred medical bills, sustained disability and had to retain an attorney and
has incurred legal costs in connection therewith in order to prosecute this
action. 
 
44. Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity;
CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 11 TO
100, inclusive, negligence in hiring, supervising and/or retaining Defendants
DOES 1 TO 5 was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.
 
[…]
 
46. Premises liability is based upon general
negligence principles addressed above. However, an owner’s duty is to keep the
property in a reasonably safe condition as any unsafe condition will
foreseeably cause injury.
 
47. An owner’s duty includes the duty to make
reasonable inspections of the subject premises to guard against possible
dangers, to make the property reasonably safe for intended or foreseeable users
and uses, and to warn of latent or concealed dangers. 
 
48. At all times herein mentioned, Defendants
HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity; CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE
MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO 100, inclusive, developed, designed,
constructed, owned, operated, maintained, had a duty to maintain, managed
and/or controlled the subject premises. 
 
49. Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity;
CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO
100, inclusive, negligently developed, designed, constructed, maintained,
managed, and/or controlled the subject premises so as to expose persons,
including Plaintiff, to an unreasonable risk of harm. 
 
50. Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity;
CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO
100, inclusive, in committing their negligent acts and/or omissions with
respect to the subject premises, should have reasonably foreseen that such acts
and/or omissions would expose Plaintiff, and similarly situated persons, to an
unreasonable risk of harm. 
 
51. Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity;
CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO
100, inclusive, knew of the dangerous condition of the subject premises,
including but not limited to the failing to control, monitor and/or supervise
Defendants DOES 1 TO 5 and protect Plaintiff from physical and mental harm. 
 
52. Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity;
CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO
100, inclusive, knew of the dangerous condition on the subject premises and
consciously disregarded the danger anyway.
 
53. Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity;
CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO
100, inclusive, so negligently and carelessly owned, controlled, supervised,
maintained, managed, designed, used and/or developed the subject premises so to
cause the premises to be in a dangerous, defective, hazardous, unsafe condition
and location proximately causing damages and injuries to Plaintiff who was
lawfully on the subject premises. 
 
54. Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity;
CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO
100, inclusive, as the owner(s) and/or operator(s) of the subject premises as
herein alleged, were negligent in that, among other things, they failed to
exercise due care in the ownership, design, development, use, operation,
management and maintenance of the subject premises to ensure that patrons
and/or guests were not subject to an unreasonable risk of harm while at the
subject premises. 
 
55. As a proximate result of the negligence of
Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity; CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF
THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO 100, inclusive, Plaintiff was hurt and
injured in his health, strength and activity, sustaining injury and shock to
his person, all of which have caused and continue to cause Plaintiff pain and
suffering. As a result of the negligence of Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown
entity; CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES
6 TO 100, inclusive, and the resulting incident, Plaintiff sustained severe and
serious injuries to his person. As a result of such injuries, Plaintiff has
suffered general damages according to proof. 
 
56. As a further proximate result of the
negligence of Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity; CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS
AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO 100, inclusive, Plaintiff
has incurred and will continue to incur expenses for medical, hospital and
other related expenses in an amount to be shown according to proof.
 
57. As a result of the negligent acts of
Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity; CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF
THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO 100, inclusive, Plaintiff sustained
injury and shock to his body, all of which have caused and continue to cause
Plaintiff physical and emotional pain and suffering. 
 
58. On or about October 28, 2023, Defendants
HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity; CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE
MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 11 TO 100, inclusive, breached their duty to
Plaintiff as the said Defendants carelessly and negligently owned, rented,
managed, leased, supervised, inspected, operated, maintained, controlled,
built, constructed, used, developed and/or designed the subject premises such
that it was in a dangerous, defective and unsafe condition, in conscious
disregard for the risk of harm to invitees thereon. By reason of said
carelessness, recklessness, negligence and conscious disregard of Defendants,
and each of them, said premises was unsafe and dangerous to the general public,
and specifically Plaintiff. 
 
59. Defendants HINANO CAFE, an unknown entity;
CONSTANTINE A. MCDEMAS AS TRUSTEE OF THE MCDEMAS FAMILY TRUST; and DOES 6 TO
100, inclusive, breached their duty to Plaintiff when the said defendants
failed to warn Plaintiff of said dangerous, defective and unsafe condition,
although said Defendants, and each of them, knew or should have known of said
condition. 
 
60. As a direct and legal result of said
carelessness, recklessness, negligence and conscious disregard of Defendants,
included but not limited to the design, defects at the subject premises,
Plaintiff was harmed and sustained serious injuries and damages, including but
not limited to, medical expenses, lost wages, pain and suffering and serious
personal injury.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 7-10, 33-60.)
 
            Hinano demurs on the ground that the
address provided in paragraph 7 of the Complaint, 15 Washington Blvd., Venice
CA 90292, is not Hinano Café’s address, and in fact the attack occurred off
premises in the street in front of other stores adjacent to Hinano Café.  
 
            Whether the attack actually occurred
in the patio area of Hinano Café, or whether Hinano owed a duty of care to
protect Plaintiff from the attack are factual questions that go beyond the four
corners of the Complaint, to be resolved at later stages of the litigation.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)        
            
Here, because Court overrules Hinano’s demurrer in its entirety, as
discussed above, the Court similarly declines to strike from the Complaint the
references to “Hinano Café.”  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Hinano’s Demurrer and
denies Hinano’s Motion to Strike.   Accordingly, the Court orders Hinano to file and
serve an Answer to the Complaint on or before January 3, 2025.  
 
Further, for the reasons
stated above, on its own motion, the Court will strike the filing of the
Amended Complaint on November 21, 2024.  
 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference from January 29, 2025 to March 3, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  All parties shall comply
with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and
Further Case Management Conferences.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724)
and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule
3.725).  
 
Hinano shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the notice
with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  December 5, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court