


[1] “Proceeding to judgment in the absence of a party is
an extraordinary and disfavored practice in Anglo–American jurisprudence:  The policy of the law is to have every litigated
case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a party, who,
regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of the
mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  (Au-Yang v. Barton (1999) 21 Cal.4th
958, 963 [cleaned up].)  

TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV03825




MOTION


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Elm Luxury Investments, LLC and Araks Amirian




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiffs Sarah Kurtz (“Kurtz”) and Farid Yagoubi
(“Yagoubi”) (together, “Plaintiffs”) filed suit against Defendants Elm Luxury
Investment, LLC (“Elm”) and Araks Amirian (“Amirian”) (together, “Defendants”)
alleging one cause of action for breach of contract.  
 
Defendants demur to the complaint on the grounds that it fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, and fails to allege
whether the alleged contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (g),
respectively.
 
The demurrer is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
               
I.         
DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION - BREACH OF
CONTRACT
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  Here,
Plaintiffs allege:
 
BC-1.  On or about Feberuary [sic] 12th, 2024 the
plaintiff established a trust (the Trust Agreement), designating the defendants
as trustee.  A true and correct copy of
the Trust Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit A.  The Trust Agreement explicitly delineates the
trustee’s duties to manage the trust assets for the plaintiffs benefits [sic],
which includes ensuring the plaintiff’s housing, care, and overall well-being.
 
BC-2.  The defendants breached their fiduciary
duties by filing an Unlawful Detainer on February 28th, 2024.  The defendants wrongfully initiated an
eviction process against the plaintiff, thereby violating both the Trust
Agreement and California laws.
 
BC-3.  Plaintiff has performed all obligations to
defendant except those obligations plaintiff was prevented or excused from
performing.
 
BC-4.  The defendants [sic] actions constitute a
breach of fiduciary duty under California Probate Code §§ 16000-16015 and
common law principles.  The defendants [sic]
eviction of the plaintiffs constitutes an unlawful detainer and a violation of
California Civil Code § 1942.5. 
Plaintiffs were dragged into an unlawful eviction and Plaintiff’s
inalienable rights were destroyed and damaged.
 
BC-6. Due to the defendants [sic] breach of
fiduciary duties and wrongful eviction, the plaintiffs have suffered
substantial damages, including Physical Harm: Deterioration of health
conditions, including worsening diabetes and vision loss, due to stress and
inadequate living conditions.  Emotional
Distress: Significant emotional and psychological harm to the plaintiffs and
their children due to the unsafe living conditions and unlawful eviction.
 
Attached to the Complaint are
four exhibits, as follows:
 
Exhibit
1: Cause of Action – Breach of Contract – One Page
Exhibit
2: Testimony Under God – Three Pages
Exhibit
3: 2nd Notice – Intent to Settle – Two Pages
Exhibit
4: Invoice – One Page
 
            Although
Plaintiffs have not attached the purported contract as Exhibit A, the fact that
the Complaint alleges that there exists a copy of the contract suggests the
contract is written.  Therefore, the
Court overrules the demurrer pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivision (g).
 
            Further,
“[t]o state a cause of action for breach of contract, it is absolutely
essential to plead the terms of the contract either in haec verba or according
to legal effect.”  (Twaite v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 239, 252.)  
 
Here, the Complaint alleges
that as trustee, Defendants owed “duties to manage the trust assets for the
plaintiffs benefits [sic], which includes ensuring the plaintiff’s housing,
care, and overall well-being” which Defendants allegedly breached by filing an
unlawful detainer action to evict Plaintiffs from their home.  Thus, for purposes of a demurrer, Plaintiffs
have adequately alleged the required ultimate facts[1]
– the existence of a contract and essential terms thereof, breach, causation,
and damages – to state a cause of action for breach of contract.  
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the complaint.   

 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Complaint, and orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to the
Complaint on or before January 3, 2025.
 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference from December 11, 2024 to March 3, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  All parties shall comply
with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and
Further Case Management Conferences.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule
3.724) and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements
(Rule 3.725).  
 
Defendants shall also provide notice of the Court’s orders and the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  December 5, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


