 Case Number:  24SMCV03825    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1
 
DEPARTMENT          207
HEARING DATE       December 5, 2024
CASE NUMBER        24SMCV03825
MOTION                    Motion to Set Aside Entry of
Default and Default Judgment
MOVING PARTIES   Defendants Elm Luxury Investments, LLC and
Araks Amirian
OPPOSING PARTY   None
 
MOTION
 
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiffs Sarah Kurtz (“Kurtz”) and Farid Yagoubi
(“Yagoubi”) (together, “Plaintiffs”) filed suit against Defendants Elm Luxury
Investment, LLC (“Elm”) and Araks Amirian (“Amirian”) (together, “Defendants”)
alleging one cause of action for breach of contract.  
 
Plaintiffs filed proofs of service indicating on August 12, Defendants
were personally served via “Employee Diana” at “CT Corporation Inc.” who
accepted service on behalf of both Defendants. 
Thereafter, the Court entered default against both Defendants on September
26, 2024.
 
Defendants now move to set aside the defaults.  The motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
                         
I.         
DISCRETIONARY AND MANDATORY RELIEF
 
Code of Civil procedure section 473 “includes a discretionary provision,
which applies permissively, and a mandatory provision, which applies as of
right.” (Minick v. City of Petaluma (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25
(hereafter Minick).)  “Section 473
is a remedial statute to be “applied liberally” in favor of relief if the
opposing party will not suffer prejudice. 
Because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any
doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking
relief from default.  Unless inexcusable
neglect is clear, the policy favoring trial on the merits prevails.”  (Minick, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 24
[cleaned up].)  
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v.
The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Ca.App.4th 712, 721 [motion
for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months”]).  “The
six-month limit is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under
section 473, subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the
six-month period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340,
citations omitted.)  
 
A.        DISCRETIONARY RELIEF
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b), a court may “relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” 
 
B.   
MANDATORY
RELIEF 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  “In considering whether the trial court
properly denied relief under section 473(b), the first question is the
sufficiency of defendants' showing of attorney fault, if believed, to trigger
the mandatory relief provisions of that statute.”  (Standard Microsystems Corp. v. Winbond
Electronics Corp. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 868, 896, disapproved on other
grounds by Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire
Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830 (hereafter Standard).)  “Under section 473(b), a party is entitled to
relief from a default and resulting judgment whenever, on timely application
for relief, his attorney ‘attest[s] to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect’ in connection with the default or the judgment.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Defendants contend that the summons and complaint were sent from CT
Corporation to VCORP Services, and Elm did not learn about the complaint until
September 25, when VCORP finally provided a copy to Elm.  (Rashidi Decl. ¶¶ 3-8.)  
 
Further, Amirian did not learn about the complaint until Elm
subsequently informed her of it. 
Although the proofs of service indicates Amirian was served at CT
Corporation, Inc., Amirian has no affiliation with CT Corporation.  (Amirian Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.)  
 
The motion further indicates Defendants’ counsel contacted Plaintiffs,
who are unrepresented by counsel, and requested that they stipulate to set
aside the default, but Plaintiffs refused.
 
Therefore, in light of the fact that neither Defendant received actual
notice of the summons and complaint until September 25, and the strong public
policy to try cases on their merits,[1] the
Court finds it appropriate to set aside the defaults entered on September 26.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
grants Defendants’ motion and orders the defaults entered against Defendants on
September 26, 2024 set aside.
 
            Defendants shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED:
December 5, 2024                                                   ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior
Court
 


