 Case Number:  24SMCV03939    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV03939




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant UG2, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Marta Villanueva



 
MOTIONS
 
On August 14, 2024, Plaintiff Marta Villanueva (“Plaintiff”) brought
suit against Defendants UG2 LLC and Peerless Building Maintenance, Inc.,
alleging four causes of action for (1) breach of covenant of good faith and
fair dealing; (2) retaliation in violation of Cal. Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(h); (3) retaliation in violation of Cal. Labor Code, § 1102.5, subd. (d); and
(4) aiding, abetting, inciting compelling/coercing discrimination/retaliation
in violation of Cal. Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (i).  
 
Defendant UG2 LLC (“Defendant”) demurs to the fourth cause of action for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and
uncertainty, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions
(e) and (f), respectively.[1]  Defendant also moves to strike references to
“humiliation, embarrassment, and mental anguish” as well as allegations requesting
punitive or exemplary damages alleged in connection with the first cause of
action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer (but not the motion to strike) and
Defendant replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Although Defendant argues in the memorandum of points and authorities
that the fourth cause of action is uncertain, Defendant does not demonstrate
that any portions of the Complaint are so bad that Defendant cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed
against it.  
 
The Court thus declines to sustain Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth
cause of action on the basis of uncertainty. 

 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Fourth Cause
of Action – Aiding, Abetting, Inciting, Compelling and Coercing
Discrimination/Retaliation in Violation of California Government Code, § 12940,
subd. (i)
 
“A defendant is liable for
aiding and abetting another in the commission of an intentional tort [] if the
defendant knows the other’s conduct constitutes [a tortious act] and gives
substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act.”   (Nasrawi
v. Buck Consultants LLC (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 328, 343 [cleaned up].)  Thus, the elements are (1) a third party’s
tortious act; (2) defendant’s actual knowledge of that tortious act; (3) substantial
assistance or encouragement by defendant to the third party’s tort; and (4)
defendant’s wrongful conduct was a substantial factor in causing harm to the
plaintiff.  (Ibid.)
 
Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (i) provides: “It is an unlawful practice, unless based upon a bona
fide occupational qualification, or, except where based upon applicable
security regulations established by the United States or the State of California:
[…] (i) For any person to aid, abet, incite, compel, or coerce the doing of any
of the acts forbidden under this part, or to attempt to do so.”
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges:
 
18. On or about 2011, PLAINTIFF became employed,
as a janitor by Crown Building Maintenance Co., at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd. 
 
19. While PLAINTIFF was employed, by Crown
Building Maintenance Co., as a janitor at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd., PLAINTIFF
was sexually harassed by her supervisor, Eric Wanta, resulting in her filing a
lawsuit, for sexual harassment against her said supervisor, Eric Wanta, and
Crown Building Maintenance Co (sic)
 
20. On or about 2020, DEFENDANT, PEERLESS
BUILDING MAINTENANCE, INC., took over as the Janitorial Services Provider of
2021 Santa Monica Blvd. 
 
21. After DEFENDANT, PEERLESS BUILDING
MAINTENANCE, INC., took over as the janitorial services provider of 2021 Santa
Monica Blvd., they hired and retained PLAINTIFF, and her coworkers, as janitors
at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd., pursuant to the collective bargaining agreement
that covered any company that provides janitorial services to 2021 Santa Monica
Blvd. But they did not retain David Wanta. He was removed from the building for
sexually harassing PLAINTIFF (sic)
 
22. On or about September, 2023, DEFENDANT, UG2
LLC, took over as a janitorial service provider of 2021 Santa Monica Blvd. 
 
23. At all times relevant to this action,
PLAINTIFF and DEFENDANT’s (sic) UG2 LLC and its were (sic) parties to a written
collective bargaining agreement. 
 
24. The essential terms of this collective
bargaining agreement was that PLAINTIFF’s seniority will be respected at all
times. And as a new company providing janitorial services for 2021 Santa Monica
Blvd., they were obligated to hire PLAINTIFF and all the other janitors that
worked at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd., and assign them to keep working, as
janitors, at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd. 
 
25. On September, 2023, after DEFENDANT, UG2 LLC.
took over as the janitorial service provider of 2021 Santa Monica Blvd.,
DEFENDANT, PEERLESS BUILDING MAINTENANCE, INC’s managing agent advised
DEFENDANT, UG2 LLC, that the owner/lessor/lessee of 2021 Santa Monica Blvd did
not like PLAINTIFF and did not want her to work at 2021 Wilshire Blvd anymore 
 
26. While PLAINTIFF was employed as a janitor at
2021 Santa Monica Blvd., PLAINTIFF performed her job duties diligently. 
 
27. On September, 2023, after DEFENDANT, UG2
LLC., took over as the janitorial service provider of 2021 Santa Monica Blvd.,
DEFENDANT, UG2 LLC refused to hire PLAINTIFF as a janitor at 2021 Santa Monica
Blvd because DOE 1, the owner/lessor/lessee of the building, did not want
PLAINTIFF to work there anymore on account of the sexual harassment action that
PLAINTIFF had filed against Eric Wanta and Crown Building Maintenance Co. In
(sic) breach of PLAINTIFF’s said collective bargaining agreement. 
 
28. On September, 2023, after DEFENDANT, UG2
LLC., took over as the janitorial service provider of 2021 Santa Monica Blvd.,
DEFENDANT, UG2 LLC’s officers, directors, and managing agents, refused to hire
PLAINTIFF as a janitor at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd because of the sexual
harassment action that PLAINTIFF had filed against Eric Wanta and Crown
Building Maintenance Co. (sic) In breach of PLAINTIFF’s said collective
bargaining agreement. 
 
29. Instead, DEFENDANT UG2 LLC rehired Erica
Wanta to work as a janitor at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd 
 
30. Despite DEFENDANTS’ actual knowledge of the
above-mentioned conduct, and the knowledge of their officers, directors and/or
managing agents all of the DEFENDANTS failed to take immediate and appropriate
corrective actions to stop the above described actions. In fact, they ratified
it. 
 
31. The aforementioned actions of the DEFENDANTS
was unlawful and retaliatory, done with malice, fraud, or oppression, and in
reckless disregard of the PLAINTIFF’s rights under the laws of the state of
California, thereby entitling the PLAINTIFF to recover punitive/exemplary
damages in such an amount as the trier of fact in this action deems
appropriate.
 
[…]
 
51. As aforementioned, the DEFENDANTS UG2, LLC;
PEERLESS BUILDING MAINTENANCE, INC AND DOES 1 TO 20 aided, abetted, incited,
compelled and/or coerced the retaliation that was directed at PLAINTIFF, in
violation of California Government Code §12940 (I), as specifically alleged in
paragraphs 18 to 31, above. 
 
52. As a proximate result of the DEFENDANTS’
conduct, PLAINTIFF has suffered harm, including lost employment benefits and
emotional distress in an amount in excess of the jurisdictional threshold of
this court, to be shown by evidence at the time of trial. 
 
53. The aforementioned actions of the DEFENDANTS
were a violation of California Government Code and done with malice, fraud, or
oppression, and in reckless disregard of the PLAINTIFFS rights under the laws
of the state of California entitling the PLAINTIFF to recover punitive or
exemplary damages in such an amount as the trier of fact in this action deems
appropriate.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 18-31; 51-53.)
 
            Defendant argues Plaintiff fails to
state a claim against it, because it is accused of both being the entity that
retaliated against Plaintiff by refusing to hire her and aiding and abetting a
third party retaliating against her. 
Plaintiff argues that she is entitled to plead inconsistent theories of
liability.
 
            The Court agrees with
Plaintiff.  Here, the Complaint
adequately alleges that Defendant aided and abetted the “owner/lessor/lessee”
of the property in question, who allegedly no longer wanted Plaintiff to work
there, to effectively terminate Plaintiff’s employment.  (See Complaint ¶ 25.)  Further, at the pleadings stage, a plaintiff
may “plead in the alternative and make
inconsistent allegations.”  (Klein v.
Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388.)
 
            Therefore,
the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Here, Defendant moves to strike the request for “humiliation,
embarrassment, and mental anguish” and punitive and exemplary damages alleged in
paragraphs 37 and 38 in connection with the first cause of action for breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the grounds that these
damages are not available in connection with ordinary breach of contract causes
of action.
 
The Court agrees that punitive or exemplary damages, as well as
damages for humiliation, embarrassment, and mental anguish are generally
unavailable for breach of an obligation arising from contract.  (Civ. Code, § 3300.)  
 
However, a breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing could
potentially sound in contract or in tort. 
“Every contract imposes upon
each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in its performance and its
enforcement.”  (Foley v. Interactive
Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654, 683.) 
“Because the covenant is a contract term, however, compensation for its
breach has almost always been limited to contract rather than tort remedies.”  (Id. at p. 684.)  “As a contract concept, breach of the duty
led to imposition of contract damages determined by the nature of the breach
and standard contract principles.”  (Ibid.)
 
A notable exception to this
general rule is in the insurance contract context, where courts have
determined, that due to the special fiduciary relationship between insurer and
insured, a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing can
sound in tort.  (Foley v. Interactive
Data Corp., supra, 47 Cal.3d at pp. 684-693.)  But, in the employment context, “tort
remedies are not available for breach of the implied covenant in an employment
contract to employees who allege they have been discharged in violation of the
covenant.”  (Id. at p. 700.)  
 
Therefore, because, as a matter
of law, Plaintiff’s first cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing sounds in contract, the requested punitive and
exemplary damages, as well as damages for humiliation, embarrassment, and
mental anguish, are unavailable.
  
Therefore, Defendant’s motion to strike is granted in its entirety.
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet her burden as Plaintiff does
not address the motion to strike at all, much less whether leave should be
granted if the motion to strike is granted. 
Further, because the subject remedies are not available under the
contract-based breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
the Court does not foresee any facts that could be added to the Complaint to
cure the defect.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the Fourth Cause of Action.  
 
Further, the Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Strike in its entirety
without leave to amend, and orders the phrase “humiliation, embarrassment, and
mental anguish” stricken from paragraph 37 and the entirety of paragraph 38
stricken from the Complaint.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file and serve an Answer to the
Complaint on or before January 3, 2025.  
 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference from December 13, 2024 to March 3, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  All parties shall comply
with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and
Further Case Management Conferences.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724)
and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule
3.725).  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  December 5, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


