  Case Number:  23SMCV00406    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV00406




MOTION


Motion
  to Sever




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Training Mate, LLC and Jeff
  Crochet




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
On January 31, 2023, Plaintiff Carolyn Konopa (“Plaintiff”) filed suit
against Defendant Training Mate, LLC alleging a single cause of action for
premises liability.  Plaintiff asserts
she stepped into a depression/hole in the floor that was obscured by mats,
causing Plaintiff to roll her ankle and suffer injuries that required
surgery.  On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff
substituted Defendant Jeff Crochet as Doe 1. 

 
Defendants Training Mate, LLC (“Training Mate”) and Jeff Crochet
(“Crochet”) (together, “Defendants”) now move to sever the issues of whether
Plaintiff signed the release, and if so, whether Defendants were grossly
negligent from the issue of whether Defendants were ordinarily negligent (which
only applies if the release does not control and involves more complex issues
about whether Plaintiff’s first surgeon committed medical malpractice).  
 
Defendants’ motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 598
provides:
 
The court may, when
the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of
pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held,
or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial
of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or
any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be tried
first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5. The court, on its own motion, may
make such an order at any time.

Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 1048 provides:
 
(b) The court, in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause
of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any
separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the
right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state
or of the United States.
 
DISCUSSION

 
A.   
Premises
Liability Standards
 
The elements of a cause of
action for premises liability are generally the same as those for negligence:
duty, breach, causation, and damages.  (McIntyre
v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)  Therefore, to prevail on a claim for premises
liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or controlled the subject
property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance of the
property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. 
(See Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.) 
 
Liability in a premises
liability action is based not on responsibility for the conduct of others, but
on the failure of the landowner or occupier to act reasonably under the
circumstances when he or she has reason to anticipate the probability of injury
and has an opportunity to prevent the injury or warn of the peril  (Cody F. v. Falleti (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th  1232, 1242.)  Accordingly, premises liability alleges a
defendant property owner either (1) allowed a dangerous condition on its
property or (2) failed to take reasonable steps to secure its property against
criminal acts by third parties. (Delgado v. American Multi-Cinema, Inc.
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1406.)
 
“The general rule in
California is that all persons are responsible for an injury occasioned to
another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his
or her property.  However, parties may
contract for the release of liability for future ordinary negligence so long as
such contracts do not violate public policy.  A valid release precludes liability for risks
of injury within the scope of the release.” 
(Anderson v. Fitness International
LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 867, 877 (hereafter, Anderson) [cleaned up].)  
 
A release may negate the duty
element of a negligence action.  Contract
principles apply when interpreting a release, and normally the meaning of
contract language, including a release, is a legal question.  Where, as here, no conflicting parol evidence
is introduced concerning the interpretation of the document, construction of
the instrument is a question of law, and the appellate court will independently
construe the writing.  It therefore
follows that we must independently determine whether the release in this case
negated the duty element of plaintiff’s cause[s] of action. 
 
A written release may
exculpate a tortfeasor from future negligence or misconduct. To be effective,
such a release must be clear, unambiguous, and explicit in expressing the
intent of the subscribing parties.  The
release need not achieve perfection. 
Exculpatory agreements in the recreational sports context do not
implicate the public interest and therefore are not void as against public
policy.
 
(Benedek
v. PLC Santa Monica, LLC (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1356–1357, citations
omitted; see also Chavez v. 24 Hour
Fitness USA Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632; Lund v. Bally’s Aerobic Plus, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 733; Leon v. Family Fitness Center (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1227.)  
 
The Court finds Anderson v. Fitness International to be
both persuasive and instructive.  In
affirming summary judgment for Fitness International, the Court of Appeal noted
that “In the present case, there is no dispute that the Release is valid and is
a complete defense to Anderson's negligence cause of action, insofar as the
first amended complaint alleges facts that constitute ordinary negligence.  L.A. Fitness therefore contends that, having
asserted the Release as a complete defense to Anderson's negligence cause of
action, the burden shifted to Anderson
to produce evidence demonstrating L.A. Fitness's alleged conduct constituted
gross negligence. It argues Anderson has failed to allege facts
sufficient to show gross negligence or produce evidence satisfying his
burden.”  (Anderson, supra, 4 Cal.App.5th at p. 877, emphasis added.) 
 
            “[A]n
agreement made in the context of sports or recreational programs or services,
purporting to release liability for future gross negligence, generally is
unenforceable as a matter of public policy.” 
(City of Santa Barbara v. Superior
Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 751.) 
In summary, a release may preclude claims based upon ordinary negligence
but not claims based upon gross negligence. 

 
“[O]rdinary negligence
“consists of a failure to exercise the degree of care in a given situation that
a reasonable person under similar circumstances would employ to protect others
from harm.”  “ ‘[M]ere nonfeasance, such
as the failure to discover a dangerous condition or to perform a duty,’ ”
amounts to ordinary negligence.  However,
to support a theory of “ ‘[g]ross negligence,’ ” a plaintiff must allege facts
showing “either a ‘ “ ‘want of even scant care’ ” ’ or ‘ “ ‘an extreme
departure from the ordinary standard of conduct.’ ” ’ [Citations.]”  “ ‘ “[G]ross negligence” falls short of a
reckless disregard of consequences, and differs from ordinary negligence only
in degree, and not in kind. ...’ ” Thus, in cases involving a waiver of
liability for future negligence, courts have held that conduct that
substantially or unreasonably increased the inherent risk of an activity or
actively concealed a known risk could amount to gross negligence, which would
not be barred by a release agreement.  Evidence
of conduct that evinces an extreme departure from manufacturer's safety
directions or an industry standard also could demonstrate gross negligence.  Conversely, conduct demonstrating the failure
to guard against, or warn of, a dangerous condition typically does not rise to
the level of gross negligence.”
 
(Anderson,
supra, 4 Cal.App.5th at p. 881, citations omitted; see also Van Meter v. Bent Const. Co. (1956) 46
Cal.2d 588, 594.)
 
“In Jimenez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc., [citation] one of the
plaintiffs was injured when she fell backwards off of a moving treadmill and
hit her head on an exercise machine that was approximately three feet behind
the treadmill. The plaintiffs presented evidence “indicating a possible
industry standard on treadmill safety zones,” including the manufacturer's
statement in its manual that a six-foot space behind the treadmill was
necessary for user safety and an expert's statement that placing other equipment
so close to the back of the treadmill greatly increased the risk of injury.  The court concluded, based on this evidence, a
jury could reasonably find the failure to provide the minimum safety zone was
an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of care, and thus a triable
issue of fact existed to preclude summary judgment.”  (Anderson,
supra, 4 Cal.App.5th at pp. 883–884, citing Jimenez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 546.)
 
B.   
Arguments
 
In connection with Defendants’
motion for summary judgment, which the Court denied, the Court found that
Defendants had met their initial prima facie burdens of production and
persuasion in demonstrating that a liability waiver existed that limits
Defendants’ liability only to those acts of gross negligence, but found
Plaintiff created triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff ever
actually signed that liability waiver. 
(See Minute Order, Oct. 14, 2024.) 

 
Defendants contend that in
this case, the initial questions of whether Plaintiff indeed signed the
liability waiver, and if so, whether Defendants’ conduct rose to the level of
gross negligence, are potentially dispositive of the case.  Otherwise, Defendants contend that there is
evidence Plaintiff’s first surgeon committed medical malpractice, greatly
exacerbating Plaintiff’s injuries. 
Defendants assert that none of this complex medical malpractice evidence
regarding causation will be necessary if it is first determined that Plaintiff
signed the liability waiver and Defendants’ conduct did not rise to the high
standard of gross negligence.  Thus,
Defendants contend that severing/bifurcating these issues will potentially save
substantial judicial and party resources.
 
The Court disagrees that
severance promotes judicial economy here. 
In the event the liability waiver does not apply, or if gross negligence
is found, the medical malpractice evidence regarding causation will still come
in and the trial will have been needlessly bifurcated into two phases.  Thus, economy is promoted only in the limited
scenario where Defendants prevail in proving (1) the liability waiver applies;
and (2) Defendants’ conduct did not rise to the level of gross negligence.  In all other scenarios, the proposed
severance is not more efficient, promoting judicial economy.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to sever/bifurcate the
issues of whether Plaintiff signed the liability waiver and whether Defendants’
conduct rose to the level of gross negligence from other issues regarding
general negligence, including the medical malpractice evidence, without
prejudice to the parties potentially raising the issue again at the
Final Status Conference, should subsequent developments in the case warrant
severance/bifurcation.    
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  December 5, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 