 Case Number:  21STCV12318    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary Judgment
Moving Party:             Defendant
City of Los Angeles
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Miguel MendozaTentative Ruling:           Granted 
The Court considered the moving, and opposition papers and
exercises its discretion to consider Defendant’s reply brief.
BACKGROUND
On April 1, 2021, Plaintiff Miguel Mendoza (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles (“Defendant” or “the City”),
asserting two causes of action for dangerous condition of public property under
Government Code section 835, and violation of a mandatory duty under Government
Code section 815.6.
The complaint alleges that on May 20, 2020 at 5:50 p.m.,
Plaintiff Miguel Mendoza was a bicyclist on Plummer Street near Gloria Avenue
(“the Subject Road”) and was struck by a vehicle driven by Yonina Kligman. 
The complaint further alleges that Defendant City
negligently maintained the subject road in a dangerous and defective condition,
whereby they maintained a roadway with a limited and obstructed view for
traffic including, without limitation, poor road striping, and failed to
provide adequately distributed shoulders or a bicycle lane for bicyclists.
Plaintiff claims that Defendant was further negligent in its failure to post
road signs advising motorists to share the road and placing motorists on notice
that unseen bicyclists are present on the road.
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c),
requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant
. . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467 (Avivi).) 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467;
see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections to Defendant’s Evidence
The Court declines to rule on Objection Nos. 1-7, 19-24,
32-36, 38-40, 44-46 as immaterial to the disposition of the motion. While the
Court “must” rule on all evidentiary objections made at the summary judgment
stage, it is permitted to focus its attention on those which are “important.”
(See Reid v. Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 532; see also Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (q) (the court need only rule those objections to evidence that
were material in the disposition of the MSJ)).
Objection Nos. 8-18, 25-31, 41-43 are overruled.
Objection No. 37 is overruled in part and sustained in part.
Sustained as to whether Miller saw obstructions two years later, but overruled
as to the rest of the statement.
DISCUSSION
I.          Design
Immunity
Design immunity is an affirmative defense often raised on
motion for summary judgment or nonsuit, enabling the trial court to find the
defense established as a matter of law. 
(Grenier v. City of Irwindale (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 931, 939-940.)  Generally, Government Code section 830.6
provides that a public entity is not liable for injury caused by the plan or
design of a construction or improvement to public property where the plan or
design was approved in advance of the construction or improvement by the legislative
body or employee exercising discretionary authority to give such approval.
“A public entity claiming design immunity must establish
three elements: (1) a causal relationship between the plan or design and the
accident; (2) discretionary approval of the plan or design prior to
construction; and (3) substantial evidence supporting the reasonableness of the
plan or design.” (Cornette v. Department of Transportation (2001) 26 Cal.4th
63, 66.) 
Element One - Causation
The first question is whether there is undisputed evidence
that the accident was caused by a design defect, and not some other cause.  (Grenier, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at p. 940.)
Plaintiff alleges that he was injured due the roadway at issue having an
obstructed view of traffic due to poor road striping, the absence of adequate
shoulders or a bicycle lane, the absence of road signs advising motorists to
share the road and alerting them to unseen bicyclists present on the Subject
Road, and inadequate stop site (sic) for motorists travelling at the speed
limit in sufficient to avoid striking a bicyclists. (Compl. ¶ 18,
capitalization omitted.) The City “may rely on the allegations of the complaint
to establish causation.” (Alvis v. County of Ventura (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th
536, 550.) Thus, the City has sufficiently established a causal relationship
between the design of the bus stop and roadway and the subject accident. 
Element Two – Discretionary Approval for the Plan or Design
Prior to Construction
The second element of design immunity is whether there was
approval for the plan or design prior to construction.  Discretionary approval “simply means approval
in advance of construction by the legislative body or officer exercising
discretionary authority.”  (Ramirez v.
City of Redondo Beach (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 515, 526.)  “A detailed plan, drawn up by a competent
engineering firm, and approved by a city engineer in the exercise of his or her
discretionary authority, is persuasive evidence of the element of prior
approval.”  (Grenier, supra, 57
Cal.App.4th at p. 940.)  Design immunity
does not immunize decisions that were not made. 
(Cameron v. State of California (1972) 7 Cal.3d 318, 326.)  Therefore, the injury-producing feature must
have been part of the approved plan. 
(Grenier, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at p. 941.) 
Here, Defendant presents evidence that the City’s Bureau of
Engineering maintains plans for capital improvements within the City, and has
copies of the engineering plans for the Subject Road. (UMF 65-68.) The two
engineering plans for the Subject Road were approved by the City Engineer, who
had the qualifications and authority to approve such plan. (UMF 69-77.)
Moreover, geometric design drawings are utilized by LADOT for multiple reasons,
including resurfacing of a roadway for particular striping and marking for
street locations. Geometric design drawings are approved by LADOT engineers
with the discretionary authority to do so. (Gallagher Dec., at ¶¶10-12.) The
geometric design plan for the Subject Road in effect at the time of the instant
collision was approved on June 30, 2004 by Principal Transportation Engineer
Thomas L. Jones, who had the discretionary authority to approve the geometric
design plan. (Gallagher Dec., ¶ 13; Ex. F.) In addition to an approved design,
the design of any striping, markings, curb zones, and signs depicted in the
design as existing conditions were actually installed at the depicted location.
(Id.)
Where a signature of a city engineer is affixed to plans,
like it is here, the City satisfies its evidentiary burden for the second
prong. (Laabs v. City of Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1263.)  As such, the City has demonstrated there is
no triable issue as to the second element, discretionary approval of the plan
or design prior to construction.
Plaintiff argues in opposition that the design plans that
were approved did not specify the inclusion of Edge Line, Bike Lane, and
Warning Signs. Plaintiff appears to argue that the injury producing feature was
not included in the approval. He cites to Cameron v. State of California (1997)
7 Cal.3d 318, where the dangerous condition was a superelevation on a curve
road that the state argued was part of an approved plan. But the court found
that the plans did not contain any design or mention superelevation. (Cameron,
supra, 7 Cal.3d at pp. 325-326.) On the other hand, here, the design was
approved in the absence of such devices. The evidence presented shows that
Defendant approved the design and plans of the resurfacing of the particular
roadway for striping, marking, and signs.
Moreover, the California Supreme Court responded to this
very argument that Plaintiff makes and stated that: “Our discussion in Cameron
of the rationale of design immunity—to prevent a jury from “ ‘simply reweighing
the same factors considered by the governmental entity which approved the
design,’ ”—along with our comment that there had been no discretionary decision
on the superelevation (Cameron, supra, 7 Cal.3d at p. 326), were not intended
to and did not suggest that, under the discretionary approval element of
section 830.6, the public entity bears the burden of demonstrating that its
employee considered all potentially applicable standards. Indeed, such a
requirement would constitute a surprising retreat from the basic understanding
that the discretionary approval element of design immunity asks whether a
person vested with discretion to approve the plan did approve the plan or
design that was built, and that the question whether it was wise to approve the
plan is judged under the reasonableness element of the statute. (Hampton v.
Cnty. of San Diego (2015) 62 Cal. 4th 340, 357.)
Element Three – Substantial Evidence Supporting
Reasonableness of Plan
As to whether there is a substantial evidence supporting the
reasonableness of the plan, case law provides that “[t]he issue is not whether
the trial court or jury could find the design unreasonable based on conflicting
evidence”; instead, the trier of fact looks to “whether there is any reasonable
basis on which a reasonable public official could initially have approved the
design,” and Government Code section 830.6 “makes clear that immunity exists if
the trial or appellate court determines that there is any substantial evidence
upon the basis of which (a) a reasonable public employee could have adopted the
plan or design or the standards therefor or (b) a reasonable legislative body
or other body or employee could have approved the plan or design or the
standards therefore.” (Compton v. City of Santee (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 591,
596-597, italics and quotation marks omitted.)
The City provides the expert opinions of Nahass, Gallagher,
and Miller, who all opine that the design plans are reasonable and consistent
with applicable engineering standards. (UMF Nos. 77, 94, 97, 115.)
In opposition, Plaintiff takes issue with Nahass’ statement
that the design was reasonable. “Generally, a civil engineer’s opinion
regarding reasonableness is substantial evidence sufficient to satisfy this
element,” and “[a]pproval of the plan by competent professionals can, in and of
itself, constitute substantial evidence of reasonableness.” (Grenier v. City of
Irwindale, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at p. 941.) As Defendant provided evidence
showing the design was approved by engineers and further, that the engineers
here opined on the reasonableness of the plan, Defendant has met its burden to
show there are no triable issues as to whether there is substantial evidence
supporting the reasonableness of the plan. 
Accordingly, Defendant met its initial burden of showing
that it is entitled to design immunity under Government Code section
830.6.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
show a triable issue of fact exists as to the elements of design immunity.
Design Immunity Does not Preclude Failure to Warn Claims
Where there is a Concealed Trap
In opposition, Plaintiff points out that “design immunity
does not categorically preclude failure to warn claims that involve a
discretionarily approved element of a roadway.” (Tansavatdi v. City of Rancho
Palos Verdes (2023) 14 Cal.5th 639, 647.) "[W]here the state is immune
from liability for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of its property
because the dangerous condition was created as a result of a plan or design
which conferred immunity under [Government Code] section 830.6, the state may
nevertheless be liable for failure to warn of this dangerous condition."
(Id., quoting Cameron, supra, 7 Cal.3d at p. 329.) “The effect of Cameron is
that while section 830.6 shields public entities from liability for injuries
resulting from the design of the physical features of a roadway, they
nonetheless retain a duty to warn of known dangers that the roadway presents to
the public.” (Id.)
Defendant argues that Tansavatdi does not apply because
there is no concealed trap here. The Court agrees. Tansavatdi did make clear is
that under Cameron, despite the inapplicability of design immunity, a plaintiff
alleging failure to warn of a dangerous traffic condition must nonetheless
overcome signage immunity set forth in section 830.8 by establishing the
accident-causing condition was a concealed trap. Signage immunity precludes
government liability for failing to provide "traffic or warning
signals" except when "necessary to warn of a dangerous condition
which would not be reasonably apparent to, and would not have been anticipated
by, a person using the highway with due care."  (Cameron, supra, 7 Cal.3d at p. 327). This
exception to signage immunity is known as the "concealed trap"
exception. (Tansavatdi, supra, 14 Cal.5th at 661.) “[W]hile Cameron generally
permits claims for failure to warn of a dangerous traffic condition that is
subject to design immunity, a plaintiff pursuing such a claim must nonetheless
prove various elements…” including that (1) “the dangerous condition qualified
as a concealed trap, i.e., "would not [have been] reasonably apparent to,
and would not have been anticipated by, a person exercising due care"; and
(2) “the absence of a warning was a substantial factor in bringing about the
injury.” (Id., at 662.)
As to whether there is a concealed trap, Plaintiff’s expert
opines that, “With the Intersection containing a Bike Route and surrounding
major roads containing Bike Lanes, including surrounding areas on Plummer
Street, bicyclists end up in a situation where they are funneled to share the
road with vehicles, when they initially may have intended on using a separate
Bike Lane. Bicyclists are pushed into an area where they no longer have the
protection of a designated Bike Lane that conveys to motorists that there are
bicyclists on the road. The bicyclists are then forced to navigate parked
vehicles to the right as well as moving vehicles to the left, leaving
bicyclists vulnerable to collisions. (Avrit Decl., ¶ 10.)
This evidence does not show that there was a concealed trap
to drivers, especially in light of Defendant’s evidence that the driver that
struck Plaintiff, Kligman, testified that she saw Plaintiff ahead of her,
noticed bicyclists, including Plaintiff ahead of her as she drove on Plummer
Street, there was no physical obstruction blocking her vision, and she was
aware of cyclists. (UMF 43-45.) Further, Defendant’s expert determined the road
at issue is straight and nearly flat, so that bicyclists can safely navigate
around parked cars without a bike lane as long as vehicular laws regarding lane
changes are followed. (UMF 108, 112.)
Thus, Plaintiff has presented no evidence to show that the
absence of a warning was a substantial factor in bringing about the injury. As
such, Plaintiff has failed to present triable issues of material fact as to
whether Defendant may be liable for failure to warn of this dangerous
condition.
Loss of Immunity
Next, Plaintiff also argues that there was a loss of design
immunity due to increased traffic.
Design immunity ends if (1) the plan or design has become
dangerous because of a change in physical conditions, (2) the public entity had
actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition created, and (3) the
public entity had reasonable time to obtain the funds and carry out the
necessary remedial work to bring the property back into conformity with a
reasonable design or plan or the public entity, unable to remedy the condition
due to practical impossibility or lack of funds, had not reasonably attempted
to provide adequate warnings. (Cornette v. Dept. of Transportation (2001) 26
Cal.4th 63, 66.) Where a defendant bore the burden of establishing design
immunity, the opposing party bears the burden of proving a loss of design
immunity. (Mirzada v. Department of Transp. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 802, 807.)
However, increased traffic does not constitute a changed
condition. (Baldwin v. State of California (1972) 6 Cal.3d 424, 434; Dole
Citrus v. State of Cal. (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 486, 494.) Courts have ruled that
increased traffic at the accident location alone is insufficient to prove the
loss of design immunity without evidence that the change rendered the roadway
inconsistent with state standards or would have rendered it unreasonable for a
public entity to approve the design. (Weinstein v. California Dept. of Transp.
(2006) 139 CA4th 52, 60-61.) 
As a result, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to
present triable issues of material fact as to whether Defendant lost its design
immunity because increased traffic does not constitute a changed condition. As
such, Defendant is entitled to design immunity.
II. Cause of Action for Violation of Mandatory Duties
Government Code section 815.6, provides, ”[w]here a public
entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is designed to
protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the public entity is
liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure to
discharge the duty.” (Gov. Code, § 815.6.) “Government Code section 815.6
contains a three-pronged test for determining whether liability may be imposed
on a public entity: (1) an enactment must impose a mandatory, not discretionary,
duty [citation]; (2) the enactment must intend to protect against the kind of
risk of injury suffered by the party asserting section 815.6 as a basis for
liability [citations]; and (3) breach of the mandatory duty must be a proximate
cause of the injury suffered. 
[Citations.]”  (E.g., Davila v.
County of Los Angeles (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 137, 140 (Davila).)  Courts have construed the first prong
strictly, finding a mandatory duty only if the enactment “affirmatively imposes
the duty and provides implementing guidelines.” 
(Guzman v. County of Monterey (2009) 46 Cal.4th 887, 898.
(Guzman).)   Moreover, the “mandatory
nature of the duty must be phrased in explicit and forceful language.” (Id. at
898-99.) The inclusion of the term “shall” does not necessarily create a
mandatory duty, as there may be “other factors that indicate that apparent
obligatory language was not intended to foreclose a governmental entity's or
officer's exercise of discretion.” (Id. at pp. 898–899.) 
Whether an enactment creates a mandatory duty is a question
of law.  (Haggis v. City of Los Angeles
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 490, 499 (Haggis).)  As
the Supreme Court explained in Haggis:
The enactment’s language “is, of course, a most important
guide in determining legislative intent, [but] there are unquestionably
instances in which other factors will indicate that apparent obligatory
language was not intended to foreclose a governmental entity’s or officer’s
exercise of discretion.” 
[Citation.]  Second, but equally
important, section 815.6 requires that the mandatory duty be “designed” to
protect against the particular kind of injury the plaintiff suffered.  The plaintiff must show the injury is “ ‘one
of the consequences which the [enacting body] sought to prevent through
imposing the alleged mandatory duty.’ ” 
[Citation.]  Our inquiry in this
regard goes to the legislative purpose of imposing the duty.  That the enactment ‘confers some benefit’ on
the class to which plaintiff belongs is not enough; if the benefit is
“incidental” to the enactment’s protective purpose, the enactment cannot serve
as a predicate for liability under section 815.6.  (Haggis, ibid.)  
Under the first prong of Government Code section 815.6, the
enactment must be obligatory rather than merely discretionary or permissive in
its directions to the public entity. 
(County of Los Angeles (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th at 638–639.)  In other words, it must require, rather than
merely authorize or permit, that a particular action be taken.  (Ibid.) 
It is not enough that the public entity or officer have been under an
obligation to perform a function if the function itself involves the exercise
of discretion.  (Ibid.) 
An enactment does not create a mandatory duty if it merely
recites legislative goals and policies that must be implemented through a
public agency’s exercise of discretion.” 
(Id., at 639.)
Here, Plaintiff cites to the following statutes in
connection with his claim under Government Code section 815.6: Streets and
Highways Code sections 885.1, 885.2, 890.4, 890.6 and 891, along with Vehicle
Code section 21207. Plaintiff alleges that Streets and Highways Code section
891 mandates Defendant’s development, planning, construction and operation of
bikeways where bicycle travel is permitted and mandates that Defendant utilize
the minimum safety design criteria established pursuant to Street and Highways
Code §890.6.
Streets and Highways Code section 891(a) requires that
cities, among others, responsible for development or operation of bikeways
“shall utilize” minimum safety design criteria established by Streets and
Highways Code section 890.6, and “shall utilize” uniform standards for
specifications and symbols for signs, markers and traffic control devices
established pursuant to Streets and Highways Code section 890.8. (Sts. &
Hy.Code, § 891.)
In turn, sections 890.6 and 890.8 of the Streets and
Highways Code require the California Department of Transportation, in
cooperation with city and county governments, to “establish minimum safety
design criteria for the planning and construction of bikeways and roadways
where bicycle travel is permitted” (Sts. & Hy.Code, § 890.6), and to
“establish uniform specifications and symbols for signs, markers, and traffic
control devices to designate bikeways, regulate traffic, improve safety and
convenience for bicyclists, and alert pedestrians and motorists of the presence
of bicyclists on bikeways and on roadways where bicycle travel is permitted.”
 (Sts. & Hy.Code, § 890.8.)
The only statute which Plaintiff’s complaint alleges imposes
a mandatory duty on Defendant is Streets and Highways Code section 891, which
involves providing a safe bikeway, and, as Defendant points out, is the only
statute that is phrased as mandatory.As best as the Court can understand, Plaintiff contends that
Sts. & Hy.Code, § 891 required Defendant to provide a bike lane.  The Court does not interpret this section to
impose any such requirement.  Instead,
the Court interprets Section 891 to say that when an entity does provide a bike
lane, the bike lane must comply with Section 890.6 (unless the entity satisfies
891(b)) and 890.8.  Because the subject
roadway did not have a bike lane, Defendant did not violate Section 891.Moreover, given that Defendant is entitled to design
immunity for the marking and striping of the location at issue, and having
found that Plaintiff has not established the failure to warn claim, or that
Defendant lost its immunity, liability under Government Code section 815.6 is
subject to this immunity.Government Code states, in section 815, subdivision (a),
that, “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute,” a public entity is not
liable for an injury, whether it arises out of an act or omission of the
entity, a public employee or anyone else.   While section 815.6 (liability
based on failure to discharge a statutory duty) and Government Code section¿835
(liability based on dangerous condition of property) both expressly provide for
liability of the public entity, section 815, subdivision (b), further specifically
states that:“The liability of a public entity established by this part
(commencing with Section 814) is subject to any immunity of the public entity
provided by statute, including this part·”As such, the alleged mandatory duty under Streets and
Highways Code section 891 to use minimum safety design criteria and uniform
standards for specifications and symbols for signs, markers, and traffic
control devices is subject to design immunity, of which Defendant has
established its entitlement. This immunity therefore bars the cause of action
for violation of this alleged mandatory duty under Streets and Highways Code
section 891. As a result, Defendant is entitled to summary judgment.C.C.P. Section 437c(h) Request The Court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration fails
to identify what facts might be subject to later discovery that might have a
bearing on this motion.  As such, the C.C.P.
Section 437c(h) request to deny this motion is denied.  CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Defendant City of Los Angeles’
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant to give notice.