 Case Number:  21STCV01774    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  T Motion To Be Relieved As Counsel
Moving Party:           
        Lawrence D. Esten (Manning
& Kass)
Responding Party:     
      No response filed. 
SERVICE:                         Filed May 6, 2024
Tentative Ruling:               Granted
RELIEF REQUESTED 
Lawrence
D. Esten from Manning & Kass moves to be relieved as counsel of record for
Cross-Defendant Arturo Nuno.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure §284(1) allows for a change or
substitution of attorney “[u]pon the consent of both client and attorney, filed
with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes.” If both parties do not consent to
a substitution of attorney, Code of Civ. Proc. §284(2) allows for a
substitution “[u]pon the order of the court, upon the application of either
client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.” California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1362 sets forth procedures for relieving counsel without the mutual
consent of both parties.
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, an attorney
seeking to withdraw by motion rather than by consent of the client, as here, is
required to make that motion using approved Judicial Council forms. The motion
also requires a declaration stating “in general terms, and without compromising
the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code
of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1362(c).)  Judicial Council form
MC-052, the attorney’s declaration, requires that the client be provided no
less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.  A proposed order prepared on form MC-053 must
also be lodged with the court with the moving papers.
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d) also
requires that the motion, notice of motion, the declaration, and the proposed
order must be served on the client and all other parties who have appeared in
the case. The notice served on the client by mail must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts that show that either the service address is current
or “that [t]he service address is the last known residence or business address
of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address
after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of
the motion to be relieved.” (California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d)). 
The Court of Appeals has recognized, “A lawyer violates his
or her ethical mandate by abandoning a client [citation], or by withdrawing at
a critical point and thereby prejudicing the client’s case.  [Citation.] 
We are, however, aware of no authority preventing an attorney from
withdrawing from a case when withdrawal can be accomplished without undue
prejudice to the client’s interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.
App. 4th 904, 915.)
DISCUSSION
Counsel moves to be relieved as counsel of record, stating:
“There has been a breakdown of the working relationship with the client. Client
has failed and refuses to cooperate and respond to attorney.” (Decl. ¶ 2.) Rule
1.16(b)(4) provides that a lawyer may withdraw if “the client by other conduct
renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the
representation effectively.”
Counsel provides that the clients were served at the last
known address, but he was unable to confirm that the address was current or to
locate a more current address for the clients after making the following
efforts: mailing the motion papers to the clients’ last known address, return
receipt requested, calling the clients’ last known telephone number or numbers,
contacting persons familiar with the client (called client on phone, identified
himself as client’s attorney, but person hung up), and previously calling
client, where client identified himself, wife grabbed the phone and hung up.
The Court notes that the proof of service, motion (MC-051),
declaration (MC-052), and order (MC-053) have been filed.
CONCLUSION
Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED, effective upon counsel filing a proof of service of the Order on Cross-Defendant Arturo Nuno.
 
 