 Case Number:  24STCV03123    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 7, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         E on Los Angeles, LLC v. Narinder Pallan
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV03123            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Narinder Pallan, in pro per.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff E on Los
Angeles, LLC.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/06/24: Complaint filed.
·        
06/18/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of lease. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
failed to pay rent owed on a commercial lease and, upon relinquishing
possession of the premises, left them in disrepair. 
 
Defendant moves for leave to file a
compulsory cross-complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion for Leave to
File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to serve and file a clean standalone copy of the proposed
cross-complaint within 10 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves for leave to file a
compulsory cross-complaint. 
 
//
 
//
Compulsory Cross-Complaint
 
Parties generally must file a cross-complaint against the
party who filed the complaint before or at the same time as the answer to the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(a).) Parties seeking to file untimely
compulsory cross-complaints may move the Court for leave to do so, even though
the failure to timely file resulted from oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause. (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.) In such a case, after
notice to the adverse party, the Court must grant leave to file the cross-complaint
if the party acted in good faith. This section is liberally construed to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action. (Id.)
 
The purpose of the compulsory cross-complaint statute is to
prevent piecemeal litigation. (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179
Cal.App.4th 949, 959.) Compulsory cross-complaints consist of those causes of
action existing at the time of service of the answer that the defendant must
bring against the plaintiff, or else forfeit the right to bring them in any
other action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30(a).) Specifically, compulsory
cross-complaints consist of the causes of action that “arise out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action
which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10(c).)
To avoid piecemeal litigation, courts liberally construe the term
“transaction”—it is “ ‘not confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence . .
. but may embrace a series of acts or occurrences logically interrelated.’ ” (Align
Technology, supra, 179 Cal.App.4th at 960.)
 
Thus, a
motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint filed at any time during the course
of the action must be granted where forfeiture would otherwise result, unless
the moving party engaged in bad faith conduct. (Silver Organizations Ltd. v.
Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.) The determination that the moving
party acted in bad faith must be supported by substantial evidence. (Ibid.;
Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d
897, 902 [“We conclude that this principle of liberality requires that a strong
showing of bad faith be made in order to support a denial of the right to file
a cross-complaint under this section”].) “Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect,
mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless
accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd, supra,
217 Cal.App.3d at 99)
Rather, bad faith is “defined as ‘[t]he opposite of “good faith,” generally
implying or involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive
another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual
obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . . , but by some interested or
sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather . .
. the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral
obliquity; . . . it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with
furtive design or ill will.’” (Id. at 100.) 
 
Here, Defendant seeks leave to file a
compulsory cross-complaint claiming that Plaintiff, as the landlord, allowed
Defendant’s property to sustain water damage during heavy rains in December
2023 by failing to make repairs to the roof of the premises. (Defendant’s Exh.
A.) Defendant offers no explanation for the delay beyond the bare statement
that he did not wish to assert his crossclaims at the time the operative answer
was filed. (Declaration of Narinder Pallan ISO Mot. ¶ 2.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant is not entitled to leave to assert this belated crossclaim because he
admits to knowingly delaying the presentation of this claim. However, mere
delay, even knowingly, does not empower the Court to deny a motion seeking to
assert compulsory crossclaims absent substantial evidence that the delay was
made for some improper purpose. (Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 99.) At best, Defendant’s declaration demonstrates poor judgment,
which is not a sufficient basis for denial where, as here, Plaintiff concedes
that the proposed crossclaims are compulsory crossclaims. The Court is
therefore obligated to permit Defendant to file his cross-complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to serve and file a clean standalone copy of the proposed
cross-complaint within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 7,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 