  Case Number:  22STCV04928    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 6, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
May 20, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Angelia Kambouris v. Senator Jones, et
al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV04928            
 
MOTION
TO REQUIRE UNDERTAKING 

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Brown Label Inc., d/b/a Senator Jones
(erroneously sued as Senator Jones and separately as Brown Label Inc.); and
Travis Burk (sued as Travis Doe).
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Angelia
Kambouris
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            On February 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint asserting claims for intentional
tort action for assault, battery, and infliction of emotional distress.
Plaintiff alleges that she was attacked by a security guard employed by the
corporate Defendant. 
 
Defendants move to require
Plaintiff to post an undertaking pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1030. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion to Require
Undertaking is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move to require
Plaintiff to post an undertaking pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1030. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1030(a), a defendant sued by an out-of-state plaintiff “may
at any time apply to the court by noticed motion for an order requiring the
plaintiff to file an undertaking to secure an award of costs and attorney’s
fees which may be awarded in the action or special proceeding.”   
In order to prevail on a
motion for undertaking, the defendant must show that: (1) the plaintiff resides
out of state; and (2) there is a “reasonable possibility” that the defendant
will obtain a judgment in the matter. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1030(b).) A defendant
need not show that there is no possibility of the plaintiff prevailing—only
that it is reasonably possible that defendant will prevail. (Baltayan v.
Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1427, 1432.)  Additionally, the
motion must be accompanied by a supporting affidavit or declaration that sets
forth the nature and amount of the costs the defendant has incurred and expects
to incur. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1030(b).) Finally, “the determinations of the
court under this section have no effect on the determination of any issues on
the merits of the action . . . and may not be given in evidence nor referred to
in the trial of the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1030(f).) 
 
Out-of-State Plaintiff
 
            Although Plaintiff
originally alleged that she was a resident of Los Angeles at the time the
action was filed, Defendant states that Plaintiff has admitted in responses to
interrogatories that she currently resides in New South Wales, Australia. (Declaration
of Matthew C. Hong ISO Mot. Exh. B. No. 2.5.) Plaintiff does not contest that
she is an out-of-state plaintiff for the purposes of this motion. 
 
Reasonable Possibility of Prevailing
 
            Defendants argue
that they have a reasonable possibility of prevailing on Plaintiff’s first two
causes of assault and battery, but make no effort to address the remaining
causes of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence,
or negligent hiring, retention, and supervision. As the moving parties,
Defendants bear the burden of demonstrating a possibility of success in this
case. By failing to address all claims in their motion, Defendants have not met
that burden. Moreover, Defendants’ efforts to rescue their motion by addressing
the remaining claims in their reply papers is unavailing, as Plaintiff has not
been presented a fair opportunity to rebut Defendants’ attack on her claims.
Defendants are therefore not entitled to an order requiring Plaintiff to post
an undertaking on this showing.  
 
CONCLUSION: 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Require Undertaking is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 7,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Any
party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via
email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later
than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing. All interested parties must be
copied on the email. It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative
ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By
submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be
present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt
the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in
whole or in part.
 