 Case Number:  21STCV45599    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CONCORD ESTATES,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
Y & Y NEW HAMPSHIRE, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV45599
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT; GRANTING MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL; DENYING AS MOOT MOTION TO SEVER NEW
  PARTIES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 30, 2023



 
On December 14 2021, Concord
Estates filed this action against Y&Y New Hampshire Inc. (“Y&Y”) and I Park
Inc. (“I Park”) for violations of building standards.  The complaint alleges that Y&Y was the developer
responsible for the construction and sale of the property, and I Park was a builder.
On
April 12, 2022, I Park filed a cross-complaint against Y&Y, alleging (1) implied
contractual indemnity; (2) equitable indemnity; (3) express indemnity; (4) breach
of express and implied warranties; (5) breach of written contract; (6) breach of
oral contract; (7) breach of implied contract; (8) negligence; (9) declaratory relief
re: duty to defend; (10) declaratory relief re: duty to indemnify; and (11) declaratory
relief re: contractual duties and obligations. 
I Park later identified Horizon Plastering Inc. as an additional cross-defendant.
On
March 15, 2023, Y&Y filed a motion for summary judgment of I Park’s cross-complaint.  On June 8, 2023, the Court denied the motion.
On
July 27, 2023, Y&Y filed a motion for summary adjudication.
On
November 1, 2023, Horizon Plastering Inc. filed a motion to continue trial.
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
“A
party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues asserted in a prior motion
for summary adjudication and denied by the court unless that party establishes,
to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or circumstances or a change
of law supporting the issues reasserted in the summary judgment motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)
Y&Y’s
first motion—labeled as a motion for summary judgment, but actually asking for summary
adjudication—identified three issues for adjudication: “(1) order [I Park] to indemnify
Y&Y for loss already suffered by Y&Y against [Concord Estates] and Y&Y’s
cross-complaint . . . based on I-Park’s duty of defense for Y&Y; (2) dismiss
the Cross-Complaint in accordance with I-Park’s contractual obligations under the
construction/development contract and the release addendum by and between Y&Y
and I-Park . . .; and (3) prevent any indemnification, express or implied, from
Y&Y to I-Park.”
Y&Y’s
current motion—labeled as a motion for summary adjudication only, but a grant of
all issues would result in a full judgment—identifies twelve issues for adjudication.  Each of these issues is based on issues asserted
in the prior motion.
Issue
No. 1 asserts that the first cause of action for implied contractual indemnification
“is barred because Y&Y was neither a subcontractor nor an active or passive
participant in the construction [leading] to the defects and damages of the Property
at issue and the Release Agreement between I-Park and Y&Y released Y&Y from
liability to I-Park.”  Issue No. 2 asserts
that the second cause of action for equitable indemnity “is barred because I-Park
was actively responsible for the construction and development of the Property and
the Release between I-Park and Y&Y releases Y&Y from liability to I-Park.”  Issue No. 3 asserts that the third cause of action
for express indemnity “is barred because the cited indemnity provision in the Cross-Complaint
is not part of the Construction Contracts between Y&Y and I-Park and applies
to the subcontractors to the Property’s construction.”  Issue No. 4 asserts that the fourth cause of action
for breach of express and implied warranties “is barred because these cited warranties
are not included or implied within the Construction Contracts between I-Park and
Y&Y and are contrary to the warranty clauses within the Initial Contract between
the parties.”  Issue No. 5 asserts that the
fifth cause of action for breach of written contract “is barred because Y&Y
was not responsible for the labor and services obligations alleged and these duties
are contrary to Y&Y’s covenants and obligations stated in the Construction Contracts.”  Issue No. 6 asserts that the sixth cause of action
“is barred because the Construction Contracts fully outlined the duties of both
parties and the Construction Contracts were the final agreements between both affecting
the Property.”
These
issues are based on issues asserted in Y&Y’s prior motion.  In its prior motion, Y&Y argued that it had
limited participation in the construction, that the parties’ contracts outlined
the parties’ obligations and released Y&Y from liability, and that the contracts
did not provide for indemnification.  (3/15/2023
MSJ at pp. 17-22.)  Moreover, these issues
directly address the prior motion’s Issue No. 2 (adjudication based on “contractual
obligations under the construction/development contract”) and Issue No. 3 (“prevent
any indemnification, express or implied, from Y&Y to I-Park”).
Issue
No. 7 asserts that the seventh cause of action for breach of implied contract “is
barred because (i) the court lacks subject matter jurisdiction to hear this claim
as the alleged breach would have occurred more than two years from the date of the
Cross-Complaint’s filing; (ii) the labor and services duties cited were not the
responsibilities of Y&Y, but rather I-Park; and (iii) the Construction Contracts
were the final agreements between the parties affecting the Property, expressly
stating the parties’ obligations.”  This too
addresses an issue raised in the prior motion: adjudication based on “contractual
obligations under the construction/development contract.”  As to the ground that the Court “lacks subject
matter jurisdiction,” Y&Y does not further argue this point in its briefing,
and the separate statement’s undisputed facts for Issue No. 7 do not support the
issue.
Issue
No. 8 asserts that the eighth cause of action for negligence “is barred because
(i) Y&Y did not breach its duty of payment owed to I-Park during and following
the construction of the Property; (ii) I-Park cannot provide evidence to support
that Y&Y was the proximate cause of the labor and services leading to the damages
and defects to the Property, which I-Park and its subcontractors were responsible
for; and (iii) Y&Y took steps to mitigate and minimize costs and expenses I-Park
allegedly suffered.”  The Cross-Complaint
does not allege any breach of duty of payment. 
For the other grounds, Y&Y argues that the duty to use reasonable care
in the construction “rested solely in the hands of I-Park. I-Park was responsible
for the construction of the Property and Y&Y was to make payment to I-Park for
the construction completion. . . . As to exercising reasonable care and diligence
to avoid loss and minimize and mitigate damages, I-Park, not Y&Y, was responsible
for the construction and actions of subcontractors and the overall construction
performance.”  (Motion at pp. 10-11.)  This too is based on the prior motion’s Issue
No. 2 for “contractual obligations under the construction/development contract.”
Issue
Nos. 9, 10, and 11 address the Cross-Complaint’s ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes
of action for declaratory relief as to indemnity and contractual obligations.  These issues are dependent on Issue Nos. 2 and
3 from the prior motion.
Issue
No. 12 seeks a determination of “Y&Y’s Relief prayer for the court to order
I-Park to act on behalf of an provide proper defense [for] Y&Y should be granted
because I-Park explicitly and expressly agreed to provide a defense against a third-party
action arising from the construction of the Property at issue including Plaintiff’s
construction defects claim against Y&Y as defendant in the original action.”  I Park’s alleged duty of defense was raised in
Issue No. 1 of the prior motion.  Additionally,
as stated in the order denying the prior motion, this issue is outside the scope
of I Park’s Cross-Complaint.
After
setting forth the enumerated issues in the Notice of Motion, Y&Y asks, “In the
unlikely event that this Court were to deny Y&Y’s motion for adjudication on
only one but not all of I-Park’s causes of action, then this Court should also enter
an order finding, as a matter of law, that I-Park cannot seek as ‘damages’ or reimbursements
any payments made by I-Park to Plaintiff resulting from Plaintiff’s original civil
action against both parties.”  A motion directed
at a “claim for damages” arguably is limited to a claim for punitive damages, but
there is some ambiguity about whether the motion may be directed toward any “claim
for damages.”  (Macy’s California, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 744, 748, fn. 2.)  Even under a broader interpretation, Defendants’
motion does not completely dispose of the claim for damages.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(f)(1), does not permit summary adjudication of a single item of compensatory damage
which does not dispose of an entire cause of action.”  (DeCastro West Chodorow & Burns, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 410, 422.)  
The
motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
A
court may grant a continuance of trial upon a showing of good cause.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  The court must consider all the facts and circumstances
that are relevant to the determination.  (California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
Horizon
moves to continue the January 8, 2024 trial date.  Horizon was named as a cross-defendant in an amendment
on December 7, 2022, and its insurance carrier assigned the file to counsel in October
2023.  Horizon needs more time to analyze
other parties’ responses, conduct discovery, and possibly amend its cross-complaint.  Counsel for all parties stipulated to a trial
continuance from January 8, 2024 to April 22, 2024, or a date thereafter convenient
for the Court.  (Motion, Ex. A.)
The
Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED.
The
Final Status Conference scheduled for 12/19/2023 at 9:00 AM is advanced to this
date and continued to __________.
The
Jury Trial (5 day estimate) scheduled for 01/08/2024 at 9:00 AM is advanced to this
date and continued to __________.
All
motion and discovery deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.
MOTION TO SEVER NEW PARTIES
The
Court cannot find any record of a Motion to Sever New Parties being filed, despite
it being calendared.  Nevertheless, the Court
finds that any such motion is now moot in light of the continued trial and other
dates.
The
Motion to Sever New Parties is DENIED AS MOOT, without prejudice to renewal at a
later stage.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 30th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 