 Case Number:  22STCV31758    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the petitioning papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 28, 2022, Plaintiffs Anjenette Foster and Azariyah Burdette, by and
through her guardian ad litem Anjenette Foster, filed this action against
Defendants Shawn Anthony Lewis (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle negligence.  
On
September 30, 2022, the Court appointed Anjenette Foster to serve as Plaintiff
Azariyah Burdette’s guardian ad litem. 
On
January 9, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
          On August 8, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a notice of settlement. 
          On March 19, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel Raymond Ghermezian ("Ghermezian") filed a declaration
stating that “[t]here has been a breakdown in the attorney client relations in
this matter and our office has lost all contact with plaintiff.”  Ghermezian asked the Court to appoint a new
guardian ad litem “in order to file the Minor’s Compromise Petition.” 
          On June 3, 2024, the Court granted Ghermezian's application to
serve as Plaintiff Azariyah Burdette’s guardian ad litem. 
On
June 5, 2024, Ghermezian submitted a petition
for approval of minor’s compromise.  The
petition was scheduled to be heard on June 28, 2024.  The Court continued the hearing to July 2, 2024. 
PETITIONER’S REQUEST
  Petitioner
Raymond Ghermezian asks the Court to approve the compromise of the pending
action of Plaintiff Azariyah Burdette (“Plaintiff”). 
DISCUSSION 
The
complaint alleges that “on or about December 22, 2020, while plaintiff was
walking in the crosswalk, on the intersection of 88th Place and Central Ave.,
located in the City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, State of California,
that the defendants, and each of them, and DOES 1 through 15, inclusive,
negligently, recklessly and carelessly operated their motor vehicle, so as to
cause the same to strike and collide with plaintiff. Specifically, Defendant
SHAWN [Anthony Lewis] as he ran a Red light, saw plaintiff walking and
negligently failed to yield to the plaintiff and failed to exercise caution
Consequently, plaintiffs [were] violently thrown to the ground, thereby
proximately causing the plaintiffs to be seriously injured.”  (Complaint ¶ 11.)  As a result of Defendant’s alleged negligence, “the
plaintiff was required to and did employ physicians, surgeons, and other
practitioners of the healing arts, hospitals, etc., to examine, treat and care
for plaintiffs, and did incur, medical, hospital and incidental expenses.”
(Complaint ¶ 15.) 
Similarly, Ghermezian's declaration supporting the petition's request for attorney's fees states that Plaintiff “suffered
physical injuries” and “sought medical treatment for her injuries” after the
accident.  (Ghermezian dec. ¶¶ 2, 5.)  Ghermezian states that he reviewed medical
records and attended treating physician depositions while working on the case.
(Ghermezian dec. ¶ 8.) 
Despite
Plaintiff’s claims of injury and medical expenses, the petition for
approval of minor’s compromise includes no information about Plaintiff’s injuries
(Petition, Section 6), treatment (Petition, Section 7), or medical expenses
(Petition, Sections 12a, 12b).  The
petition includes no medical or billing records and does not identify any of
Plaintiff’s medical providers. 
 The Court cannot grant a petition to approve a
minor’s compromise unless it shows that all of Plaintiff’s medical expenses that
have not been waived or reduced will be paid or reimbursed from the settlement
proceeds.  The petition does not provide
the evidence the Court needs to determine whether approval of the settlement will leave any of Plaintiff's medical providers uncompensated for their services. 
In
addition, Ghermezian should clarify (1) if he is Plaintiff’s parent, as he states
in Section 1 of the petition, (2) if he was involved in the December 22, 2020
accident, as he states in Section 4c of the petition, (3) if he is a plaintiff
in the case, as he states in Section 11b(3) of the petition, and (4) if he has received or will receive $1,000.00 from Defendant in addition to
the attorney’s fees he seeks for his representation of Plaintiff, as he states
in Section 17f of the petition. 
The
Court denies the petition. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the petition to approve the compromise of Plaintiff Azariyah Burdette’s action filed by Petitioner Raymond
Ghermezian on June 5, 2024. 
Petitioner
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Petitioner
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.