 Case Number:  21SMCV01582    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Wallach, et al., v. Providence Health
System – Southern California, et
al.
CASE NO.:                21SMCV01582
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses
HEARING DATE:   3/15/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            In the absence of contrary court
order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is broad. “[A]ny party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action . . . if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010; see Davies v. Superior Court (1984)
36 Cal.3d 291, 301.)
 
            A motion to compel further responses
to a demand for inspection or production of documents (RPD) may be brought
based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or
incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections. (CCP§ 2031.310(c).) A motion to compel
further responses to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”
(CCP. § 2031.310(b)(1).) “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on the
moving party to show both: [¶] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g., how the
information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue in the
case); and [¶] Specific facts justifying discovery (e.g., why such information
is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial.)
[Citations.] [¶] The fact that there is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection. But it is not essential in every case.” (Edmon & Karnow,
California Practice Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2017) ¶
8:1495.6.) 
 
            Motions to compel further responses
must always be accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration (per CCP §
2016.040) demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP §§ 2030.300(b),
2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).) They must also be accompanied by a separate
statement containing the requests and the responses, verbatim, as well as
reasons why a further response is warranted. (CRC, rule 3.1345(a).) The
separate statement must also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may
be incorporated by reference. (CRC rule 3.1345(c).)
 
            If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection or
failure fully to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories];
see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) 
 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff’s objections to
Defendants’ evidence submitted in reply are OVERRULED. Defendants failed to
attach exhibits A-F to the initial declaration of counsel. (See Ashtari Decl.,
¶¶ 2, 7, 12-14.) Due to this oversight, Defendants’ exhibits were attached to
the reply brief’s declaration of counsel. 
Plaintiffs cite no prejudice from this omission, and Plaintiffs were
able to adequately respond and oppose the motion on the merits.
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health
Center moves for an order compelling Plaintiffs to provide further responses,
without objections, to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Three. (CCP §
2031.310.) In particular, Defendant seeks production of Mr. Wallach’s and Elizabeth
Wallach’s cell phones for inspection and forensic copying of photos, text
messages, call logs, and other data and metadata from March 14, 2020, and March
15, 2020. Defendant believes that a forensic inspection is the only way to confirm
that Plaintiffs have produced all documents, since there has been a significant
pattern of withholding this information.
 
During discovery, Defendant sought
any photographs taken during Mrs. Wallach’s two-day hospital admission. On
March 2, 2023, in response to Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
Plaintiffs produced 11 photos and 8 videos. (Ashtari Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. A.) Defendant
notes this discovery already garnered relevant evidence, as Plaintiff’s relied
on photographs to show that Mrs. Wallach’s SCD machine was off, which they
allege contributed to her death. (Id., ¶¶ 3-4.) Plaintiffs’ counsel assured Defendants
that those photos were all the photos they took during the hospital admission.
(Id., ¶ 5.) Despite the verification and assurance, Defendant served a Request
for Production of Documents, Set Two, requesting: “all photos taken on any
device at Providence Saint John’s Health Center on March 14, 2020, and March
15, 2020.” (Ashtari Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff responded that “[a]fter a diligent
search and reasonable inquiry, Plaintiff has already produced all responsive
documents in his possession. No other responsive documents exist.” (Ashtari
Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. B.)
 
On August 2, 2023, Defendants
propounded the request at issue in this motion, Request for Production of Documents,
Set Three, which included a demand for a forensic inspection of Plaintiffs’
devices. (Ashtari Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs objected that the requests were
overbroad, oppressive, violated the plaintiff’s privacy rights, violated
third-party privacy rights, and was not likely to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. (Id., Ex. C.) Despite these objections, Plaintiffs produced
approximately 150 additional photos and videos from the hospital that were
previously withheld, and asserted that everything had now been produced. (Id.,
¶ 10.) 
 
The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552, citing Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1.) “The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Id.) 
 
Courts must
carefully balance a right of privacy against the interest in having just
litigation. (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2007) 40
Cal.4th 360, 371.) If there is a serious invasion of a constitutional right to
privacy, the party seeking the evidence must establish that the information
sought is not only essential and directly relevant, but also that this
information could not be discovered through less intrusive means. (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552; Harris v. Superior Court (1992) 3
Cal.App.4th 661, 665 [information must be “directly relevant to a cause of
action or defense… i.e., that it is essential to determining the truth of the
matters in dispute].)
 
There is no reasonable dispute that Plaintiffs assert a recognized
privacy interest in their private telephone communications with third parties.
This reasonable privacy interest is bolstered by Plaintiffs’ medical privacy,
since any communications or photos would likely relate to the birth of their
son Time, and related medical issues. Further, the inspection request broadly
requires “copying of… other data and metadata” of Plaintiffs’
cell phones. Strictly speaking, this inspection would require a complete copy
of all the data on the cell phones, whether or not the data is within the scope
of relevancy or discovery. Thus, Plaintiffs
establish that the forensic inspection demand seriously infringes upon their
legally protected privacy interests.
 
Defendants argue that such privacy concerns are outweighed by
their particular need for this forensic evidence. Defendants contend that inspection
of Plaintiffs’ devices would reveal directly relevant evidence of
photos/videos, texts, and other communication activity during the relevant
period. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ belated production of
the 150 photos calls into question whether there are additional photos or other
documentary evidence. Defendant also argue that Plaintiffs have withheld
discoverable evidence because they have discovered “at least two photos” that
were missing from the supplemental responses and missing text messages. 
 
In
response, Plaintiffs’ counsel fail to adequately explain why the 150 photos
were not produced in response to RDP, Set Two. Counsel
only asserts that they later realized that they sent an incomplete set of
photos and videos, and thereafter provided further supplemental responses. (See
Schwalbach Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs’ counsel also
fails explain how the supplemental response did not include all photographs and
videos when Mr. Wallach’s files were transferred electronically to the newly
merged firm. This unexplained discrepancy weighs in favor of a forensic
examination. 
 
Defendants’ other claims of
suspicious behavior by Plaintiffs are insufficient to support a forensic
examination. Defendants cite a photo posted on Facebook by Mr. Wallach’s
mother, Rochelle Lamm, and a second photo used by Plaintiffs in a video
produced for mediation on June 6, 2023. (Ashtari Decl., ¶ 8; see Supp. Ashtari
Decl., Ex. F.) However, defense counsel’s declaration does not elaborate
further, or provide examples of the photos. The text post by Ms. Lamm
announcing her daughter’s death generally describes how they shared the news of
their baby girl’s birth with their “allegiance of friends through nonstop videoconferencing,
FaceTime, WhatsApp, texts, and pics.” This statement taken at face value would
not suggest that Plaintiffs have more than the 150 produced photos, or are
otherwise withholding discovery.  Defendants, however, do put forth some evidence
that all text messages from decedent’s phone have not been produced.
 
Moreover, as a practical matter, the Court cannot order the requested forensic examination of
items other than Mrs. Wallach’s cell phone. Plaintiffs
claim not to have the cameras or David Wallach’s cell phone, with all images
stored in the cloud. (Schwalbach Dec., ¶ 3.) Otherwise, Plaintiffs
confirmed, under oath, that they have already produced all
responsive photos and text messages, including a screenshot of the Google
Photos account where they stored their photos. (Id.) 
 
Considering
the totality of the evidence, the Court tentatively would deny the motion as to
categories two through four, and grant the motion as to Mrs. Wallach’s cell phone,
which is category one. 