 Case Number:  24STCV10024    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  40 
24STCV10024
 Chaim Rochester v. 6th St Loft LLC, et al.
Thursday,
 January 9,  2025
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER AND DENYING THE MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
I.       BACKGROUND
      This
complaint alleges that Plaintiff rents an apartment owned, managed, and/or
controlled by Defendants pursuant to a rental agreement.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to
keep the premises in a safe and habitable condition. Plaintiff alleges seven
causes of action arising from the condition of the premises and civil rights
violations for allegedly discriminatory conduct by Defendants. 
II.     ARGUMENTS
      Demurring
parties are four LLCs (collectively, “Defendants” or “SBDTLA”) who challenge
all causes of action on grounds of certainty because the complaint alleges all
claims against all Defendants as a group. Defendants contend it is “impossible”
for all defendant to have committed the same acts as alleged. SBDTLA did not
own the property at the same time as other Defendants. Plaintiff did not allege
sufficient facts to support all claims, and some claims are duplicative of
others. 
      Defendants
separately move to strike the claim for punitive damages because Plaintiff did
not allege predicate facts to support the conclusory allegation that Defendants
acted with malice, fraud, or oppression, or facts showing that an officer,
director, or managing agent ratified such conduct. 
      Defendants
filed a notice on January 2, 2025, that opposition were not served or filed,
although the court’s records reflect that Plaintiff untimely filed oppositions.
 
III.    LEGAL
STANDARDS
      The
bases for demurrer are limited by statute and may be sustained for reasons
including failure to state facts to state a cause of action and uncertainty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) A demurrer “tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.” (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) The
court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual allegations;
(2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3)
judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court may
not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638.)
      All
that is required is to "set forth the essential facts of plaintiff's case
with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint defendant of the nature, source, and extent of the cause of action.” (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643–644.)
      A
motion to strike is limited to matters that appear on the face of the pleading
or on any matter of which the court can take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437.) The court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading; or strike all or any part of the pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. §436 subd. (a)-(b).)
IV.   DISCUSSION
A.     Untimely
oppositions.
      Plaintiff’s
oppositions, filed on January 2, 2025, are untimely. Oppositions were due on December
26, 2024, nine court days before the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005 (b).) Defendants
have suffered prejudice as they have not been able to file timely reply briefs.
Therefore, the court has not considered the oppositions to the demurrer and motion
to strike.
 
B.     Uncertainty
      A demurrer may be sustained if a complaint
is “uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s factual allegations are
so confusing, vague, or ambiguous that they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2; Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10(f).) Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and are strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, “because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Chen
v. Berenjian (2019) 33
Cal.App.5th 811, 822.) Demurrers
should be overruled "when the facts as to which the complaint is uncertain
are presumptively within the defendant's knowledge." (Chen
at 822.)  
      As alleged, the complaint is not fatally
uncertain. Plaintiff alleges the claims against Defendants as a whole as each
Defendant’s liability arises from their roles as administrator, owner, agent,
trustee and manager of the subject property during different time periods.
(Complaint, ¶ 6.) SBDTLA is alleged to have acting in those roles[s] until April
2023. (Id.) 
      Whether or not Plaintiff has actually been
evicted is not material.  Plaintiff
alleges she has been a tenant from January 2020 to the present. (Complaint, ¶
3.) A fair reading of the allegations considered as a whole assert that Defendants’
liability for the conditions of the premises arises from the date that
Plaintiff’s tenancy began up through the date that Defendants were no longer
owners, managers, or supervisors. 
      Whether it is “impossible that all
defendants could have been alleged to commit the same acts” is not a basis for
demurrer. (Dem. 5:12-14.) A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations. It does not test their truth, the Plaintiff’s
ability to prove them, or the possible difficulty in making such proof. (Saunders
v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.)
      Defendants
contend the failure to allege a specific date or time frame when each violation
or claim occurred renders it “impossible to answer any allegation.” (Dem. 7:15-18.)
 The complaint alleges the dates when
Plaintiff made specific complaints and the time frame during which Defendants
were responsible for the condition of the premises, given the Plaintiff’s date
of tenancy until SDTLA was no longer owner/manager in April 2023. (Complaint, ¶¶
6, 24.a – b.) 
 
C.     Breach of warranty of habitability
      Defendants’
claim that it is “impossible” to determine when Plaintiff was ever in
possession of premises or how long thereafter the conditions persisted. Plaintiff
expressly alleged the date of her tenancy and that the conditions persisted
“[d]uring Plaintiff’s residency at the subject property, and while Defendants
administered, owned and operated it.” (Complaint, ¶ ¶ 20.)
 
D.     Negligence
      A negligence
claim requires factual allegations showing that defendant owed plaintiff a duty
of care, breach of that duty, causation and damages. (Merrill
v. Navegar, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 465, 477.)
Negligence claims can be alleged in general terms by stating the acts or
omissions that were negligently performed. (Greninger
v. Fischer (1947) 81 Cal.App.2d 549, 552; Guilliams
v. Hollywood Hospital (1941) 18 Cal.2d 97, 101.)
      Contrary
to Defendants’ arguments, and as pointed out above, the complaint adequately gives
notice of the time frames during which Defendants were responsible for the
premises; ostensibly during the time Defendants served as owners, managers, as administrator, owner, agent, trustee and
manager of the subject property. (Complaint, ¶ 6.)
 
E.    
Third cause of action for nuisance and fourth cause
of action for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment
 
      Defendants contend the nuisance claim is
duplicative of the negligence claim as both claims arise from the same facts.
(Dem. 9:1-7.) Defendants contend that a nuisance claim is essentially a
negligence claim, citing El
Escorial Owners' Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349 ["Where negligence and nuisance causes of
action rely on the same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is a
negligence claim.”].) The issue in Escorial was double recovery. The plaintiff prevailed on
the negligence claim for construction defect for which the trial court awarded
damages. The plaintiff also sought damages under the nuisance claim, which the
trial court rejected since it was based on the same facts as the negligence
claim. (El
Escorial  at 1343.) The trial court also pointed out that a nuisance
claim is different because an injunction can be issued, and Escorial did not
ask for one. (Escorial at 1349.) 
      The court here is not concerned about
Plaintiff’s double recovery at the demurrer stage. Contrary to the facts in Escorial, Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief to abate the
conditions (albeit under Los Angeles County Code § 8.52.130), but such relief
is also available in a nuisance claim. (People
ex rel. Burns v. Wood (2024) 103
Cal.App.5th 700, 712.) 
      The nuisance claim is not “duplicative” to
the extent Plaintiff is entitled to additional remedies not permitted in a negligence
cause of action. Plaintiff can allege alternative theories of recovery. (Rader
Co. v. Stone (1986) 178
Cal.App.3d 10, 29 [“Where the exact
nature of the facts is in doubt, or where the exact legal nature of plaintiff's
right and defendant's liability depend on facts not well known to the
plaintiff, the pleading may properly set forth alternative theories in varied
and inconsistent counts.”].)
      The only argument asserted by Defendants
as to the quiet enjoyment claim is that it is vague, ambiguous, and conclusory
and generally alleged. (Dem. 9:13-14.) The court has previously addressed the alleged
facts that do not render the complaint fatally uncertain.
 
 
F.      The fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action for violations of the
Unruh Civil Rights Act, Anti-Harassment statutes (Civ. Code, § 1940.2); and the
Anti-Harassment statutes under the Los Angeles County Municipal Code § 8.52.130.

 
      Defendants contend that they had “long
since sold the property by the time Plaintiff alleges, she was discriminated
against.” (Dem. 9:20-21.) This is a fact extrinsic to the complaint, which is
not considered. 
      The Unruh Civil Rights Act prohibits
intentional discrimination in access to public accommodations. It entitles all
persons to “the full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities,
privileges, or services in all business establishments of every kind
whatsoever.” (Civ. Code, § 51.)  Plaintiff must
plead and prove intentional discrimination in public accommodations in
violation of the act. A disparate impact analysis or test does not apply to
Unruh Act claims. (Minton
v. Dignity Health (2019) 39
Cal.App.5th 1155, 1162.) 
      Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ acts of retaliation,
harassment, threatening to file unlawful detainer proceedings, intimidation,
diminution of services, and other menacing conduct were done “in an effort to
effectuate its strategy to evict long term African American tenants including
Plaintiff.” (Complaint, ¶ ¶¶ 138, 145-147, 150.) Defendants have considered
only paragraph 138 of the complaint, which cannot be read in isolation. The complaint
is adequate if “as a whole [it] apprises the adversary of the factual basis of
the claim.”(Lim
v. The.TV Corp. Internat. (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 684, 690.)
      While
Defendants contend that Plaintiff is required to allege who engaged in the
discriminatory conduct, when, and how, Defendants do not cite any authority
that requires that level of specificity in the complaint. Nor are evidentiary
facts required to be alleged. (Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1390 [“It is both improper and insufficient for a plaintiff to simply
plead the evidence by which he hopes to prove such ultimate facts."].)  Finally, these are issues that can be
determined in discovery. 
      Defendants do not specifically address the
sixth and seventh causes of action for violations of various anti-harassment
statutes. 
G.   
Motion to Strike
      A plaintiff may recover on a claim for
exemplary damages where the defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (a).) The predicate acts to support the claim
must be intended to cause injury or must constitute “malicious” or “oppressive”
conduct as defined by statute. “Malice” is defined as “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, §
3294 subd. (c)(1); College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725
["malice involves awareness of dangerous consequences and a willful and
deliberate failure to avoid them"].) "Oppression" is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (a) subd. (c)(2).)
      Additionally, punitive damages against a
corporate employer are permitted where there is a showing of advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud or malice on the part of an officer, director or managing agent of the
corporation. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) 
      To support recovery of punitive damages,
Plaintiff can allege ultimate facts. Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 ["In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff."].) Whether a principal authorized the doing and manner of the
act can be alleged using “conclusional words.” (Kiseskey
v. Carpenters' Trust for So. California (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222, 235
["We accordingly conclude that the conclusional words ‘permission and
consent’ used in the FAC, coupled with the factual allegations therein,
constitute an allegation, sufficient if proven, upon which punitive damages may
be assessed against defendant for the conduct of its agents."].)
      Plaintiff has alleged discriminatory
animus on the part of Defendants which is sufficient to support the requirement
that the acts be malicious or oppressive as those terms are statutorily
defined. Plaintiff further alleges that the acts complained of were carried out
by Defendants’ “managing agents.”  (Complaint, ¶ 159.) 
V.    
CONCLUSION
      Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
demurrer is OVERRULED. The motion to strike is DENIED. Defendants are ordered
to file their answer within 10 days. 
 