 Case Number:  22STCV04358    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  40 
22STCV04358 Karyna Myres v. Ernst Hacker, et al.
Thursday,
 January 9, 2025
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
I.       BACKGROUND
This action arises from alleged
uninhabitable conditions of a residential unit (“residence”) leased  by Plaintiff on September 14, 2013, from
Defendant, Ernst Hacker (“Landlord”), alleged to be the property owner, and from
Defendant, Kape Property Management, Inc. (“Kape”) the alleged property manager
of the residence. The property was located at 718 North Hayworth Avenue, Los
Angeles (“Hayworth property”). Plaintiff alleges Defendants constructively
evicted and/or otherwise forced Plaintiff to vacate the premises because of the
uninhabitable conditions that allegedly arose from events beginning with a
ceiling collapse on February 22, 2020, until Plaintiff left the premises on December
22, 2020. Plaintiff alleges 10 causes of action arising from these facts. (Complaint
filed 2/3/22.) 
On December 13, 2024, the court denied
Kape’s motion for summary judgment but granted summary adjudication of the contract-based
claims alleged in the second, third, and sixth causes of action. In all other
respects the motion for summary adjudication was denied. (M.O.
12/13/24.) 
II.     ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff
requests leave to file a first amended complaint to remove the contract-based
claims against Kape. Plaintiff will add additional claims based on facts
learned in discovery. Plaintiff seeks to clarify the claims against individual
successors-in-interest to the Hacker Family Trust that were added to the
complaint as DOE defendants. Plaintiff will add Niza Hacker individually as a
Defendant.
      Kape challenges
only the proposed causes of action against Kape. Kape contends that Plaintiff
should withdraw the claims that the court summarily adjudicated. Plaintiff
reframes the same claims as negligence and intentional violation of a statutory
duty. Plaintiff cannot add in summarily adjudicated claims without moving to
vacate the judgment. Any claim for breach of statutes was previously decided
and suffers for the same reasons for which adjudication was granted in Kape’s
favor. Kape does not challenge any other proposed amendments, but reserves its
right to demurrer to the amended complaint. 
      In reply,
Plaintiff argues that the court should permit amendment as requested for all
other claims not including Kape, since no other Defendant opposed Plaintiff’s
motion. Plaintiff otherwise agrees to withdraw the eight cause of action for
negligence and the ninth cause of action for intentional violation of statutory
duty against Kape, only. 
III.    LEGAL
STANDARDS
      Leave to amend is permitted at the court’s
discretion upon any terms that may be just. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473 subd. (a)(1)). The statute is liberally construed to permit
amendment of the pleadings “unless an attempt is made to present an entirely
different set of facts by way of the amendment.” (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 760.) The motion must be supported by a
declaration stating the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary
and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier." (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324.) 
      If the motion is timely made, and the
granting of the motion will not result in prejudice to the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to amend. (Morgan
v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County (1959)
172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Where denial of the motion will
result in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of
action, “it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Id.) Amendments are permitted up to the date of
trial or during trial where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party. (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)
IV.  
CONCLUSION
      Plaintiff concedes the merits of Kape’s
partial opposition and agrees to withdraw the eighth and ninth causes of action
for negligent and intentional violation of statutory duties as to Defendant
Kape only. (Reply 2:25-23-27.)
      Based on the foregoing, the court grants
Plaintiff’s motion to file a first amended complaint as proposed but that
removes Defendant Kape from the eighth and ninth causes of action. Plaintiff is
ordered to file and serve the first amended complaint within 10 days. 
 