 Case Number:  22SMCV00510    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  I The court will discuss this with the parties.  Obviously, defendants are right that if there
are no further documents to produce then they cannot be ordered to produce
them.  And if the reason is that no such
additional documents ever existed, then there is not much more that can be done
other than to assure that defendants complied with 2031.230.  But Guthrie suggests that such is not the case.  Guthrie attaches evidence that suggests that
there are additional responsive documents that just have not been produced.  If that is the case, then the court needs to
understand why Shiri declared under oath to the contrary.  The court is also puzzled by Shiri’s
declaration stating that the project was self-financed when considered against
the emails he sent discussing a financing cost. 
The court understood “self financed” to mean that the money was coming
from existing and available assets—not a loan (from anyone anywhere) or the
like.  If that is the case it is hard to
see how the statements in the emails could be true.  Similarly, Shiri stated that he was the only
member of the entity, but there is an email where he says his brother owns
half.  Of course, the emails are not
under oath and it could well be that Shiri was just not being honest in them
but he is being truthful now.  But the
court will at least inquire.  To the
extent that the opposition is based on the notion that the requests are beyond
the proper scope of discovery, the court simply disagrees (to the extent that
the objection was properly raised in the responses).
 
The court’s order will depend in part on Shiri’s answers to
these questions.  The court also notes
that plaintiff has the ability to take Shiri’s deposition in an effort to get
to the bottom of at least some of this. 
The court would not anticipate Shiri being able to assert the privilege
with any credibility and the court doubts he would attempt to do so.  That means that he will give substantive
answers and that might put this matter to bed. 

 
The court’s general inclination is to GRANT the motion but
hold the issue of sanctions in abeyance. 
If Shiri is confident that he has already complied fully, he can so
state under oath.  If it turns out he is
wrong, then a motion to compel compliance (for which there is no 45 day rule)
can be brought and, if granted, sanctions beyond monetary would be on the
table.  This would allow Guthrie to do
proper discovery to dig deeper and to hear from an appropriate party whether
there is an innocent explanation for the seeming problem.