  Case Number:  22SMCV00114    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  I The ex parte application is DENIED.
 
This is a motion to continue the trial and discovery cut
off.  The major argument is that
plaintiff timely propounded key discovery to the defense, but the defense has
ignored it and the motions to compel will not be heard in time to obtain the
discovery so as to be incorporated into the opposition to defendant’s pending
MSJ (set to be heard on April 25, 2024). 
The court is not convinced.
 
The motions to
compel were filed 3/4/24.  The discovery
responses were due in mid-February.  The
trial date was known for a long time, but plaintiff delayed for weeks before
filing the motions.  And there was no
showing of any diligence regarding the depositions.  The court has no knowledge of prior attempts
to depose the witnesses.  
 
The case is now
over two years old.  And on May 16, 2023,
the trial was continued.  
 
The court has
looked at the MSJ.  The reason is that
plaintiff contends that this discovery is needed to oppose the MSJ and that is
why the trial needs to be continued.  The
court is skeptical that the purported discovery will yield any evidence that
will be material to the motion.  Recall
that plaintiff need not prove its case at this time; it need only show a
material disputed fact.  The contract
causes of action cannot possibly require the asserted discovery to oppose.  Defendant seems to present a pure legal
questions, or at least it appears that it does. 
The other causes of action are attacked on statute of limitations
grounds.  The court does not understand
how the discovery will go to that.  The
statute is what it is.  Any tolling would
be based on knowledge (one would presume) that plaintiff has, not the
defense.  In other words, if there is
some tolling, the court’s initial assumption is that plaintiff would
have whatever evidence is needed to make the claim that the statute was
tolled.  That might not be a certainty,
but if more is needed then the proper motion is one to continue the MSJ
pursuant to CCP section 437c(h), not a motion to continue the trial.  The court has discretion to continue the MSJ
and indeed is required to do so if a proper showing is made.  Alternatively, plaintiff could seek to
advance the hearing dates for the discovery motions to allow (if granted)
responses to be served in time to incorporate them into the opposition.  The final ground in the MSJ is that the
litigation privilege bars the quantum meruit and tort claims.  That, too, seems more a question of law than
of fact.  In short, the court doubts that
the discovery sought will be needed to oppose the MSJ.  But if the court is wrong, plaintiff has a
different and more appropriate avenue to obtain relief.  Plaintiff also seems to claim that it just
has not yet completed discovery and it is not sure it will be able to do so in
time.  In reviewing plaintiff’s
declaration, the court sees no showing of diligence.  And, again, if there is diligence, the proper
motion is to extend the discovery cut off, not move the trial.  
 
In short,
plaintiff has known for almost a year when the trial would be.  Even if plaintiff has not completed discovery
that is not a ground to continue the trial.
 
What the court
will do, however, is to allow plaintiff to make a motion under 437c(h) if such
a showing can be made to continue the MSJ. 
That can be done through the opposition. 
And, of course, plaintiff can do both: seek a continuance but file a
timely opposition with what facts it has in a timely way just in case no
continuance is granted.  As stated above,
the court cannot see what evidence plaintiff hopes to get that will defeat the
motion that is not already in plaintiff’s possession.  But the court could be wrong about that.
 
A word on trial
continuances.  The court has about 1000
cases on its docket and the one thing that they have in common is that they all
want trial dates.  The court is presently
setting 6 trials per week.  Because this
case had the May 2024 trial date, other cases had to get trial dates further
out.  Cases where there was good cause
(or at least better cause) shown for a short continuance could not get one
because the docket was full.  The court
is therefore—as a general matter—disinclined to continue trials based on an
argument that discovery is not yet done or that the parties are not yet
ready.  Doing anything else is not fair
to the court or to other litigants.  
 
That said, it is
odd, to say the least, for a lawyer (such as defendant here) to refuse to
respond to discovery.  Although the court
will not rule or indicate today how it might rule on the discovery motions, it
will ask defendant to provide a 1 or 2 sentence explanation as to why no
responses to discovery were served.