 Case Number:  22STCV03412    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




claudia ocegueda velazquez a/k/a claudia
  ocegueda

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
general motors llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV03412




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   24, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant General Motors LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Claudia Ocegueda Velazquez a/k/a
Claudia Ocegueda        and Jose Ocegueda
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on plaintiffs Claudia Ocegueda Velazquez a/k/a Claudia
Ocegueda and Jose Ocegueda’s evidentiary objections, filed on January 10, 2024,
as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 1-3.
The court overrules Objections Nos. 4-6.
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”)
moves the court for an order granting summary judgment in its favor and against
plaintiffs Claudia Ocegueda Velazquez a/k/a Claudia Ocegueda (“C. Ocegueda”)
and Jose Ocegueda (“J. Ocegueda”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) on Plaintiffs’
Complaint.  Alternatively, Defendant
moves for summary adjudication (1) as to each of Plaintiffs’ three causes of
action, and (2) as to whether Plaintiffs may claim certain specified damages at
trial.
1.     First
Cause of Action for Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Express Warranty
“‘The
[Song-Beverly Act] provides enhanced remedies to consumers who buy new consumer
goods accompanied by a manufacturer’s express warranty.’”  (Santana v.
FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 334, 346.)  “‘Where . . . service or
repair of the goods is necessary because they do not conform with the
applicable express warranties, service and repair shall be commenced within a
reasonable time by the manufacturer . . . .”  (Ibid.)  “‘A
plaintiff pursuing an action under the [Song-Beverly] Act has the burden to prove
that (1) the vehicle had a nonconformity covered by the express warranty that
substantially impaired the use, value or safety of the vehicle (the
nonconformity element); (2) the vehicle was presented to an authorized
representative of the manufacturer of the vehicle for repair (the presentation
element); and (3) the manufacturer or his representative did not repair the
nonconformity after a reasonable number of repair attempts (the failure to
repair element).”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th
138, 152.)   
The court
finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing that the
first cause of action for breach of express warranty has no merit because
Defendant has not shown (1) that plaintiff J. Ocegueda does not have standing
to assert this cause of action, and (2) that the element of a new motor vehicle
cannot be established.  
First, Defendant contends that plaintiff J. Ocegueda does not have
standing to assert claims under the Song-Beverly Act against Defendant because
he did not purchase the subject vehicle. 
However, Defendant has not submitted admissible evidence in support of
this assertion and therefore has not met its burden to show that J. Ocegueda
does not have standing to allege this cause of action against Defendant. 
Second, Defendant contends that Plaintiffs did not buy a “new
motor vehicle” within the meaning of the Song-Beverly Act and therefore cannot
maintain their cause of action for breach of express warranty. 
The
Song-Beverly Act provides remedies to consumers who buy new goods accompanied
by a manufacturer’s express warranty.  (Santana, supra, 56
Cal.App.5th at p. 346.)  A new motor vehicle is statutorily defined to
include “a dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle
sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty . . . .”  (Civ. Code, §
1793.22, subd. (e)(2).)  “[C]ars sold with a balance remaining on the
manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty are included within [the Song-Beverly
Act’s] definition of a new motor vehicle.”  (Jensen v. BMW of North
America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 123, 126 [“Our conclusion section
1793.22 includes cars sold with a balance remaining on the new motor vehicle
warranty is consistent with the Act’s purpose as a remedial measure”].)  
Defendant has
submitted the declaration of James Oaks, its Customer Resource Manager
Technical for the Western Region Customer Care and Aftersales, in which Oaks
states that Defendant “did not issue or provide any new or additional warranty
coverage concerning the [subject vehicle] when [plaintiff C. Ocegueda]
bought” the subject vehicle.  (Oaks
Decl., ¶ 8.)  However, this evidence does
not show that the subject vehicle was not sold “with a balance remaining on
[Defendant’s] new motor vehicle warranty[.]” 
(Jensen, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p. 123.)  Moreover, Defendant’s moving papers appear to
concede that the subject vehicle was sold with a balance remaining on Defendant’s
original warranty.  (Mot., p. 10:26-27
[C. “Ocegueda received only the balance of coverage under the Warranty
that [Defendant] issued in connection with the Terrain’s delivery to its
original owner(s) back in October 2017”] [emphasis added].)  
The court notes that Defendant has relied on and cited Rodriguez v.
FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, review granted July 13, 2022
(S274625) (“Rodriguez”) to support its contention that the subject
vehicle is not a new motor vehicle.  The
court acknowledges that the Rodriguez Court concluded that the term
“other motor vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty” in the
Song-Beverly Act “refers to cars sold with a full warranty, not to previously
sold cars accompanied by some balance of the original warranty.”  (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at p. 225.)  However, the
California Supreme Court has granted a petition for review of the Rodriguez
opinion, and the court is therefore not bound by its holding.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 8.1115, subd. (e)(1)
[pending review by the Supreme Court, “a published opinion of a Court of Appeal
in the matter has no binding or precedential effect, and may be cited for
potentially persuasive value only”].) 
The court elects to apply the holding in Jensen instead of Rodriguez.
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to submit
evidence showing that the subject vehicle was not sold with a remaining balance
on Defendant’s new motor vehicle warranty and therefore finds that Defendant
has not met its burden to show that the subject vehicle is not a “new motor
vehicle” within the meaning of the Song-Beverly Act.  (Civ. Code, § 1793.22, subd. (e)(2); Jensen,
supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at pp. 123, 126.) 
The court therefore denies
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the first cause of action for
breach of express warranty.
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Implied Warranty
“[E]very
sale of consumer goods that are sold at retail in this state shall be
accompanied by the manufacturer’s and the retailer’s implied warranty that the
goods are merchantable.”  (Civ. Code, §¿1792.)  “The warranty ‘
“arises by operation of law” ’ and therefore applies despite its omission from
a purchase contract.”  (Brand v. Hyundai Motor America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 1538, 1545.)  
The court finds
that Defendant has not met its burden of showing that the second cause of
action for breach of the implied warranty has no merit because Defendant has
not shown (1) that plaintiff J. Ocegueda does not have standing to assert this
cause of action; (2) that the subject vehicle is not a new motor vehicle; and (3)
that the subject vehicle did not suffer defects during the covered period set
forth in Civil Code section 1795.5.
First, as set forth above, the court finds that Defendant has not
submitted admissible evidence showing that plaintiff J. Ocegueda did not
purchase the subject vehicle and therefore has not met its burden to show that
J. Ocegueda does not have standing to allege this cause of action against
Defendant.
Second, Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs cannot assert a cause of
action for breach of the implied warranty against Defendant because (1) only
distributors or sellers of used goods have implied warranty obligations in the
sale of used goods, and (2) Defendant was not a distributor or seller of the
subject vehicle.  (Nunez v. FCA US LLC
(2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 385, 399 [“only distributors or sellers of used goods—not
manufacturers of new goods—have implied warranty obligations in the sale
of used goods”] [emphasis in original]; Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz USA,
LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 339 [“The Song-Beverly Act provides similar
remedies in the context of the sale of used goods, except that the manufacturer
is generally off the hook”].)  However,
as set forth above, Defendant has not met its burden to show that the subject
vehicle is not a new motor vehicle and therefore has not shown that it cannot
be held liable to Plaintiffs in connection with their cause of action for
breach of the implied warranty.
Third, Defendant contends that the subject vehicle did not have an
issue during the implied warranty period set forth in Civil Code section 1795.5
because (1) Plaintiffs bought the subject vehicle in November 2019, but (2)
Plaintiffs did not bring the subject vehicle in for repair until December 2020.  
“The duration of the implied warranty of merchantability and where
present the implied warranty of fitness with respect to used consumer goods
sold in this state, where the sale is accompanied by an express warranty, shall
be coextensive in duration with an express warranty which accompanies the
consumer goods, provided the duration of the express warranty is reasonable,
but in no event shall such implied warranties have a duration of less than 30
days nor more than three months following the sale of used consumer goods to a
retail buyer.”  (Civ. Code,
§ 1795.5, subd. (c).) 
As a threshold matter, the court finds that Defendant has not
shown that Civil Code section 1795.5 applies here because (1) section 1795.5
applies to the duration of implied warranties “with respect to used consumer
goods sold in this state,” and (2) Defendant has not, as set forth above, shown
that the subject vehicle is considered a used consumer good (rather than a new
motor vehicle) within the meaning of this statute.  (Civ. Code, § 1795.5, subd. (c)
[emphasis added].)  
Even if Defendant had met its burden to show that Civil Code
section 1795.5 applied, the court finds that Defendant did not meet its burden
to show that the implied warranties were not breached during the time period
set forth in that statute.  The court
acknowledges that Defendant has submitted evidence showing that the subject
vehicle was presented for repairs on December 14, 2020.  (Oaks Decl., ¶ 8 [authenticating Exhibit C];
Oaks Decl., Ex. C, p. 2 [Transaction History for 12/14/2020].)  But this evidence does not show that there
was no breach of the implied warranties during the statutory time period, and
instead shows only that Plaintiffs did not present the vehicle for repair until
December 14, 2020.  (Ibid.)  Further, Defendant has not presented evidence
showing the date on which Plaintiffs purchased the subject vehicle because the
court has sustained the evidentiary objections to the Retail Installment Sale
Contract, such that, even if Defendant had shown that the subject vehicle was a
used good within the meaning of Civil Code section 1795.5, Defendant did not
present sufficient evidence showing that there were no defects with the subject
vehicle within three months following the sale of the vehicle.  (Civ. Code, § 1795.5, subd. (c).) 
The court
therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for breach of implied warranty.
3.     Third
Cause of Action for Violation of Song-Beverly Act (Civ. Code, § 1793.2)
“Where those service and repair facilities are maintained in this
state and service or repair of the goods is necessary because they do not
conform with the applicable express warranties, service and repair shall be
commenced within a reasonable time by the manufacturer or its representatives
in this state. . . .  [T]he goods shall
be serviced or repaired so as to conform to the applicable warranties within 30
days.”  (Civ. Code, § 1793.2, subd.
(b).) 
The court finds
that Defendant has not met its burden of showing that the third cause of action
for violation of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2 has no merit because Defendant
has not shown (1) that plaintiff J. Ocegueda does not have standing to assert
this cause of action for the reasons set forth in connection with the court’s
ruling on the first cause of action, and (2) the subject vehicle is not a new
motor vehicle for the reasons set forth in connection with the court’s ruling
on the first cause of action for breach of express warranty. 
The court
therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action for violation of Song-Beverly Act
section 1793.2.
 
4.     Claim
for Damages
Defendant requests that the court “find that, as a matter of law,
Plaintiffs may not claim as ‘damages’ at any trial what [plaintiff C.] Ocegueda
paid for the optional, non-GM service contract she bought.”  (Notice of Mot., p. 2:14-16.)  The court finds that this is an improper
subject for summary adjudication.   
“A motion for summary adjudication may be granted only if
it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [emphasis added].)  A claim for damages within the meaning of
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c is limited to claims for punitive
damages.  (Ibid. [stating that a
party may move for summary adjudication if it contends “that there is no merit
to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code”]; DeCastro
West Chodorow & Burns, Inc. v. Superior Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 410, 421 [“the reference to ‘a claim for damages’
must be qualified as referring to the previously defined claim for punitive
damages”].) 
Thus, because Defendant’s request for
summary adjudication seeks to dispose of part of a claim for damages, it is
improper.  The court therefore denies
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the issue of whether
“Plaintiffs may not claim as ‘damages’ at any trial what [plaintiff C.]
Ocegueda paid for the optional, non-GM service contract she bought.”  (Notice of Mot., p. 2:14-16.)  
ORDER
            The court denies defendant General
Motors LLC’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
            The court orders plaintiffs Claudia
Ocegueda Velazquez a/k/a Claudia Ocegueda and Jose Ocegueda to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  January 14, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court