  Case Number:  20STCV33809    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



METRO ENTERTAINMENT, INC., et al., 
 
  
         vs.
 
RATNER RIVERSIDE INVESTMENT, LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  20STCV33809
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 13, 2023



 
Defendant David Aschkenasy’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Metro
Entertainment, Inc.’s and Gold Star Hospitality, LLC’s second amended complaint
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 1st and 2nd causes of
action.  Defendant’s demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend as to the 6th cause of action.  Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to the
3rd cause of action.
 
Defendant David
Aschkenasy’s motion to strike is denied as moot.
 
          Defendant David
Aschkenasy (“Aschkenasy”) (“Defendant”) demurs to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 6th
causes of action in Plaintiffs Metro Entertainment, Inc.’s (“Metro”) and Gold
Star Hospitality, LLC’s (“Gold Star”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) second
amended complaint (“SAC”).  (Notice of
Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the moving party must meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading to
attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading
and obviate the need for filing the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41.) 
Defendant’s counsel filed a declaration stating she met and
conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel by telephone on October 3, 2023.  (Decl. of Freismuth ¶4.) 
Defendant’s counsel declares despite
good faith efforts by both parties, they were unable to resolve their issues,
necessitating the instant demurrer.  (Decl.
of Freismuth ¶4.)  Defendant’s
counsel’s declaration is sufficient per the requirements of C.C.P. §430.41(a). 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a).)  Therefore, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
          Background
          Plaintiffs
filed their initial complaint on September 3, 2020.  Plaintiffs filed their first amended
complaint (“FAC”) on August 4, 2023. 
Plaintiffs filed the operative SAC on August 4, 2023, against Defendants
Ratner Riverside Investment, LLC (“Ratner Riverside”), Shaya Stauber
(“Stauber”), and Aschkenasy (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging six causes of
action: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied warranty of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) fraud; (4) declaratory relief; (5) breach of fiduciary
duty; and (6) intentional interference with contractual relations, arising from
Metro’s lease of real property located at 171 N. Maple Drive, Suite A, Burbank,
California 91505 (“Metro Property”) from Ratner Riverside.  (SAC ¶1, Exh. A.)[1]
          Defendants
filed the instant demurrer and accompanying motion to strike on October 12,
2023.  Plaintiffs filed their oppositions
on November 29, 2023.  As of the date of
this hearing no reply has been filed.
 
A.   Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
Defendant demurs on the basis that Plaintiffs’ 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 6th causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of
action against Aschkenasy.  (Demurrer,
pgs. 3-9; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Breach of Contract (1st COA)
A plaintiff must allege the
following elements to state a breach of contract: (1) existence of contract;
(2) plaintiffs’ performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendants’
breach (or anticipatory breach); and (4) resulting damage to plaintiff.  (Reichert v. General Insurance Co. (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830; Hale v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1373,
1387.)  Although a written contract is
usually pleaded by alleging its making and attaching a copy which is
incorporated by reference, a written contract can also be pleaded by alleging
the making and the substance of the relevant terms.  (Construction Protective Services, Inc.
v. TIG Specialty Insurance Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199; Perry v. Robertson (1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 333,
341.)
Plaintiffs allege Aschkenasy
(real estate license # 01876070) operated as the seller’s agent and buyer’s
agent for the lease transactions described herein.  (SAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiffs allege he is also an owner of the properties identified
herein.  (SAC ¶27.)  Plaintiffs allege Aschkenasy failed
to provide Plaintiffs with a Disclosure Regarding Real Estate Agency
Relationship at any time prior to the lease of the properties at issue.  (SAC ¶28.) 
Plaintiffs allege On May 23, 2016, Gold Star leased the real property
located at 4001 Riverside Drive, Suite E, Burbank, California 91505 from Ratner
Riverside.  (SAC ¶29.)  Plaintiffs allege Gold Star uses the Leased
Property to operate a restaurant known as Red Maple Café that specializes in
the sale of sandwiches and salads.  (SAC
¶30.)  Plaintiffs allege Section
58 of the Gold Star Lease entitled “Exclusive Lease” states that Ratner
Riverside “will not lease any space in the Project for the sale of sandwiches
or salads in excess of nine percent (9%) of either food type or their total
gross sale, . . .”  (SAC ¶31.)
Plaintiffs allege from 2018
through August 2020, Ratner Riverside leased the Adjoining Property to Soup
Goddess that had a menu that included fifteen sandwiches and salads.  (SAC ¶32.) 
Plaintiffs allege the lease of the Adjoining Property to Soup Goddess
resulted in a loss of business to Gold Star. 
(SAC ¶33.)  
Plaintiffs allege on May 27,
2016, Metro leased the real property located at 171 N. Maple Drive, Suite A,
Burbank, California 91505 from Ratner Riverside.  (SAC ¶34.) 
Plaintiffs allege Section 58 of the Metro Lease entitled “Exclusive
Lease” states that Ratner Riverside shall not lease the Adjoining Property to
another “for the sale of sandwiches, salads, gelato, yogurt, or ice cream in
excess of nine percent (9%) of either food type or their total gross sale, . .
.”  (SAC ¶35.)  Plaintiffs allege originally Metro
used the Leased Property to operate a gelato and coffee shop.  (SAC ¶36.) 

Plaintiffs allege in May
2018, various conversations took place between Metro representatives and Ratner
representatives regarding the transition of the space from gelato and coffee to
a poke business.  (SAC ¶37.)  Plaintiffs allege this was memorialized by an
email from Metro to Ratner Riverside dated May 11, 2018.  (SAC ¶37.) 
Plaintiffs allege Ratner Riverside had an obligation to revise the Metro
Lease to reflect the change of business, but failed to do so.  (SAC ¶38.) 
Plaintiffs allege in August 2020, Ratner Riverside leased the Adjoining
Property to Metro’s direct competitor, Sweetfin that also operates a poke
business.  (SAC ¶39.)
Plaintiffs allege Sweetfin
has a competitive advantage over Plaintiff due its name recognition from having
ten locations across Southern California. 
(SAC ¶40.)  Plaintiffs allege as a
larger business, Sweetfin has significant buying power with its vendors and
much wider marketing reach.  (SAC ¶40.)  Plaintiffs allege on information and belief
that Aschkenasy has a personal relationship with Seth Cohen, the co-founder of
Sweetfin and has placed his interests ahead of those of Plaintiffs.  (SAC ¶41.) 
Plaintiffs allege the lease of the Adjoining Property to Sweetfin has
and continues to result in a loss of business to Gold Star and Metro.  (SAC ¶42.) 
Plaintiffs allege during the approximate first three years of
the Metro Lease, Ratner Riverside arranged for the Corner Poke sign to be
illuminated at night.  (SAC ¶43.)  Plaintiffs allege the switch for the
electricity for the sign is located on the Adjoining Property.  (SAC ¶43.)  
Plaintiffs allege since the lease of the Adjoining
Property to Sweetfin, Ratner Riverside refused to illuminate the Corner Poke
sign.  (SAC ¶44.).
Plaintiffs allege on August 26, 2020, Ratner Riverside sent correspondence
to Metro and Gold Star identifying purported violation of the Lease that did
not exist.  (SAC ¶45.)  Plaintiffs allege Ratner
Riverside’s recent conduct constitutes retaliation for Metro and Gold Star
demanding that Ratner comply with its contractual obligations.  (SAC ¶46.)
Plaintiffs allege Section 58
of the Metro Lease entitled “Exclusive Lease” states that Ratner “will not
lease any space in the Project for the sale of sandwiches, salads, gelato,
yogurt, or ice cream in excess of nine percent (9%) of either food type or
their total gross sale, . . .”  (SAC ¶49.)  Plaintiffs
allege Section 58 of the Gold Star Lease entitled “Exclusive Lease” states
that Ratner shall not lease the Adjoining Property to another “for the sale of
sandwiches or salads in excess of nine percent (9%) of either food type or
their total gross sale, . . .”  (SAC
¶50.)  Plaintiffs allege
as shown, the mutual intent of the exclusivity provision of the Lease was to
prohibit leasing the Adjoining Property to a competitor (at the time a gelato
shop and now a poke business).  (SAC
¶51.)
Plaintiffs allege throughout
2018, Ratner Riverside leased the Adjoining Property to Soup Goddess that
specialized in the sale of sandwiches and salads. By so doing, defendants
violated the exclusivity provisions of the Metro and Gold Star Leases.  (SAC ¶52.)  Plaintiffs allege beginning August 2020,
Ratner Riverside leased the Adjoining Property to Sweetfin that specializes in
the sale of poke.  (SAC ¶53.)  Plaintiffs allege by so doing,
defendants violated the exclusivity provisions of the Metro and Gold Star
Leases.  (SAC ¶53.)  Plaintiffs allege Section 58
expressly precludes any business that sells “salads.”  (SAC ¶54.)  Plaintiffs allege the bowls sold by Sweetfin
are filled with various greens and vegetables and constitute salads.  (SAC ¶54.)
Plaintiffs allege Ratner
Riverside leasing the Adjoining Space to Sweetfin violates both the intention
and the letter of the exclusivity provisions in the Gold Star and Metro Leases.  (SAC ¶55.)  Plaintiffs allege they did all, or
substantially all, of the significant things that the contracts required them
to do.  (SAC ¶56.)  Plaintiffs allege all conditions required by
the Metro Lease and Golds Star Lease for Ratner Riverside’s performance have
occurred.  (SAC ¶57.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to do
something that the contract required them to do.  (SAC ¶58.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants leased the
Adjoining Property to direct competitors. 
(SAC ¶59.)  Plaintiffs allege they
were harmed by Defendants’ failure to comply with their contractual obligations
and sustained loss of business.  (SAC
¶60.)
Plaintiffs
fail to allege a cause of action for breach of contract because Plaintiffs
failed to attach the two leases as exhibits to the SAC.  Plaintiffs’ argument on opposition that they
cured this issue to which the demurrer was sustained with leave to amend on the
initial complaint because they attached the exhibits to the FAC is
unavailing.  Plaintiffs amended their FAC
with the instant SAC, which is treated as a pleading independent of the FAC.  Plaintiffs cannot excuse their failure to
properly allege a cause of action for breach of contract by directing the Court
and Aschkenasy to a pleading that is no longer the operative pleading.
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 1st cause of action for breach of contracts is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.

 
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing (2nd COA)
“The implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
rests upon the existence of some specific contractual obligation. ‘The covenant
of good faith is read into contracts in order to protect the express covenants
or promises of the contract, not to protect some general public policy interest
not directly tied to the contract’s purpose.’ … ‘In essence, the covenant is
implied as a supplement to the express contractual covenants, to prevent a
contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while not technically
transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other party’s rights to the
benefits of the contract.’”  (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032, internal citations omitted; CACI 325.)
For the same reasons as explained with regard to
Plaintiffs’ 1st cause of action, Plaintiffs fail to sufficiently allege their
2nd cause of action.
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd
cause of action for breach the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Fraud (3rd COA)
A cause of action for fraud requires the following
elements: (1) misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (3)
intent to defraud (induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5)
resulting damage.  (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.)
Fraud actions are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading. 
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Fraud must
be pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory
allegations.  (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  The specificity requirement means a plaintiff
must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the
plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the representations,
their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when the representation was made.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Plaintiffs allege during the process
of deciding whether to lease the Metro Property and Gold Star Property,
Plaintiffs were informed by Stauber and Aschkenasy that the Adjoining Property
would not be leased to any Metro or Gold Star competitor.  (SAC ¶73.) 
Plaintiffs allege in May 2016,
Aschkenasy spoke to Plaintiffs’ representative, Brian Vezkosky and informed him
that the adjoining properties would not be leased to a direct competitor.  (SAC ¶75.) 
Plaintiffs allege Aschkenasy knew this representation was
false when he made it.  (SAC ¶75.)  
Plaintiffs allege in the years that followed,
Aschkenasy attempted and did in fact lease the Adjoining Space to Plaintiff’s
largest competitor.  (SAC ¶76.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants made
the false representation with the express intention of inducing action by the
Plaintiffs including leasing the properties from Ratner Riverside.  (SAC ¶77.) 
Plaintiffs allege they reasonably relied upon Defendants’
statements and made the decision to lease the subject properties from Ratner
Riverside.  (SAC ¶78.) 
Plaintiffs allege their reliance on Defendants’
representations was a substantial factor in causing its harm.  (SAC ¶79.) 

Plaintiffs allege in July 2020,
Aschkenasy showed the Adjoining Property to Sweetfin in an attempt to lease it
to them.  (SAC ¶80.)  Plaintiffs allege on
July 10, 2020, as evidenced by e-mails, Aschkenasy falsely told Sweetfin’s
owners that Plaintiffs were going to “reconceptualize the corner or sell it.”  (SAC ¶81.) 
Plaintiffs allege Aschkenasy knew from prior conversations
with Ratner Riverside personnel and Vezkosky that Plaintiffs had no intention
of changing the concept or selling the location.  (SAC ¶82.)  Plaintiffs allege based on these false
representations, Sweetfin leased the Adjoining Space next to Corner Poke.  (SAC ¶83.)  Plaintiffs allege by making these false
representations, Aschkenasy placed Corner Poke’s largest competitor in the
space immediately next to them.  (SAC
¶84.)  Plaintiffs allege as a
result of Defendants’ conduct set forth herein, Plaintiffs have incurred
damages as set forth herein.  (SAC ¶85.)
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made.  (SAC ¶¶75, 76, 80, 83; Lazar, 12
Cal.4th at pg. 645; West, 214 Cal.App.4th at pg. 793.)
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ 3rd cause of action for fraud is overruled.

 
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations (6th
COA)
“The elements which a plaintiff must plead to state the
cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations are (1)
a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge
of this contract; (3) defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach
or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption
of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.”  (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear
Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126, internal citations omitted.)
Plaintiffs allege on May 27, 2016, Metro leased the real
property located at 171 N. Maple Drive, Suite A, Burbank, California 91505 from
Ratner.  (SAC ¶104.)  Plaintiffs allege based on his conversations
with Plaintiff and visits to the properties, Aschkenasy knew that Metro
operated a poke business from the location. 
(SAC ¶105.)  Plaintiffs
allege in July 2020, Aschkenasy showed the Adjoining Property to
Sweetfin in an attempt to lease it to them. 
(SAC ¶106.) 
Plaintiffs allege based on numerous conversations with Sweetfin’s
owners, Aschkenasy knew that Sweetfin operated a poke business.  (SAC ¶107.) 

Plaintiffs allege on July 10, 2020, as evidenced by
e-mails, Aschkenasy falsely told Sweetfin’s owners that plaintiffs were going
to “reconceptualize the corner or sell it.” 
(SAC ¶108.)  Plaintiffs
allege Aschkenasy knew from prior conversations with Ratner Riverside
personnel and Vezkosky that Plaintiffs had no intention of changing the concept
or selling the location.  (SAC
¶109.)  Plaintiffs allege
based on these false representations, Sweetfin leased the Adjoining Space next
to Corner Poke.  (SAC ¶110.)  Plaintiffs allege by making these
false representations, Aschkenasy placed Corner Poke’s largest competitor in
the space immediately next to them.  (SAC
¶111.)  Plaintiffs allege Aschkenasy
knew that the disruption of Metro’s business was certain or substantially
certain to occur.  (SAC ¶112.)  Plaintiffs allege as a result of Defendants’
conduct set forth herein, Plaintiffs have incurred damages as set forth herein.  (SAC ¶113.)
Plaintiffs fail to allege a valid contract between
Plaintiffs and a third party, as Plaintiffs allege Aschkenasy is a party to the
contract between Metro and Ratner Riverside by virtue of alleging Ratner
Riverside and Aschkenasy are alter egos. 
(SAC ¶¶23, 104.)
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th of
action for intentional interference with contractual relations is sustained without
leave to amend. Plaintiffs were not granted leave to amend their FAC to include
this cause of action, which would otherwise be stricken sua sponte by this
Court.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 1st and 2nd causes of action are sustained with 20
days leave to amend.
Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ 6th cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ 3rd cause of action is overruled.

Moving Party to give notice.
 
B.   
Motion to Strike
In light of this Court’s ruling on the demurrer,
Defendant’s motion to strike is denied as moot.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2023
                                                                             





  