  Case Number:  21STCV28604    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  49 CNC Technologies, LLC v. Amrezi, LLC et al.DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINTANT AMREZI, LLC’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY(S):   Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amrezi, LLCRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant CNC Technologies, LLC STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant CNC Technologies, LLC (“CNC”) filed the instant action against Defendants Amrezi, LLC (“Amrezi”) and Clayton Thom (“Thom”), alleging (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) conversion, (3) fraud–concealment, (4) breach of contract, and (5) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant alleges Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amrezi and third parties entered into an LLC operating agreement to form CNC.  Under the agreement, Cross-complainant Amrezi was one of the initial members of CNC, and Cross-complainant Thom was appointed to CNC’s Board of Directors.  Cross-Defendant CNC alleges that in 2021 it became aware of numerous debts and obligations incurred by Cross-complainant Amrezi and Thom, purportedly on behalf of CNC, but without authority to do so.  It is further alleged that Cross-Defendant CNC discovered significant financial misconduct by Cross-complainant.Cross-Complainant Amrezi subsequently filed a cross-complaint against CNC, its members, and individual heads of its members for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) intentional interference with contractual relations, and (5) conversion.  The cross-complaint alleges that the other Members and Directors of CNC voted on certain Major Decisions, as defined under the Operating Agreement, amended the Operating Agreement, and exercised the right to repurchase Amrezi’s units at a “Net Book Value,” to which Amrezi rejects.Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amrezi now moves for leave to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Cross-Complainant’s Motion for Leave to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.A stand-alone FACC must be filed and served to all current parties within 10 days.  Any new parties must be served in a timely manner as provided by law.DISCUSSION:Motion for Leave to File First Amended Cross-ComplaintI. Legal StandardIf a plaintiff wishes to amend a complaint after the answer has been filed or after the demurrer has been filed and after the hearing on the demurrer, or if he or she has already amended the complaint “of course,” permission of the court must be obtained before the amendment will be allowed. (CCP §§ 473(a)(1), 576.)   Motions for leave to amend the pleadings are directed to the sound discretion of the court. “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading . . . .” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP § 576.) Policy favors liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed matters between the parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].)  Although denial is rarely justified, a judge has discretion to deny leave to amend if the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party. (Morgan v. Sup.Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530; see also Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490). An opposing party is prejudiced where the amendment would necessitate a trial delay along with a loss of critical evidence, added preparation expense, increased burden of discovery, etc. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.  (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).) II. AnalysisCross-Complainant Amrezi moves for leave to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint. By the amended pleading, Cross-Complainant seeks to add Defendant Clayton Thom as a Cross-Complainant and assert two additional causes of action for Declaratory Relief and Contractual Indemnity. Cross-Complainant seeks leave after having completed an accounting by its expert witnesses. (Oberbeck Decl. ¶ 5.) Cross-Complainants’ motion complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(a) as it provides (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(b).)Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].) In opposition, Cross-Defendant first contends leave to amend should be denied because it will be unduly prejudiced by the amendment this late in the proceedings. When Cross-Complainant filed its motion, the trial date was set for October 14, 2024. However, the parties stipulated to continue the trial date due to outstanding discovery. Thus, on September 16, 2024, this court continued the trial date to May 26, 2026. (See 09/16/2024 Joint Stipulation.) Because trial has been pushed to mid-2026, there is no risk of undue prejudice to Cross-Complainant.Next, Cross-Defendant contends that the proposed cause of action for declaratory relief is futile and will not survive demurrer. But the court need not address that issue now. Rather, the “better course of action” is to permit the amendment, “and then let the parties test its legal sufficiency in other appropriate proceedings.”  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 739, 760.) Finally, Cross-Defendant argues that the proposed cause of action for contractual indemnity cause of action is not compulsory and can be brought later in a separate action. While this may be true, for sake of judicial economy, there is no reason to preclude Cross-Complainant from asserting the cause of action now.  Therefore, leave to amend is appropriate. This conclusion is consistent with the “policy of great liberality in allowing amendments at any stage of the proceeding so as to dispose of cases upon their substantial merits.”  (Bd. of Trustees v. Superior Ct. (2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 1154, 1163.) Accordingly, on good cause shown, Cross-Complainant’s Motion for Leave to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.Dated:   September 26, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at  Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.