 Case Number:  23CHCV03421    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-23-24
Case #23CHCV03421,
Dai Sup Song vs. CPF Promenade LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Dai Sup Song
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant CPF Promenade LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff
requests an order granting his request for trial preference.
 
RULING: Motion
is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff Dai
Sup Song (Plaintiff) is 86 years old and alleges that he fell and injured his
hip at a Peet’s Coffee location. Plaintiff alleges that because of his injury,
he had to get surgery and seeks damages. Plaintiff sued Peets Coffee and
Defendant CPF Promenade LLC.
 
Because of his age,
Plaintiff filed this motion pursuant CCP § 36(a) seeking a trial preference for
a trial date within 120 days. He argues in his motion that he has a substantial
interest in the case as the plaintiff and that his age and health necessitate
the granting of the preference. 
 
Defendant CPF
Promenade LLC (Defendant) filed an opposition in which Defendant argues that
Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that his interests will be prejudiced if
trial preference is not granted. Next, Defendant argues that the interests of
justice do not warrant the granting of the preference because a preferential
trial setting will unduly prejudice Defendant because discovery is still
ongoing. Finally, Defendant argues that if the Court does grant Plaintiff’s
motion, it should impose strict conditions to protect Defendant’s ability to
conduct discovery and file dispositive motions.
 
No reply has
been filed.
 
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections:
            Declaration of Christopher Paul
Mesaros
Sustained:
None
            Overruled: 1, 2, 3
 
            Declaration of Dai Sup Song
            Sustained: None
            Overruled: 1, 2, 3
 
ANALYSIS
CCP § 36(a)
states that:
“A party to a civil action who is over 70
years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall
grant if the court makes both of the following findings:
(1)
The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole.
(2) The health of the party is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the
litigation.”
 
The heightened
“clear and convincing proof” standard is required for motions seeking
discretionary grants of calendar preference for trial based on illness, but not
for motions seeking mandatory calendar preference based on party’s health and
status as more than 70 years of age. (Fox v. Superior Court (2018)
21 Cal.App.5th 529.) Where a party meets the requisite
standard for calendar preference based on party’s health and status as more
than 70 years of age, preference must be granted, and no weighing of interests
is involved. (Id.) In this case, Plaintiff is not seeking trial
preference based on a specific illness as was the case in Fox and as is
contemplated by CCP § 36(d). Instead, Plaintiff is seeking the mandatory trial
preference from CCP § 36(a). (See Rice v. Superior Court for Los Angeles
County (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 81, 86.)
 
CCP § 36.5
provides that it is sufficient for a party to provide an attorney declaration “based
upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any
party” to demonstrate that a person over 70 years old has health problems. Furthermore,
an “attorney declaration under section 36.5 ‘can consistent entirely of hearsay
and conclusions.’” (Fox, 21 Cal.App.5th at 534.) While Defendant objects
to the declaration of Plaintiff’s attorney on the basis that it does not state
anything about a medical prognosis, the Court finds it sufficient for the
purposes of this motion. 
 
Plaintiff’s
attorney’s declaration states that “I am informed and believe that Plaintiff
suffers lasting pain, as a result of the injuries he sustained in the accident
underlying Plaintiff's cause of action. I am also aware that Plaintiff is 86
years old as of May 2023…I am concerned that if his case faces a protracted
wait for trial, Plaintiff may be unable to see his case reach resolution, or at
the very least be unable to participate effectively.” (Mesaros Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
declaration states that “I was born on May 02, 1937. I turned 86 years old this
year...I continue to experience pain and other lingering effects from the
incident…Due to the incident, I had a subsequent fall and injured my left hip requiring
a second surgery. I continue to feel significant pain in my left hip and
limited range of motion. My doctor has informed me that my range of motion in
my left hip and knee, strength, balance, and functionality mobility skills are
lacking, with range of motion roughly 50-75%...I am afraid that my health will
be affected by my age and the compounding effects of my injuries, and that this
may impact my ability to recall, focus, and communicate effectively in this
case.” (Song Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)
 
Taken together,
the declarations of Plaintiff’s attorney and Plaintiff are sufficient to
demonstrate that Plaintiff has health issues.
 
Plaintiff meets
the first condition of CCP § 36(a) because he has an interest in the case as
the Plaintiff and is seeking to recover damages.
 
CCP § 36(a)’s
second condition for preference is that the preference must be necessary “to
prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.” This may be as
simple as a confirmation that the Plaintiff suffers health problems. (See Landry
v. Berryessa Union School Dist. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 691, 697 (stating the
Legislature has determined litigants over the age of 70 with health problems
should be ensured timely access to the courts).)
 
While Plaintiff
has not shown that he has any specific life-threatening illness, that is not
required for a motion under CCP § 36(a). He need only indicate that he suffers
from health problems. Here, Plaintiff and his attorney have indicated that
Plaintiff is 86 years old and suffers from health problems due to ongoing
issues with his hip from his alleged injuries. That is sufficient to grant his
request for a trial preference.
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff must make a stricter showing of his health problems.
However, that is the standard for CCP § 36(d), not CCP § 36(a). (Fox, 21
Cal.App.5th at 533-534.)
 
Defendant has
also expressed concern over its ability to obtain any outstanding discovery
responses should the Court grant Plaintiff’s motion. The Court will set strict
deadlines for filing and responding to any motions to compel further discovery at
the hearing on this motion. The Court will also set the trial date at the
hearing on this motion.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for trial preference is granted.
 
Moving party to
give notice.