  Case Number:  21STCV20196    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-23-24
Case #21STCV20196,
Chad Perrigo, et al. vs. Jorge Edmondo Castaneda Rodriguez
Trial Date: 9-30-24
 
MOTION FOR PITCHESS DISCOVERY
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Real Party in Interest County of Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant
Thunder Ridge Transport has filed a motion for leave to conduct discovery
related to Plaintiff Chad Perrigo’s past and future wage loss claims and
pending worker’s compensation case.
 
RULING: Motion
is denied without prejudice.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This is a case
in which Plaintiff Chad Perrigo (Plaintiff) was injured when the motorcycle he
was driving was struck by a semi-truck driven by Defendant Jorge Edmondo
Castaneda (Castaneda). Castaneda was driving for Defendant Montecristo Trucking
LLC (Montecristo). Montecristo was a subcontractor for Defendant Fames
Transport, Inc. (Fames). Defendant Fames was a subcontractor for Defendant
Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc. (Thunder Ridge), the party that filed this
motion.
 
Plaintiff is a
Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Deputy and was in the course and scope of his
employment when the accident occurred. Plaintiff is seeking damages related to
past lost wages, future lost wages, and loss of earning capacity. Plaintiff
also has a pending worker’s compensation claim/case pending related to his
medical care and treatment after the accident. Thunder Ridge claims in its
motion that Plaintiff and his employer, the County of Los Angeles, have
objected to Thunder Ridge’s discovery related to the issue of Plaintiff’s
damages pursuant to Penal Code § 832.7.
 
Thunder Ridge
argues in its motion that it can seek these police offer personnel records
pursuant to Evidence Code Sections 1043 and 1046 and that this is a Pitchess
Motion. Thunder Ridge further argues that it has good cause to receive
Plaintiff’s police personnel records because those records are required to
defend his claims for damages.
 
County of Los
Angeles Sheriff’s Department (LASD), as a real party in interest, filed an
opposition to Thunder Ridge’s motion. LASD’s opposition is based on two
grounds: (1) the declaration submitted in support of discovery is insufficient
in that it fails to establish good cause and materiality for the production of
the requested documents, and (2) the categories of documents requested are
overbroad. LASD also filed a proposed protective order allowing for in camera
review of documents and records.
 
LASD also filed
an opposition to Defendants Montecristo Trucking and Jorge Castaneda’s joinder
to Thunder Ridge’s motion. However, the Court does not see that any joinder has
been filed with the court, so the Court will not address LASD’s arguments
concerning this joinder.
 
Plaintiffs Chad
and Alexa Perrigo also filed an opposition to Thunder Ridge’s motion.
Plaintiffs argue that Thunder Ridge fails to identify the types of records or
information sought with specificity, and Thunder Ridge fails to establish good
cause for the requested records.
 
Thunder Ridge
argues in its reply that it satisfied the requirements of Evidence Code §
1043(b).
 
ANALYSIS
Pitchess
Motions for production of peace officer personnel records originate from Pitchess
v. Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 531.)
 
Penal Code §
832.7 states the following: “Peace officer or custodial officer personnel
records and records maintained by any state or local agency pursuant to Section
832.5, or information obtained from these records, are confidential and shall
not be disclosed in any criminal or civil proceeding except by discovery
pursuant to Sections 1043 and 1046 of the Evidence Code.”
 
Evidence Code §
1043, the section relevant to this case, reads as follows:
“(a) In any case in which discovery
or disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or
records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal Code or information
from those records, the party seeking the discovery or disclosure shall file a
written motion with the appropriate court or administrative body upon written
notice to the governmental agency that has custody and control of the records,
as follows:
(1) In a civil action, the written
notice shall be given at the times prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section
1005 of the Code of Civil Procedure…
(b) The
motion shall include all of the following:
(1) Identification of the proceeding
in which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or
disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the
governmental agency that has custody and control of the records, and the time
and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard.
(2) A description of
the type of records or information sought.
(3) Affidavits showing good cause
for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof
to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon
reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or
information from the records.”
 
Haggerty v.
Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1085 held that the relevant
evidence code sections for a Pitchess Motion “apply equally to civil and
criminal discovery.” However, the Court will note that the Haggerty
Court made this holding in the context of civil cases involving a complaint
against an officer. (Id.) The situation in the present case before this
Court is different from that. Here, Thunder Ridge primarily seeks information
involving Plaintiff’s lost wages and worker compensation claims. An accurate
account of Plaintiff’s claimed damages cannot be made in this case without that
information. While that is not necessarily the type of officer personnel
records that the Pitchess statutes
seek to protect, all parties involved appear to agree that this motion should
be evaluated based on the Pitchess statutes.
 
The Court will note that LASD’s opposition
contains very little argument specific to this case and instead mainly contains
a recitation of legal standards and case law.
 
Thunder Ridge meets the requirements of CCP
§ 1043(b)(1). However, as discussed below, Thunder Ridge does not meet the
requirements of CCP § 1043(b)(2)-(3).
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs argue that
Thunder Ridge’s subpoena is overly broad, the Court agrees. The subpoena issued
by Thunder Ridge, attached as Exhibit 1 to Plaintiffs’ Chanchikyan Declaration,
begins by requesting “Any and all employment records, including but not limited
to, any and all payroll records…” for the time period of April 28, 2018, to
April 28, 2022. “Any and all employment records” clearly goes beyond information
related to lost wages or worker compensation claims. While Thunder Ridge argues
that it only seeks information related to those claims, the subpoena it issued
clearly goes beyond any documents related to damages. Plaintiffs also argue
that the scope of the request should be limited to claims and accident reports
related to the specific accident at issue, because having the scope be just
“accident reports” could include accidents which Plaintiff investigated himself
as an officer.
 
Plaintiffs argue in their opposition that
Thunder Ridge has failed to establish good cause for the requested records
because it did not limit them in time and scope. While the scope should be more
limited as discussed in the foregoing paragraph, there is a clear time period
for April 28, 2018, to April 28, 2022.
 
However, Thunder Ridge’s motion is not
seeking to enforce that subpoena. Instead, Thunder Ridge is seeking Court
authorization of discovery from the County of Los Angeles pertaining to
Plaintiff Chad Perrigo’s employment history, compensation records, medical
records, insurance records, accident reports, and worker’s compensation. As
discussed above, though, accident reports may include more information than
just Plaintiff’s accident. Furthermore, the information sought in Thunder
Ridge’s motion is not limited to documents related to the accident. Finally,
seeking medical records from his employer may raise HIPAA concerns, as mentioned
by LASD in its opposition.
 
The Court
denies Thunder Ridge’s motion, without prejudice, on the basis that the information
requested by Thunder Ridge is overbroad in scope and seeks information beyond
that which would lead to discoverable information in this case.
 
Moving party to
give notice.