 Case Number:  24STCV03168    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  57 On
February 6, 2024, Dianne Galindo (“Plaintiff”) sued multiple Defendants alleging
violations of various provisions of the wage and hour laws in the California
Labor Code.  Four corporate Defendants were
named in Plaintiff’s complaint:  Lacausa,
LLC (“Lacausa”); Amber James Apparel LLC (“AJA”); The Jules Hartley Corporation
(“JHC”); and Gredale PPE, Inc. (“Gredale”). 
The complaint also named two individual Defendants: Greg Lorber (“Lorber”)
and Lee Hirsch (“Hirsch”).  None of the
Defendants timely responded to the Plaintiff’s complaint.  At Plaintiff’s request, the Clerk of the Court
entered defaults on the follow dates: April 26, 2024 as to Lacausa and AJA;
July 24, 2024 as to Hirsch and Lorber; and September 9, 2024 as to JHC and
Gredale. 
Pending
before the Court is the joint motion filed by all of the Defendants pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure Section 473(b) to vacate the Clerk’s entry of defaults
against them.  The Court is denying the
Defendants’ motion.
Section
473(b) contains both discretionary and mandatory provisions regarding relief
from defaults. (Noceti v. Whorton (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1062,
1065-1066.)  Defendants’ motion here is based on the discretionary
relief provision, which states as follows: 
The
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.
Defendants
contend in the motion that their failure to file timely responses to the
Plaintiff’s complaint was based on excusable neglect -- they make no claim of
mistake, inadvertence, or surprise.  In
turn, Defendants say that this excusable neglect was based on their inability in
a timely fashion to raise capital to retain counsel to defend them in this
action.
As a
threshold matter, the Court finds that Defendants’ motion is untimely as to
Lacausa and AJA.  The defaults against
those two entities were entered on April 26, 2024.  The motion for relief from default was filed
on November 22, 2024.  That is more than
six months after the entry of the defaults against Lacausa and AJA and hence
beyond the deadline set forth in Section 473(b).
Putting
aside the untimeliness of the motion as to Lacausa and AJA, the Defendants have
failed to establish excusable neglect justifying relief from the defaults.  As Plaintiff correctly points out her in
opposition to the Defendants’ motion, a claim of an inability to hire counsel
due to financial constraints does not necessarily constitute excusable neglect for
purposes of Section 473(b).  Indeed, courts
have broad discretion to deny Section 473(b) motions that are rooted on such
claims.  (Carrasco v. Craft (1985)
164 Cal.App.3d 796, 806; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892,
905-906).  The Court is exercising that discretion
here and rejecting Defendants’ financial constraint claim.
In any
event, the declaration of Hirsch in support of the Defendants’ motion speaks
only of the financial distress suffered by two of the Defendants, Lacausa and AJA.  Hirsch’s declaration says nothing as to the
other Defendants’ (including Hirsch himself) ability/inability to afford to
hire counsel to represent them.  Hirsch’s
declaration says that the other Defendants (aside from Lacausa and AJA) should
not have been sued in this action.  That
may be true.  But that is not a basis for
relief from default.
The
Court also notes that Plaintiff’s counsel accommodated a request Hirsch made on
behalf of all the Defendants in mid-March 2024 for more time to respond to the complaint.
Hirsch and Plaintiffs’ counsel agreed that the time to respond would be
extended to April 12, 2024.  That deadline
came and went, and Defendants did not respond to the complaint as agreed.  Nor did Hirsch or any of the other Defendants
respond to Plaintiff’s counsel outreach to Hirsch on April 22, 2024 stating
that Plaintiffs would proceed to seek defaults within a few days in light of
the Defendants’ failure to respond by the April 12, 2024 deadline.  It was not until mid-October 2024, after the
defaults had been entered, that Hirsch contacted Plaintiffs’ counsel to request
that the Plaintiff stipulate to lifting the defaults, which Plaintiff declined to
do.  That half-year of silence on the
Defendants’ part undermines their claim of excusable neglect. 
The
Court is not reaching Plaintiff’s alternative argument that the Defendants’
motion should be denied on the ground that the proposed answer the Defendants
submitted along with the motion is not sufficiently verified to match up with
the Plaintiff’s verified complaint.