 Case Number:  23SMCV00552    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 26, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV00552




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Buddy Chan




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Millbrook Kitchens Inc.



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Buddy Chan (“Chan”) demurs to all three
causes of action alleged in Defendant and Cross-Complainant Millbrook Kitchens
Inc.’s (“Millbrook”) Cross-Complaint. 
Chan also moves to strike the request for punitive damages in Milbrook’s
Cross-Complaint. 
 
This case stems from a dispute over the installation of artificial
turf at Chan’s home.  Chan filed suit for
breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation,
professional negligence, and violations of business and professions code
section 17200 et seq., alleging that the quality of the installation was
sub-par and Millbrook hired unlicensed subcontractors to do the work.  
 
Millbrook has filed a cross-complaint alleging breach of contract,
fraud, and common counts-services rendered, alleging Chan promised to, but
failed to pay for the work Millbrook performed. 

 
Millbrook filed an untimely opposition to the demurrer and motion to
strike.  Chan filed notices that the
oppositions were untimely, and then timely replied to both the demurrer and
motion to strike.  Millbrook responded to
the notices of untimely oppositions.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
Here, Chan provided an attorney declaration indicating that on August
2, Chan’s counsel sent counsel for Millbrook a detailed email, outlining the
bases for its demurrer to each of the three causes of action, and on August 3,
Millbrook’s counsel called Chan’s counsel and indicated by telephone that
Millbrook’s counsel was unpersuaded by the arguments and did not intend to
amend the cross-complaint.  (Meigs Decl.
¶¶ 1-4 and Ex. A thereto.)
 
Thus, the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Chan requests the Court to take
judicial notice of the Cross-Complaint filed in this action.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the Cross-Complaint is part of the Court’s record for this case,
the Court may take judicial notice of it. 
(Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the Cross-Complaint filed in
this matter as a court record, but not the truth of the allegations contained
therein.
 
CHAN’S REQUEST TO STRIKE MILLBROOK’S
OPPOSITIONS AS UNTIMELY
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b) provides, “All papers opposing
a motion […] shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at
least nine court days, and all reply papers at least five court days before the
hearing.”  The court has discretion
whether to consider late-filed papers. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d).)   
 
The hearing in this matter is
set for September 26, 2023, and there is a court holiday on Friday, September
22, making Opposition papers due on September 12, and Reply papers due
September 18, 2023.
 
            Millbrook
did not file opposition papers to the demurrer or the motion to strike until
September 14.  Millbrook’s counsel
attached attorney declarations to the oppositions to both the demurrer and the
motion to strike, indicating that an emergency in another case required counsel
to draft and three emergency motions, which were filed on September 13, and
attend an ex parte on September 14, precluding timely submission of the
oppositions in this case.  (Moghadam
Decl. ¶ 3.)  The declarations also
indicated, “In fairness to the Plaintiff, I would not object if the Plaintiff
submitted his reply late.”  (Moghadam
Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
            Chan
timely filed both Reply briefs, but requested that the Court strike the
oppositions.
 
            While
the Court agrees with Chan, that better management of the upcoming briefing in
this case would have prevented the last-minute emergency, the Court finds no
prejudice here, as Chan did not request additional time to draft the reply
brief.  Therefore the Court exercises its
discretion and considers the late-filed opposition briefs.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
Chan demurs to all three causes of action in Millbrook’s
Cross-Complaint on the basis that they failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action against Chan under Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10(e).
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
As A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e.,
he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied,
or what claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Although Chan argues in the memorandum of points and authorities that
the first cause of action for breach of contract is uncertain, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), Chan’s Notice of Demurrer
and Demurrer does not cite Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(f) as a basis for any of the demurrers. 
As such, any argument that the breach of contract cause of action is
uncertain is improper.
 
But even if the Court were to consider this argument, Chan does not
demonstrate that any portions of the Cross-Complaint are so bad that Chan
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against Chan.  The
Court thus declines to sustain Chan’s demurrer to the first cause of action on
the basis of uncertainty.  
 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
First Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
Chan argues that Millbrook’s
first cause of action for breach of contract “contains only a conclusory
allegation that [Chan] breached the contract and is impermissibly vague as to
the conduct underlying the alleged breach.”
 
Here, in the cross-complaint,
Millbrook pleads in pertinent part as follows: 
 “On or about 3/23/22,
Cross-Complainant entered into a written agreement with CHAN to perform certain
outdoor improvements, generally described as installation of artificial grass
and ancillary work, to his property, located at 32015 Cape Point Dr., Rancho
Palos Verdes, CA 90275 (“Agreement”). Cross-Complaint was to be paid at least
$88,840.75 for this work. MILLBROOK substantially performed under the
Agreement.  CHAN breached the
Agreement.  Cross-Complainant suffered
damages as a result of CHAN’s breach.”  (Cross-complaint,
¶¶ 7-9.)  
 
As the cause of action
stands, Millbrook has pled the ultimate facts necessary to state a cause of
action for breach of contract against Chan. 
Ultimate facts are those “constituting the cause of action” or those
upon which liability depends, e.g., duty of care, breach of the duty and
causation (damages).  (See Doe v. City
of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“[T]he term ultimate fact generally refers to a core fact, such as an
essential element of a claim. Ultimate facts are distinguished from evidentiary
facts and from legal conclusions.”  (Central
Valley General Hosp. v. Smith (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 501, 513 [cleaned up];
see also Rodriguez v. Parivar, Inc. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 739, 750–751
[“The elements of a cause of action constitute the essential or ultimate facts
in a civil case”].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court finds for
pleading purposes Millbrook has sufficiently stated a cross-claim for breach of
contract against Chan.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Second
Cause of Action - Fraud
 
“In a promissory fraud action,
to sufficiently alleges [sic] defendant made a misrepresentation, the complaint
must allege (1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some
future action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did
not really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)   
 
First, Chan demurs to the
second cause of action for fraud on the basis that the contractual economic
loss rule precludes a claim of fraud unless the alleged conduct is “independent
of the breach of contract itself” and thus violates “some independent duty
arising from tort law.”  (Opp. at p.
7:8-11.)
 
As a threshold matter,
Millbrook has alleged that Chan fraudulently induced Millbrook to perform
services by falsely representing that Chan would pay, when Chan had no
intention to pay.  Thus, Millbrook’s
allegations do allege conduct independent of the breach of contract itself that
violates an independent duty arising from tort law.  In the case law Chan cites, the Court held
the economic loss rule did not bar fraud and intentional
misrepresentation claims.  (See Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979.)
 
Moreover, as Millbrook has
explained in Opposition, it has brought the second and third causes of action,
for fraud and “common counts – services rendered” in the alternative, in case
no contract is ultimately found to exist between the parties.  At this stage, the Cross-Complaint may “plead
in the alternative and make inconsistent allegations.”  (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388.)
 
Second, Chan argues that the
cross-complaint fails to plead a cause of action for fraud with the requisite
particularity because it merely alleges Chan “falsely promised to pay
[Millbrook] for its services under the Agreement.”  The Court notes that the Cross-Complaint also
alleges Chan never intended to pay Millbrook; Chan knew the promise was false
when made; and in reliance upon Chan’s promise to pay, Millbrook “substantially
performed under the Agreement.” (Cross-complaint, ¶¶ 13-15.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Here, the Court finds that
Millbrook has not pled with sufficient particularity the facts necessary to
support the fraud cause of action.  In
particular, the Court notes that Millbrook fails to assert facts with specificity
regarding how and when Chan falsely promised to pay Millbrook for its services;
how and when Chan always intended to cease paying monies owed to Millbrook; and
how and when Chan knew his promise to pay Millbrook was false never intending
to fully pay Millbrook.  
 
As such, the Court Millbrook
has failed to state a sufficient cause of action for fraud.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Third Cause of Action – Common Counts –
Services Rendered
 
Chan’s challenge to the third
cause of action – that the quasi-contract claim for services rendered is
inconsistent with the breach of contract claim – is unavailing.  Because Millbrook may plead alternative
theories of liability at this stage of litigation, the fact that the third
cause of action is inconsistent with the first cause of action is not a basis
to sustain the demurrer.
 
2.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Chan moves to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages. 
  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
            
Here, as discussed above, Millbrook has not alleged facts with
requisite specificity to state a cause of action for fraud against Chan.  As such, the Court finds that the allegations
do not adequately support a claim for punitive damages against Chan.    
 
3.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Millbrook has failed to meet its burden as it does not
address whether leave should be granted if either the demurrer is sustained or
the motion to strike is granted.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Chan’s Demurrer to the
First and Third Causes of Action, and sustains without leave to amend Chan’s
Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action.  
 
Further, the Court grants Chan’s Motion to Strike in its entirety, and
orders the prayer for punitive damages associated with the Second Cause of
Action stricken from the Cross-complaint. 

 
Further, the Court orders Chan to file an Answer to the
Cross-complaint on or before October 10, 2023. 

 
Chan shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  September 26, 2023                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court