 Case Number:  24NWCV00897    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  C ROARK FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS,
INC. vs. LYNCO GRINDING COMPANY, INC. 
CASE
NO.:  24NWCV00897
HEARING:  6/5/24 @ 10:30 A.M.
 
#11
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Cross-Complainant-in-Intervention
Arlene Griffin’s motion for leave to file answer-in-intervention and
cross-complaint is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
 
Defendant Lynco Grinding Company, Inc.
{“Lynco”) agreed to pay Plaintiff Roark Financial Solutions, Inc. {“Roark”) for
finance and accounting consulting services. (Compl., ¶
6.) They entered an agreement, and one of the terms stated that Lynco
would not solicit, employ, or otherwise engage any of Roark’s current or former
employees during the term of the agreement and for 24 months after the end of
the agreement. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Otherwise, Lynco will pay
liquidated damages. (Compl., ¶ 9.) Lynco solicited and then
hired Arlene Griffin, Roark’s employee. (Compl., ¶ 11.) Roark
sues Lynco for liquidated damages under a breach of contract theory.    
 
Cross-Complainant in Intervention Arlene
Griffin (“Griffin”) moves for leave to intervene. 
 
“A
nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or
ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).) 
 
Timeliness
 
The party seeking to
intervene must be timely, determined by the totality of circumstances, which
includes the following factors: (1) stage of the proceedings; (2) prejudice to
other parties from the delay in seeking to intervene; and (3) the reason for
the delay. (Crestwood Behavioral Health, Inc. v. Lacy (2021) 70
Cal.App.5th 560, 574-576.) Prejudice to existing parties is the most important
consideration. (Id. at 574.) 
 
Griffin argues
that the motion is timely because Roark filed the complaint in late March 2024.

 
Given the above, the
Court finds the motion timely. 
 
Mandatory Intervention
 
Intervention
is mandatory or permissive. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d).) It is mandatory
if the law confers an unconditional right to intervene, or¿the person seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that
interest. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1).) The
exception is if that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more
of the existing parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1).)  
 
Griffin
argues that intervention should be mandatory because it is her employment that
resulted in litigation between Roark and Lynco.  Griffin also argues that the transaction that
gave rise to the litigation is the contract between Roark and Lynco, which
resulted in her work assignment with Lynco. Griffin further argues that her
interests are not adequately represented by existing parties, and she seeks to
enforce her rights under California Business & Professions Code § 16600 to
be free from the illegal enforcement of a noncompetition agreement by Roark against
Lynco. 
 
In
opposition, Roark argues that the transaction that is the subject of the action
does not have anything to do with Griffin. Her employment is between
her and Lynco, and it has nothing to do with Lynco’s contractual obligations to
Roark. 
 
In
reply, Griffin argues that she has an interest in challenging Roark’s
prohibited “no hire” provision and any resulting damages would deter the
financial success of her current employer. 
 
The Court agrees with Roark’s
arguments. It does not find intervention to be mandatory. 
 
Permissive Intervention
 
Intervention is
permissive if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).) 
 
Courts require the interest to be “direct and immediate” rather
than “remote and consequential” or “purely speculative.” (Olson v. Hopkins
(1969) 269 Cal.App.2d 638, 641; City of Burlingame v. County of San Mateo
(1951) 103 Cal.App.2d 885, 890; Royal Indem. Co. v. United Enters., Inc.
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 194, 212.) An interest is consequential and thus insufficient for
intervention when the action in which intervention is sought does not directly
affect it although the results of the action may indirectly benefit or harm its
owner. (Cont'l Vinyl Prod. Corp. v. Mead Corp. (1972) 27 Cal.
App. 3d 543, 550.) Whether the intervenor’s interest is sufficiently direct
must be decided on the facts of the case. (Simpson Redwood Co. v. State of
Cal. (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1192, 1200.) The issues of the action may not be
enlarged by the proposed intervention. (Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. v. Gerlach
(1976) 56 Cal.App.3d 299, 303.) 
 
A court has discretion to deny
intervention when a direct interest is shown if the interests of the original
litigants outweigh the intervenor’s concern, e.g. if intervention would delay
the principal suit, require a reopening of the case for further evidence, delay
the trial of the action, or change the position of the original parties. (In
re Marriage of Kerr (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 130, 134.) 
 
Griffin argues that she has a direct and immediate interest because
she is a senior executive for Defendant and in her role with the company, she
has an interest in the success of Defendant. 
 
The Court disagrees. Standing
alone, Griffin’s role as an employee does not result in a direct and immediate
interest in the litigation. Her interest is indirect. 
 
The motion is DENIED. 
 