 Case Number:  22NWCV01285    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  C MARTINEZ v. FCA US LLC
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV01285
HEARING:
 6/5/24 @ 9:30 A.M. 
 
#5
TENTATIVE RULING
 
I.            
Plaintiff Martinez’s motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to
special interrogatories is GRANTED IN PART. No sanctions. 
 
II.           
Plaintiff Martinez’s motion to compel further responses to request for
production of documents is GRANTED IN PART and MOOT IN PART. No sanctions. 
 
Opposing Party to give NOTICE. 
 
 
 
This is a continuation. On March 13, 2024,
the Court continued both motions and ordered Plaintiff to file a supplemental
declaration supporting that the motions are timely. Plaintiff did so.  
 
Special
Interrogatories
 
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to special interrogatories numbers 45, 46, 47, and 48. Request
number 45 asks about repair rates at the time of release of the 2017 Jeep Grand
Cherokee; request number 46 asks about repairs performed for the 2017 Jeep
Grand Cherokee; request number 47 asks about the top five symptoms with the
highest repairs for the 2017 Jeep Grand Cherokee; and request number 48 asks
about the five components with the highest repairs for the 2017 Jeep Grand
Cherokee. 
 
“‘An order compelling
discovery must rest on a showing that the discovery is reasonably calculated to
lead to admissible evidence….’"  (Cadiz
Land Co. v. Rail Cycle (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 74, 117.) The burden rests
upon the party seeking the discovery to provide evidence from which the court
may determine these conditions are met. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Super. Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the interrogatories seek repair rates for 2017 Jeep Grand Cherokee
vehicles and that this is relevant because Plaintiff must prove that his
vehicle contained a defect covered by Defendant’s warranty which substantially
impaired its use, value, or safety. Also, the information could refute
Defendant’s affirmative defenses that Plaintiff or others misused or abused the
vehicle or engaged in unauthorized or unreasonable use. In addition, evidence
regarding Defendant’s practices in handling consumer complaints is relevant to
showing whether Defendant willfully violated the Song-Beverly Act, which awards
civil penalties if Defendant’s violation was willful. 
 
In opposition,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s requests are too broad. Defendant asserts that
the question of whether an alleged defect substantially impairs a vehicle’s
use, value, or safety applies to the specific circumstances of the buyer. Specifically,
Plaintiff asks to identify rates of unspecified repairs in other 2017 Jeep
Grand Cherokee vehicles with no connection to the purported defects in the
subject vehicle.  Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s interrogatories are not limited in time, not limited to California
vehicles, and not limited to any mechanical issue purportedly exhibited by the
subject vehicle. 
 
In reply,
Plaintiff argues that the interrogatories are probative of whether Defendant
had reason to know that its 2017 Jeep Cherokee vehicles were experiencing an
abnormally high number of warranty repairs regarding the same problems that
Plaintiff experienced. 
 
The Court
agrees with Defendant. Further, Plaintiff does not state why she needs to know
about other defects and why she has not set a time or geographical parameter. 
 
The Court
grants the motion in part and denies it in part. The Court denies the motion
with respect to interrogatory numbers 47 and 48 because they are too broad and
not relevant to the defects that Plaintiff’s vehicle experienced. The Court
grants the motion with respect to interrogatory numbers 45 and 46 on condition
that further responses will be limited to the same defect Plaintiff allegedly
experienced, in vehicles sold in California for the past five years. 
 
Sanctions
 
In a
motion to compel further discovery responses, the court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) 
 
Because the motion was
granted in part and denied in part, the Court does not award sanctions to
either party. 
 
Request
for Production of Documents
 
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to requests for production of documents numbers 18, 45,
and 46. Request
number 18 seeks FCA’s operative franchise agreement between FCA and FCA’s authorized
dealership that sold the vehicle to Plaintiff. Request number 45 seeks evidence
of complaints by owners of 2017 Jeep Grand Cherokee vehicles during the
warranty period and request number 46 seeks evidence of warranty repairs of the
components that FCA’s authorized repair facilities performed repairs on under the
terms of the warranty. 
 
Moving
parties must file evidence showing good cause based on specific facts that the
requested matter is admissible evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of such evidence. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Super. Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-24.) Good cause generally calls for a
factual exposition of a reasonable ground for the discovery order sought. (Waters v. Super. Ct. of L.A. County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 885, 893.) "[E]ven when no . .
. supporting affidavits are filed . . .good cause may be found in the pleadings
theretofore filed in the action." (Greyhound Corp. v. Super. Ct.  (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 389.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that the franchise agreement is necessary to determine what obligations
are imposed by Defendant on its dealerships to report warranty repairs, the
cost of warranty repairs, pre-approval for certain warranty repairs, lemon law
repurchase request handling, special notification procedures for excessive
repairs or repairs for specific parts, the duration of warranty repairs, the
parts that were removed, replaced, and determined to have failed, and whether
Defendant knew or should have known that Plaintiff’s vehicle was eligible for
repurchase and replacement pursuant to its affirmative duty under the
Song-Beverly Act. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues that it provided the requested agreement. Plaintiff
does not make arguments in reply. 
 
For
the same reasons it cited regarding the compel further responses to special
interrogatories, the Court finds request numbers 45 and 46 too broad. 
 
Thus,
the Court finds the motion to compel further responses to request number 18
moot. It grants the motion to compel further responses to request for
production of documents numbers 45 and 46 in part and denies it in part.  
It grants them
on condition that Plaintiff limit it to the same defect she allegedly
experienced, and for vehicles sold in California in the past five years. 
 
Sanctions
 
In a
motion to compel further discovery responses, the court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) 
 
Because the motions was
granted in part and denied in part, the Court does not award sanctions to
either party. 
 