  Case Number:  21NWCV00495    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  C PALACIO v. RAMON’S TRUCKING, et
al.
CASE NO.:  21NWCV00495
HEARING:   6/5/24
@ 10:30 A.M.
 
#12
TENTATIVE
ORDER
 
Assignee of Record
Creative Judgment Solutions’ motion to amend the judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Moving Party to give
NOTICE. 
 
 
 
This
is an employment discrimination case brought by Plaintiff Modesto Palacio (“Plaintiff”)
against Defendant Ramon’s Trucking, Valley Fruit & Produce, and Lorenzo
Rosas.
 
Creative
Judgment Solutions moves for an order to amend the judgment entered on July 26,
2023, against Ramon’s Trucking (an unknown entity) and Lorenzo Rosas, to
reflect the name of the judgment debtor as Lorenzo Rosas individually and doing
business as Ramon’s Trucking. Both Ramon’s Trucking and Lorenzo Rosas
defaulted. Plaintiff has assigned the judgment to Creative Judgment Solutions. 
 
As
of June 4, 2024, no opposition has been filed. 

 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 187 states: “[w]hen jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or
this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or judicial officer,
all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also given; and in the
exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not specifically
pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process or mode of
proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the spirit of
this code.”  “Section 187 contemplates amending a judgment by noticed
motion.  [Citations.]  The court is not required to hold an
evidentiary hearing on a motion to amend a judgment but may rule on the motion
based solely on declarations and other written evidence.”  (Highland
Springs Conference & Training Center v. City of Banning (2016) 244
Cal.App.4th 267, 280.)  
 
There are two
requirements for disregarding the corporate entity and for finding alter ego
liability: “(1) that there be such unity of interest and ownership that the
separate personalities of the corporation and the individual no longer exist
and (2) that, if the acts are treated as those of the corporation alone,
an inequitable result will follow.” (Automotriz
etc. De California v. Resnick (1957) 47 Cal.2d 792,
796.)
 
“In the interests
of justice, the ‘‘‘greatest liberality is to be encouraged’’’ in the allowance
of amendments brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 187.”  (Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Weinberg (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1, 7.) 
 
Creative Judgment Solutions
submits the declaration of Alex Reyes, collector, who states that he performed
a skip tracing method to ascertain the assets and confirm the accuracy of the
judgment debtor. He further states that he found there is no such entity as
Ramon’s Trucking. (Decl. Reyes.) Creative Judgment Solutions also submits the
declaration of Plaintiff, who states that Lorenzo Rosas was the only person who
had management and control of Ramon’s Trucking. (Decl. Palacios.) He also
states that he had only taken instructions from Lorenzo Rosas and that each
paycheck he received from the Bank of America checking account was signed by
Lorenzo Rosas. (Decl. Palacios.)
 
Given that Reyes did not find an
entity such as Ramon’s Trucking, the Court grants the motion. 