 Case Number:  23NWCV00753    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  C HERNANDEZ v. ANGEL’S TIRES, ET AL.
CASE NO.: 23NWCV00753
HEARING:  6/5/24 @ 10:30 A.M. 
 
#14
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants Silvestre
Madrigal and Maria Madrigal’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  
 
Moving party to give
notice. 
 
 
 
Plaintiff Geronimo
Hernandez (“Hernandez”), customer of Defendant Angel’s Tires (“Angel’s Tires”),
alleges that while using an air dispenser to fill a tire while at Angel’s Tires,
the tire exploded and injured his left hand. Defendants Silvestre Madrigal and
Maria Madrigal (the “Madrigals”) own the premises.  They entered into a lease agreement with Defendant
Sabino Pedraza, whose son, Defendant Sevino Pedraza, operated Angel’s Tires.
(UMF Nos. 1, 2, and 3.) On March 13, 2023, Hernandez filed suit alleging
Negligence and Premises Liability.  On
September 25, 2023, the Madrigals filed a Cross-Complaint against Angel’s Tires
and Sabino Pedraza seeking indemnity and declaratory relief, among other
things.  
 
The Madrigals seek
summary judgment on the negligence and premises liability causes of action in
Plaintiff’s Complaint.  
 
Separate
Statement
 
An opposing Separate Statement must comply with the
requirements of California Rule of Court, rule 3.1350(e), (f) and (h).  The opposing Separate Statement must indicate
if a fact is unequivocally disputed and, if so, state the opposing fact with a
citation to admissible evidence. The rules do not permit a fact to be “disputed
in part,” nor is argument permitted in an opposing Separate Statement. (Page
v. Miracosta Community College District (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 471, 479,
fn. 2.) If a party opposing summary judgment fails to comply with the
requirements in a separate statement, the court, in its discretion, may grant
the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,¿subd. (b)(3).)  
 
Hernandez’s opposing
separate statement includes arguments. For example, in fact number two, Hernandez
states, “Plaintiff has no reason to doubt such a lease exists; HOWEVER, given
the arguments raised in Defendant’s motion, this fact is entirely irrelevant to
this matter.” The Court will not consider these arguments. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
Hernandez submitted evidentiary objections as part of his
opposing papers. The Court overrules the fourth and sixth objection. It does
not rule on the others because it finds that they are not material to the
disposition of the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(q).)
 
Legal Standard
 
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  The moving
party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing no triable material fact exists. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If the moving party meets this burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party to make a converse prima facie showing that
a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.)  
 
A defendant moving
for summary judgment may meet its initial burden by proving that for each cause
of action alleged, Plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause
of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)

 
Discussion 
 
The Madrigals
argue that they did not owe any duty to Hernandez, nor did they breach it. In
support, they argue that the air dispenser was a movable piece of equipment on
the premises, it was on the premises for Angel’s Tire’s business operations,
and the Madrigals did not own, possess, control, or maintain it. (UMF Nos. 19, 20,
21.) They submit the declaration of Silvestre Madrigal. (UMF Nos. 19, 20, 21.) They
also submit the lease agreement. (UMF No. 2.) 
 
“The elements of
a negligence cause of action are duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292,
318.)  The elements of premises liability are the same as those for
general negligence. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200,
1205.) 
 
Generally,
landlords are not liable for injuries to tenants’ guests caused by the tenant’s
acts. (See Goodman v. Harris (1953) 40 Cal.2d 254, 265.) In Schwartz
v. McGraw-Edison Co. (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 767, 785 the Court found that the
landlord had no interest in, right to inspect, or right of control over a
portable heater. Also, there was no express or implied covenant in the lease
agreement whereby the landlord had to furnish heat to her tenant. (Ibid.)

 
Based on the
above, the Court finds that the Madrigals have shown that no triable issue of
fact exists as to duty and breach.  The
Madrigals are also landlords who did not own, possess, control, or maintain the
movable air dispenser. The burden now shifts to Hernandez to raise a triable
issue of material fact as to duty and breach. 

 
Hernandez
submits his own declaration in opposition to the motion.  Essentially, Hernandez alleges that he was
told by employees at Angel’s Tires that he could use the air dispenser and they
did not warn him about the risks involved. 
However, nothing in Hernadez’s declaration raises a triable issue of material
fact as to duty and breach by the Madrigals. 
Therefore, Hernandez fails to meet his burden.  
 
The Madrigals
also argue that they did not cause Hernandez’s injuries. Because there are no
triable issues of material fact as to duty and breach, the Court will not
adjudicate causation. 
 
Accordingly, the
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  