

 
BACKGROUND
 
On December
30, 2021, Plaintiff Comforting Home Hospice Inc. and Alexander Everest
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendant David C. Perkins
(“Defendant”) and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for
(1) violation of Business & Professions Code § 7031; (2) breach of
contract; (3) fraudulent concealment; and (4) negligent misrepresentation.
 
On April
7, 2022, Defendant filed an Answer and Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs
alleging causes of action for (1) common count-work labor and services, and (2)
breach of oral contract. On May 13, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a joint Answer to
the cross-complaint. 
 
On
February 9, 2023, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication
of Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for violation of Business &
Professions Code § 7031. On May 4, 2023, this Court granted the motion. (Min.
Order 5/4/23.) 
 
On August
3, 2023, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants filed a Motion for Order Dismissing the Cross-Complaint.
No opposition has been filed to date.
 
On August
16, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Comforting Home Hospice Inc. filed a Notice
of Withdrawal from the action.
 
On August
18, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Alexander Everest’s Ex Parte
Application with respect to the request to continue trial, but denied the
application with respect to the request to shorten time for hearing on the
September 25, 2023 on the motion to dismiss the cross-complaint. (Min. Order
8/18/23.)
 
On
September 25, 2023, this Court ordered Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Alexander
Everest to submit supplemental briefing by September 29, 2023 to support this
instant motion. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Alexander Everest filed the
supplemental brief on September 27, 2023.
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff Comforting Home Hospice Inc. and Alexander Everest
(“Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants”) moves for an order dismissing the
cross-complaint on the grounds that there are no triable issues of fact to be
determined at trial as all issues were determined by the Court in the prior
motion for summary adjudication ruling of May 4, 2023.
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants assert that the Court ruled that Defendant David C.
Perkins (“Defendant/Cross-Complainant”) claims are for work as an unlicensed
contractor in violation of Business & Professions Code (“BPC”), Section
7031, so Defendant/Cross-Complainant may not bring or maintain any claims under
BPC, Section 7031(a). 
 
            In
the supplemental brief, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Alexander Everest argues that
Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”), Section 436 gives the Court discretionary
power to strike a cross-complaint not filed in conformity with the laws of this
state. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Alexander Everest also argues that the Court
may allow him to amend the pending motion and make a ruling based on CCP  438. Moreover, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Alexander Everest contends that the Court may grant the pending motion as a
motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
None as of 10/25/23.
 
REPLY
 
None as of 10/25/23.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I. Motion 
A.   
Legal Standard 
Pursuant to Business & Professions Code
(BPC), Section 7031(a), “Except as provided in subdivision (e), no person
engaged in the business or acting in the capacity of a contractor, may bring or
maintain any action, or recover in law or equity in any action, in any court of
this state for the collection of compensation for the performance of any act or
contract where a license is required by this chapter without alleging that they
were a duly licensed contractor at all times during the performance of that act
or contract regardless of the merits of the cause of action brought by the
person, except that this prohibition shall not apply to contractors who are
each individually licensed under this chapter but who fail to comply with
Section 7029.” (BPC § 7031(a).)
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”), Section 436, “The court may, upon a motion
made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court.” (CCP § 436.)
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”), Section 438(c)(1)(B), a Cross-Defendant may move
for a judgment on the pleadings if either “(i) The court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint” or
“(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against that defendant.” (CCP §
438(c)(1)(B).) Likewise, “The court may upon its own motion grant a
motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (CCP §
438(b)(2).)
 
B.    
Judicial Notice
In support
of the motion and supplemental brief, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Alexander
Everest request judicial notice of (1) small claim complaint filed by
Defendant/Cross-Complainant David C. Perkins and (2) Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
motion for summary adjudication.
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Alexander Everest’s requests for judicial notice are GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code sections 451(f), and 452(c), (g), and (h). 
C.   
Discussion
Here, Plaintiff Alexander
Everest (“Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant”) moves for an order dismissing the
cross-complaint on the grounds that there are no triable issues of fact to be
determined at trial as all issues were determined by the Court in the prior
motion for summary adjudication ruling of May 4, 2023. In initial briefing of
this motion, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant asserted that the Court ruled that
Defendant David C. Perkins (“Defendant/Cross-Complainant”) claims were for work
as an unlicensed contractor in violation of Business & Professions Code
(“BPC”), Section 7031(b), so Defendant/Cross-Complainant may not bring or
maintain any claims under BPC, Section 7031(a). However, this Court previously denied the motion without
prejudice indicating that nothing in BPC, Section 7031(a) gives the Court
authority to dismiss an action brought in violation of BPC, Section 7031. (Min.
Order 9/25/23.) This Court also stated that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant did not
present any other legal basis that confers authority on the Court to dismiss
such an action. (Id.) Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant was given the
opportunity to submit supplemental briefing on this matter.
 
In the supplemental brief, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
argues that Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”),
Section 436(b) and Section 438(b)(2) gives the Court discretionary power to
strike a cross-complaint not filed in conformity with the laws of this state or
grant a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant also
argues that the Court may allow him to amend the pending motion and make a
ruling based on CCP, Section 438(c)(1)(B). Essentially, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
appears to argue that Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s cross-complaint is not in
conformity with the laws of this state because BPC, Section 7031(a) does not
permit unlicensed contractors to bring or maintain an action in law or equity.
Similarly, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant appears to also argue that
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s cross-complaint does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant. 
 
Pursuant
to CCP, Section 438(d), “The grounds for motion provided for in this section
shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which
the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion is based on a
matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to Section 452 or
453 of the Evidence Code, the matter shall be specified in the notice of
motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the court may
otherwise permit.” (CCP § 438(d).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff//Cross-Defendant asserts that this Court may take judicial notice of
the Court’s ruling on Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication, which references BPC, Section 7031(a), the basis for
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s inability to proceed with the cross-complaint.
Moreover, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant concurrently filed a request for judicial
notice of Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication on
September 27, 2023. 
 
Therefore,
the Court finds that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s motion for order of
dismissal of Cross-Complaint is warranted under law.
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s supplemental briefing provided two statutory bases
that confer discretionary authority on the Court to dismiss such an action. 
 
 
II. Conclusion

            
            Accordingly, Plaintiff Alexander Everest’s Motion
for Order of Dismissal of Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 