

 
BACKGROUND
 
On June
13, 2023, Plaintiff Josh Grossguth filed a complaint against Defendant Walmart,
Inc. alleging intentional tort.
 
On September
29, 2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer. To date, no opposition has been
filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant
argues that the Complaint is completely devoid of any facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action as the Complaint simply sets forth conclusory
allegations with no supporting facts.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None.
REPLY
 
            None.
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Demurrer
A.               
Request for Judicial Notice 
The Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
B.                
Meet and Confer
Prior to
filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving party is
required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to
or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) 
            On September 7, 2023, Defendant’s counsel spoke with
Plaintiff directly, as he is not represented by counsel, explaining that his
Complaint failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Li
Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) On September 19, 2023, Defendant’s counsel sent a meet and
confer letter to explain Defendant’s intention to file a demurrer. (Id.
¶ 6, Exhib. B.) On the same day, Plaintiff confirmed receipt of the meet and
confer letter by email. (Id. ¶ 7, Exhib. C.) Plaintiff failed to amend
his complaint as of September 29, 2023. (Id. ¶ 8.) Defendant satisfies
the meet and confer requirement.
C.               
Legal Standard 
“The primary
function of a pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare
its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly
notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v.
City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.) 
“A¿demurrer¿tests
the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff
v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to
whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or
discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read passages
from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we read the
complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court
“assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which
judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p.
240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions
or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) 
A general
demurrer may be brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision (e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted or under section 430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All
other grounds listed in Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision
(f), are special demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited
jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) 
Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant to show the
Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)  
Finally,
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five
days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(3).)  
D.               
Analysis
Defendant
argues that the Complaint is completely devoid of any facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action as the Complaint simply sets forth conclusory
allegations with no supporting facts. For example, Defendant states that on
page 3 of the form Complaint, Plaintiff checked the box for Intentional Tort
and wrote in damages for wage loss, hospital and medical expenses and loss of
earning capacity “according to proof” in the amount of “$16,253.86.” There are
no additional facts included with the Complaint in support of these claims.
Defendant also states that on page 4 of the Complaint, Plaintiff attached an
empty page of Cause of Action – Intentional Tort with no information at all
including case number, plaintiff and defendant information, and date, place and
description of reasons for liability. Defendant argues that the lack of factual
allegations completely deprives it of the ability to meaningfully respond to
Plaintiff’s Complaint or plan its defense in this lawsuit. The Court agrees and
finds that the complaint is ambiguous and unintelligible. Plaintiff fails to
specify which intentional tort he is suing for as well as any facts to support
that cause of action.
The demurrer
is sustained.
III.       Conclusion 
            
            In light of
the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Defendant’s demurrer to
the Complaint. Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint is to be filed and served within twenty (20) days of notice
of this order. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 