

 
BACKGROUND
 
On November
7, 2022, Arbitrator Stephen L. Backus, Esq., from the American Arbitration
Association issued a Final Award of Arbitrator in favor of Petitioner All
Premium Contractors, Inc. (“Petitioner”) and against Respondent Kenneth Caldera
(“Respondent”) in the amount of $22,249.70. (Pet. ¶¶ 6-8, pp.16-19.)
 
On May
17, 2023, Petitioner filed a Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award as to
Respondent. On June 20, 2023, Respondent filed a General Denial. On June 28,
2023, Respondent filed a Demand for Arbitration. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
This is a petition to
confirm arbitration award.
 
OPPOSITION
 
See above.
 
REPLY
 
See above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I. Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
A.    Legal Standard
“Regardless of the particular relief granted, any
arbitrator’s award is enforceable only when confirmed as a judgment of the
superior court.”  (O’Hare v. Municipal Resource Consultants (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 267, 278.)  A party may seek a court judgment confirming
an arbitration award by filing and serving a petition no more than four years, but not less than 10 days, after the
award is served. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1288, 1288.4.) (Italics added.)
“Once a
petition to confirm an award is filed, the superior court must select one of
only four courses of action: it may confirm the award, correct and confirm it,
vacate it, or dismiss the petition.”  (EHM Productions, Inc. v. Starline Tours of
Hollywood, Inc. (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 1058, 1063.)  “It is well settled that the scope of
judicial review of arbitration awards is extremely narrow.”  (California
Faculty Assn. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943.)  “Neither the trial court, nor the appellate
court, may ‘review the merits of the dispute, the sufficiency of the evidence,
or the arbitrator’s reasoning, nor may we correct or review an award because of
an arbitrator’s legal or factual error, even if it appears on the award’s
face.”  (EHM Productions, supra, at p. 1063-64.)
 
B.     Discussion
Service of the
Petition, and Notice of Hearing
 
Pursuant to the Code of Civil Procedure (CCP), Section 1290.4, “A copy of
the petition and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing thereof
and any other papers upon which the petition is based shall be served in the
manner provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of such petition
and notice.” (CCP §1290.4(a).) 
 
But “if the arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which
such service shall be made and the person upon whom service is to be made has
not previously appeared in the proceeding and has not previously been served in
accordance with this subdivision…Service within this State shall be made in the
manner provided by law for the service of summons in an action.” (CCP §
1290.4(b)(1).)
 
Here, the Petition and the notice of hearing were filed on May 17, 2023.
Proof of service filed on June 7, 2023 reflects that the Petition and a notice
of hearing were served by personal service. The arbitration agreement does not
provide the method by which service of such petition and notice would be
proper. (Attachment 4(B).) However, service by personal service is permissible
under law for the service of a summons in an action. Therefore, service of the
Petition and notice of hearing were proper. 
 
 
 
Filing
Requirements
 
The Code of Civil Procedure (CCP), Section 1285.4 states in pertinent
part…a petition under this chapter shall:
(a)   Set forth the substance of or have attached a
copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence
of such an agreement.
(b)   Set forth the names of the arbitrators.
(c)   Set forth or have attached a copy of the
award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.
(CCP § 1285.4)
            
Here, a copy of the arbitration agreement between Petitioner and Respondent Kenneth Caldera (“Respondent”) is attached to the Petition as Attachment
4(B). The agreement is signed by both parties. Further, the Petition provides
that the parties entered into a written agreement on July 26, 2018, where they
agreed that “any controversy or claim arising out of or related to this
contract, or the breach thereof, shall be settled by binding arbitration in
accordance with the construction industry arbitration rules of the American
Arbitration Association, and judgment upon the award rendered by the
arbitrator(s).” (Petition § 4(a)-(c).) Moreover, the Petition states that Stephen
L. Backus, Esq., was the arbitrator for this matter. Additionally, a copy of
the arbitration award and written opinion of Stephen L. Backus, Esq., is
attached as Attachment 8(C). As such, the Petition is in compliance with the
filing requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure section 1285.4. 
 
Service of the
Arbitration Award
 
Pursuant the Code of Civil Procedure (CCP), Section 1283.6, “The neutral arbitrator shall serve a signed copy of the award on
each party to the arbitration personally or by registered or certified mail or
as provided in the agreement.” (CCP § 1283.6.) Proof of service must be
filed with the clerk of court along with the arbitration award within 10 days
after the arbitration hearing. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.825(b)(1).) The
arbitrator may use the Form LAADR-014 for this purpose. (LASC, Local Rule
3.301(a).)
            
Here, the Petition states that the arbitration hearing was conducted in
Los Angeles, CA, and that a written award was made on November 7, 2022.
(Petition § 7-8.) A copy of the award is attached as Attachment 8(C). The award
provides that Petitioner All Premium
Contractors, Inc. (“Petitioner”) is
entitled to recover $10,731.92 for the carport material and $5,751.75 for the
solar panels wrongfully withheld, for a total of $16,483.67, plus prejudgment
interest at the default rate of 7 percent from March 1, 2019 to November 1,
2022, for a total award of $20,714.70. The award attached as Attachment 8(C) is
signed by arbitrator Stephen L. Backus, Esq. and was allegedly served on November
7, 2022. (Petition §§6, 9(a).) 
 
In response to the Petition, Respondent filed a general denial and demand
for arbitration. Respondent argues that the parties agreed to submit any
dispute between them to arbitration prior to filing a lawsuit and Petitioner
violated the agreement by filing a complaint. (Demand, pp. 1.) However, this
Court found that Petitioner presented sufficient evidence that the dispute was
submitted to arbitration to the American Arbitration Association, Construction
Arbitration Tribunal. (Min. Order 9/20/23.)
 
Nevertheless, this Court continued this matter because the Petitioner did
not provide proof that the arbitrator served a copy of the award on each party
in compliance with CCP, Section 1283.6. (Id.) Petitioner was ordered to
file supplemental papers including proof of service that the arbitrator served
the award on both parties in compliance with CCP, Section 1283.6. (Id.) The
Court indicated that failure to file the supplemental papers as discussed
within the order could result in the Petition being taken off calendar or
denied. Petitioner has not filed any supplemental papers including the Form
LAADR-014 completed by the arbitrator indicating that the arbitration award and
proof of service on the parties was filed with the clerk of court to cure the
defect of the instant petition. 
 
II. Conclusion

            
Accordingly, Petitioner All Premium Contractors, Inc.’s
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award is DENIED. 
 Moving Party to give notice.