 Case Number:  21STCV21301    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion to Quash Service of Summons
Mural Media, LLC 401K Plan vs. Linda J. Maultsby, et al.,
23STCV21301
Moving Party: Defendant Linda J. Maultsby

Responding Party: Plaintiff
Mural Media, LLC 401K Plan

Background
            This is an
unlawful detainer action filed by Plaintiff Mural Media, LLC 401K Plan
(Plaintiff).  Defendant Linda J. Maultsby
(Defendant) filed this motion to quash service of summons pursuant to CCP
§418.10 claiming that she was improperly served by mailing and posting.  She claims to have found a copy of the
summons and complaint outside her door on September 9, 2023.  (Maultsby Decl., ¶ 2.)  She filed this motion on September 14, 2023. 
As Plaintiff discusses in its
Opposition, on September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of
summons indicating that Defendant was served on September 10, 2023, at her
residence via substituted service.  The
proof of service indicates that the process server made three attempts to
personally serve Defendant at her residence, and on the third attempt, served an
African American woman over 18 who answered the door to Defendant’s residence.  Afterwards, the process server mailed copies
of the documents by first-class to Defendant’s residence on September 14, 2023.
Defendant claims in her reply that
no one matching the description of the woman served by substitute service lives
at her address, and that she is the only female member of her household and was
not home on the date and time of substituted service.  (Maultsby Reply Decl., ¶ 5.)  Notably, Defendant’s reply does not state
anywhere that she did receive service in the manner described in Plaintiff’s
proof of service, only that the process server did not hand a copy of the
summons and complaint to a competent member of her household.  (Reply, 4:21-22.)
Analysis
            CCP §
415.20(b) states as follows:
“If a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90,
a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the
person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter
mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on
the 10th day after the mailing.”
Further, courts have held that substitute service, as
described above, is allowed after 2 or 3 attempts at personal service.  (Kremerman v. White (2021) 71
Cal.App.5th 358, 373.)
            The proof
of service filed by Plaintiff indicates that Defendant was served via
substitute service on the third attempt at personal service.  This is a reasonable number of attempts by
which to serve Defendant.  Additionally,
a proof of service is prima facie evidence of the completion of service
on Defendant.  (Evidence Code § 647 (“The
return of a process server registered pursuant to Chapter 16 [commencing with
Section 22350] of Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code upon process
or notice establishes a presumption, affecting the burden of producing
evidence, of the facts stated in the return”).)
            The only
evidence that Defendant provides to rebut this presumption is her assertion in
her Reply declaration that no person like the one described in the proof of
service resides with her.  (Maultsby
Reply Decl., ¶ 5.)  Defendant has not
sufficiently rebutted the presumption of the facts contained in the proof of
service.
            The Court
denies Defendant’s motion to quash service of summons
Order
            Defendant’s
motion to quash service of summons is DENIED.
            Defendant
shall file a responsive pleading within 5 days of service upon her of notice of
this Order.