 Case Number:  24STCV04316    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  34 Joshua  Dewey Stockton v. Los Angeles County (24STCV04316)   Defendant Los  Angeles County’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED.  The court will hear from the parties whether  leave to amend is warranted.   Background               On February  21, 2024, Plaintiff Joshua Dewey Stockton (“Plaintiff”), in propria persona, filed  an action against Defendant Los Angeles County (“Defendant” or “County”).  Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on  March 4, 2024.  Subsequently, following  stipulation by the parties, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)  on May 3, 2024, which is the operative pleading in this action.  Plaintiff’s complaint arises from criminal  proceedings brought against him in Los Angeles County and allegations that he  sustained damages as a result of these proceedings.               On June 21,  2024, Defendant County filed a Demurrer to the Complaint.  On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition to the Demurrer, erroneously titled as Motion to Quash Opposition to  Defendant’s Demurrer.  Plaintiff filed  another Opposition to Demurrer on August 26, 2024.  On August 27, 2024, Defendant filed a Reply.               On July 1,  August 1, and August 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the following Motions:   (1)              Motion to Quash Opposition to Demurrer (as an  Opposition to Defendant’s Demurrer); (2)              Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint; (3)              Motion to Strike Second Amended Complaint; (4)              Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint, filed on July 1,  2024; (5)              Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint, filed on August 1,  2024; (6)              Motion for Sanctions; (7)              Motion to Compel Discovery; (8)              Motion for Mandatory Settlement Conference.   On August 21, 2024, Defendant filed  oppositions to Plaintiff’s Motions.  On  the same day, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Quash Defendant’s Oppositions.   On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed  several redundant “oppositions” to Defendant’s oppositions and replies.   Demurrer   A.                Legal  Standard   A demurrer is a pleading that may  be used to test the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in the  complaint.  (Code of Civ. Proc., §  430.10.)  There are two types of demurrers – general demurrers and special  demurrers.  (See McKenney  v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 72, 77.)   General demurrers can be used to  attack pleadings for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action or for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); McKenney, 167 Cal.App.4th at 77.)  Such  demurrers can be used only to challenge  defects that appear on the face of the pleading or from matters outside the  pleading that are judicially noticeable; evidence or extrinsic matters are not  considered.  (Code of Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30,  430.70; Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian  v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  For the purpose of testing the  sufficiency of the cause of action, the Court admits “all material facts  properly pleaded” and “matters which may be judicially noticed,” but does not  consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  [Citation].”  (Blank, 39 Cal.3d at  318.)  It gives these facts “a reasonable  interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.”  (Ibid.)  At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only  allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis  for the claim against him.  (Semole v.  Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.)   The face of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the  complaint.  (Frantz v. Blackwell  (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.)  "If  facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those alleged, the facts in the  exhibits take precedence."  (Holland  v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)   Special demurrers can be used to  attack the pleadings on grounds that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, and  unintelligible, or in a contract case, for failure to allege whether a contract  is oral or written.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  430.10, subd. (f).)  A demurrer for  uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading is so unclear that the  responding party cannot reasonably determine what issues to admit or deny or  what counts and claims are directed toward the responding party.  (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best  Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.)   Moreover, Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the  demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party  who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of  determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the  objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a).)  The parties are to meet and confer  at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a)(2).)  Thereafter, the demurring party  shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)   When a demurrer  is sustained, the court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility  that the defect can be cured by amendment.   (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set  of facts upon which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the  plaintiff an opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be  deprived of his right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings  were defective for lack of particulars.”   (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892, 900.)  Generally, the court will allow leave to  amend on at least the first try, unless there is absolutely no possibility of  overcoming the issue.  (See Angie  M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227 ("Denial of  leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on  its face it is incapable of amendment.   [Citation.]  Liberality in  permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect  has not been given.").)   B.                Meet and Confer   The court finds  Counsel Megan Lieber’s Declaration detailing her attempts to meet and confer  with Plaintiff regarding the instant Demurrer sufficient to satisfy the meet  and confer requirement.  (See Lieber  Decl.)   C.               Request for Judicial Notice   Defendant’s  Request for Judicial Notice of the following matters is GRANTED:   1.                Exhibit A - Los Angeles County Superior Court,  Case No. BA482518 Minute Order dated November 15, 2019; 2.                Exhibit B - Los Angeles County Superior Court,  Case No. BA482518 Minute Order dated August 11, 2021; 3.                Exhibit C - Certified Transcript of Preliminary  Hearing in Case No. BA482518 on August 11, 2021; 4.                Exhibit D - Claim for Damages to Person or  Property submitted by Plaintiff to County on August 23, 2023.   D.               Analysis   a.                 Motion               Defendant demurs to the Second Amended Complaint on the  following grounds:               First, Plaintiff’s claim for malicious prosecution is  barred because the County is immune from liability where the individual  government employees would be immune from liability, pursuant to Government  Code sections 815.2, subdivision (b).   (Mot. pp. 5-6.)  Given that any  individual County employee, including a prosecutor, would be immune from  liability caused by “instituting or prosecuting any judicial or administrative  proceedings within the scope of employment,” the County is also immune from  liability for claims alleging malicious prosecution and abuse of process.  (Ibid.; Gov. Code § 821.6.)  Defendant also argues that despite this  immunity, the district attorney in the underlying criminal proceedings did not  take any actions without probable cause as the Court determined that there was  sufficient evidence to support the charge and proceed with trial.  (Mot p. 6; RJN – Ex. B at p. 2, Ex. C at p.  39.)               Second, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claims for  violation of the First, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Fourteenth Amendments to the  U.S. Constitution, and claims for discrimination, bodily restraint in violation  of California Civil Code section 43, and deprivation of constitutional rights  in violation of California Civil Code section 52.3, are barred because they  vary from the claims set forth in Plaintiff’s Notice of Claim.  (Mot. pp. 6-8; Gov. Code § 910; RJN at Ex.  D.)  While the claim for malicious  prosecution is presented in Plaintiff’s Government Claim, claims for violations  of the First, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Fourteenth Amendments of the U.S.  Constitution, as well as state law claims for discrimination, bodily restraint,  and deprivation of constitutional rights are not part of the Government  Claim.  (Ibid.)  Thus, all claims but the malicious  prosecution claims should be dismissed with prejudice.  (Ibid.)               Third, Plaintiff’s claims are so vague and ambiguous that  Defendant cannot ascertain what is being alleged against it.  (Mot p. 8.) The SAC contains very few factual  allegations that identify what actions were taken by the County and how  Plaintiff was harmed as a result.  (Ibid.)  Thus, the Court should sustain the Demurrer  on the grounds of uncertainty.  (Ibid.)   b.                Opposition   Plaintiff has filed an  opposition to the Demurrer, erroneously titled Motion to Quash Opposition to  Defendant’s Demurrer.  Plaintiff argues  that Defendant has been thoroughly informed by the Plaintiff of the specific  causes of action and “as a government administration, the defendant, Los  Angeles County, should be construed as superior in legal assessments when  discerning legal claims made against them” and thus, its lack of understanding  of the complaint “is objectionable as an improper impeachment.”  (Oppos. pp. 1-2, 8.)  Moreover, Plaintiff’s reference to the  criminal case is sufficient to make Defendant aware of what matters are at  issue and to foresee the “result from making baseless accusations against the  wrongfully incriminated.”  (Id. at  p. 2.)  According to the doctrine of less  particularly, because Defendant has superior knowledge of the facts, less  particularity in the pleadings is sufficient.   (Id. at pp. 9-10.)   Finally, the exhibits filed by Defendant for Request for Judicial Notice  contradict Defendant’s claim that the SAC is uncertain, ambiguous, or  unintelligible as Defendant is well aware of the circumstances of the criminal  case.  (Id. at p. 15.)   Moreover, Plaintiff argues  that he has properly stated a cause of action for prosecutorial misconduct, as  the SAC states that Defendant County violated state laws by “wrongly initiating  and wrongfully maintaining that prosecution against Plaintiff Joshua Dewey  Stockton.”  (Oppos. p. 4; SAC p. 8.)  Moreover, Defendant has plead sufficient  facts for a malicious prosecution cause of action, as the SAC states that  “damages to be remedied by this civil action began to accrue on November 14,  2019 and continued to accrue up to January 5, 2023 from the prosecution of  plaintiff Joshua Stockton by defendant Los Angeles County in case  BA482518.”  (Oppos. p. 5; SAC p. 11.)  Plaintiff argues that Defendant is not immune  from liability because a public entity is liable for tortious acts committed by  independent contractors in the employment of the public entity, pursuant to  Government Code section 815.4.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff also argues that he has pled  sufficient facts to constitute causes of action for defamation, intentional  infliction of emotional distress, conspiracy, harassment, discrimination,  excessive force, abuse of power, and assault and battery.  (Oppos. pp. 6-7.)     Plaintiff also argues  that governmental immunity is not grounds for a demurrer pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure section 430.10.  (Oppos.  pp. 9-11.)  Moreover, the prosecutor in  the instant case violated Rule 5-110 Special Responsibilities of a Prosecutor  and the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Legal Policies Manual,  “Disclosure of Exculpatory and Impeachment Information.”  (Id. at pp. 12-13.)   Plaintiff also argues  that the SAC does not fail due to uncertainty because it clearly states that  the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office and the Los Angeles County  Law Enforcement used special computer equipment and software to falsify, fabricate,  and modify evidence.  (Oppos. p. 13; SAC  pp. 13-15.)   c.                 Reply               In its Reply, Defendant argues that immunity is a proper  ground for a demurrer on the basis that Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10  permits a demurrer for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action.  (Reply p. 1.)  Here, any claims for malicious prosecution  and abuse of process against County are barred as a result of the immunity  provided by Government Code section 821.6.   (Id. at pp. 2-3.)  Other  than stating that immunity is not properly raised in a demurrer, Plaintiff  offers no explanation of why Defendant is not immune from its claims.  (Id. at p. 3.)  Given that the SAC explicitly states that  Plaintiff is seeking damages caused by Defendant in prosecution of Plaintiff,  these claims are precisely the types of claims that section 821.6  addresses.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff also argues that Defendant is  liable for the actions of the Los Angeles Police Department; however, the Los  Angeles Police Department operates under the City of Los Angeles and Plaintiff  cites no legal basis for his statement.   (Ibid.)               Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s additional causes  of action, including prosecutorial misconduct, defamation, intentional  infliction of emotional distress, conspiracy, harassment, discrimination,  excessive force, abuse of power, assault, and battery, are derivative of the  malicious prosecution claim and are also barred by immunity.  (Reply p. 4.)   Defendant notes that it does not find that these claims are properly pled  in the SAC.  (Ibid.)   d.                Analysis               Having reviewed the SAC, Demurrer, Opposition, and Reply,  the Court makes the following findings.               Under California Rule of Court, Rule  2.112: “Each separately stated cause of action, count, or defense must  specifically state: (1) [i]ts number…(2) [i]ts nature.”  Moreover, Code of Civil Procedure section  425.10, subdivision (a)(1), states that a complaint “shall” contain a  “statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and  concise language.”  Although a court,  “must look to the allegations in the body of the complaint to determine whether  a set of alleged facts constitutes a cause of action,” there must be some  indication of what cause of action and elements are being pleaded.  (People ex rel. Feuer v. Superior Court (Cahuenga’s the Spot) (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1376.)   A demurrer for  uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading is so unclear that the  responding party cannot reasonably determine what issues to admit or deny or  what counts and claims are directed toward the responding party.  (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best  Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.)  However, “[a]s the leading practical treatise  advises, failure to comply with rule 2.112 presumably renders a complaint  subject to a motion to strike (Code of Civ. Proc., § 436), or a special demurrer  for uncertainty.”  (Grappo v. McMills  (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 996, 1014 (citing Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide:  CPBT (Rutter Group 2016), ¶6:113).  Similarly,  a pleading is subject to a demurrer for uncertainty, when it is unintelligible  by “attempt[ing] to state numerous causes of action in a very loose and  rambling manner without any attempt at separately stating them.”  (Craig v. City of Los Angeles¿(1941) 44  Cal.App.2d 71, 73.)   Here, the SAC  does not clearly set forth each separately stated cause of action and  allegations in support of these claims.  Instead,  Plaintiff cites to numerous state and federal laws along with factual  statements scattered throughout the SAC without any systematic organization.  Given that the Court cannot discern what  specific causes of action are being asserted against Defendant and the fact  that Defendant itself is making assumptions regarding the pleadings, the Court  finds that the pleadings are uncertain.   Accordingly,  the Court sustains Defendant’s Demurrer as to the entire Second Amended  Complaint with 20 days leave to amend.The Court rules
as follows as to the motions filed by Plaintiff Joshua Dewey Stockton:

 

(1)            
Motion to Quash Opposition to Demurrer (as an
Opposition to Defendant’s Demurrer) is PLACED OFF CALENDAR.

(2)            
Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint is
PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.

(3)            
Motion to Strike Second Amended Complaint is
PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.

(4)            
Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint is PLACED
OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.

(5)            
Second Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint is
PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.

(6)            
Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.

(7)            
Motion to Compel Discovery is DENIED;

(8)            
Motion for Mandatory Settlement Conference is
DENIED without prejudice.

 

Background

 

            On February
21, 2024, Plaintiff Joshua Dewey Stockton (“Plaintiff”), in propria persona, filed
an action against Defendant Los Angeles County (“Defendant” or “County”).  Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
on March 4, 2024.  Subsequently,
following stipulation by the parties, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) on May 3, 2024, which is the operative pleading in this
action.  Plaintiff’s complaint arises
from criminal proceedings brought against him in Los Angeles County and
allegations that he sustained damages as a result of these proceedings.

 

            On June 21,
2024, Defendant County filed a Demurrer to the Complaint.  On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the Demurrer, erroneously titled as Motion to Quash Opposition to
Defendant’s Demurrer.  Plaintiff filed
another Opposition to Demurrer on August 26, 2024.  On August 27, 2024, Defendant filed a Reply.

 

            On July 1,
August 1, and August 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the following Motions:

 

(1)            
Motion to Quash Opposition to Demurrer (as an
Opposition to Defendant’s Demurrer);

(2)            
Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint;

(3)            
Motion to Strike Second Amended Complaint;

(4)            
Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint, filed on July 1,
2024;

(5)            
Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint, filed on August 1,
2024;

(6)            
Motion for Sanctions;

(7)            
Motion to Compel Discovery;

(8)            
Motion for Mandatory Settlement Conference.

 

On August 21, 2024, Defendant filed
oppositions to Plaintiff’s Motions.  On
the same day, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Quash Defendant’s Oppositions.

 

On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed
several redundant “oppositions” to Defendant’s oppositions and replies.

 

Motion to Quash Opposition
to Demurrer

 

            On
July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Demurrer, erroneously titled
Motion to Quash Opposition to Defendant’s Demurrer.  This is not an independent motion, but rather
a responsive brief, and the Court addressed this brief in its ruling on the
Demurrer.

 

Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Opposition to Demurrer is placed off calendar.

 

Motions to Strike First Amended
Complaint and Second Amended Complaint

 

            Plaintiff
moves to strike the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), filed on March 4, 2024,
and Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), filed on May 3, 2024.

 

            In
opposition, Defendant argues that a motion to strike is not permitted in
response to the party’s own pleading and there is no purpose or value in
striking prior complaints.

 

            First,
there is no need to strike the FAC as a SAC was filed on May 3, 2024, following
stipulation of the parties.  Second, the
Court has sustained Defendant’s Demurrer to the SAC.  Plaintiff does not present any legal basis or
explanation that would warrant striking the FAC or SAC.

 

            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motions to Strike the First and Second Amended Complaints are
placed off calendar as moot.

 

Motions for Leave to Amend
Complaint

 

            Plaintiff
has filed two motions for leave to amend the complaint, on July 1 and on August
1, 2024.  Given that the Court has
sustained Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint and will hearing
from the parties at the demurrer hearing whether leave to amend should be
granted, Plaintiff’s motions are rendered MOOT and placed off calendar.

 

Motion for Sanctions

 

            Plaintiff
seeks sanctions against Defendant for the arguments presented in the
Demurrer.  Specifically, Plaintiff argues
that it is entitled to sanctions as a result of Defendant’s improper use of a
demurrer to assert immunity to Plaintiff’s claims.

 

            In
opposition, Defendant argues that sanctions are not warranted as Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10 permits a demurrer for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
A defense, such as governmental immunity, may be raised to show that the
facts are insufficient to constitute a cause of action.  Defendant also argues that Plaintiff is not
entitled to reimbursement of costs for preparing the motion as he is a
self-represented party and has not provided any proof of costs incurred.

 

            The court
finds that Plaintiff has not presented any legal basis for seeking sanctions
against a party on the ground that the party asserted certain arguments in a
demurrer.  Moreover, a government entity may
present the defense of immunity to show that the allegations in the complaint
are insufficient to constitute a cause of action, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).

 

            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.

 

Motion to Compel Discovery

 

            Plaintiff
moves for a court order compelling Defendant to produce the following
documents: court records and transcripts from cases BA433307, BA433875, and
BA482518, dated May 8, 2019 to August 19, 2022.

 

            Defendant
opposes the Motion on the grounds that Plaintiff never submitted a formal
request to the County for these records, thus, the Motion is premature and
procedurally inappropriate.  Moreover,
the requested records are available to the public and it would be equally
burdensome for County to obtain these records. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Motion constitutes misuse of the
discovery process and County will be compelled to pursue sanctions for any
further misuse of the discovery process.

 

            The
court finds that Plaintiff has not presented any legal authority for the relief
it seeks or shown that it has attempted to propound this discovery request on
Defendant prior to filing the instant Motion.

 

            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Discovery is DENIED.

 

Motion for Mandatory
Settlement Conference

 

            Plaintiff
moves for a mandatory settlement conference pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1380, subdivision (a). 
Plaintiff states that he does not wish to waste the Court’s time and
resources with a lengthy trial and instead, hopes to resolve the matter through
a settlement conference.

 

            In
opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s request is grossly premature as
the pleadings have not been finalized, a demurrer is set for hearing, and the
parties have not conducted any discovery. 
Defendant argues that Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rule 3.245 states
that a mandatory settlement conference “shall be scheduled a sufficient time
after the exchange of appraisals to allow the parties to conduct expert
depositions and engage in settlement discussions.”  The parties cannot engage in good faith
settlement discussions and address the issues in dispute at this stage in the
proceedings.

 

            Given
that the court has sustained Defendant’s Demurrer to the SAC and no discovery
has taken place, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s Motion is premature.

 

            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Mandatory Settlement Conference is DENIED without
prejudice.