  Case Number:  20STCV46551    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  34 Spaciot, LLC, et al. v. Duc Pham, et al. (20STCV46551)
 
The Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel brought by Hatch Law PC, counsel for Defendant Duc Pham,
Vincent Pham, Verona Street Holdings, LLC, is DENIED without prejudice. The
court will inquire at the hearing whether there are additional facts in support
of the Motion. If the court is satisfied, the Motion will be granted, effective upon the filing of a proof of service showing
service of the signed order via email upon Clients.
 
Background    
 
Plaintiff Spaciot, LLC and Alessandro Paciotti ( “Spaciot,” “Paciotti”
and collectively as “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows: 
 
In or about
November 2018, Plaintiffs entered a verbal agreement with Defendant Daniel
Hinman (“Hinman”). Pursuant to that verbal agreement, Defendant Hinman was to
identify a suitable (in terms of location, amenities, space, etc.) existing
restaurant venue for sale, for Plaintiffs to purchase, and for which Defendant
Hinman would be paid a fee of at least $5,000 (The Consulting Fee). Plaintiffs
paid Defendant Hinman Defendant paid at least that amount in three checks, on
11/20/2018, 03/15/2019, and 03/20/2019. In addition to the Consulting Fee,
Plaintiffs also promised that Plaintiff would, (and eventually) did, hire Defendant
Hinman to renovate whatever space Plaintiffs acquired to Plaintiffs’ design,
and would be paid a separate fee therefore. 
 
Pursuant to
the terms of the verbal agreement, in November 2018, Defendant Hinman identified
a property located at 4019 West Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90029
(the “Property”), where there was an existing restaurant business for sale. Defendant
Hinman  identified the Property after
seeing advertisements from Defendants Duc Pham (“D. Pham”), Vincent Pham (“V.
Pham”), Atlas Real Estate Group (“Atlas”), Ali Mourad (“Mourad”), and Roger
Merians (“Merians” and collectively “Broker and Seller Defendants”). 
 
Prior to
November 13, 2018, Broker and Seller Defendants provided Plaintiff Paciotti,
who was not experienced in real estate or hospitality, and is of foreign
origins, with a marketing brochure, which was the basis for the Lease for the
Property, that advertised the Property available for purchase as a two-level
restaurant space available for purchase (“Marketing Materials”). 
 
Prior, and
leading up, to November 13, 2018, Defendants Atlas, Mourad and Merians negotiated
the sale and purchase of Defendants D. Pham and V. Pham’s business, Defendant
Barry Mason’s (“Mason”) Lease, and the use of the Property (“Purchase”), on
behalf of BOTH Plaintiffs and Defendants D. Pham and V. Pham, at a price about
Three (3) times the actual value for the Property, of approximately Three
Hundred Thousand dollars ($300,000) (“Sale Price”)(“Purchase Agreement”). 
 
At no time
did Defendants Atlas, Mourad and Merians have Plaintiff Paciotti sign a waiver
of dual representation as is customary in the industry and often required by
law, when representing BOTH Plaintiffs and Defendants D. Pham and V. Pham, and
either did not do any diligence to confirm if the Property was fully permitted
for use as a “two-story restaurant space”, as represented in the Marketing
Materials, and/or trusted the representations of Defendants D. Pham, V. Pham
and Mason when they made and utilized the Marketing Materials which Plaintiffs
relied on, including the Lease drafted solely by Defendant Mason, when making
the Purchase. 
 
At all
times prior to November 13, 2018, and at all times prior and after, all Defendants
knew, or should have known, that the Property was not permitted as a restaurant
space for the “lower level restaurant space,” as it had never been permitted to
allow restaurant service in the lower level space. All Defendants, despite
knowing that the lower level space was not permitted for a “restaurant space”,
actively misrepresented to Plaintiffs in writing, in the Lease, and Marketing
Materials, as well as orally in all discussions relating to the Property and
Lease, that the entirety of the Property, of which One-Third (1/3) of the
Property is upstairs, and Two-Thirds (2/3) of the Property is downstairs, was
usable for restaurant purposes, when the lower level space was never permitted
or usable as a “restaurant space.” 
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Third Amended Complaint,
asserting causes of action against Defendants D. Pham, V. Pham, Verona Street
Holdings, LLC, Barry Mason Enterprises, LP, Atlas, Mourad, Merians, Hinman,
Eddie Navarrette and Does 1-25 for:
 
1.              
Breach of Contract; 
2.              
Negligent Misrepresentation; 
3.              
Intentional Misrepresentation; and,
4.              
Breach of Fiduciary Duty.  
 
A Final Status Conference is scheduled for November 22, 2024
and Trial is scheduled for December 9, 2024.
 
Discussion
 
Hatch Law PC
(“Firm”) seeks to be relieved as counsel of record Defendants D. Pham,
V. Pham and Verona Street Holdings, LLC (“Clients”).
 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of 
justice. (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
 
California
Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on the Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
 
Attorney Ryan Hatch (“Hatch”) represents the following:
 
I am an attorney of record
for Duc Pham, Vincent Pham and Verona Street Holdings, LLC (the "Pham
Defendants"). On or around 5/I/24, I notified Duc Pham that I was unable
to continue to represent him and Verona Street Holdings, LLC, and identified
new counsel who was willing to substitute as their attorney. On 5/9, a call was
held between myself, new counsel, and Duc Pham to discuss the transition. On
5/20, I emailed Vincent Pham notifying him that new counsel had been identified
and that new counsel would like authorization to represent him as well. I held
a call with Vincent Pham on or around the same time to discuss the transition
to new counsel and notified him that I was not able to continue to represent
him in this action. New counsel then sent the Pham Defendants a proposed
engagement agreement, but to date, they have not executed it. 
 
The court
determines that the requirements of Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 enumerated above
have not been sufficiently met. There is no information that any breakdown in
communications exists between the Firm and Clients. To the extent it has, those
facts should be disclosed at the time of hearing.  
 
Accordingly, the motion is Denied without prejudice subject
to additional information being considered by the court.  