 Case Number:  23STCV28701    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Michele Rene Davis,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCV28701




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
General Motors LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: August
6, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
A. Leiter
Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint & Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendant General
Motors, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff Michele
Rene Davis
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT.
 
PLAINTIFF TO FILE AND SERVE A SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN
20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
            DEFENDANT
TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit
on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
            
This
is a lemon law action arising out of Plaintiff Michele Rene Davis’s purchase of
a 2019 Chevrolet Camaro manufactured and distributed by Defendant General Motors Inc. Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint on March 21, 2024, asserting causes of action
for: (1) violation of subdivision (d) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (2) violation of
subdivision (b) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (3) violation of subdivision (a)(3) of
Civil Code § 1793.2; (4) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability; (5)
violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act; and (6) fraudulent
inducement-concealment.
 
Defendant
demurs to the sixth cause of action and moves to strike the claim for punitive
damages.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a
complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action
in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High
Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat as true the complaint's
material factual allegations, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendant argues that the sixth cause of action is time-barred and has
not been pleaded with the requisite specificity.
 
A.  
Whether the Sixth
Cause of Action is Time-Barred
 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 338(d), a fraud cause of action is “not deemed to have
accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting
the fraud or mistake.”
 
            The sixth cause of action is not
time-barred. The FAC alleges that the transmission defect underlying the fraud
claim manifested itself during the applicable warranty period. (FAC ¶ 11.) The
vehicle was “equipped with GM's defective 8-speed transmission” at the time of
purchase. (Id. at ¶ 72.) Plaintiff’s fraud claim is alleged to have
accrued on the date of purchase. Plaintiff was obligated to assert her fraud
claim by November 14, 2024; the complaint was not filed until November 22,
2024. 
 
But the FAC
pleads sufficient facts to toll the claim pursuant to the delayed discovery
rule. 
 
To rely on the
delayed discovery rule, a plaintiff “must specifically plead facts to show (1)
the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier
discovery despite reasonable diligence,” and “conclusory allegations will not
withstand demurrer.”  (Fox v. Ethicon
Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808.) 
 
The FAC alleges that
Plaintiff presented the vehicle to an authorized repair facility on several
occasions concerning the transmission, and after each visit Plaintiff was told the
vehicle had been repaired. (FAC at ¶¶ 24-28.) The FAC also alleges that
Plaintiff did not discover the transmission defect until shortly before filing
the action. (Id. at ¶ 31.) These allegations are sufficient to show that
Plaintiff was unable to discover the transmission defect sooner despite
reasonable diligence.  
 
The demurrer is overruled on this ground. 
 
B. Whether the Sixth Cause of Action has been Alleged
with the Requisite Specificity.
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) California law recognizes four circumstances in which a
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: “(1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.”  (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal. App.
3d 646, 651.)  
 
Generally, “[i]n
California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations
do not suffice.” (Alfaro v. Community
Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384, internal quotations omitted.) Fraudulent concealment
need not be pled with the same degree of specificity, as “it appears from the
nature of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full
information concerning the facts of the controversy,” and it is necessarily
difficult to specifically plead something that did not occur. (Id.) However, some level of specificity
is required. (See Blickman Turkus, LP v.
MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 878 [“Concealment is
a species of fraud, and ‘[f]raud must be pleaded with specificity.’”])
 
            Defendant argues that
Plaintiff failed to allege that Defendant concealed a material fact and that there
was a duty to disclose any such facts. The Court agrees. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant failed to disclose the engine defects to consumers, as evidenced by materials
such as technical service bulletins and customer complaints, as well as pre-production
and post-production testing data. This
is insufficiently specific to establish concealment.
            
            The FAC also fails to sufficiently
allege a transactional relationship between the parties. A duty to disclose pursuant to the four circumstances listed
above “presuppose[ ] the existence of some other relationship
between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337.) The California Supreme Court “has described the necessary
relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose as a ‘transaction’ between the
plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los
Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve
fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where
plaintiffs “were not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim
defrauded them”]; LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337 [“such a
relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction
between the parties”].) 
 
            Plaintiff’s reliance on Dhital v.
Nissan North America (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 is not persuasive. The plaintiffs in Dhital sued Nissan
for Song-Beverly violations. They alleged the transmission was faulty and
unreliable, and that it placed them at risk though they did not allege they had
been injured. The pleading included a claim for fraudulent inducement, alleging
that Nissan concealed defects it had a duty to disclose in order to induce the
purchase. The trial court sustained Nissan’s demurrer to the fraudulent
inducement cause of action as barred by the economic loss doctrine. In
reversing, the Court of Appeal stated: 
 
“[a]t the pleading stage (and in
the absence of a more developed argument by Nissan on this point), we conclude
Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient. Plaintiff alleged that they bought the
car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express
warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes
of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these allegations, we
decline to hold Plaintiff’s claim is barred on the ground there was no
relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects.”
 
(Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at pp. 727-729.)
 
Unlike the defendant in Dhital, Defendant here has shown why an
agency relationship cannot be presumed. “[A] dealer or retailer may in a
layman's view be an agent of the [manufacturer], but he is not an agent in the
legal sense of that relationship.” (Avalon Painting Co. v. Alert Lumber Co.
(1965) 234 Cal.App.2d 178, 184; see also Herremans v. BMW of N. Am., LLC,
No. (C.D.Cal. 2014) 2014 WL 5017843, at *6 [“[t]he relationship between
automobile manufacturers and their dealers has been examined by a host of
courts throughout the country, all of which have agreed that dealers are not
‘agents’ of manufacturers.”].) The FAC does not allege that Defendant’s
authorized dealerships are its agents. Absent a transactional relationship,
the FAC fails to allege the existence of a duty.
 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend. The motion to strike is MOOT. 


 