  Case Number:  23STCV20938    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer to Complaint 
 
Moving Party: Defendant
General Motors LLC
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Juana Silva
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from
Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendant
General Motors LLC
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Juana Silva
 
        
The Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff Juana Silva filed her
Complaint against Defendant General Motors LLC on causes of action arising from
issues Plaintiff had with her vehicle. 
 
On November 9, 2023, Defendant filed its Demurrer to
Complaint and Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from Complaint. In support of
these filings, Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Ryan Kay; and
(2) Proposed Order (one for the Demurrer and one for the Motion to Strike). 
 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Oppositions to
the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike. 
 
On December 8, 2023, Defendant filed its Replies
regarding the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Demurrer
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).)
 
“A demurrer to a
complaint or cross-complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or
cross-complaint or to any of the causes of action stated therein.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).)
 
“In reviewing the sufficiency
of a complaint against a general demurrer, we are guided by long-settled rules.
We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed. Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation,
reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318, citations and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the third and fourth causes of action in the
Complaint. 
 
1.      Third
Cause of Action — Fraudulent Concealment
 
a.     Legal Standard
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
The elements of a cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing
material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of
the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to
whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v.
Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.)
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Super. Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
To properly allege fraud against a corporation,
the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
b.     Discussion

 
        Defendant demurs to the third cause of
action for fraudulent concealment, arguing: (1) that the three-year statute of
limitations bars Plaintiff’s fraud claims; (2) that the third cause of action
fails because Plaintiff does not plead fraud with required specificity; (3)
that the third cause of action fails because Plaintiff does not allege a
transactional relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant giving rise to a
duty to disclose; and (4) that omissions and concealment causes of action
cannot be based upon non-actionable puffery. (Demurrer, pp. 9:11–12, 10:7–8,
11:1–3, 20:10–11.)
 
        The Court disagrees with Defendant’s
arguments. 
 
“The limitations
period for fraud is three years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd.
(c).) The limitations period for breach of fiduciary duty is at most
four years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 343.) The limitations period for unfair
and unlawful business practices is four years. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17208.)”
(Vaca v. Wachovia Mortgage Corp. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 737, 744, fn.
4.)
 
“The
statute of limitations usually commences when a cause of action accrues, and it
is generally said that an action accrues on the date of injury. Alternatively,
it is often stated that the statute commences upon the occurrence of the last
element essential to the cause of action. These general principles have been
significantly modified by the common law ‘discovery rule,’ which provides that
the accrual date may be delayed until the plaintiff is aware of her injury and
its negligent cause.” (Bernson v.
Browning-Ferris Indus. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 926, 931 [cleaned up].)
 
“A close cousin of the discovery rule is the well accepted
principle of fraudulent concealment. It has long been established that the
defendant's fraud in concealing a cause of action against him tolls the
applicable statute of limitations, but only for that period during which the
claim is undiscovered by plaintiff or until such time as plaintiff, by the
exercise of reasonable diligence, should have discovered it. Like the discovery
rule, the rule of fraudulent concealment is an equitable principle designed to
effect substantial justice between the parties; its rationale is that the
culpable defendant should be estopped from profiting by his own wrong to the
extent that it hindered an otherwise diligent plaintiff in discovering his
cause of action.” (Bernson, supra, at p. 931 [cleaned up].)

 
“While ignorance of the existence of an injury or cause of
action may delay the running of the statute of limitations until the date of
discovery, the general rule in California has been that ignorance of the
identity of the defendant is not essential to a claim and therefore will not
toll the statute. As we have observed, the statute of limitations begins to run
when the plaintiff suspects or should suspect that her injury was caused by
wrongdoing, that someone has done something wrong to her. Aggrieved parties generally
need not know the exact manner in which their injuries were effected, nor the
identities of all parties who may have played a role therein.” (Bernson,
supra, at p. 932 [cleaned up].)
 
        Among other things,
Plaintiff alleges: (1) that Plaintiff purchased a 2018 Chevrolet Silverado on
March 5, 2018; (2) that Defendant knew about the problems with the vehicle; (3)
that Defendant concealed the problems and refused to resolve them; (4) that
Defendant knowingly concealed this information from Plaintiff at the time of
purchase and throughout the repair efforts; (5) that Defendant promised
Plaintiff that the vehicle would conform to the applicable warranties when
Defendants knew the vehicle’s defect could not be repaired; (6) that
Plaintiff’s relied on Defendant and thought Defendant was being fully
transparent; (7) that Plaintiff has only recently learned of the intentional
concealment of the information; and (6) that Plaintiff has suffered damages as
a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ misrepresentations and concealment
of material facts. (Complaint, ¶¶ 5, 133–137.)
 
        These allegations are
sufficient to allege each of the elements of a cause of action for fraudulent
concealment. They do not constitute non-actionable puffery, and they do meet
the heightened pleading requirements for a cause of action of fraud. Further,
given that the Court must assume the truth of all allegations in a complaint
when considering a demurrer, Plaintiff’s allegations in her Complaint
sufficiently withstand demur on ground of statute of limitations due to tolling
from the discovery rule and the principle of fraudulent concealment. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the
Demurrer to the third cause of action for fraudulent concealment. 
 
2.         
Fourth
Cause of Action — Consumer Legal Remedies Act
 
a.     Legal Standard
 
The Consumer
Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) prohibits certain unfair methods of competition and
unfair or deceptive acts or practices undertaken by any person in a transaction
intended to result or that results in the sale or lease of goods or services to
any consumer. (Civ. Code, § 1770.)
 
Among these
prohibited acts are:
 
(1)       Representing that goods or services are of a particular standard, quality, or
grade, or that goods are of a particular style or model, if they are of
another.
 
(2)            
Representing that the
subject of a transaction has been supplied in accordance with a previous
representation when it has not.
 
(3)            
Inserting an
unconscionable provision in the contract. 
 
(Civ. Code, § 1770, subds. (a)(7), (a)(16),
(a)(19).)
 
“Any consumer who
suffers any damage as a result of the use or employment by any person of a
method, act, or practice declared to be unlawful by Section 1770 may bring an
action against that person . . . .” (Civ. Code, § 1780, subd. (a).)
 
b.     Discussion

 
        Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of
action for violations of the CLRA, arguing: (1) that Plaintiff did not provide
adequate notice to properly plead a CLRA violation; (2) that Plaintiff’s
allegations do not state a viable claim for violation of the CLRA; (3) that
Plaintiff’s concealment allegations are insufficient as a matter of law; (4)
that Plaintiff’s CLRA claim fails because Plaintiff did not plead fraud with
the required specificity; and (5) that omissions and concealment causes of
action cannot be based upon non-actionable puffery. (Demurrer, pp. 12:23–24,
13:25–26, 15:1–2, 17:1–2, 20:10–11.)
 
        The Court disagrees with Defendant’s
arguments. 
 
        The same allegations discussed above
regarding the third cause of action are sufficient for the fourth cause of
action to withstand demur. That is because those allegations sufficiently plead
the elements of a cause of action for violation of the CLRA, the allegations do
not constitute non-actionable puffery, and, to the extent necessary, they meet
the heightened pleading standard for fraud. 
 
        The “notice” requirement requires
additional consideration.  
 
“Thirty days or more prior to the
commencement of an action for damages pursuant to this title, the consumer
shall do the following: 
 
“(1) Notify the person alleged to have employed or
committed methods, acts, or practices declared unlawful by Section 1770 of the
particular alleged violations of Section 1770. 
 
“(2) Demand that the person correct, repair, replace,
or otherwise rectify the goods or services alleged to be in violation of
Section 1770.
 
“The notice shall be in writing and shall
be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the place
where the transaction occurred or to the person’s principal place of business
within California.” (Civ. Code, § 1782, subd. (a).)
 
“Except as
provided in subdivision (c), no action for damages may be maintained under
Section 1780 if an appropriate correction, repair, replacement, or other remedy
is given, or agreed to be given within a reasonable time, to the consumer
within 30 days after receipt of the notice.” (Civ. Code, § 1782, subd. (b).)
 
“An action for
injunctive relief brought under the specific provisions of Section 1770 may be
commenced without compliance with subdivision (a). Not less than 30 days after
the commencement of an action for injunctive relief, and after compliance with
subdivision (a), the consumer may amend his or her complaint without leave of
court to include a request for damages. The appropriate provisions of
subdivision (b) or (c) shall be applicable if the complaint for injunctive
relief is amended to request damages.” (Civ. Code, § 1782, subd. (d).)
 
        Plaintiff argues that the notice
requirement does not apply because Plaintiff only requested injunctive relief,
citing Civil Code section 1782, subdivision (d). (Opposition to Demurrer, p.
15:8.) 
 
        This is accurate. The Complaint
explicitly states: 
 
“Simultaneously with the filing of this
Complaint, Plaintiff notified Defendants of the particular alleged violations
of § 1770 and demanded that it correct, repair, replace, or otherwise rectify
the goods or services alleged to be in violation of § 1770. . . . Although
Plaintiff has suffered damages in the amount of at least $70,909.25, no
damages are sought on Plaintiff’s claim pursuant to the CLRA at the time of the
filing of this Complaint. By operation of law, and without leave of Court,
this Complaint will be amended to state a claim for damages pursuant to Civ.
Code, § 1782(d) upon the expiration of thirty days after the notice is given.”
 
(Complaint, ¶¶
152–153.)
 
        The Complaint was filed on August 30,
2023, and the applicable notice was sent by Plaintiff to Defendant that same
day. More than thirty days have passed since the notice was provided. The Court
does not see any issues with the formatting of the notice or how it was
provided. Thus, Plaintiff may amend the Complaint to request damages in accordance
with the provisions of Civil Code section 1782. In any case, with the notice
requirement met, the fourth cause of action for violation of CLRA withstands
demur. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
fourth cause of action for violation of CLRA. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
II.      
Motion to Strike
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall
not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: 
 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)
 
“The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
“A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must
quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to
strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications
in a notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322(a).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to strike punitive damages from the
Complaint, arguing: (1) that the Court may strike from a pleading any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter; (2) that claims for damages which may
not be imposed may properly be stricken from a pleading; (3) that as a matter
of law Plaintiff may not recover punitive damages based upon the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act; (4) that the Complaint does not state facts sufficient
to support the recovery of punitive damages; and (5) that Plaintiff’s cause of
action for violation of the CLRA does not state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action and therefore cannot support punitive damages. (Motion to
Strike, pp. 3:23–24, 4:3–4, 4:13–14, 4:20–21, 6:4–5.)
 
In its Reply, Defendant reiterates these arguments and broadens them. 
 
The Court disagrees with Defendant’s arguments. 
 
Case law has directly held contrary to Defendant’s arguments in a
situation that appears to be exactly on point. (See Anderson v. Ford Motor
Co. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 946.) As neither Plaintiff’s Counsel nor Defense
Counsel cited Anderson in their filings, the Court encourages the
Counsel for both Parties to read the case. 
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged different conduct that would lead to
violations of fraud and the CLRA than the conduct that would lead to violations
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. (Complaint, ¶¶ 123–131, 133–140,
146–154.) It is possible for Plaintiff to obtain both punitive damages for the
former and civil penalties for the latter so long as the conduct that leads to
the various causes of action are indeed different. (Anderson, supra,
74 Cal.App.5th at p. 973.)
 
At the demurrer stage, Plaintiff is entitled to allege that Defendant
acted in manners that make both civil penalties and punitive damages available.
It will ultimately be Plaintiff’s burden to prove that she is entitled to the
relief she seeks. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
 