  Case Number:  20STCV15419    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
DEFENDANTS/CROSSCOMPLAINANTS SERRANO DEVELOPMENT
GROUP, INC., PACIFIC EMPIRE BUILDERS, INC. AND AZUSA BLOCK 36, LLC’S MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT re: Soller’s Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
(2)  
DEFENDANTS/CROSSCOMPLAINANTS SERRANO DEVELOPMENT
GROUP, INC., PACIFIC EMPIRE BUILDERS, INC. AND AZUSA BLOCK 36, LLC’S MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT re: Pano’s complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Background[1]
 
This is a wrongful death case. 
 
On April 22, 2020, Plaintiff Edgardo Pano, Jr.[2]
filed suit against SERRANO DEVELOPMENT GROUP, INC. (“Serrano”); PACIFIC EMPIRE
BUILDERS, INC. (“Pacific Empire”); AZUSA BLOCK 36, LLC (“Azusa Block”); CITY OF
AZUSA (“the City”); JONELLE SOLLER (“Soller”)[3]
(collectively, “Defendants”) for the death of his father who was struck by a
truck while riding his bicycle. More specifically, Plaintiff alleges that the
width of the roadway where decedent was struck had been reduced by the
placement of concrete barriers to accommodate construction, but that said
barriers were placed without any adequate warnings. 
 
On July
23, 2020, Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint (FAC) asserting the
following causes of action (COAs):
 
1.    
Negligence—Motor Vehicle
2.    
Negligence Per Se
3.    
Negligent Entrustment
4.    
Negligent Hiring, Retention and Supervision
5.    
Negligence—Premises Liability 
6.    
Dangerous Condition of Public Property
 
On October 8, 2020, Plaintiff named Luis Morales (“Luis”) as
Doe 1 and Rios Trucking as Does 2. 
 
On November 4, 2020, Plaintiff named Right Truck, Inc. as
Doe 3.
 
On December 11, 2020, Luis Eduardo Rios Morales Dba Rios
Trucking (“Rios Trucking”) filed a cross-complaint (“CC”) against named
Defendants for indemnity.
 
On January 15, 2021, Serrano, Pacific Empire, and Azusa
Block filed a CC against B.L. PRICE CO., INC (“BL Price”); TED SAKAIDA &
SONS, INC. (“Ted Trucking” or Sakaida); MANUAL D. TEJEDA TRUCKING INC. (“Tejeda
Trucking”); Rios Trucking; and Right Truck Inc. (“Right Trucking”) for:
 
1.    
Breach of Contract
2.    
Express Indemnity
3.    
Equitable Indemnity
4.    
Contribution
5.    
Declaratory Relief
 
On
January 19, 2021, Soller, as a successor in interest to decedent and in her
personal capacity, filed a complaint for wrongful death (21STCV02124) against
Serrano, Pacific Empire, Azusa Block, the City, Rios Trucking, Right Truck, and
Luis. 
 
On March 1, 2021, Ted Trucking filed a CC against Serrano,
Pacific Empire, Azusa Block, the City, and Soller for:
 
1.    
Equitable Indemnity 
2.    
Contribution
3.    
Express Indemnity and
4.    
Declaratory Relief
 
On March 15, 2021, Right Trucking filed a CC against
Serrano, Pacific Empire, Azusa Block, the City, and BL Price for indemnity.
 
On March 17, 2021, BL Price filed a CC against Manual D.
Tejeda Trucking, Inc. (“Tejeda Trucking”) and Rios Trucking (and later on
4/14/21 naming Right Truck for indemnity. 
 
On April 13, 2021, Plaintiff named various doe defendants.
 
On July 22, 2022, Tejeda Trucking filed a CC against Zoes
for indemnity.
 
On March 8, 2022, Serrano, Azusa Block, and Pacific Empire
filed their first amended CC v. BL Price, Ted Trucking, Tejeda Trucking, Rios
Trucking, and Right Truck (which is the subject of Sun Aggregates’ MSJ). 
 
On June 10, 2022, Serrano, Azusa Block, and Pacific Empire
named Hi-Way Safety Rentals, Inc. as Roe 1 and on September 22, 2022, they
named Sun Aggregates LLC as Doe 2. 
 
On October 19, 2022, Sun Aggregates LLC (“Sun Aggregates”)
filed a Cross Complaint for indemnity against Serrano, Pacific Empire, Azusa
Block, Tejeda Trucking, Rios Trucking, and Right Truck.
 
On December 29, 2022, Serrano, Pacific Empire, and Azusa
Block (collectively “Cross-Defendants”) a demurrer to Sun Aggregates’ cause of
action for express indemnity, which on 2/15/23 was sustained with leave to
amend as the pleading failed to provide the express language allowing for
express indemnity. 
 
On November 8, 2023, the court entered the order granting
Hi-Way’s Motion to quash Plaintiffs’ improper/incomplete service of process. As
the Plaintiffs were not truly ignorant of Hi-Way’s identity, their claims
against Hi-Way are barred by the applicable statute of limitations and were
dismissed with prejudice.
 
On October 2, 2024, moving Defendants filed the instant MSJ
re: Soller. (Defendants filed the original motion on 10/1 and an amended motion
on 10/2.) 
 
On December 3, 2024, Soller filed her opposition and Pano
filed, essentially, a notice of joinder. 
 
On December 12, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The law of summary judgment
provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Aguilar).)  In reviewing a motion for
summary judgment, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
“The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) For emphasis, only material facts govern summary
judgment.4 To be material, a fact must be essential to the action and, if
proven, change the outcome of the case. (Los Angeles Nat’l Bank v. Bank of
Canton (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1267, 1274.)5 As
A moving defendant bears the initial burden of production to show that one
or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action, at which point the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable
issue. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “The motion shall be supported
by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken. The
supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts that the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting
evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement
may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denying the
motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1). 
Once the moving party meets its evidentiary burden, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to show triable issues of material. Courts “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389; see also Hinesley, supra,
135 Cal.App.4th at p. 294 [The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”].)  In determining whether the papers show that there is a
triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all of the
evidence set forth in the moving papers, except that as to which objections
have been made and sustained, and all inferences reasonable deducible from such
evidence. (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)
Lastly, regarding evidence, “In granting or denying a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.
Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall
be preserved for appellate review.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(q).) Therefore, where
necessary, the court will address relevant evidentiary objections. 
 
Discussion[4]
 
1.    
Soller v. Developers
 
As the pleading frames the issues on summary judgment, the
court turns to Plaintiff Soller’s complaint filed on 1/19/21. The relevant
allegations are as follows:
 
That Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon
alleges that on the day of the subject incident described hereinabove,
Defendants, their agents, and each of them, DIRECTED controlled, placed
or were involved in the placement of the K-Rails at the site of the
subject incident and failed to provide adequate spacing, traffic control,
warnings for traffic through the scene of the subject incident, and failed
to comply with appropriate standards, which resulted in improper and
unusually narrow lane widths, lack of proper shoulder and/or bike path such
that a bicyclist such as Decedent Edgardo Antonio Pano would be pushed into and
pinned up against the K-Rail/concrete barriers and struck by a vehicle and
result in serious injury or death. That Plaintiff is informed and believes and
thereon alleges that on the day of the subject incident described hereinabove,
Defendants, their agents, and each of them, due to the improper roadway
geometry, lane width, shoulder width, barrier and K-Rail placement at
the collision scene, knew there was INSUFFICIENT ROOM for bicyclists and
vehicles to safely use the roadway without the risk of vehicles striking
bicyclists and were aware that such contact could result in serious injury or
death, yet failed to properly instruct placement or failed to place the
K-Rails a safe distance at the scene of the subject collision, such that it
resulted in inadequate spacing for vehicle and bicycle traffic thereby causing
the subject incident. As yet unknown employees and/or agents of the SERRANO
DEVELOPMENT GROUP, INC., PACIFIC EMPIRE BUILDERS, INC., AZUSA BLOCK 36, LLC. in
the course and scope of their employment negligently and carelessly caused,
permitted, controlled, managed, constructed, tested, inspected, serviced,
warranted, operated, supervised and maintained the “The Orchard” project in the
vicinity of N Azusa Avenue between E 6th Street and Foothill Boulevard, in the
City of Azusa, County of Los Angeles, California, specifically including but
not limited to placement of the K-Rail as well as inadequate/lack of the
proper warning signs for the motoring and bicycle using public thereby
causing the subject incident, resulting in the death of Decedent Edgardo
Antonio Pano and damages to Plaintiff JONELLE SOLLER…placement of said K-Rails
was NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH EXISITING TRAFFIC CONTROL STANDARDS, CODES, AND
REGULATIONS…. (Complaint ¶¶14-18, emphasis and capitalization added.) 
 
Effectively, Plaintiff alleges that moving Defendants are
negligent in their (1) dangerous placement of the K-Rail via their PLANS (¶18)
and (2) failure to place proper warning signs about the “improperly negligently
placed K-Rail.” (¶3.) 
 
Preliminarily,
there are three important matters to address. 
 
First, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ focus on
premises liability (and the cited authority) are irrelevant. (Opp. p. 3:22-24
[“In their motion, the Project Defendants somehow miss the fact that Plaintiff
SOLLER alleged claims of negligence against them, and not premises liability as
they represent in their MSJ.”].) The relevance of the distinction is unclear, the court interprets that
statement is perhaps a tacit concession that moving Defendants do not OWN, CONTROL, or POSSESS the 600 block where the incident
occurred. After all, premises liability “‘is grounded in
the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage
the premises’”; accordingly, “ ‘mere possession with its attendant right to
control conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for the imposition of
an affirmative duty to act.’” (Kesner
v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132,
115, emphasis added.) In any event, the elements of negligence and premises
liability are identical. 
 
Second, Plaintiff’s opposition heavily if not predominantly
argues that Defendants’ purported negligence is based upon their negligent
operation of the subject HAULING ROUTE. Specifically, there are 38 times
that the opposition references hauling/hauling route/haul route; however, the complaint—the
pleading that controls—makes NO references to a haul route being
a basis for negligence.[5]
A plaintiff’s
opposition papers cannot create issues outside the pleadings. (Motion
and Reply p. 3:21-22 [“Plaintiff Soller’s complaint was always about the
placement of the K-rails.”], citing Hutton v. Fidelity Nat’l Title Co.
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493; see also Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker
Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 443-444.) Thus, as
Defendants need not negate Plaintiff’s theory of liability regarding hauling
routes, the court will not address any arguments or evidence that relate to
a hauling route. 
Third, Plaintiff Soller’s responses to Defendants’
separate statement (SS) is not limited to facts that address the elements of a cause
of action or an affirmative defense. Instead, many
of the responses contain nearly 30 citations to evidence that do not clearly indicate
how a statement is in fact disputed. “The opposing party's responses to
the separate statement must be in good faith, responsive, and material.
Responses should directly address the fact stated, and if that fact is not in
dispute, the opposing party must so admit. It is completely unhelpful to evade
the stated fact in an attempt to create a dispute where none exists.” (See Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97
Cal.App.5th 865, 875.) Plaintiff’s approach to their SS undermines
one of the purposes “to permit the trial court to focus on whether [the
material] facts are truly undisputed.” (Ibid.) Absent such an
undertaking, trial courts may “disregard attempts to game the system by the
opposing party claiming facts are ‘disputed’ when the uncontroverted evidence
clearly shows otherwise.” (Ibid.) Accordingly, absent a showing that a
fact is genuinely disputed, the court will find certain facts/evidence
undisputed.
 
Defendants bring forth their motions on the grounds that
they did not owe a decedent a duty. 
For reasons to be discussed below, the court agrees with
Defendants that they did not owe a duty to the Decedent namely as the City
controlled, possessed, and owned the public roadway where the subject incident
occurred.
 
A.    
K-Rail Placement
 
Defendants’ evidentiary burden:
 
According to Defendants, the City of Azusa issued
Encroachment Permit No. 18-083 to defendant Azusa Block 36, LLC, giving it
permission to install “construction fencing and mobilization” in the
public-right-of-way, including the 600 block of Azusa Avenue. (Motion p. 13,
see also Separate Statement (SS) No. 7.) The City instructed defendant Azusa
Block 36, LLC as to the exact location to place the K-rails. Defendants
complied with the City’s instructions and the K-rails were located behind the
white line in compliance with the City approved site plan. Indeed, a review of
Defendants’ evidence provides the following evidence in support of the
foregoing. (SS No. 8, citing Exs. E [deposition of Scott Henry, the Inspector
for The Orchard project for the City of Azusa/the City’s PMQ], starting at p.
242 of 368 of PDF] and Ex. K [deposition of Shannon Patrick Byrne,
Superintendent for Pacific Empire Builders], starting at p. 320 of 368 of PDF.)

 
-       
“Q: And was part of your job to supervise that the
K-rail was placed in substantial COMPLIANCE WITH THE PLANS? A: Yes. Q: …was it
placed in substantial compliance? A: yes.” (Ex. E, see p. 252 of 368 of PDF, capitalization
added)
-       
“Q: Do you remember there were plans that called out
for the location of K-rails along Azusa Avenue? A: Correct. Yes.” (Ex. E, p.
255)
-       
“Q:…No
one, from your perspective, from the City or from the contractors, ever
indicated to you as the Inspector out there that there was any error by the
vendor who placed the K-rails, in terms of where they located them. True? ….A:
Not that I know of.” (Ex. E, p. 256 see also pp. 257-258)
-       
Q: As far as whether it’s placed in accordance with the
plans, you understand it’s to be placed in substantial compliance with the
plans. Correct? A: Not in
substantial compliance. WITH 100 PERCENT COMPLIANCE. Q: And did you—were
you the one for Pacific Empire that was to make that decision, that it was 100
percent in compliance with the plans, or someone else? A: The City of Azusa was the one that was there to
make sure that it was there, per plans. Q: Okay. And from your
perspective, your recollection is that it was put in place in 100 percent
compliance with the plans and approved by the City of Azusa as to its location.
True? A: The City did
approve the location. Q: Okay. And that’s it for you. If it’s set out
there in accordance with the plans and the City approves it, you’re good. True?
A: Yes, Sir. (Ex. K, p. 326, capitalization added)
-       
“…If they saw something that was problematic, such as a
Sidewalk Closed sign being down, they would report it to you so you could
address it. Correct? A: Yes, sir…I had a direct line of communication with
multiple people at the City of Azusa. (Ex. K, p. 334.) 
 
Therefore, Defendants have met their evidentiary burden to
show that they placed the K-Rail in exactly the correct spot.  
 
Evidentiary
Objections: To the extent that Plaintiff seeks to preclude introduction of the
foregoing evidence, Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections are OVERRULED.

 
First, Plaintiff objects to the portions of Exs. E and K on
the grounds of relevance. As noted by Defendants, where the
K-Rail was placed is central to the issues; thus, the depositions are
relevant. 
 
Second, Plaintiff objects to this deposition testimonies
discussing the location of the K-rails by claiming that this misstates
evidence. Not so as the cited testimony explicitly refers to the placement
of the K-rails in the public right-of-way and the encroachment permit granting
authority to do so. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues that compliance with the
site plan does not absolve Defendants of liability,[6] it
is unclear how so. Plaintiff
sets forth no authority that a governing or regulatory body or entity aside
from the City makes the final determination on plans. Put differently, the entity
that ensures the site plans are to codes/regulations approved the plan.
Thus, the site plan
was drafted in conformity with appropriate standards.
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Burden
 
Having established no duty existed, the burden shifts to
Plaintiff. Their experts on the issue, Christopher Ryan (a civil engineer) and
DR. Eric Rossetter (mechanical engineer) do not address the issue. 
 
Specifically, Ryan, in pertinent part, states the following
based upon his review of the construction plans: 
 
The decision by the [Defendants] and
City to keep both lanes of vehicle traffic open, combined with the placement of
the K-Rails at the fog line, without closing that lane to bicycle traffic,
created a hazard for cyclists by eliminating the ability of vehicle operators
to maintain 3’ of distance between the vehicle and a cyclist as required by
the Three Foot Rule. In my opinion, this constituted a design flaw
that was a significant factor in causation of the subjection collision. (Ryan,
Decl., ¶51, emphasis added.)[7] 
 
However, as noted in Reply,
Plaintiff’s contention this violated California’s Three Foot Rule is
inapplicable because that rule applies to motor vehicle drivers. (Reply p. 9.)
The rule codified under Vehicle Code section 21760 states that “A driver of
a motor vehicle shall not overtake or pass a bicycle proceeding in the same
direction on a highway at a distance of less than three feet between any part
of the motor vehicle and any part of the bicycle or its operator.” (Id.
at subd. (c), emphasis added.) Section 21760 further states “If the driver
of a motor vehicle is unable to comply with subdivision (c), due to traffic
or roadway conditions, the driver shall slow to a speed that is
reasonable and prudent, and may pass only when doing so would not endanger the
safety of the operator of the bicycle, taking into account the size and speed
of the motor vehicle and bicycle, traffic conditions, weather, visibility, and
surface and width of the highway.” (Id. at subd. (d), emphasis added) Accordingly,
the Three-Foot Rule applies to drivers and not creation/drafting of site plans.

 
Therefore, as to the theory for
the K-rail placement, the motion is GRANTED as Defendants’ have not met their
evidentiary burden to show that the K-rail was placed in COMPLETE compliance
with the site plan. 
 
Traffic
Control
 
Defendants argue that because they
did not own, possess or control the public right of-way, “Defendants had no
duty or ability to place any additional warning signs. The City of Azusa
was required to select and approve the placement of all signage, and Defendants
complied with the City’s signage requirements along the 600 block of Azusa
Avenue.” (Motion p. 10:11-15, citing SS Nos. 11-12.)
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary
Burden
 
SS. No. 11 states that “The City
of Azusa selected and approved all signage along the 600 block of Azusa Avenue
for the Project” and in support thereof, Defendants cite to Exs. H (Delgadillo
Depo. [City’s PMQ] at 41:25-42:20) and Ex. K (Byrne Depo. at 54:6-55:14,
80:17-81:14, 82:18-83:12, 85:13-24, 95:20-24, 100:22- 102:9). But a court’s
review of those depositions does not state unequivocally state traffic control
is in the City’s direction and order. 
 
For example, Delgadillo’s
Deposition (Person Most Qualified for the City of Azusa), provides the
following: 
 
“Q.· · · ·Did you or the City of Azusa
ever tell the ·developer that they needed to put up signage for ·· ·bicyclists
along the construction site on Azusa· Avenue? ·A.· · · ·No. Q.· · · ·Did you or
the City of Azusa ever voice any concerns to the developer regarding bicycle
safety ·along Azusa Avenue?· ·A.· · ·No. · ·Q.· ·Did you or the City ever voice
any concerns ·to the developer regarding any impact of the K-rails · ·upon
bicyclists riding along Azusa Avenue? ·A.· · · ·No. ·Q.· · · ·Did you or the City
ever provide the · ·developer with a copy of the Azusa Downtown Pedestrian ·and
bicycle Safety Workshop Summary and · ·Recommendations prior to the incident? ·
·A.· · · ·No. ·Q.· · · ·Prior to the incident, did you ever – did you or the
City ever inform the developer of the prior 
·existence of any bike lane along Azusa Avenue? ··A.· · · ·No. · ·Q.· ·
· ·Did you or the City ever inform the developer ··of any prior bike lane
collisions around or along ··Azusa Avenue prior to the incident? ··A.· · ·
·No.”
 
Byrne’s declaration provides in relevant part the following:
 
Q. If the City had hold you, 'hey,
we need to put up signs directing bicycle traffic on Azusa, and we need you
to do it or have a vendor do it,' you would have done it. True? A. Yes. Q. You
certainly would have the ability to get a subcontractor to put up traffic
control of the nature to direct bicycle traffic on Azusa Avenue if the City
required you to do so. Fair? A. Fair. Q. And there are times in projects where
you've dealt with public entities where a project gets started, and then
something happens where they realize, 'oh, we need to do something to address a
problem,' and an add-on to the project happens. True?. True. Q. Your role as a
project superintendent is to make sure you do it the way the Public Works
Department for the City you've gotten an Encroachment Permit from - the way
they want it done. Fair? A. Yes. Q. And that would include traffic control.
Correct? A. Yes. Q. They certainly, meaning the City, would have the authority
-- as far as Shannon Byrne was concerned, would have the authority to direct
you to put up traffic control, relative to bicycle traffic and directing it.
Fair? MR. RUTTER: Objection. Calls for speculation. THE WITNESS: Fair. (pp.
351-352, emphasis add.) 
 
Accordingly, the foregoing establishes that the City would
DIRECT Defendants to put up traffic control, not that the Defendants may at
their own discretion place traffic control signage on a public road.[8]
After all, the Defendants’ lack of control on the public roadway is
evidenced by the need for an encroachment permit. (See Motion generally citing
Lopez v. City of Los Angeles (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 244, 262 [“If anything, the
fact that Wally’s needs permission from the City connotes that the City is the
party with exclusive control over that area.”]); General Ins. Co. of Am. v. St.
Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 760; Isaacs v.
Huntington Memorial Hospital (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 134 [“A defendant cannot
be held liable for the defective or dangerous condition of property which it
did not own, possess, or control.”].) Olmstead v. San Diego (1932) 124 Cal.App.14,
21-22 [need for permission implies “exclusive control” of permission giver].)[9]
 
In sum, put simply, Plaintiff’s complaint boils down to
the allegation that Defendants plans (site plan and traffic control
plan) did not meet certain standards and regulations but that the very fact and
EVIDENCE that the City approved said plans indicates otherwise. 
 
Therefore, the MSJ as to this theory is also granted. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff rely on a case, it is Dow v.
Holly Mfg. Co. (1958) 49 Cal.2d, 720, but that case is inapplicable for a
variety of reasons. (See also Reply pp. 6-7.) In Dow, the plaintiffs, a
mother and her son, sued for wrongful death of the father and two children
caused by asphyxiation from carbon monoxide coming from a gas heater in the
family home. (Id. at p. 722.) The plaintiffs sued the general contractor
and the subcontractor that installed the gas heater. (Id. at pp. 723-724.) One
of the issues was “whether the general contractor was liable for the negligent
installation of a defective gas heater by Dover, his subcontractor….” (Id. at
p. 725.) In finding liability, the court focused on the fact that the gas
heater was a DANGEROUS INSTRUMENTALITY and that the relationship between a contractor,
subcontractor, and owner. (Id. at pp. 725-726.) Here, however, there
is no dangerous instrumentality (i.e., no evidence) and the relationship is one
between the City and the contractor/owner/developer Defendants, not
Defendants and subcontractors. “It is axiomatic that cases are not
authority for propositions not considered.” (In re Bailey (2022) 76
Cal.App.5th 837, 853.) 
 
Therefore, Dow does not change the foregoing analysis.

 
2.    
Pano
 
The motions and evidence submitted are identical as to that
of Soller. Plaintiff Pano’s FAC also makes similar allegations such has
improper K-rail placement and lack of adequate warnings. Pano, however, filed a
JOINDER; Pano did not submit his own separate statement/evidence. While joinder
may be appropriate on some motions, not on a summary judgment which is a
statute that requires evidence. (See e.g., Frazee v. Seely (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 627, 636; see also Barak v. The Quisenberry Law Firm (2006)
135 Cal.App.4th 654, 661.) Thus, Pano’s joinder does not amount to the filing
of an opposition. In any event, as Plaintiff Soller’s evidence/arguments fail,
so too does Pano’s. 
 
Therefore, the motion is equally granted as to Pano’s FAC. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motions are granted; proposed
orders have been filed. 


