 Case Number:  21CHCV00247    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/16/23                                                                      
TRIAL DATE: 1/16/24
Case #21CHCV00247
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION
 
Motion filed on 10/13/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Jeffrey Harris and Austin Harris
Co-Trustees of the Harris Family Trust
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Helene Stahl and
Extensions Plus

NOTICE: ok

 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling
Defendants Helene Stahl and Extensions Plus to produce the Person Most
Knowledgeable to testify at deposition. 
Additionally, Plaintiffs request sanctions be imposed against Defendants
and their counsel in the amount $5,517.45.

 

RULING: The request to compel deposition is
granted.  The request for sanctions is
denied.      
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of an alleged breach of a
commercial lease and guaranty of the lease. Plaintiffs Jeffrey Harris and
Austin Harris, Co-Trustees of the Harris Family Trust (Plaintiffs)
are the landlord and Defendant Extensions Plus
(Extensions Plus) is the tenant and Defendant Helene Stahl (Stahl) is the
guarantor (collectively, Defendants). 
Possession of the premises is not at issue as the tenant no longer
occupies the premises.  Plaintiffs
contend that the commercial tenant made unpermitted alterations causing
substantial damages to the property and then abandoned the premises with past
due rent owing to set up their business in a new location.  On 3/30/21, Plaintiffs filed this action for:
(1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing and (3) Common Count.  On
10/22/21, Defendants filed answers to the complaint.   
 
On 9/7/23, Plaintiffs served their Notice of Deposition
for Extensions Plus’s person most knowledgeable (PMK) via electronic mail.  (Cordero-Sacks Decl., Ex.10).  The deposition was scheduled for
10/3/23.  Id.  On 9/29/23, Defendants served objections to
the notice via electronic mail. 
(Cordero-Sacks Decl., Ex.12).  A PMK
was not produced for deposition.  (Id.,
Ex.11).  Nor did Defendants produce the
documents requested in the deposition notice. 
(Cordero-Sacks Decl.).  The
parties met and conferred regarding the deposition which was rescheduled for
10/10/23.  (Cordero-Sacks Decl.,
Ex.15).  Again, Defendants did not
produce a PMK for deposition.  (Id.,
Ex.13).  
 
On 10/13/23, Plaintiffs filed and served the instant
motion seeking an order compelling Defendants to produce the PMK to testify at
deposition.  Additionally, Plaintiffs request
sanctions be imposed against Defendants and their counsel in the amount
$5,517.45.  On 11/3/23, Defendants filed
an opposition to the motion.  The proof
of service attached to the  opposition
indicates that it was served by electronic service on 11/2/23.  On 11/8/23, Plaintiffs filed and served a
reply to the opposition.  Plaintiffs
contend the opposition was not timely and, therefore, should not be considered.
 
The Court considered the opposition in ruling on the
motion.  CRC 3.1300(d).  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs properly served the subject deposition notice on
9/7/23 by electronic mail. 
(Cordero-Sacks Decl., Ex.10). 
Such service is well beyond the 10 days’ notice required for the 10/3/23
deposition date.  See CCP
2025.270(a).  
 
CCP 2025.410 provides in relevant part:   
 
“(a) Any party served with a
deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section
2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least
three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled,
on the party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on
whom the deposition notice was served.
 
(b) If an objection is made
three calendar days before the deposition date, the objecting party shall make
personal service of that objection pursuant to Section
1011 on the party who gave notice of the deposition. Any deposition
taken after the service of a written objection shall not be used against the
objecting party under Section
2025.620 if the party did not attend the deposition and if the court
determines that the objection was a valid one.” 
(emphasis added)
 
Despite having more than 20 days’ notice, Defendants did
not serve objections to the deposition notice until 9/29/23 via electronic
service.  (Cordero-Sacks Decl., Ex.12).  As such, Defendants failed to promptly serve
their objections to the deposition notice. 
Additionally, the service of the objections on 9/29/23 did not comply
with the minimum 3-day notice requirement due to the electronic service of
same.  
 
CCP 1010.6(a)(3) provides, in relevant part: 
 
“(A) If a document may be served by
mail, express mail, overnight delivery, or facsimile transmission, electronic
service of that document is deemed complete at the time of the electronic
transmission of the document or at the time that the electronic notification of
service of the document is sent.
 
(B) Any period of notice, or
any right or duty to do any act or make any response within any period or on a
date certain after the service of the document, which time period or date is
prescribed by statute or rule of court, shall be extended after service by
electronic means by two court days. . .” (emphasis added).
 
Defendants provide no authority to support their
contention that “[a]lthough E-service extends the notice to the other party by
two court days, that does not mean that the party serving the notice must
account for two extra court days.”  (See
Opposition, p.4:20-21).  More
importantly, Defendants’ interpretation of CCP 1010.6(a)(3) does not make sense
and contradicts the express language in the statute.  Under Defendants’ interpretation, Plaintiffs’
time to respond to the objections would have been extended to 10/3/23, the day
the deposition was scheduled to occur.  As
noted above, the statute provides that electronic service extends any period of
notice by 2 court days.  The fact that
service may have been complete at the time of the electronic transmission does
not matter as mail service is complete at the time of deposit and requires an
extra five calendar days.  See CCP
1005(b); CCP 1013(a), (e).  
 
As such, Defendants did not timely object to the
deposition notice and, therefore, waived any error or irregularity in
same.  CCP 2025.410(a).  
 
Even if the objections had been timely served, they lack
merit.  The opposition concedes that
Helene Stahl is the only surviving individual who would qualify as the PMK for
Extensions Plus.  (See Opposition,
p.2:24-25, p.5:28-p.6:2, p.6:7-8).  It is not clear if Defendants are contending
that since Helene Stahl was already deposed, Plaintiffs are precluded from
deposing her again as the PMK of Extensions Plus.  (See Opposition, p.5:28-p.6:1 whereat
Defendants state that “the individuals who could have testified to this are
Helene Stahl – whom Plaintiffs have already deposed – or Terrie Fields – who is
dead and was Extensions Plus’ former accountant;” Opposition, p.6:7-8; Ruano
Decl. ¶, Ex.H).  Defendants provide no
authority for the proposition that Plaintiffs are precluded from deposing
Helene Stahl as Extensions Plus’s PMK because Plaintiffs have already deposed
Ms. Stahl her individual capacity.  
 
Defendants’ untimely objections to the deposition notice
did not leave Plaintiffs sufficient time to meet and confer before the 10/3/23
deposition date.  Thereafter, Plaintiffs
made efforts to informally resolve the issues presented by this motion.  (Cordero-Saks Decl., Ex.15).  Despite such efforts and their admission that
Helen Stahl is the only possible PMK, Defendants still contend that there is no
witness they can produce.  (See
Opposition, p.2:24-25, p.5:28-p.6:2, p.6:7-8, p.6:15-16).
 
CCP 2023.040 provides: 
 
“A request for a sanction shall, in
the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom
the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of
motion shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and
accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any
monetary sanction sought.”
 
Here, the notice of motion indicates that monetary
sanctions are sought against “Defendants Helene Stahl and Extensions Plus and
their Counsel.”  (See Notice of
Motion, p.2:6-8).  Plaintiffs have not
identified the attorney at the firm representing Defendants against whom
sanctions are sought.  Additionally,
Plaintiffs do not explain why sanctions are warranted against Defendant Helene
Stahl, individually, when the deposition notice was for Defendant Extension Plus’s
PMK.  Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions is denied.    
 
CONCLUSION
 
The request to compel deposition is granted.  Defendant Extensions Plus’s is ordered to
produce its PMK for deposition and produce documents as set forth in the
deposition notice within 14 days. 
Sanctions are denied.  
 
Pursuant to CRC 2.30(b) and (c), the Court will set an
Order to Show Cause as to why sanctions should not be imposed on Defendants Helene
Stahl and Extensions Plus and/or their counsel, Goldberg & Associates, for
the repeated failure to comply with CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  The Court has noted Defendants’ failure to
comply with the requirement to electronically bookmark their exhibits multiple
times and have warned the parties that failure to comply with the requirement
may result in the imposition of sanctions. 
(See 9/17/21 Minute Order, pp.1-2; 3/22/22 Minute Order, p.1;
5/13/22 Minute Order, pp.1-2; 10/13/23 Minute Order, p.4).  Despite the repeated warnings, Defendants
have, again, failed to electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to their
opposition to the instant motion.    