  Case Number:  20CHCV00621    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/16/23
Case #20CHCV00621
 
MOTION TO
DISQUALIFY COUNSEL
 
Motion filed on 6/14/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant Raul Perez
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Enrique
Perez 
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
disqualifying William F. Hertz, II as attorney/counsel for any party in this
action.  

 
RULING: The motion is denied.      
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a dispute
between brothers regarding certain real property located in Sunland,
California.  On 10/14/20,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Raul Perez (Raul) filed his complaint against Enrique
Perez, Jonathan Perez; all persons unknown, claiming
any legal or equitable right, title, estate, lien or interest in the property
described in the complaint adverse to Raul’s title and Does 1-50 for: (1)
Quiet Title, (2) Cancellation of Instruments, (3) Breach of Oral Agreement, (4)
Constructive Fraudulent Conveyance and (5) Fraud.  
 
On 6/7/21, attorney William F. Hertz,
II (Attorney Hertz), filed an answer and cross-complaint on behalf of Enrique
Perez (Enrique) against Raul; Jonathan Perez; The Raul Perez Family Trust; all
persons unknown, claiming any legal or equitable right, title, estate, lien or
interest in the property described in the cross-complaint adverse to Enrique’s
title, or cloud on Enrique’s title thereto and Roes 1-100 for: (1) Quiet Title,
(2) Partition by Sale, (3) Breach of Contract, (4) Fraud and Intentional Misrepresentation,
(5) Negligent Misrepresentation and (6) Unjust Enrichment.  
 
On 6/8/21, Attorney Hertz, filed an
answer to Plaintiff’s complaint on behalf of Jonathan Perez (Jonathan).  On 7/20/21, Attorney Hertz, filed a
cross-complaint on behalf of Jonathan against Raul, Enrique, The Raul Perez
Family Trust all persons unknown, claiming any legal or equitable right, title,
estate, lien or interest in the property described in the cross-complaint
adverse to Jonathan’s title, or cloud on Jonathan’s title thereto and Roes
1-100.
 
On 3/3/23, Attorney Hertz filed an
answer on behalf of Enrique to Jonathan’s cross-complaint.  On 3/3/23, Attorney Hertz filed an answer on
behalf of Jonathan to Enrique’s cross-complaint.
 
On 3/9/23, at 9:53 a.m., Raul filed an
ex parte application to Disqualify Attorney Hertz as counsel for Jonathan and
Enrique.     
 
On 3/9/23, at 5:03 p.m., a Substitution
of Attorney was filed on behalf of Jonathan substituting in the Law Offices of
James A. Gallo as his attorney in place of Attorney Hertz.
 
On 3/10/23, the ex parte application
was denied.  (See 3/10/23 Minute
Order).  However, the Court noted that
Raul “may serve and file a noticed motion to disqualify counsel” and reserved
6/14/23 for the hearing of such motion.  Id.
 
On 6/14/23, Raul filed and served the instant motion for
an order disqualifying William F. Hertz, II as attorney/counsel for any party
in this action.  Enrique filed an
opposition to the motion and Raul filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
On 10/13/23, the Court continued the hearing to 11/16/23
to allow Jonathan Perez to file a declaration regarding the motion.  On 10/31/23, Jonathan filed a declaration.
 
ANALYSIS
In its 10/13/23 ruling, the Court found that Enrique’s
challenges to the motion based on Raul’s lack of standing at the time the
motion was filed, deficient memorandum of points and authorities filed in
support of the motion and/or delay in bringing the motion did not warrant
denial of the motion on procedural grounds as the Court has the inherent power to
control the proceedings before it, including the disqualification of counsel
when warranted.  See CCP
128(a)(5); SpeeDee Oil Change Systems Inc. (1999) 20 C4th 1135, 1145; Klemm
(1977) 75 CA3d 893.
 
California Rules of Professional Responsibility for
California Attorneys, Rule 1.7, “Conflict of Interest: Current Clients,”
provides: 
 
“(a) A lawyer shall not, without
informed written consent* from each client and compliance with paragraph (d),
represent a client if the representation is directly adverse to another client
in the same or a separate matter. 
(b) A lawyer shall not, without
informed written consent* from each affected client and compliance with
paragraph (d), represent a client if there is a significant risk the lawyer’s
representation of the client will be materially limited by the lawyer’s responsibilities
to or relationships with another client, a former client or a third person,* or
by the lawyer’s own interests. 
(c) Even when a significant risk
requiring a lawyer to comply with paragraph (b) is not present, a lawyer shall
not represent a client without written* disclosure of the relationship to the
client and compliance with paragraph (d) where: 
(1) the lawyer has, or knows* that
another lawyer in the lawyer’s firm* has, a legal, business, financial,
professional, or personal relationship with or responsibility to a party or
witness in the same matter; or 
(2) the lawyer knows* or reasonably
should know* that another party’s lawyer is a spouse, parent, child, or sibling
of the lawyer, lives with the lawyer, is a client of the lawyer or another
lawyer in the lawyer’s firm,* or has an intimate personal relationship with the
lawyer. 
(d) Representation is permitted
under this rule only if the lawyer complies with paragraphs (a), (b), and (c),
and: 
(1) the lawyer reasonably believes*
that the lawyer will be able to provide competent and diligent representation
to each affected client; 
(2) the representation is not
prohibited by law; and 
(3) the representation does not
involve the assertion of a claim by one client against another client
represented by the lawyer in the same litigation or other proceeding before a
tribunal. 
(e) For purposes of this rule,
“matter” includes any judicial or other proceeding, application, request for a
ruling or other determination, contract, transaction, claim, controversy,
investigation, charge, accusation, arrest, or other deliberation, decision, or
action that is focused on the interests of specific persons,* or a discrete and
identifiable class of persons.*”
 
In its 10/13/23 ruling, the Court noted that pursuant to
Rule 1.7(d)(3), regardless of whether Attorney Hertz provided Enrique and
Jonathan with written disclosure and they provided him with “informed written
consent,” his continued representation of both Enrique and Jonathan in
this action where they have pending cross-claims against one another would be
precluded.  (See Hertz Decl. ¶14).  However, as noted above, Attorney Hertz no
longer represents Jonathan in this action. 
(See Substitution of Attorney filed 3/9/23).  
 
The Court also noted that the cases cited by Raul do not
involve a situation, such as the one currently before this Court, where the
party moving to disqualify counsel is/was not one of the parties
represented by that counsel.  See State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (1999) 72 CA4th 1422; SpeeDee Oil,
supra; Kennedy (2011) 201 CA4th 1197, 1204.  Further, the Court   pointed out that Raul had not shown how he
will be prejudiced by allowing Attorney Hertz to continue representing Enrique
in this action.  Similarly, Raul failed
to establish that Attorney Hertz “de facto continues to represent both parties
inappropriately” as claimed in the reply. 
The fact that Jonathan’s new counsel has filed joinders in papers filed
by Attorney Hertz on behalf of Enrique does not establish that attorney Gallo
is not independently representing Jonathan’s interests.      
 
The Court concluded its 10/13/23 ruling by stating that if
Jonathan has no objection to Attorney Hertz’s continued representation of
Enrique in this action, the Court finds that disqualifying Attorney Hertz from
such representation is not warranted.  However,
if Jonathan objects to Attorney Hertz’s continued representation of Enrique,
the Court finds that disqualification would be warranted.  Therefore, as noted above, the hearing was
continued to allow Jonathan to file a declaration indicating whether or not he
objected to attorney Hertz’s continued representation of Enrique in this
action.  
 
The declaration filed by Jonathan on 10/31/23, indicates
that he has been separately advised by his current attorney, James A. Gallo,
regarding any potential for a conflict of interest due to the prior joint
representation and Jonathan does not object to attorney Hertz continuing to
represent Enrique in this matter.    
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is denied.  