 Case Number:  23SMCV01274    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  205                                                                  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
PRIMARY HOME IMPROVEMENT & DESIGN,
  INC. dba PRIMARY HOMES, 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CHRISTIE
  CARR, 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23SMCV01274
 
  Hearing Date:  November 20, 2024
  order
  RE:
  cross-defendant geomat testing 
  laboratories, inc.’s demurrer to 
  entire cross-complaint



 
BACKGROUND
This
case arises from a dispute between a homeowner and her general contractor.  The homeowner (Christie Carr) is alleging
construction defects while the general contractor (Primary Home Improvement
& Design, Inc.) is alleging non-payment. 

Carr
owns real property located in Malibu, California (the “Property”).  In 2020, Carr entered into a contract with
Primary Homes to build a 4,500 square foot home at the Property (the
“Contract”).  In January 2023, Carr gave
Primary a notice to suspend work.  An
inspection revealed construction defects related to the balcony at the home
constructed on the Property—including drywall and waterproofing issues.  Carr then hired another contractor to repair
the defects.
In
March 2023, Primary filed a lawsuit against Carr.  Primary alleges that Carr failed to make
payments due and owing under the Contract for work performed by Primary at the
Property.  
In
May 2023, Carr filed a cross-complaint against Primary and Roes 1-10.  In the cross-complaint, Carr alleges that
Primary breached the contract and the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
by performing substandard work at the Property. 
In July 2024, Carr filed various Roe amendments adding (among others) Cross-Defendant
GeoMat Testing Laboratories, Inc. (a geotechnical engineering company).  
This
hearing is on GeoMat’s demurrer to the Complaint.  GeoMat argues that (1) Carr failed to allege
the existence of a contract between Carr and GeoMat, as required for a breach
of contract and breach of implied covenant claim, (2) Carr failed to allege any
defects relating to GeoMat, and (3) Carr failed to attach a Code Civ. Proc. § 411.35
certificate which is required in every action arising out of the professional
negligence of a professional engineer.  There
was no opposition filed as of the posting of this tentative ruling.  
MEET AND CONFER
Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before
the filing of a demurrer the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving
party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer
efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).) 
GeoMat submits the Declaration of Kenny Brooks, which shows counsel
reached out to Plaintiff to meet and confer. 
Despite multiple emails and phone messages over the course of several
weeks, Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond. 
The Court concludes GeoMat has satisfied the meet and confer
requirements of §430.41.  Plaintiff is
admonished to respond to requests to meet and confer.     
LEGAL STANDARD
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not
consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not
accepted for the truth of their contents).) 
For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint
are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of
conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
967.)         
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is
a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency
(2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without
leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of
action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can
be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is
on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
GeoMat requests judicial notice of two
documents: (1) a printout from the California Department of Consumer Affairs
website showing that Haytham Nabilsi is a licensed geotechnical engineer, and
(2) a printout from the California Secretary of State website demonstrating the
Haytham Nabilsi is the CEO of GeoMat.  The
Court grants the request pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(h) and 453.  
DISCUSSION
 
GeoMat demurrers to the Complaint on the
ground Carr fails to allege the existence of a contract between GeoMat and
Carr.  The Court agrees.
The most basic requirement of a breach of
contract claim is the existence of a contract. 
(Oasis West Realty LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th
811, 821.)  Carr has not alleged any
contract between GeoMat and Carr.  She
has only alleged a contract between her and Primary.  
Due
to the fact Plaintiff has not adequately pled a cause of action for breach
of contract, it follows that she has not adequately pled a cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885.)  Because there has been no breach of contract,
there has also been no breach of the implied covenant. 
Additionally,
GeoMat argues there was no breach because Carr fails to allege defects relating
to GeoMat.  Carr alleges construction
defects relating to a drywall installation and waterproofing issues in a
balcony.  Carr does not explain how these
defects relate to any geotechnical work performed by GeoMat.  Demurrer is sustained for this additional
reason.  
Finally,
GeoMat argues that Carr has failed to attach a Code Civ. Proc. §411.35 certificate.  Section 411.35 provides that in any action
arising out of the professional negligence of a person holding a valid
registration as a professional engineer, the attorney for the complaining party
must file and serve a certificate declaring one of the following: 
(1)  
That
the attorney consulted with and received an opinion from at least one
architect, professional engineer, or land surveyor who is licensed to practice
and practices in this state or any other state, or who teaches at an accredited
college or university and is licensed to practice in this state or any other
state, in the same discipline as the defendant or cross-defendant and who the
attorney reasonably believes is knowledgeable in the relevant issues involved
in the particular action, and that the attorney has concluded on the basis of this
review and consultation that there is reasonable and meritorious cause for the
filing of this action. The person consulted may not be a party to the
litigation. The person consulted shall render his or her opinion that the named
defendant or cross-defendant was negligent or was not negligent in the
performance of the applicable professional services. 
 
(2)  
That
the attorney was unable to obtain the consultation required by paragraph (1)
because a statute of limitations would impair the action and that the
certificate required by paragraph (l) could not be obtained before the
impairment of the action. If a certificate is executed pursuant to this
paragraph, the certificate required by paragraph (1) shall be filed within 60
days after filing the complaint. 
 
(3)  
That
the attorney was unable to obtain the consultation required by paragraph (1)
because the attorney had made three separate good faith attempts with three
separate architects, professional engineers, or land surveyors to obtain this
consultation and none of those contacted would agree to the consultation."
(Code Civ. Proc. §411.35.)  Plaintiff did not file the required
certificate.  This is a separate and
independent reason to sustain the demurrer. 

CONCLUSION
            For the foregoing
reasons, the Court SUSTAINS GeoMat’s demurrer to the cross-complaint
without leave to amend.  Carr has not
filed an opposition showing that there is a reasonable possibility of a
successful amendment.  Accordingly, the
Court will not grant Carr leave to amend her cross-complaint against
GeoMat.    
DATED: 
November 20, 2024                                            ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court