  Case Number:  23STCV01636    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  73 09/11/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
EGERER, et al. v. UNIVERSITY OF
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, et al. (23STCV01636)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiffs/moving party:  Robert
Vaage (Vaage Law)
 
Counsel
for Defendant/opposing party:  Stephen
Fraser (Fraser Watson & Croutch, LLP)
 
plaintiffs’ MOTION TO COMPEL UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA’S
FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES (SET THREE) AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY
SANCTIONS (filed 06/14/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel University of Southern California to
provide further responses to the Third Set of Form Interrogatories is GRANTED. Defendant University of Southern California shall provide
code-compliant responses within 20 days.
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
in the amount of $2,460.00. Said monetary sanctions are
to be paid to Plaintiffs’ counsel within 20 days of the date of this order. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
January 1, 2023, Plaintiffs Steven Egerer and Gail Egerer filed this action
against Defendants University of Southern California; Anishka D’Souza MD;
Leslie Ballas MD; Kevin G. Jacob RN; Michelle S. Buluran, RN; and Does 1-25.
 
The operative
First Amended Complaint alleges claims for (1) professional/medical negligence,
(2) lack of informed consent, (3) negligent misrepresentation, (4) fraud by
intentional misrepresentation, (5) fraud by concealment, and (6) loss of
consortium.  
 
This case
arises from a medical malpractice and misrepresentation claim.  Plaintiff
Steven Egerer was diagnosed with bladder cancer.  (First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) ¶ 13.)  He sought treatment at Defendant USC and specifically with
Defendants Dr. Leslie Ballas and Dr. Anishka D’Souza.  (FAC ¶
14.)   
 
Plaintiff was
to be treated with chemotherapy infused through a PICC line, attached to a
chemo ball containing the drug, at a rate of 2 ml per hour over five
days.  This was done on January 19, 2022.  (FAC ¶¶
14-15.)   
 
On February
3, 2022, Plaintiff returned for a second round of chemotherapy which was to
have been delivered the same way at the same rate.  (FAC ¶16.) 
However, Plaintiff alleges that Nurses Kevin Jacob and Michelle Balluran
instead attached a 5mL chemo ball to his PICC line.  The next day,
Plaintiff noticed his chemo ball was completely empty and that therefore he had
received the entire 240 mL dose in less than 15 hours.  (FAC ¶¶
18-19.)  Plaintiff reported the empty chemo ball to USC radiation oncology
staff, who told Plaintiff not to worry because the oncology doctors knew what
they were doing.  (FAC ¶ 20.)   
 
Plaintiff’s
adverse symptoms continued to worsen over the next two days.  He became
nauseous and vomited several times.  He had dizziness and needed his
wife’s assistance to walk.  He had extremely painful urination and severe
stomach pain and diarrhea.  He also had shortness of breath, a headache
and burning in his stomach.  (FAC ¶ 21.) 
 
On February
7, 2023, Plaintiff returned to the chemotherapy department for a blood
draw.  Plaintiff told Nurse Rebecca Amezcua that his chemo ball emptied
over 15 hours, and the nurse immediately notified Drs. Ballas and
D’Souza.  (FAC ¶ 22.)  On the same day, Plaintiff met with Drs.
Ballas and D’Souza who told him there were no studies on chemotherapy overdose
including its side effects and there was no antidote.  (FAC ¶ 25.) 
The medical records failed to note many of the overdose related symptoms that
Plaintiff suffered and made no reference to a chemotherapy overdose.  (FAC
¶27.)   
 
Plaintiff’s
overdose-related symptoms persisted.  (FAC ¶28.)  With worsening
symptoms and no information from Defendants, Plaintiff contacted the American
Cancer Society.  He learned for the first time that there were in fact
studies on chemotherapy overdose and that the antidote for overdose is
Vistogard, which must be administered within 96 hours of the overdose.  He
also learned there were studies identifying the anticipated side effects from
the chemotherapy overdose.  (FAC ¶29.) 
 
As a result
of the overdose, Plaintiff has and continues to suffer from permanent
injuries.  As a further result of the overdose, Plaintiff’s treatment
options for his cancer have been limited.  (FAC
¶30.)          
 
On June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel University of
Southern California’s Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Three: 
·       Defendant’s responses Third Set of Form Interrogatories are evasive and
incomplete.
o   Form Interrogatory 17.1, subdivision (a), requires USC to “state all facts”
upon which the denial that its employees breached the standard of care is
based. Yet USC tries to evade a direct answer to the question by improperly
invoking the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 and by claiming
that the answer to the question would necessitate the preparation or making of
a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of documents.
·       Plaintiff
requests sanctions.
 
In opposition, Defendant University of Southern California (“Defendant”) argues
that:
·       The motion should
be denied due to procedural deficiencies
·       Defendant’s
supplemental responses are full, complete and code-compliant 
In reply, Plaintiffs maintain that the Court should compel Defendant
to provide further responses.
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Meet and Confer 
 
Before bringing a motion to compel further responses
to any discovery request, the moving party is required to make efforts to meet
and confer in good faith and must submit a declaration attesting to those
efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).) “A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
Here, counsel for Plaintiffs submitted a declaration
attesting that the parties sent meet and confer correspondence, but the parties
were unable to resolve the issues in dispute. (Birmingham Decl. ¶ 2.)  The Court finds the moving party has satisfied the preliminary
meet and confer requirement.
 
B.     
Procedural Deficiencies  
 
In Defendant’s opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
motion should be denied for procedural deficiencies.
 
First, Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to seek an informal
discovery conference (“IDC”) before filing the instant motion. However, Defendant
does not cite to any binding authority on this Court requiring Plaintiff to
have sought an IDC. As this Court’s own Department rules specify, an IDC is
encouraged but not mandatory. Thus, the Court does not deny Plaintiff’s motion
on this ground. 
 
Next, Defendant argues that the motion should be denied because
Plaintiff’s separate statement is not full and complete. California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1345(c) provides that: If the response to a particular discovery request is dependent on
the response given to another discovery request, or if the reasons a further
response to a particular discovery request is deemed necessary are based on the
response to some other discovery request, the other request and the response to
it must be set forth. The Court notes that Plaintiff summarized the Requests
for Admission Nos. 17 and 18 and Defendant’s response to those requests in the
Separate Statement’s “Reasons Why Further Responses Should be Compelled.”
However, the Court agrees that Plaintiff should have included the specific
language of its Requests for Admission Nos. 17 and 18 and Defendant’s corresponding
answers in its Separate Statement.
 
Nevertheless, the Court exercises its discretion to consider the
merits of Plaintiff’s Motion.
 
C.     
Legal Standard
 
“Any
party may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to the
action written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”¿ CCP § 2030.010(a).¿
“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the
interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them
on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court
has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding
party the court has extended the time for response.”¿ CCP § 2030.260(a).¿ 
¿ 
“The
party to whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing
under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) An
answer containing the information sought to be discovered. (2) An exercise of
the party's option to produce writings. (3) An objection to the particular
interrogatory.”¿ CCP § 2030.210(a).¿ “If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”¿ CCP §
2030.220(c).¿ 
¿ 
“On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(a).¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(b).¿ In addition, a separate statement is required.¿
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).¿ 
 
D.    
Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks further responses to its Third Set of Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1.
 
Interrogatory 17.1 states: “Is your response to each request for admission served with these
interrogatories an unqualified admission? If not, for each response that is not
an unqualified admission: 
(a) state the
number of the request; 
(b) state all
facts upon which you base your response; 
(c) state the
names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of
those facts; and 
(d) identify
all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your response and state
the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or
thing.”
 
Defendant’s supplemental responses to Interrogatory 17.1 states:
 
“Objection:
the Request is burdensome and oppressive in that it is vague, ambiguous,
compound and unintelligible as to the phrase "refer or relate" so as
to make a response impossible without speculation as to the meaning of the
Request or as to the documents sought thereby. In addition, the Request is over
broad and remote and, as such, is not calculated to lead to the discovery of
documents and information relevant to the subject matter of this action nor to
the discovery of admissible evidence. 
 
Further, the
Request seeks to discover documents and information protected as the work
product of defendant's attorney, by the attorney/client privilege, by C.C.P.
Section 2034.210, et seq. Also, the Request calls for documents and information
which is neither relevant to the subject matter of this action nor calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Subject to, and without
waiving the foregoing Objections, defendant responds as follows: No.
 
(a-d) Request
for Admission No. 17: Objection. The Request is burdensome, vague,
unintelligible, calls for a legal conclusion and premature expert testimony,
may seek to discover documents and information protected as the work product of
defendant's attorney, by the attorney/client privilege, by C.C.P. Section
2034.210, et seq. and by Evidence Code Sections 1156 and 1157, et seq. Per Code
of Civil Procedure §2030.230, the answer to this interrogatory would
necessitate the preparation or making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or
summary from the following documents, the burden to prepare such, would be
substantially the same for the propounding party. Please see the medical record
of plaintiff, the depositions taken of plaintiffs, defendants, and each witness
in this matter, and the declaration of John A. Glaspy in support of Defendant's
Motion for Summary Judgement. Discovery is continuing and defendant reserves
the right to supplement and/or amend this response. 
 
(a-d) Request
for Admission No. 18: Objection. The Request is burdensome, vague,
unintelligible, calls for a legal conclusion and premature expert testimony,
may seek to discover documents and information protected as the work product of
defendant's attorney, by the attorney/client privilege, by C.C.P. Section
2034.210, et seq. and by Evidence Code Sections 1156 and 1157, et seq. Per Code
of Civil Procedure §2030.230, the answer to this interrogatory would
necessitate the preparation or making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or
summary from the following documents, the burden to prepare such, would be
substantially the same for the propounding party. Please see the medical record
of plaintiff, the depositions taken of plaintiffs, defendants, and each witness
in this matter, and the declaration of John A. Glaspy in support of Defendant's
Motion for Summary Judgement. Discovery is continuing and defendant reserves
the right to supplement and/or amend this response.”
 
The Court finds that good cause exists to compel Defendant to
provide further response to Form Interrogatory 17.1. 
 
Plaintiff's Request for Admission No. 17 requests that Defendant
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA "admit that it was below the standard of
care for [its] nurse(s) to connect a 5mL/hour SMARTeZ chemotherapy infusion
pump to STEVEN EGERER on February 3, 2022, when the prescription called for an
infusion rate of 2mL/hour." 
 
Plaintiff's Request for Admission No. 18 requests that Defendant
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA "admit that it was below the standard of
care for [its] pharmacist(s) to prepare the 5mL/hour SMARTeZ chemotherapy
infusion pump that was connected to STEVEN EGERER on February 3, 2022, when the
prescription called for an infusion rate of 2mL/hour."
 
Defendant denied Plaintiff's Request for Admission Nos. 17 and 18.
Therefore, Form Interrogatory 17.1 seeks all facts upon which Defendant bases
his denial. However, Defendant’s response referencing the medical record of
plaintiff, the depositions taken of plaintiffs, defendants, and each witness in
this matter, and the declaration of John A. Glaspy in support of Defendant's
Motion for Summary Judgement is not code-compliant. According to Plaintiff, the
number of pages of Mr. Egerer’s medical records consists of more than 3,600
pages, and the number of pages of the eleven depositions completed in this case
thus far consists of more than 950 pages. (Birmingham Decl., ¶ 12.) Further,
Plaintiff contends that the declaration of John A. Glaspy in support of
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment does not state that Defendant’s
employees complied with the standard of care when they prepared and connected
the incorrect dosage of chemotherapy to Plaintiff. Thus, Defendant’s response
referencing the various documents is not sufficiently specific such that
Plaintiff could ascertain Defendant’s answer. (Code of Civil Procedure Section
2030.230.)
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses to interrogatory
No. 17.1 is GRANTED.
 
E.     
Sanctions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310(h), monetary sanctions
shall be imposed where a party unsuccessfully opposes a motion to compel
further responses unless the Court finds the party acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.
 
Plaintiff requests that the court impose monetary sanctions on
Defendant of $2,460.00. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, there
are grounds to impose reasonable monetary sanctions on Defendant because
Plaintiffs are the prevailing party on its motion to compel further responses.
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.290 and 2031.300 authorize the court to
impose monetary sanctions on Defendant for the reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs incurred by the Plaintiffs as a result of the failure to comply with
discovery. 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel states his hourly rate of $400, that he has
and will spend a total of six hours on this motion, and that he incurred a $60
filing fee. (Birmingham Decl., ¶ 13.) The Court finds Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is reasonable and warranted.
 
Accordingly, the Court imposes monetary sanctions of $2,460.00 on
Defendant for this Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories.  
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel University of Southern California to
provide further responses to the Third Set of Form Interrogatories is GRANTED. Defendant University of Southern California shall provide
code-compliant responses within 20 days.
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
in the amount of $2,460.00. Said monetary sanctions are
to be paid to Plaintiffs’ counsel within 20 days of the date of this order. 