 Case Number:  23STCV23557    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  73 09/11/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
NPSC WESTMORELAND LLC v. HERNANDEZ,
et al. (23STCV23557)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  David Frank (Frank
Law Group, PC)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Christian
Oronsaye (Ivy Crest Attorneys, APC)
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (filed by Defendants on 06/20/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September 28, 2023, Plaintiff NPSC Westmoreland LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this forcible detainer action against
Defendants Jose Hernandez and Diane Gomez (“Defendants”)
for the
premises located at 1140 N Westmoreland Avenue, Los Angeles,
California, 90029, County of Los Angeles (the “Premises”). 
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. On or about November 8, 2017, Plaintiff acquired title
to the Premises. (Compl. ¶ 7.) At some time after Plaintiff acquired
the Premises, Plaintiff, through its agents, verbally allowed Nikola Zuvic to
temporarily occupy the Premises as a licensee in exchange for management of the
Premises and other units Plaintiff’s owned. (Id. ¶ 8.) At no time
did Plaintiff provide Zuvic with any authority, explicit, ostensible, or
otherwise, to allow any other person or persons to occupy the Premises or to
rent or lease the Premises to any person or persons. (Ibid.)
 
“Shortly
after Plaintiff’s acquisition of the Premises, Defendants unlawfully entered
and possessed the Premises without the knowledge or permission of Plaintiff. At no time
have Defendants paid rent to Plaintiff for the Premises or otherwise occupied the
Premises with the permission of Plaintiff.” (Id. ¶ 9.) “Since at
least 2018, Defendants have forcibly prevented Plaintiff from regaining
possession of the Premises by changing the locks, physically occupying the
Premises, claiming possession of the Premises verbally and in writing, and
denying entry by all others, including Plaintiff and its agents.” (Id. ¶
11.)
 
On
or about June 6, 2023, Plaintiff caused to be served upon Defendants a Five-Day
Notice to Quit for Forcible Detainer, demanding surrender of the Premises to
Plaintiff. (Id.
¶ 12.) Defendants have retained and continue to retain,
without Plaintiff s consent, possession of the Premises up to and including the
date of Plaintiff s verification of this complaint and Plaintiff is informed
and believes, and based thereon alleges, that Defendants are intending to
remain permanently in possession of the Premises. (Id. ¶ 14.) The Complaint alleges
a single cause of action for forcible detainer. 
 
 

On June 20, 2024, Defendants filed a motion for
summary judgment or alternatively, summary adjudication, arguing:
·      
Defendants are entitled
to judgment pursuant to CCP § 1172 because they have been in possession of the
Property for more than one year before Plaintiff filed this action.
·      
As
a matter of law, where a defendant has resided in the subject property for a
period exceeding one year, the plaintiff is barred from bringing a claim for a
forcible detainer under CCP § 1172. 
·      
Here,
there is no dispute in this case that the Defendants have been a resident of
the subject property since September 2018. 
o   Here, the Plaintiff has conclusively,
through the verified complaint, admitted that Defendants have been in
possession since 2018 and that Zuvic was its agent and cannot contradict the
undisputed facts at this time. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-9, 11; Hernandez Decl., ¶¶ 2-15.)
·      
In
addition, the evidence submitted here showed that the Defendants paid rent and
thus entered the premises with Plaintiffs' consent. A defendant's consensual
entry onto the premises sets up a defense to forcible entry. (See, e.g., Certeri
v. Roberts (1903) 140. Cal. 164, 166; see also Jordan v. Talbot
(1961) 55 Cal.2d 597, 605.)
 
On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition,
arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s opposition is not untimely. 
o   Unlawful
detainer and forcible detainer matters are also exempt from the normal section
437c 14-day prehearing deadline for filing opposition papers. CCP § 437 (s);
Cal. Judges Benchbook: Civ. Proc. Before Trial § 13.44. In fact, no express
deadline for opposition is contained in the unlawful detainer and forcible
detainer statutes. Given the permissible five-day notice of a section 437c
motion, any opposition to the motion may be made orally at the hearing or in
opposing papers due no later than the date set for the hearing. Cal. Prac.
Guide LandlordTenant § 8:485.
·      
Defendants Failed to Assert CCP § 1172, or Any Other
Statute of Limitation, In Their Answer. Therefore, Defendants have waived the
right to assert this affirmative defense.
·      
There are Triable Issues of Fact As to Whether
Defendants Have Been in “Quiet Possession” of the Premises and As to Whether
Defendants Ever Had a Legal Interest in the Premises
·      
Application of CCP § 1172 would lead to an absurdity
and would effectively bar Plaintiff from proceeding with the forcible detainer
action
 
On August 6, 2024, the Court continued
the hearing on the instant motion to consider Plaintiff’s opposition. 
 
On
August 21, 2024, Defendants filed a
reply, arguing: 
·      
No waiver of Affirmative Defense In This Case And
Courts Are Permitted To Allow Moving Party Introduce Affirmative defenses Even
for the First Time In a Motion for Summary Judgment
·      
There are no triable issues; the facts here are
undisputed together with judicial admission on the part of the plaintiff in the
verified complaint showing that the moving party has been in the premises since
2018.The totality of the records in this case show and undisputed fact that the
Defendants and members of their family have been a resident of the subject
property since September 2018.
·      
There is no requirement for a valid tenancy from the
landlord to the tenant. Whether or not the moving party had been in possession
without or with the permission of the landlord, as long as the moving party
shows [which has been done here] that the moving party occupied the property
for a period of a year and more, actions for forcible detainer is automatically
terminated; such showing/defense becomes a bar to a forcible detainer action.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Timeliness of
Opposition
 
As an initial
matter, the Court addresses the timeliness of Plaintiff’s opposition to the
instant motion. 
 
On August 2,
2024, Defendants filed a Notice of Plaintiff’s Non-Opposition to Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication, relying
solely on Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 for the proposition that an
opposition to the Motion for Summary Judgment was due from Plaintiff on July
29, 2024. Here, Plaintiff filed its opposition on August 2, 2024. 
 
However,
Plaintiff asserts that the motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication
are governed exclusively by Code of Civil Procedure section 437c. According to Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c(s), unlawful detainer and forcible detainer
actions are not subject to the normal deadlines. Plaintiff contends that no
express deadline for opposition is contained in the unlawful detainer and
forcible detainer statutes. Given the permissible five-day notice of a section
437c motion, any opposition to the motion may be made orally at the hearing or
in opposing papers due no later than the date set for the hearing. (Cal. Prac.
Guide LandlordTenant § 8:485.) Defendants do not dispute this in their reply. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff’s opposition is untimely. Thus,
the Court considers the merits of Plaintiff’s opposition. 
 
B.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of the following: Defendant's Verified Answer to
Plaintiff's Complaint in the instant matter. 
 
The court may take judicial notice of
“official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) The Court may take judicial notice of
its own file. (See Stepan v. Garcia
(1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.)
 
The Court
grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. 
 
C.      Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s objections to Defendants’ evidence in
support of the motion as follows:
 
Juan Hernandez Declaration (Nos. 1-60)
·      
Nos. 1-15: Overruled. 
 
Christian Oronsaye Declaration (Nos. 1-6)
·      
Nos. 1-4: Overruled.
·      
Nos. 5-6: Sustained (Legal Conclusion).
 
Christian Oronsaye Declaration, Exhibits
(Nos. 1-2)
·      
Nos. 1-2: Overruled. 
 
D.     Legal
Standard for Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
CCP § 1170.7 provides that “A motion
for summary judgment may be made at any time after the answer is filed upon
giving five days notice. Summary judgment shall be granted or denied on the
same basis as a motion under Section 437c.”  
 
In moving for summary judgment, a
“defendant . . . has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to¿the¿cause of action
or a defense thereto.  (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)  “There is a triable issue
of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier
of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion
in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (as modified (July 11,
2001).) The plaintiff “shall not rely upon the¿allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to¿the¿cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(2).) 
 
“The motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a
matter of law.  In determining¿if¿the papers show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact,¿the court shall consider all of the evidence set
forth in the papers, except¿the evidence¿to which objections have been made and
sustained by the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence,
except summary judgment¿shall¿not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.”  (Id.
§ 437c(c).) 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c(s) makes Code of Civil Procedure section
437c(a) (time limit requirements for motions for summary judgment and Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c(b) (requirements for a separate statement of
undisputed facts) inapplicable to unlawful detainer actions.
 
E.     
Whether
Defendant Waived Affirmative Defense CCP § 1172
 
First, the Court addresses Plaintiff’s
argument that Defendants waived their right to assert CCP § 1172 as an affirmative defense. The Court does not
find waiver here. 
 
Ordinarily, an affirmative defense
must be alleged in the answer or it is waived. (Green v. Healthcare
Services, Inc. (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 407, 415.) This does not mean,
however, that the failure to plead an affirmative defense in the answer
necessarily precludes the defendant from raising it in a motion for summary
judgment. (Nieto v. Blue Shield of California Life & Health Ins. Co.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 60, 75; Cruey v. Gannett Co. (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 356, 367.) Instead, courts generally have allowed an affirmative
defense to be asserted for the first time in a motion for summary judgment
“absent a showing of prejudice.” (Nieto, at p. 75.) As explained by one
appellate court: “Given the long-standing California court policy of exercising
liberality in permitting amendments to pleadings at any stage of the
proceedings ... we believe that a party should be permitted to introduce [a]
defense ... in a summary judgment procedure so long as the opposing party has
adequate notice and opportunity to respond.” (Cruey, at p. 367.)


Here, Plaintiff has not alleged any
prejudice from Defendants’ failure to allege CCP §
1172 as an affirmative defense in its answer. Defendants assert CCP § 1172 as a
defense in the instant motion, and Plaintiff has had an opportunity to oppose
Defendants’ motion on the merits.  Thus,
the Court does not find Defendants waived their right to assert CCP § 1172 as an affirmative defense. 
 
F.      
Discussion
 
CCP § 1172 provides in relevant part
that, as an affirmative defense to a cause of action for forcible detainer, a
defendant need only show that he has been in quiet possession of real property
for at least one year before the beginning of the forcible detainer
proceedings: 
 
The
defendant may show in his defense that he or his ancestors, or those whose
interest in such premises he claims, have been in the quiet possession thereof
for the space of one whole year together next before the commencement of the
proceedings, and that his interest therein is not ended or determined; and such
showing is a bar to the proceedings. 
 
(CCP § 1172.) One purpose behind this
defense is similar to CCP § 1161(2)’s one-year rent limitation: to prevent
plaintiffs from “sleeping on their rights” and to encourage prompt action with
respect to issues of possession. (Cf. Levitz Furniture Co. v. Wingtip
Commc’ns (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1040 [the policy underlying the
one-year limit in CCP § 1161(2) is to prevent a landlord from “sitting on his
or her rights, when rent is unpaid at some point during the life of a lease,
then using long-overdue rent (but no recently overdue rent) to effect an
eviction.”].) The defendant’s possession of the property, standing alone,
appears to be sufficient to invoke the defense. For example, in Wilson v.
Carson (1910) 14 Cal.App.570, the court of appeal noted that the section
1172 defense could be established by a defendant who took possession of
property after a prior tenant had vacated “and continued to hold possession
thereof down to the time of the institution of this action, more than a year
thereafter.” (Id. at 571–572.) However, a defendant cannot
satisfy the one year requirement by claiming the ousted former occupant’s time
in possession as his own. (Karp v. Margolis (1958) 159 Cal.App.2d 69,74
[holding that defendants who, three days before litigation commenced and
without proceeding pursuant to CCP § 1161a, had ousted former owners of real
property after purchasing title at a trustee’s sale could not satisfy CCP § 1172
because “they could not use the very possession they seek to disrupt as a basis
of one year's quiet possession under the section as a defense for their
actions”].)  
 
Here, Defendants contend that they
have been in possession of the Premises for more than one year before Plaintiff
filed this action on September 28, 2023. In support of the motion, Defendants
point to the Complaint that alleges Defendants
unlawfully entered and possessed the Premises without the knowledge or
permission of Plaintiff “shortly after Plaintiff’s
acquisition of the Premises.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-9.)  The Complaint alleges Plaintiff acquired the
Premises on or about November 8, 2017. (Ibid.) The Complaint also alleges “since at least 2018,
Defendants have forcibly prevented Plaintiff from regaining possession of the
Premises by changing the locks, physically occupying the Premises, claiming
possession of the Premises verbally and in writing, and denying entry by all others,
including Plaintiff and its agents.” (Id. ¶
11.) Thus, Defendants assert that it is undisputed
that Defendants have resided on the premises since at least 2018. (See Walker
v. Dorn, (1966) 240 Cal. App. 2d 118 [facts established by pleadings as
judicial admissions are conclusive concessions of the truth of those matters,
are effectively removed as issues from the litigation, and may not be
contradicted by the party whose pleadings are used against him or her.])
 
In further support of their motion, Defendant Hernandez states
that they had been continuously living at the Premises since September 2018.
(Hernandez Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant
Hernandez further states that Plaintiff has been aware of this fact, since Plaintiff
has accepted rent from Defendant, through its manager, from September 2018
through June 2023, when Plaintiff stopped accepting rent. (Id. ¶ 7.) In
support of this latter claim, Defendants attach pictures of several receipts of
rent payments. (Oronsaye Decl., Ex. 1.) 
 
Based on the allegations in the
Complaint and declaration submitted by Defendant Hernandez, the Court finds
Defendants have established a defense under CCP § 1172, as it appears
Defendants had been in possession of the Premises for more than a year before
Plaintiff filed this action. That this occupation has been continuous for such
a period without any apparent break—and particularly in light of the fact that
Defendants have apparently made multiple rent payments to Plaintiff—supports an
inference that their interest in continued possession had not been terminated. Therefore,
the Court finds that Defendants have met their initial burden on summary
judgment of establishing a defense under CCP § 1172, and the burden now shifts
to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue of material fact. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues triable issues of
material fact exist as to whether Defendants have been in quiet possession of
the premises and whether Defendants had a legal interest in the premises. Plaintiff
asserts that Defendants do not have a legal right to occupy the premises. In
support, Plaintiff submits a declaration by Brandon Jenkins, an authorized
agent of Plaintiff, stating that “Defendants
unlawfully entered and possessed the Premises without the knowledge or
permission of Plaintiff.” (Jenkins Decl., ¶ 4.)
Jenkins further states that “[a]t no time did Plaintiff provide Zuvic
with any authority, explicit, ostensible, or otherwise, to allow any other
person or persons to occupy the Premises or the Other Units or to rent or lease
the Premises or the Other Units to any person or persons. At no time did
Plaintiff provide Zuvic with any authority, explicit, ostensible, or otherwise,
to enter into any contractual relationship, including a landlord/tenant relationship,
with any person or persons.” (Jenkins Decl., ¶ 3.)
However, Plaintiff fails to cite to any authority that states that Defendants
must have a legal right to occupy the premises to assert CCP § 1172 as an
affirmative defense. In fact, it appears that Defendant’s possession of the
property, standing alone, is sufficient to invoke the CCP § 1172 defense. (Wilson,
supra, 14 Cal.App. at 571.) Plaintiff does not present any evidence disputing
that Defendants had been in possession of the property for more than one year.
Therefore, Plaintiff fails to carry its burden and fails to establish a triable
issue of material fact.
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. 
 
III.
DISPOSITION
 

Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 