  Case Number:  23STCP02068    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  82 


 
DR. ROY LUBIT, MD PH.D,  


 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCP02068




 
vs.
 
 
FMB DEVELOPMENT, LLC et al.,
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondents,
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH
  ORDER
 
Dept. 82 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 
7760 ROMAINE, LLC, et al.,
 


 
 
 
Nominal Respondents.
 


 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner Dr. Roy Lubit,
MD Ph.D, derivatively on behalf of 7760 Romaine, LLC and 1159 Formosa, LLC, moves
for a right to attach order against respondent FMB Development, LLC in the
amount of $4,000,000.
 
I.       Factual Background
            
            On May 20, 20214, petitioner Dr. Roy Lubit, MD Ph.D, and respondents FMB
Development, LLC (“FMB”), Elim Management, Inc. (“Elim”), and Joel Haggin
entered into two separate agreements titled “Joint Venture Agreement for Real
Estate Investment” (collectively, “Agreements”). (Lubit Decl. ¶¶ 6, 7 &
Exs. A, B.) The purpose of the Agreements was to purchase, build, and sell real
properties located at 1159 N. Formosa (“Formosa Property”) and 7760 Romaine
Street (“Romaine Property”), both in West Hollywood. (Id. Ex. A at § 2.1,
Ex. B at § 2.) The Agreements provide for the opening of two limited liability
companies to hold the respective real properties. (Id. Ex. A at § 2.1,
Ex. B at § 2.) 
 
            Under the Formosa Agreement, FMB is the managing member.
(Id. Ex. A at § 3.2.) Under the Romaine Agreement, FMB, Elim,
and/or Haggin are the managing members. (Id. Ex. B at § 4.) 
            In September 2014, the Formosa and Romaine Properties
were deeded to FMB. (RJN Exs. A, D.) FMB obtained a $4,000,000 loan, which was
secured by the Formosa Property and the Romaine Property. (RJN Exs. B, E.) FMB
subsequently transferred the properties to 1159 Formosa, LLC and 7760 Romaine,
LLC. (RJN Exs. C, F.) 
 
II.      Applicable Law
 
            “Upon
the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply
pursuant to this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment
by filing an application for the order and writ with the court in which the
action is brought.” (CCP § 484.010.) 
 
The application shall be executed under oath and
must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure
the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a statement
of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that the
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no
information or belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of the
action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. section
101 et seq.); and (5) a description of the property to be attached under the
writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes
that such property is subject to attachment. (CCP § 484.020.)
 
            The
application for a writ of attachment must be supported “by an affidavit showing
that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on
the claim upon which the attachment is based.” (CCP § 484.030.) 
 
The Court shall consider the showing made by the
parties, as well as the pleadings and other papers in the record. (CCP §
484.090(a), (d).) The Court shall issue a right to attach order if it finds all
of the following:
 
(1) The claim upon which the attachment is based is
one upon which an attachment may be issued.
 
(2) The plaintiff has established the probable
validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.
 
(3) The attachment is not sought for a purpose
other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based.
 
(4) The amount to be secured by the attachment is
greater than zero.
 
(CCP § 484.090(a)(1-4).) 
            “The
Attachment Law statutes are subject to strict construction….” (Epstein v.
Abrams (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.) 
 
III.     Analysis
            
            Petitioner’s requests to take judicial
notice of Exhibits A-F are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code §§ 452(g) and (h), but only for the limited purposes set
forth in Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256,
265. (Fontenot, 198 Cal.App.4th at 265 [“Taken together, the
decisions discussed above establish that a court may take judicial notice of
the fact of a document's recordation, the date the document was recorded and
executed, the parties to the transaction reflected in a recorded document, and
the document's legally operative language, assuming there is no genuine dispute
regarding the document's authenticity”].”)
 
“[A]n
attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each
of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount
of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s
fees.”  (CCP § 483.010(a).)  “An attachment may
not be issued on a claim which is secured by any interest in real property
arising from agreement ….”  (CCP § 483.010(b).)   
 
“A claim has ‘probable
validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a
judgment against the defendant on that claim.” (CCP § 481.190.) “If the
defendant opposes the application, ‘the court must then consider the relative
merits of the positions of the respective parties and make a determination of
the probable outcome of the litigation.’ [Citations.]” (Pech v. Morgan
(2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 841, 855.) 
 
            Petitioner moves to attach
$4,000,000 based on the amount that FMB borrowed purportedly in violation of
the Formosa Agreement and the Romaine Agreement. Petitioner contends that FMB wrongfully
secured the $4,000,000 loan without the permission of all members of the LLC,
including petitioner. (Pet. P&A at 9:22-27; cf. App. ¶ 9 [amount of
requested attachment is $4 million.) The Agreements require that [a]ll major
decisions affecting the sale of the property will be made by all parties of The
LLC.” (Lubit Decl. Ex. A at Art. VIII, Ex. B at § 19.) However, the Agreements also
charged FMB with the responsibility of “[c]ompleting [the] loan process with a
lender for 65% LTV.” (Id. Ex. A at § 3.2(b), Ex. B at § 4.) While the
sale of the properties is subject to a $4 million lien, it appears that the
parties expressly agreed that FMB was responsible for completing a loan
process. 
 
            In any event, the loans appear to
have been paid off. According to preliminary title reports concerning the two
subject properties, the properties are not encumbered by any deeds of trust for
$4,000,000 or any deeds of trust recorded on September 12, 2014, with respect
to the Formosa Property, or September 15, 2014, with respect to the Romaine
Property. (Bryn Decl. ¶ 3, Schedule B to Exs. 2, 3; cf. RJN Exs. B, E [Deeds of
Trust recorded on 9/12/14 against Formosa Property and 9/15/14 against Romaine
Property].) Therefore, to the extent that FMB required petitioner’s consent
before securing the $4 million loan with the subject properties, it would
appear the properties are no longer encumbered (or never were) as security for said
loan.
 
            Further, even if this Court were to
disregard the evidence in the preliminary title reports as is argued in
petitioner’s late-filed Reply, the Court could still not find petitioner has
demonstrated a judgment in his favor is more likely than not on this
record.  Assuming, arguendo, the
properties are still encumbered, the purported breach of the Agreements was using
the properties for security for a loan. 
There is no damage flowing from such breach if the security is not acted
upon.  Here, petitioner provides no
evidence of the terms of any loan, whether any such loan remains unsatisfied,
whether there is or has been any loan default, or whether there is any
likelihood the security interest would be used to satisfy any such unspecified
loan or portion thereof.  Damages are an
essential element of a claim for breach of contract (CACI 303), and petitioner
provides no evidence of damages flowing from the alleged breach.[1]
 
            Based
on the foregoing, petitioner fails to demonstrate that it is more likely than
not that petitioner will obtain a judgment in his favor. 
 
            In addition, petitioner does not
show how any arbitration award may be rendered ineffectual without the writ of
attachment. (See CCP § 1281.8(b) [“A party to an arbitration agreement
may file in the court in the county in which an arbitration proceeding is
pending…an application for a provisional remedy in connection with an
arbitrable controversy, but only upon the ground that the award to which the
applicant may be entitled may be rendered ineffectual without provisional
relief.”]; 1281.8(a)(1) [“provisional remedy” includes attachments].)
Petitioner only states that “[r]espondents may have dissipated assets available
to pay the $4,000,000 in damages to the LLCs should FMB Development’s loan be
paid prior to the conclusion of any arbitration between the parties.” (Lubit
Decl. ¶ 16.) Petitioner does not explain the basis for this contention.
Petitioner merely speculates that respondents may not have sufficient assets to
satisfy any award. Attaching FMB’s property with a speculative showing would
only serve to invade the province of the arbitrator, who the parties agreed
would adjudicate their disputes. (10/3/23 Minute Order [stating parties agreed
to arbitration]; Woolley v. Embassy Suites, Inc. (1991) 227 Cal.App.3d
1520, 1527, emphasis added [The logical reason for the requirement that an
applicant be required to show that an arbitration award may be rendered
ineffectual is to ensure that the court does not invade the province of the
arbitrator—i.e., the court should be empowered to grant provisional relief in
an arbitrable controversy only where the arbitrator's award may not be adequate
to make the aggrieved party whole”].) 
 
IV.     Conclusion
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the application is DENIED. 


