  Case Number:  23VECV04007    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  W IRVING TOLENTINO, et al. v. FCA US LLC
 
PlaintiffS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES FROM DEFENDANT FCA US LLC AND REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS 
 
Date of Hearing:        July
1, 2024                                        Trial Date:       None set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04007
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs Irving Tolentino and Jonathan Silvestre 
Responding Party:     Defendant FCA US LLC  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Powell Decl.)
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On September
12, 2023, Plaintiffs Irving Tolentino and Jonathan Silvestre filed a complaint
against Defendants FCA US LLC, Oremor of Ontario JCDR, LLC dba Jeep Chrysler
Doge RAM Fiat of Ontario for Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty, Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and
Negligent Repair. Plaintiff purchased a 2020 Ram 1500. Plaintiff alleges,
however, the vehicle suffered from defects and nonconformities and FCA failed
to remedy such defects and nonconformities. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories from Defendant FCA US LLC is GRANTED, in
part. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiffs Irving Tolentino and Jonathan Silvestre
move the court for an order compelling further responses to Plaintiffs’ Special
Interrogatories, Nos. 45 – 48 and monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,905.00
against Defendant FCA US LLC and its attorney of record, Ongaro PC.
 
A motion to compel further responses to
form or specially prepared interrogatories may be brought if the responses
contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete; (2) an unwarranted or
insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce documents in lieu of a
substantive response; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. (CCP
§ 2030.300(a).) Motions to compel further responses must always be
accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration (CCP § 2016.040) demonstrating a
“reasonable and good faith attempt an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (CCP §§ 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2),
2033.290(b).)  They must also be accompanied by a separate statement
containing the requests and the responses, verbatim, as well as reasons why a
further response is warranted.  (CRC, rule 3.1345(a).)  The separate
statement must also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may be
incorporated by reference.  (CRC, rule 3.1345(c).) 
 
Plaintiffs seek further discovery
responses to Special Interrogatories, Nos. 45-48. Interrogatories 45-48 seek
repair rates for 2020 RAM 1500 vehicles including the top five symptoms and
components replaced. Plaintiffs contend these interrogatories are relevant to
proving Plaintiffs’ claims under the Song-Beverly Act as to succeed on their
claims and would help show whether a widespread defect or nonconformity—of the
same type that Plaintiffs experienced—exists in these types of vehicles. Plaintiffs
also contend this information could refute FCA’s affirmative defenses claiming
that Plaintiffs and/or others misused or abused the vehicle or engaged in
unauthorized or unreasonable use as the cause of the problems with the vehicle.
Moreover, evidence regarding FCA’s practices in handling consumer complaints is
relevant to determining whether FCA willfully violated the Song-Beverly Act.
According to Plaintiffs, however, Defendant FCA’s responses were not code
compliant as FCA simply objected on relevance grounds. 
 
In opposition, FCA argues the four
interrogatories at issue are overly broad, unduly burdensome, and most
importantly, seek production not relevant to the claims or defenses in this
case. Nonetheless, Defendant has now supplemented its responses to all four
interrogatories at issue in and the motion should be denied. 
 
Plaintiff contends the supplemental
responses are not verified and do not answer the interrogatory and to the
extent FCA is seeking to provide the information reasonably available to it,
FCA still has not actually produced the documents it claims contain responsive
information. 
 
Defendants did not provide a copy of
the supplemental responses (only referenced in the separate statement). If
Defendant did not provide verification, Defendant is ordered to do so. However,
the court finds the supplemental responses code-compliant.  If additional documents have been discovered,
they should be produced as provided in the supplemental responses.   
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff seeks $2,950.00 in sanctions
due to FCA’s failure to provide code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s
interrogatories and refused to provide supplemental responses until after
Plaintiff filed their motion. Plaintiff seeks $2,950.00 for 2.4 hours drafting
the motion, 1.0 hour reviewing the motion, 2.0 hours reviewing the opposition,
and 2.0 hours attending the hearing as well as the $60.00 filing fee. (Powell
Decl. ¶9.) Counsel’s hourly rate is $300.00. (Powell Decl. ¶9.) 
 
The court denies the request for
sanctions.  The requests were extremely
overbroad at their inception and only became answerable through the meet and
confer process.  Had plaintiff not agreed
to the narrowed response provided by defendant, this court would not have
ordered further responses.   