 Case Number:  23STCV11386    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  52 Order to Show Cause Re: Default
Judgment
Plaintiff Gain Federal Credit Union, a federally
chartered credit union, requests court judgment by default against defendant Tugsjargal Dukh.  
Plaintiff
fails to show valid service of summons on Dukh. 
Plaintiff’s proof of service attests to substituted service.  Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20(b)
provides, “If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable
diligence be personally delivered to” an individual defendant, “a summons may
be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s
dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the
presence of a competent member of the household or a person apparently in
charge of” the location.  “Ordinarily,
two or three attempts at personal service at a proper place and with correct
pleadings should fully satisfy the requirement of reasonable diligence and
allow substituted service to be made.”  (Kremerman
v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358, 373.)
The
declaration of reasonable diligence attached to plaintiff’s proof of service
indicates the address for service was not Dukh’s “dwelling house, usual place
of abode,” or other proper address.  The
process server’s entry regarding September 23, 2023, states: “120 S Reno St apt 348, Los Angeles,
CA 90057; The address given is not valid for subject.  Per John doe occupant defendant is unknown at
given address.  Defendant does not live
here or receive mail.”  The process
server nonetheless continued to attempt to serve Dukh at the same address.  Plaintiff has not shown that address was a
proper place to attempt personal service on Dukh.  
Plaintiff must either: (a) show that address
was a proper place to serve Dukh, (b) serve Dukh at another address, or (c)
apply for service of summons by publication.
Plaintiff’s request for default judgment is denied.
The court hereby vacates the
default of defendant Tugsjargal Dukh.  