  Case Number:  19STCV15834    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant City of Los Angeles’s Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings 
Defendant City of Los Angeles moves for judgment on
the pleadings on plaintiff Richard Owens’s first amended complaint.
1st through 3rd Causes of
Action: 42
U.S.C. § 1983
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for these causes of
action.  Defendant argues otherwise
because plaintiff has not identified, named, and served any individual City
employee as a defendant.  Defendant cites
no authority supporting its premise that “[t]he U.S. Supreme Court has long
held that a plaintiff cannot proceed directly against a public entity on 42
U.S.C. § 1983 claims as a matter of law because there is no vicarious liability
for such claims.”  (Motion, pp. 3-4.)  
Defendant’s reliance on Ashcroft v. Iqbal
(2009) 556 U.S. 662 is misplaced.  There,
the Supreme Court stated, “Absent vicarious liability, each Government
official, his or her title notwithstanding, is only liable for his or her own
misconduct.”  (Ashcroft v. Iqbal
(2009) 556 U.S. 662, 677.)  The Supreme
Court held the petitioners, former U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft and
former FBI Director Robert Mueller (id. at p. 666), “may not be held
accountable for the misdeeds of their agents” (id. at p. 677).  The Court did not consider whether the United
States itself could be liable.  Applying
the rule here would mean that, for example, the City’s mayor or chief of police
could not be vicariously liable for rank-and-file police officers’ alleged
excessive force. 
Defendant also cites Monell v. Department of Social
Services of City of New York (1978) 436 U.S. 658 (Monell).  That was the very case first holding that a
municipality can itself be liable under section 1983.  “Local governing bodies … can be sued
directly under § 1983 for monetary, declaratory, or injunctive relief where … the
action that is alleged to be unconstitutional implements or executes a policy
statement, ordinance, regulation, or decision officially adopted and
promulgated by that body’s officers.”  (Id.
at p. 690.)  
The Supreme Court’s holding that “a municipality
cannot be held liable under § 1983 on a respondeat superior theory” (Monell,
supra, at p. 691) means the statute does not “impose liability vicariously
on governing bodies solely on the basis of the existence of an
employer-employee relationship with a tortfeasor” (ibid.).  “[A] local government may not be sued under §
1983 for an injury inflicted solely by its employees or agents.  Instead, it is when execution of a government’s
policy or custom, whether made by its lawmakers or by those whose edicts or
acts may fairly be said to represent official policy, inflicts the injury that
the government as an entity is responsible under § 1983.”  (Id. at p. 694.) 
Plaintiff’s first amended complaint alleges the City’s
policies and customs inflicted the injury upon him.  It alleges, “The Officer Defendants
and any other involved officers acted pursuant to expressly adopted official
policies or longstanding practices or customs of the City of Los Angeles.  These include policies and longstanding practices
or customs” concerning seizing individuals without probable cause, using
excessive force, and warrantless entries on vehicles.  (¶¶ 16, 27, 38.)  It further alleges the City’s “official
policies and/or longstanding practices or customs, including but not limited to
its training policies, caused the deprivation of [plaintiff’s] constitutional
rights.”  (¶¶ 20, 30, 41.)    
Defendant provides no authority
that pleading a cause of action under section 1983 requires naming as
defendants the individual City employees who acted pursuant to the City’s
alleged illegal policies.  
6th Cause of Action: Battery
            Defendant contends plaintiff has not alleged sufficient
facts for this cause of action because he has neither named a specific City
employee as a defendant nor identified the employee who committed the alleged
battery.  Defendant cites authority
requiring that the plaintiff identify the employee—but not that he must do so
in the operative pleading, nor that he must name the employee as a defendant.  They rely on two cases, neither of which were
decided on the pleadings.
First, Koussaya v. City of Stockton (2020) 54
Cal.App.5th 909, 944 stated, “[I]n order for vicarious public entity liability
to attach, a public employee, either named as a defendant or at least ‘specifically
identified’ by the plaintiff, must have engaged in an act or omission giving
rise to that employee’s tort liability.” 
There, the Court of Appeal affirmed an order granting summary judgment.
Second, Munoz v. City of Union City (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1077, 1113 stated, “[U]nless the employee is identified, the trier
of fact will not be able to determine if the elements needed to assert
vicarious liability have been proved. 
[Citation.]  Thus, the doctrine
clearly contemplates that the negligent employee whose conduct is sought to be
attributed to the employer at least be specifically identified, if not joined
as a defendant.”  That case was an appeal
after a jury verdict.  At this stage,
there is no trier of fact.    
Plaintiff’s first amended complaint is not required to
identify the specific officers who committed the alleged battery.  Plaintiff also is not required to join any
specific officers as a defendant.  
Defendant further argues plaintiff has not alleged
sufficient facts to make a prima facie showing that the police officers used
unreasonable force.  In an action for
battery against a policer officer, the “[p]laintiff must prove unreasonable
force as an element of the tort.”  (Edson
v. City of Anaheim (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1272.)  
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for this element.  The first amended complaint alleges, “[T]he
Officer Defendants used unreasonable and excessive force when they unlawfully
restrained Mr. Owens, forced him on the ground used their knees to place
significant pressure on his back and twisted his arms in extremely painful
positions.”  (¶ 23.)  It further alleges, “Defendant
Officers used unreasonable force when placing Mr. Owens on the ground after he
offered no resistance at all.”  (¶ 63.)
Disposition
Defendant City of Los Angeles’s motion for judgment on
the pleadings is denied.