  Case Number:  22STCV04328    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  14 #2MOTION FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT
Facts of the Case:  This is an action for fraud and breach of
fiduciary duty. Plaintiff alleges that he established an online resale platform
for high end sneakers called Secret Sauce with John Miller and Michael
Schneider. In 2020, Miller sold his membership interest to Goldstone and
Schneider. In 2021, a third-party investor, Castro, and Schneider conspired to
oust Goldstone and strip Secret Sauce of its assets.
Procedural History:
Plaintiff filed his Complaint against Defendant Louie Castro on February
3, 2022. 
On March 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Doe Amendment naming Louie Castro,
LLC as a defendant in this action.
On October 25, 2023, default was entered against Defendant Louie Castro.
On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Louie Castro, LLC from this
action.
On May 15, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s application for entry of
default judgment because Plaintiff failed to complete form CIV-100 and request
dismissal of the Doe Defendants.
On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed the Doe Defendants in this action.
Submitted: The
requirements of CRC Rule 3.1800 have been met.
Principal Requested: $534,096
Interest:  $2,229.96
Recommendation: GRANT
once Plaintiff submits a new JUD-100 specifying in item 8 that any payment in
the judgment against Schneider will reduce Castro’s obligation on this judgment
and vice versa.
The Court previously denied Plaintiff’s application for default judgment
because Plaintiff’s form CIV-100 was incomplete. Plaintiff’s new form is
complete.
The Court previously noted that Plaintiff relied on the arbitration award
in another matter against Schneider as evidence of damages. Because the damages
amount stated in the arbitration award is hearsay, Plaintiff failed to provide
evidence of his damages. Plaintiff’s declaration now states that he lost income
due to the conspiracy between Castro and Schneider totaling $367,872. (Goldstone
Decl., ¶¶50-54.) Additionally, Plaintiff incurred attorney’s fees to regain
control of his company from Schneider. (Id., ¶55.) Plaintiff’s demand
for damages is now supported by evidence. 
The Court previously denied Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees associated
with the arbitration against Schneider because Plaintiff provided no authority
that he was entitled to fees in that matter. Plaintiff now cites Copenbarger
v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1, 9, where
a court held that a plaintiff may recover attorney’s fees which were
proximately caused by a defendant’s breach of contract as compensatory damages.
Copenbarger involved a breach of contract action whereas this case is
for fraud and breach of fiduciary duty. Attorney’s fees are not typically recoverable
as damages in fraud cases where a defendant is a fiduciary. (Gray v. Don
Miller & Associates, Inc. (1984) 35 Cal.3d 498, 507.) However, there is
an exception to the general rule that each party must pay his own fees. The
so-called “tort of another” exception provides that if a party is required to
expend in defending or prosecuting an action because of the tort of another, the
party may recover the attorney’s fees incurred in an action by or against a
third party. (Pederson v. Kennedy (1982) 128 Cal.App.3d 976, 979.)
Here, the Court agrees that the attorney’s fees Plaintiff incurred to
regain control of the company were incurred as a result of Defendant’s fraud
and breach of his fiduciary duties to Plaintiff. Therefore, Plaintiff’s
attorney’s fees incurred in the action against Schneider are recoverable as
damages. Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees are properly supported by a declaration
from counsel.
Finally, Plaintiff is confused by the Court’s order that the proposed
judgment must reference the judgment in the action against Schneider. 
“It is the rule that ‘if one joint tortfeasor satisfies a judgment
against all joint tortfeasors the judgment creditor cannot obtain a double
recovery by collecting the same judgment from another of the tortfeasors.’
[Citation.] The rationale is that ‘[a]n injured person is entitled to only one
satisfaction of judgment for a single harm, and full payment of a judgment by
one tortfeasor discharges all others who may be liable for the same injury.’
[Citation.] ... ‘[W]here fewer than all of the joint tortfeasors satisfy less
than the entire judgment, such satisfaction will not relieve the remaining
tortfeasors of their obligation under the judgment. Stated otherwise, ‘partial
satisfaction has the effect of a discharge pro tanto [for so much].’” (Howard
v. American National Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 517.
Here, the Court is concerned about double recovery because this judgment
concerns the same injury as the injury in the judgment against Schneider: Plaintiff’s
damages incurred as a result of the conspiracy between Schneider and Castro. To
prevent double recovery, the proposed judgment here must reference the judgment
against Schneider and specify that any payment made on the judgment against
Schneider will reduce Castro’s obligation and vice versa. Plaintiff’s
application for default judgment will be granted once Plaintiff submits an
updated JUD-100 reflecting this instruction in item 8.
 
 