 Case Number:  23VECV04168    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  T BARNETT V ROYAL GARDENS 23VECV04618 [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  The Demurrer by Anza Management to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Eighth and Tenth Causes of Action and OVERRULED as to the first, third, ninth, twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action.  20 DAYS LEAVE.  Leave to amend is limited to correcting the deficiencies noted by the court and not to allow any new parties or claims. Introduction This action arises out of allegations of an unhabitable apartment unit. On or about September 28, 2015, Plaintiff Barnett ("Plaintiff") moved into Apartment 312, where she later experienced a cockroach infestation not caused by her actions. (Complaint  12-13.) This infestation led Plaintiff to develop severe itchiness and rashes (Complaint  14) and to discard many personal items (Complaint  15.) Despite reporting the issue and requesting professional pest control, her requests were ignored by the management, and only roach powder was offered (Complaint  16.) On January 23, 2023, a cockroach entered Plaintiff's left ear, and she had to go to a hospital where the cockroach was removed. This incident resulted in Plaintiff losing about 30% of her hearing in that ear, along with intermittent earaches. (Complaint  17-19.) Following this, pest control services were provided. (Complaint  20.) Despite fumigation efforts, Plaintiff continued to see cockroaches, leading to severe anxiety, weight loss, insomnia, and she started sleeping in her car or with friends to avoid the cockroaches. (Complaint  21-22.) She also began receiving cockroach bites on her body. (Complaint  23.) Further fumigations did not eliminate the infestation. (Complaint  24.) An inspector from the Los Angeles County Public Health Department confirmed the infestation, but the problem persisted. (Complaint  25.) Additionally, Plaintiff faced issues with the apartment's maintenance, including a leaky and malfunctioning kitchen sink. Despite reporting the issue and being promised a fix, the repair was delayed and inadequately handled, leading to further dissatisfaction. (Complaint  36-37.) Security concerns were also highlighted, with stolen packages and a vehicle break-in within the apartment complex. (Complaint  38.) As a result of the ongoing infestation and associated issues, Plaintiff sought further medical attention for the physical and emotional distress caused by living in such conditions, resulting in various incurred expenses. (Complaint  39-41.) Before leasing the Apartment Unit to Plaintiff, Defendants did not to inspect or ensure the apartment was free of cockroaches and other uninhabitable conditions, disregarding prior knowledge of such conditions. (Complaint  42.) Despite being aware of existing cockroach infestations and other uninhabitable conditions, they failed to eliminate these issues before leasing the apartment to Plaintiff, failing to notify her and other tenants of the conditions. (Complaint  43-45.) Defendants ignored tenant complaints about these conditions, failing to implement adequate safeguards for protection, and management did not change. (Complaint  46-49.) Defendants have not replaced management employees responsible for the complex's maintenance or implemented new policies for managing such conditions. (Complaint  50-52.) Defendants ratified the conduct of their employees by failing to replace those who did not properly inspect or maintain the apartments, did not address tenant complaints, and failed to train employees on protocols for deeming a dwelling habitable. (Complaint  53.) Prior to Plaintiff's tenancy, she never observed cockroaches in her residence or experienced bites, indicating the infestation was known to Defendants but not disclosed (Complaint  54-55). Plaintiff's initial Complaint was filed on September 20, 2023. The Complaint alleges the following thirteen causes of action:  Battery Negligence Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress Statutory Breach of Warranty of Habitability (Civil Code §§1941 and 1941.1) Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability Violation of Business & Professions Code §17200 et seq. Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment Violation of Civil Code §1941.3 Violation of Civil Code §1942.4 Negligent Violation of Statutory Duty to Maintain Habitable Conditions Breach of Contract Private Nuisance Public Nuisance  The instant Demurrer without Motion to Strike was filed by Defendant Anza Management Company ("Defendant"). The Demurrer demurs to seven causes of action: the first, third, eighth, ninth, tenth, twelfth and thirteenth causes of action. An opposition was filed on March 26, 2024. A reply was filed on April 2, 2024. Discussion on Demurrer Meet and Confer Standard and Analysis - "Before filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer." (CCP § 430.41(a); see also CCP § 435.5 (imposing similar requirements for a motion to strike).)."   In the Declaration of Maria V. Onufrio Hollosy ("Hollosy Dec."), Defendant's Counsel, Hollosy declares that on March 8, 2024, she sent a meet and confer letter by email and called the office of opposing counsel the same day asking to meet and confer and mentioned that a letter was sent by email. (Hollosy Dec.  4-6.) On the same day, opposing counsel provided a letter in response, disagreeing with Defendant's counsel's position. (Hollosy Dec.  6.) However, the parties were unable to reach an agreement. Since the parties were unable to resolve the matters informally, Defendant sufficiently shows that the requirements of CCP § 430.41(a) have been satisfied. The Court will now turn to the merits of the Demurrer.Demurrer Standard - "[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint." (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) Demurrer Analysis - First Cause of Action - Battery "The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would have been offended by the touching." (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.) Defendant argues that the first cause of action for battery fails because Plaintiff has not properly pled the first element of touching with the intent to harm. However, the Court disagrees. Defendant argues that there are no facts to show that it had control over the cockroaches or that it intentionally used the cockroaches to touch Plaintiff, and that mere negligence in inspection or addressing the cockroach infestation cannot constitute battery, which requires intent to harm or offend. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant's knowledge of the cockroach infestation and failure to act constitutes willful and reckless disregard for Plaintiff's rights. The Complaint makes specific allegations about Defendants' "intentional, deliberate, and reckless actions and failures to eradicate the infestation of cockroaches, and the like": (1) deliberate actions in failing to properly and thoroughly inspect the Apartment Unit to ensure the Apartment is free from infestations of cockroaches, and the like, prior to entering into a lease with the Plaintiff; (2) intentional and deliberate actions in the egregious delay of retaining pest control services to fumigate and treat the infestation of cockroaches, and the like, occurring in the Apartment Unit; (3) intentional, deliberate, and reckless choice not to inspect apartment units at ROYAL GARDENS AT KITTRIDGE APARTMENTS, to prevent the spread of infestations of cockroaches, and the like; (4) intentional, deliberate, and reckless choice in requiring Plaintiff to remain isolated in the Apartment despite having knowledge of the infestation from the Plaintiff; (5) intentional, deliberate, and reckless choice not to authorize an early termination of Plaintiff's lease agreement; (6) willful disregard of knowledge of cockroach infestation and other uninhabitable conditions in Plaintiff's Apartment; and (7) intentional, deliberate, and reckless choice in failing to give notice to Plaintiff of the presence of the said uninhabitable conditions occurring in the Apartment and other units at the Subject Apartment. (Compl.  61.) The Court finds this sufficient to show Defendant's intent. Although in reply, Defendant challenges this by noting that the apartment was not infested with cockroaches at the beginning of her tenancy in 2015, the infestation only developed in 2021, and that they made efforts to address the infestation, including the use of roach powder and hiring a pest control company, whether Plaintiff's claims are actually meritorious are not appropriate at the demurrer stage. Thus, the demurrer as to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.  Third Cause of Action - Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress "The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community." (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.) In order for conduct to be outrageous, there must be (1) a specific intent to injure, or (2) a reckless disregard of the substantial certainty of a severe emotional injury. (Davidson v. City of Westminster (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, 210 ["Absent an intent to injure, such inaction is not the kind of 'extreme and outrageous conduct' that gives rise to liability under the 'intentional infliction of emotional distress' tort"]; Christensen v. Superior Court, 54 Cal.3d at p. 903 ["substantially certain to cause extreme emotional distress"].) Defendant challenges the IIED claim on the grounds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged outrageous conduct or that Defendant intended to cause emotional distress, and that Plaintiff's claims, at most, suggest negligence, not the extreme and outrageous conduct required for IIED. The Court disagrees. The Complaint alleges that a cockroach entered Plaintiff's ear where it was extracted in the emergency department at Valley Presbyterian Hospital. (Compl.  18.) As a result, Plaintiff claims to have lost 30% of her hearing and experiencing intermittent earaches. (Id.  19.) The Court finds these allegations to show that Defendant's conduct in failing to take steps to prevent this scenario is extreme and outrageous enough to support Plaintiff's claim for IIED. Given the Court's finding above that there was a sufficient showing of intent on the part of Defendant, the Complaint sufficiently provides facts to make a claim for IIED. Thus, the demurrer as to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. Eighth Cause of Action - Violation of California Civil Code section 1942.3 Plaintiff states that she mistakenly alleged Civil Code Section 1941.3 as a cause of action, and that this was an attorney error and should have been listed as Civil Code Section 1942.3. Plaintiff requests leave to amend this cause of action as set forth above. The Court grants Plaintiff's request. Thus, the demurrer as to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Ninth Cause of Action - Violation of California Civil Code section 1942.4 California Civil Code section 1942.4 prohibits a landlord from demanding or collecting rent, issuing a notice for rent increase, or issuing a three-day notice to pay rent or quit if the dwelling lacks certain standard characteristics or is deemed substandard, as outlined in specific sections of the Health and Safety Code. (See Civil Code section 1942.4 subd. (a).) These conditions include a written notice from a public officer or employee about existing substandard conditions or nuisances that have not been addressed within 35 days after notice, with the delay being without good cause, and the assurance that these conditions were not caused by the tenant. (See id. subd. (a)(1)-(4).) In section 1942.4 subdivision (b), it states that landlords who fail to comply with these conditions may be liable for actual and special damages to the tenant, ranging from $100 to $5,000, along with potential attorney fees and court costs. (See Civil Code § 1942.4 subd. (b).) Courts may also order landlords to correct any substandard conditions or nuisances that significantly affect the occupants' health or safety. (See id. subd. (c).) This section allows for additional remedies alongside those provided by leases, rental agreements, or other statutory or common law, excluding landlords pursuing rights under a specific chapter of the Government Code regarding compliance. (See id. subd. (f).) Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to plead sufficient facts to support this cause of action because it generically pleads that Defendant was on notice but does not specify if the notice is written or not, and if the notice was given or not by a public officer or employee who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law. However, under subdivision (a)(1), it may be sufficient to show that "The dwelling substantially lacks any of the affirmative standard characteristics listed in Section 1941.1 or violates Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and declared substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code because conditions listed in that section exist to an extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants of the dwelling." (Civil Code § 1942.4 subd. (a)(1).) The allegations in the complaint are sufficient as Plaintiff alleges the rented dwelling unit from Defendants lacked necessary standard characteristics defined by Civil Code § 1941.1 and failed to address a cockroach infestation despite being notified multiple times by Plaintiff. The Complaint alleges that the Los Angeles County Public Health Department's inspection confirmed the infestation, advising immediate remedy (Compl.  25), and despite ongoing complaints from Plaintiff about the infestation, Defendants did not abate the condition. (Compl.  161.) Thus, the demurrer as to the ninth cause of action is OVERRULED. Tenth Cause of Action - Negligent Violation of Statutory Duty to Maintain Habitable Conditions Defendant contends that Negligent Violation of Statutory Duty to Maintain Habitable Conditions is not a recognized cause of action and is duplicative of other allegations in the Complaint. It argues that the Complaint fails to distinctly state which actions by Defendant support this cause of action, making it uncertain and unintelligible. Plaintiff fails to distinguish how this cause of action is separate from the second cause of action for negligence. Indeed, in support of this cause of action, Plaintiff asserts that the complaint sufficiently alleges Defendant's breach of duty in maintaining safe and habitable living conditions. However, it is unclear that this is not duplicative of the second cause of action for negligence. Thus, the demurrer as to the tenth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Twelfth and Thirteenth Causes of Action - Private Nuisance; Public Nuisance To establish an action for private nuisance, (1) "the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his property"; (2) "the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage"; (3) "the interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land." (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263, citations, italics, brackets, and quotation marks omitted.) In determining whether a particular activity constitutes a public nuisance a court considers three elements: (1) the proscribed act, (2) whether the result of the act interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, and (3) whether the act affects a sufficient number of persons. (People v. McDonald (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 521, 535.) Defendant challenges both nuisance claims by arguing that Plaintiff has not pleaded sufficient facts to establish the necessary elements for either private or public nuisance. Specifically, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not shown that Defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing the alleged harm or that the seriousness of the harm outweighs the social utility of Defendant's conduct. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff alleges that there was a cockroach infestation at the Apartment Complex, which poses a health risk to tenants and the public by potentially spreading the infestation beyond the complex. (Compl. 1, 13-41, 180-193.) Plaintiff further claims that Defendants had knowledge of the infestation yet failed to maintain the apartments properly, thereby assisting in the nuisance's creation. Such allegations are said to be sufficient for a cause of action for public nuisance. (Id.  41-57.) Plaintiff argues that Defendants' awareness and inaction regarding the cockroach infestation significantly and unreasonably interfered with their enjoyment of the apartment, including an incident where a cockroach entered Plaintiff's ear, further supporting the claims for both public and private nuisance. (Id.  13-58, 184.) The Court finds that the Complaint clearly states the alleged negligence of Defendants to address the cockroach infestation and that this conduct interfered substantially with the enjoyment of Plaintiff's property. Further, since this issue applied to the whole apartment complex, the Court finds that the public nuisance claim is supported. (Compl.  44-58.) Thus, the demurrer as to the twelfth and thirteenth causes of action are OVERRULED. Discussion on Leave to Amend Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not "sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment"]. Because there is a reasonable possibility of amendment, Plaintiff will be granted thirty (20) days leave to amend the eighth and tenth causes of action. Conclusion Accordingly, Defendants' Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the eighth and tenth causes of action but is OVERRULED as to the first, third, ninth, twelfth and thirteenth causes of action. Plaintiff is granted thirty (20) days leave to amend. IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.  