 Case Number:  LC101022    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  T LC101022 JP’S NEVADA TRUST
V FISHER
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Peggy Nipar, Trustee of the Charles
A. Orwick, III Trust of 2001 and the Charles A. Orwick Charitable Remainder
Trust’s Motion for Summary Judgment and the Alternative Motion for Summary
Adjudication are DENIED.
Plaintiff Tom Grimmett, trustee
of JP’s Nevada Trust’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to the
existence of the documents but not as to hearsay or facts in dispute.
Introduction 
Defendant Peggy Nipar, Trustee of
the Charles A. Orwick, III Trust of 2001 and the Charles A. Orwick Charitable
Remainder Trust (Defendant or Orwick) moved for summary judgment (MSJ) and
alternatively for summary adjudication (MSA) against Plaintiff Tom Grimmett,
trustee of JP’s Nevada Trust’s Second Amended Complaint (SAC).  The MSJ/MSA placed into issue the first cause
of action (COA) for fraud, the fourth COA for declaratory relief, the sixth COA
for conspiracy to defraud, the seventh COA for rescission, the ninth COA for
constructive trust, the tenth COA for unjust enrichment, the twelfth COA for
violation of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) (19
U.S.C. section 1962), and thirteenth COA for conspiracy to violate RICO.
Procedure 
“If summary adjudication is
sought, whether separately or as an alternative to the motion for summary
judgment, the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for
damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically in the notice of motion
and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material
facts.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1350(b).)  Further the separate
statement is required to separately identify each COA that is the subject of
the motion.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1350(d).)  Defendant’s Notice to the
MSA cited the eight separate COAs that were being placed into issue.  However, Defendant’s Separate Statement
failed to separately identify each COA and failed to repeat, verbatim, the
issues to be adjudicated.  For this
defect, there is grounds to deny the MSA. 
(Code Civ. Proc., sec. 437c(b)(1).) 
The Court exercises is discretion and denies the MSA for failure to
comply with the separate statement requirements.
Defendant’s MSA is DENIED.
As asserted by Plaintiff, the
fourth COA for declaratory relief and the ninth COA for constructive trust are
no longer at issue because the two COAs were dismissed in February 2019.  The following discussion as to the MSJ did
not consider arguments related the two dismissed COAs.  The viable COAs in the SAC against Defendant
are the first COA for fraud, the sixth COA for conspiracy to defraud, the
seventh COA for rescission, the tenth COA for unjust enrichment, the twelfth
COA for violation of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act
(RICO) (19 U.S.C. section 1962), and thirteenth COA for conspiracy to violate
RICO.
 
Discussion 
An MSJ shall be granted if there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ.
Proc., sec. 437c(c).)  The finding of a
single issue of material fact requires the MSJ to be denied.  As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a
defense. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1520.)  Once defendant meets its burden
of proof, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show the existence of a
triable issue of fact.
Specifically as to the sixth COA
for conspiracy to defraud, Defendant argued that there is no triable issue of
fact as to the elements of knowledge and acts in furtherance of the
conspiracy.  Orwick submitted his testimony
to show his lack of knowledge of Fisher’s scheme to defraud DeJoria.  Defendant argued that the written documents
evidencing the real property transactions show that the transactions between
Defendant and Fisher’s entities were not fraudulent as to DeJoria.  (Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts
(DSSF) 5, 8, 10-12, 14-16, and 18-20.) 
Orwick provided that he properly foreclosed on the ranches when Fisher’s
entities defaulted on the payments. 
(DSSF 24.)  Defendant further
provided that the excess funds from DeJoria to Orwick’s account as to payments
owed by Fisher’s corporate entities was controlled/directed by Fisher.  Defendant provided that it was Fisher that
directed the disbursement of the excess funds from Orwick’s account.  (DSSF 29-30, 33.)  Orwick attested that he was not pleased with
the excess funds due to tax consequences and did not know the people nor bank
accounts that Fisher sent the excess funds to. 
(DSSF 32 and 34.)  These facts
show Defendant’s lack of knowledge of any scheme to defraud DeJoria and lack of
cooperation in the conspiracy because it is provided that Fisher
directed/controlled the payment and/or disbursements of the funds and Defendant
lacked knowledge of the entities/persons receiving the excess funds.  Defendant’s facts are sufficient to show that
no triable issue of fact exists as to Defendant’s knowledge of the conspiracy
(or lack thereof) and Defendant’s acts in furtherance of the conspiracy (or
lack thereof).  Defendant met his burden
of proof to show that no triable issue of material fact as to the sixth COA and
the burden shifted to Plaintiff.
Plaintiff provided that Orwick
owned the four ranches and sold them to Fisher’s corporate entities
(Plaintiff’s Additional Separate Statement of Facts (PASSF) 42, 80, 94, 105,
106, 111, and 112.)  Plaintiff provided that
DeJoria’s money to purchase some of the ranches were wired to Orwick’s accounts
directly, wherein Orwick then distributed the money to Fisher’s other corporate
entities and also used Plaintiff’s funds for his own personal use.  (PASSF 56-57, 60, 63, 69-70, 72-75, 85-86, 89,
91, 110, 124-134.)  Plaintiff also
provided evidence to show that Fisher and Orwick had a business and personal
relationship since 2007, wherein Orwick partially funded Fisher’s purchase of
the Lassen Ranches, and also operated a cattle company together.  (PSSF 118-121.)  Because Orwick had a long-standing relationship
with Fisher and received Plaintiff’s funds so that the funds could be
distributed to Fisher’s corporate accounts, as well as be used by Orwick for
his personal gain, the evidence presented circumstantial evidence to support
the elements of knowledge of the conspiracy and acts in furtherance of the
conspiracy.  Plaintiff met their burden
to show that a triable issue of fact exists as to the COA for conspiracy to
defraud.
Because a triable issue of fact
exists, Defendant is not entitled to a judgment as to the COAs still viable
against Defendant, as a matter of law.
The Court did not consider the
arguments/evidence as to the other COAs since a singular triable issue of fact
requires the denial of the MSJ.  

Defendant’s
MSJ is DENIED.  
 

[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Tom Grimmett, trustee of JP’s
Nevada Trust’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED as to all issues
presented.
Plaintiff Tom Grimmett,
trustee of JP’s Nevada Trust’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to the
existence of the documents but not as to hearsay or facts in dispute.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Tom Grimmett, trustee
of JP’s Nevada Trust (Plaintiff or DeJoria) moved for summary adjudication
(MSA) in favor of the Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleged against Defendant
Peggy Nipar, Trustee of the Charles A. Orwick, III Trust of 2001 and the
Charles A. Orwick Charitable Remainder Trust (Defendant or Orwick).  The MSA placed into issue Plaintiff’s sixth
cause of action (COA) for conspiracy to defraud, twelfth COA for violation of
the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) (19 U.S.C.
section 1962), and the thirteenth COA for conspiracy to violate RICO.  The alleged co-conspirator is alleged to be
Co-Defendant Robert Fisher (Fisher).
Discussion 
Plaintiff argued that there is no
triable issue of fact as to Defendant’s conspiracy to defraud, RICO violation,
and conspiracy to violate RICO. 
Plaintiff’s burden was to produce admissible evidence on each element of
the cause of action entitling Plaintiff to judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 437c(p)(1).)  The burden then shifts to Defendant to show
that a triable issue of material facts exists as to the cause of action or a
defense.  (Id.)  
In addition to presenting
admissible evidence as to the underlying fraud by Fisher and RICO violation by
Fisher, Plaintiff’s conspiracy COAs require a showing that Orwick was aware
that Fisher planned to defraud and conduct racketeering activity and that
Orwick agreed with Fisher and intended that the fraud and racketeering activity
be committed.  (CACI no. 3600; 18 U.S.C.
sec. 1962(d).)  Mere knowledge of the
fraud and racketeering activity without cooperation or an agreement to
cooperate is insufficient to make Orwick responsible for the harm.  (Id.) Conspiracies may be inferred from
circumstances.  (Id.)  
The elements of intentional
misrepresentation are:  (a)
misrepresentation of facts; (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, (i.e., to induce reliance); (d) justifiable reliance; and
(e) resulting damage.   (CACI no.
1900.)  The elements of concealment fraud
are:  (1) concealed or suppressed a
material fact; (2) a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3)
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.  (CACI no.
1901.)  The elements of a RICO violation
are: (1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering
activity, (5) that caused injury to plaintiff’s business or property.  (18 U.S.C. sec.1962(c).)  
Plaintiff submitted evidence
showing that Fisher defrauded DeJoria by representing that the Lassen Ranch,
the Spring Creek and Ash Creek Ranches, the Circle C Ranch, and the Battle
Creek Ranch, purchased using DeJoria’s funds, would be held by corporate entities
owned solely by DeJoria.  Based upon the
same evidence, Plaintiff provided that Fisher concealed that the four ranches
were purchased/owned by entities solely owned by Fisher.  (Lassen Ranch: See Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement of Fact (PSSF) nos. 4-20; Spring Creek and Ash Creek Ranches: See
PSSF nos. 24-29; Circle C Ranch: See PSSF nos. 33-36, and Battle Creek Ranch:
See PSSF nos. 41-47.)  Plaintiff provided
that he reasonably relied upon Fisher’s representations because Fisher held
himself out as a real estate and conservationist expert.  (PSSF 3.) 
Fisher is shown to have a duty to disclose because Fisher was
purportedly acting as Plaintiff’s representative/agent in the purchases.  Fisher was to purchase the ranches on behalf
of Plaintiff.  (PSSF 5, 7, 25, 28, 33,
34, and 42.)  Plaintiff submitted facts
to show Fisher’s knowledge of falsity of his representations and intent to
defraud because the corporate entities Fisher formed were not in Plaintiff’s
name but in Fisher’s name.  (PSSF 21, 30,
38, and 48.)  Plaintiff provided evidence
of his damages in that he transferred/wired approximately $19 million to
purchase the four ranches free and clear of any encumbrances but ended without
ownership of any of the ranches or ownership over the entities that purportedly
owned the ranches.  (PSSF 23, 32, 39, and
51.)  
As to the RICO violation,
racketeering activity is defined as activity related to wire fraud.  (18 U.S.C. 1961(1)(B).)  Plaintiff provided that he was fraudulently
induced into wiring the funds to Fisher through the corporate entities created
and owned by Fisher and to Orwick’s bank accounts as a result of Fisher’s
misrepresentations.  (PSSF 34-35, 42-44,
and 47.)  Further, Plaintiff provided
evidence to show a pattern of the racketeering activity because Fisher
defrauded Plaintiff into wire funds to Fisher’s corporate entity for three of
the four ranch purchases (i.e., Spring Creek and Ash Creek, Circle C Ranch, and
Battle Creek Ranch).  (PSSF 34-35, 42-44,
and 47.)  
As to the claims for conspiracy
against Orwick, Plaintiff provided that Orwick owned the four ranches and sold
them to Fisher’s corporate entities (PSSF 9, 24, 31, 39, 40, 46, and 51.)  Plaintiff provided that DeJoria’s money to
purchase some of the ranches were wired to Orwick’s accounts directly, wherein
Orwick then distributed the money to Fisher’s other corporate entities and also
used Plaintiff’s funds for his own personal use.  (PSSF 44, 47, 60, 68-70.)  Specific to the Battle Creek Ranch, Plaintiff
provided that Orwick was allowed to complete a lot line adjustment to carve out
a piece of the ranch for his daughter. 
(PSSF 49.)  Plaintiff also
provided evidence to show that Fisher and Orwick had a business and personal
relationship since 2007, wherein Orwick partially funded Fisher’s purchase of
the Lassen Ranches, and also operated a cattle company together.  (PSSF 54-57.) 
Because Orwick had a long-standing relationship with Fisher and received
Plaintiff’s funds so that the funds could be distributed to Fisher’s corporate
accounts, as well as be used by Orwick for his personal gain, there is circumstantial
evidence to support the elements of knowledge of the conspiracy, acts in
furtherance of the conspiracy, and the RICO elements of conduct (i.e.,
participation in the operation of the wire fraud (Walter v. Drayson (9th Cir.
2008) 538 F.3d 1244, 1248-1249.)) and enterprise (i.e., a group of persons
associated together for a common purpose (Boyle v. United States (2009) 556
U.S. 938, 945-946.)) 
Plaintiff met their burden of
proof to show that no triable issue of material fact exists and the burden
shifted to Defendant to show that a triable issue of fact exists or a
defense.  
Defendant argued that there is a
triable issue of fact as to the conspiracy elements of knowledge and acts in
furtherance of the conspiracy and RICO’s elements of conduct and
enterprise.  Orwick submitted his testimony
to show his lack of knowledge of Fisher’s scheme to defraud DeJoria.  Defendant argued that the written documents
evidencing the real property transactions show that the transactions between
Defendant and Fisher’s entities were not fraudulent as to DeJoria.  (Defendant’s Additional Separate Statement of
Facts (DASSF) 5, 8, 10-12, 14-16, and 18-20.) 
Orwick provided that he properly foreclosed on the ranches when Fisher’s
entities defaulted on the payments. 
(DASSF 24.)  Defendant further
provided that the excess funds from DeJoria to Orwick’s account as to payments
owed by Fisher’s corporate entities was controlled/directed by Fisher.  Defendant provided that it was Fisher that
directed the disbursement of the excess funds from Orwick’s account.  (DASSF 29-30, 33.)  Orwick attested that he was not pleased with
the excess funds due to tax consequences and did not know the people nor bank
accounts that Fisher sent the excess funds to. (The court notes that this is
despite not returning the funds to the source, that is, DeJoria, which could be
circumstantial evidence in support of plaintiff.)  (DASSF 32 and 34.)  These additional facts show Defendant’s lack
of knowledge of any scheme to defraud DeJoria and lack of cooperation in the
conspiracy because it is provided that Fisher directed/controlled the payment
and/or disbursements of the funds and Defendant lacked knowledge of the
entities/persons receiving the excess funds. 
Defendant’s additional facts are grounds to show a triable issue of fact
as to Defendant’s knowledge of the conspiracy and racketeering activity (or
lack thereof) and Defendant’s acts in furtherance of the conspiracy and
racketeering activity (or lack thereof). 
Defendant met his burden of proof to show a triable issue of material
fact.
Plaintiff’s MSA is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.