 Case Number:  23PSCV02921    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  H Paredes
Ramirez v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., Case No. 23PSCV02921


ORDER ON PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL


          1.
      Plaintiff Victor Paredes Ramirez’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories from Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. is DENIED. Sanctions are declined. 
          2.
      Plaintiff Victor Paredes Ramirez’s
Motion to Compel Deposition Attendance of a Person Most Qualified and Custodian
of Records of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. is DENIED.
 
I.        Background 
 
Plaintiff Victor Paredes Ramirez
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows: 
 
On
November 2, 2021, Plaintiff entered into an express written contract with
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) regarding a new 2022 Honda CR-V,
VIN # 7FARW1H75NE003437. The subject vehicle is equipped with a computerized
driver-assisting safety system known as “Honda Sensing,” which includes
adaptive cruise control, lane departure warnings, and autonomous braking known
as the Collision Mitigation Braking System. The Honda Sensing system suffers
from a defect that causes the various subsystems within it to malfunction
dangerously while the vehicles are driven (the “sensing defect”). Defendant
knew or should have known about the sensing defect before the subject vehicle
was sold and failed to disclose same. 
 
On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint, asserting causes of action against Defendant and Does 1-10 for (1)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Express Warranty and (2) Fraudulent Inducement—Concealment. 


The Final
Status Conference is set for February 4, 2025. Trial is set for February 18,
2025.
 
Pending
before the Court are (1) Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
special interrogatories and (2) Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition
attendance of a Person Most Qualified (PMQ). For the reasons stated herein,
both motions are denied.
 
II.      Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories
 
          A.       Legal
Standard
“[T]he
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that . . . (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive
or incomplete[,] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under
Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate[, and/or that] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is
without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
The motion must include a meet and confer
declaration which “state[s] facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt
at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).) “In lieu of a separate statement
required under the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving
party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(2).)Notice
of the motion must be provided “within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) The responding party
has the burden of justifying the objections to the requests. (Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d
210, 220-221.)
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction. . . against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further
response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd.
(d).)
 
          B.       Discussion 
Plaintiff moves the Court for an order compelling a
further response to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set No. One (i.e., No.
13). Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the
amount of $1,747.50.
Plaintiff’s
counsel Harita Nandivada (“Nandivada”) represents, and/or the accompanying
exhibits reflect, as follows:

          On
November 21, 2023, Plaintiff served the subject discovery. (Nandivada Decl., ¶
3, Exh. A.) On January 25, 2024, Defendant served its responses thereto. (Id., ¶ 4, Exh. B.) On March 1, 2024, Plaintiff sent a meet and confer
letter. (Id., ¶ 5, Exh. C.) Counsel telephonically met
and conferred on April 2, 2024. (Id., ¶ 6 and 7, Exh. D.) Nandivanda
memorialized in an April 2, 2024 email to opposing counsel their agreement that
any motion deadline “w[ould] be 2 weeks following an IDC.” (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. D.) No IDC was held. Counsel again telephonically met and
conferred on June 24, 2024, during which time counsel agreed that Defendant
would provide its position on providing further responses by July 30, 2024 and
Plaintiff’s motion filing deadline would be August 8, 2024. (Id., ¶ 7, Exh. E.) The instant motion was filed on August 8, 2024.
The only interrogatory at issue in this motion is
No. 13, which asks Defendant to state all facts supporting the contention that
the subject vehicle does not qualify for repurchase under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act. 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that
Plaintiff’s separate statement does not accurately reflect Defendant’s
response. 
Defendant, in response to No. 13, cited to Code of
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230 -- i.e., “[i]f the answer to
an interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a
compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party
to whom the interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of
preparing or making it would be substantially the same for the party
propounding the interrogatory as for the responding party, it is a sufficient
answer to that interrogatory to refer to this section and to specify the
writings from which the answer may be derived or ascertained. This
specification shall be in sufficient detail to permit the propounding party to
locate and to identify, as readily as the responding party can, the documents
from which the answer may be ascertained. The responding party shall then
afford to the propounding party a reasonable opportunity to examine, audit, or
inspect these documents and to make copies, compilations, abstracts, or
summaries of them.” -- before specifically referring to “the service records
received from Car Pros Honda El Monte” and “its CRRS report,” which it agreed
to produce. 
The Court finds the
above response to be Code-compliant; as such, no further response is warranted.
The motion is denied and sanctions are declined. 
 
III.     Motion to Compel Deposition of Person
Most Knowledgeable 
          A.       Legal
Standard
“If
the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall
describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition
those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are
most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of
any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.230).
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, . . . a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection. . ., fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
“A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following: 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. . ., or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contracted the
deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b).) 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the
court shall impose a monetary sanction. . ., unless the court finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
Any
motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a
request must be accompanied by a separate statement providing all information
necessary to understand each discovery request and all the responses at issue.
(California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a),(c).)
 
          B.       Discussion

Plaintiff
moves the Court, per Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, for an order compelling
Defendant to produce a Person(s) Most Qualified and Custodian of Records to be
deposed. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of
record in the amount of $2,509.00.
The
motion originally came on calendar for hearing on October 10, 2024; on that
date, the Court noted that “Plaintiff’s 7-page meet and confer dated June 20,
2024 is devoid of specific references to any of the 53 matters for examination
and 54 document production requests (i.e., aside from Matter No. 28 and
Category No. 8)” and continued the hearing to December 12, 2024. The Court
ordered the parties to meet and confer and to file a Joint Status Report at
least 9 court days prior to the continued hearing date, outlining the meet and
confer efforts.
The
parties’ Joint Status Report was due on November 27, 2024. As of this date, the
Court is not in receipt of any such report. The motion is thus denied based on the lack of a reasonable and good
faith meet and confer.    