  Case Number:  19STCV44789    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 



ROBERT YU, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
JACK FAULKNER, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


19STCV44789




Hearing Date:


February 8, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT AND
  CROSS-COMPLAINANT HENRY SUAREZ’ MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S FURTHER
  RESPONSES TO DEFENDANT’S FIRST SET OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
  AND DEMAND TO PRODUCE ADDITIONAL RESPONSIVE DOCUMENTS; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



 
 
Background
On December 11, 2019, Plaintiffs Robert Yu (“Yu”) and Minghui Huang
(jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against a number of defendants,
including Raymond Munro (“Munro”) and Henry Suarez (“Suarez”). 
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on June
17, 2020, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of written contract for sale
of real property, (2) violation of Civil Code sections
1102 et seq., (3) violation of Civil Code
sections 2079 et seq., (4) negligence, (5) fraudulent concealment,
(6) fraudulent misrepresentation, (7) negligent misrepresentation, (8)
violation of Civil Code sections 896 et seq., (9)
breach of third-party beneficiary contract, and (10) breach of fiduciary
duties. 
On September 18, 2020, Suarez filed a Cross-Complaint against Munro
and Vista Enterprise, Inc., alleging causes of action for (1) negligence, (2)
comparative indemnity, (3) contribution, and (4) declaratory relief. 
On November 6, 2023, Munro filed a Cross-Complaint against a number of
cross-defendants, alleging causes of action for (1) implied and equitable
indemnity, (2) contribution, and (3) declaratory relief. 
On November 22, 2021, Suarez propounded his First Set of Requests for
Production of Documents to Yu. (Powell Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) On March 27, 2023,
Yu served “Responses to Defendant Henry Suarez’s Request for Production of
Documents, Set One.” (Powell Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Suarez’s counsel sent a meet
and confer letter concerning the asserted deficiencies in the responses.
(Powell Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. C.) 
On August 8, 2023, Yu served “Further Responses to Defendant Henry
Suarez’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One.” (Powell Decl., ¶ 7, Ex.
D.) Suarez’s counsel asserts that “[w]hile Plaintiff’s supplemental responses
state that all documents have been produced, with reference to particular bates
stamped documents, the vast majority of the allegedly responsive documents were
not produced.” (Powell Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Suarez notes that on October 9, 2023, the parties participated in an
Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”). The Court’s October 9, 2023 minute order
provides, inter alia, that “[i]n open court, the Informal Discovery
Conference is held. The discovery issues were not resolved. Parties are to
reserve a new Informal Discovery Conference date in the Court Reservation
System if needed.” Suarez’s counsel states that “[f]ollowing the conference, I
offered Plaintiff’s counsel to meet and confer once again prior to filing this
Motion prior to the filing deadline. To date, the discovery issues set forth
herein remain unresolved.” (Powell Decl., ¶ 11.) 
Suarez now moves for an order “compelling [Yu] to provide further
responses to [Suarez’s] First Set of Requests for Production of Documents and
an order compelling production of additional responsive documents.” Suarez also
moves for an order “requiring [Yu] and his counsel to pay monetary sanctions to
[Suarez] in the sum of $2,461.65 for the reasonable expenses and attorney’s
fees incurred by him in connection with the preparation of this Motion, and
time spent at proceedings on this Motion.” Yu opposes. 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310,
subdivision (a) provides that “[o]n receipt of a response
to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party
may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the
demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1)¿A statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2)¿A representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3)¿An objection in the response
is without merit or too general.” A motion to compel further responses to a
demand for inspection must set forth specific facts showing good cause for the
discovery sought and must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b).) 
Discussion
As set forth above, Suarez moves for an order “compelling [Yu] to
provide further responses to [Suarez’s] First Set of Requests for Production of
Documents and an order compelling production of additional responsive
documents…” (Notice of Mot. at p. i:6-8.) 
As an initial matter, Yu asserts that Suarez failed to adequately meet
and confer in advance of filing the instant motion. The Court disagrees. As set
forth above, Suarez’s counsel states that he attempted to meet and confer with
Yu’s counsel on multiple occasions. (Powell Decl., ¶¶ 6, 11.) In addition, as
discussed, the parties participated in an IDC. 
In addition, as a
preliminary matter, Yu asserts that the instant motion is now moot. In his
declaration in opposition to the motion, Yu’s counsel states that “[a]lthough
Plaintiff disputes that they are necessary because he has already provided code
compliant responses, in a good faith effort to reach a resolution, Plaintiff
has also provided second further responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One.” (Nozar
Decl., ¶ 12.) 
Yu’s “Second Further
Responses to Defendant Henry Suarez’s Request for Production of Documents, Set
One” are attached as Exhibit “E” to Yu’s counsel’s declaration. (Nozar Decl., ¶
12, Ex. E.) The proof of service attached to the second further responses
indicates that the responses were served on January 24, 2024, the same
date Yu’s opposition to the instant motion was filed. (Nozar Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. E.) The Court notes that these responses
contain “second further responses” to Request for Production Nos. 8, 9, 10, 12,
13, 14, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28, and 29. (Nozar Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. E.) The
Court thus agrees that the instant motion is moot as to these requests.[1] 
However, Suarez’s First
Set of Requests for Production of Documents to Yu contains 41 requests. (Powell
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) In his reply in support of the motion, Suarez states that
he “requests that the Court order Plaintiff to provide complete, code-compliant
responses and produce all responsive documents to RFPD’s 11, 15-19, and 37-38.”
(Reply at p. 5:6-7.) The Court thus finds that these requests are still at
issue.
Suarez’s Request for
Production No. 11 seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS RELATED or referring to any
cost YOU have incurred to repair the ‘Request Repairs’ as YOU allege in
paragraph 37 of the FAC.” Suarez’s Request for Production No. 15 seeks “[a]ll
DOCUMENTS RELATED or referring to any cost estimate YOU have obtained or
received to ‘seal’ the ‘waste pipe in the rear of the building’ as referenced
in the REQUEST FOR REPAIRS No. 1.” 
Suarez’s Request for Production No. 37 seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS RELATED
or referring to any out of pocket costs you have incurred as YOU allege in
paragraph 84 of the FAC.” Suarez’s Request for
Production No. 38 seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS RELATED or referring to any expense
YOU have incurred as YOU allege in paragraph 84 of the
FAC.” 
Yu’s “further responses” to Request for Production Nos. 11, 15, 37,
and 38 state, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“Subject to and without waiving the
foregoing objections, the production, inspection, and related activity demanded
will be allowed in whole, and all non-privileged documents or things in the
demanded category that exist, and which are in the possession, custody, or
control of Responding Party and to which no objection is being made have been
included in the production. Responding Party produced all non-privileged
responsive documents in its possession, custody, or control which no objection
is being made to as bates label Yu-0001 through Yu-0698. The category of
documents produced thus far that may respond to this request include but are
not limited to, photographs of the residence [and remediation services, water,
and/or mold damage] (e.g., Yu-0280 through Yu-0287; Yu-0598 through Yu-0692),
complaints, inspection reports (e.g., Yu-0001 through Yu-0028; Yu-0031 through
Yu- 0050; Yu-0086 through Yu-0149; Yu-0244 through Yu-0266; Yu-0302 through
Yu-0346), pertinent invoices (e.g., Yu-0048 through Yu-0050; Yu-0150 through
Yu-0243; Yu-0589 through Yu-0597; Yu-0589 through Yu-0597), purchase and sale
agreement and ancillary agreements (e.g., Yu-0267 through Yu-0279; Yu-0288
through Yu-0300; Yu-0540 through Yu-0544), and other pertinent documents.” (Powell
Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. D.)
In his supporting declaration, Suarez’s counsel asserts that “[w]hile
Plaintiff allegedly amended his responses, in each ‘Further Response’,
Plaintiff identifies the exact same bates stamped documents as responsive. None
of these documents are responsive to any of the outstanding discovery issues.”
(Powell Decl., ¶ 12.) In the separate statement in support of his opposition,
Yu asserts that he “clearly identified the documents that correspond to the
request. As indicated in the responses, after performing a reasonable and
diligent search, Plaintiff is producing all documents in possession, custody,
or control that was not previously produced. The documents are bates stamped
and Plaintiff identified the various categories in his response.” (Yu’s
Separate Statement at p. 18:10-13.) 
Suarez’s notice of motion states that “[t]his Motion is made pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure sections
2031.010, and 2031.310, and on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed
and refused to produce documents which are directly responsive to Plaintiff’s
specific allegations and claims for damages.” (Notice of Motion at p. i:9-11,
emphasis added.) As set forth above, Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310,
subdivision (a) provides that “[o]n
receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”[2] But
with respect to Request for Production Nos. 11, 15, 37, and 38, Suarez does not
appear to assert that any of the foregoing apply. Rather, as set forth above,
Suarez asserts that none of the documents identified in the “further responses”
are “responsive to any of the outstanding discovery issues.” (Powell Decl., ¶
12.) The Court notes that it is unclear what “discovery issues” Suarez is
referring to, and Suarez does not appear to cite to legal authority supporting
his request for further responses on these grounds.  
As to the remaining requests at issues, Suarez’s Request for
Production No. 16 seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS RELATED or referring to any cost
estimate YOU have obtained or received to ‘seal’ the ‘crack in stucco under
lower roof’ as referenced in the REQUEST FOR REPAIRS No. 1.” 
Suarez’s Request for Production No. 17 seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS RELATED
or referring to any cost estimate YOU have obtained or received to ‘seal’ the
“cracks on master balcony and bottom floor deck’ as referenced in the REQUEST
FOR REPAIRS No. 1.” 
Suarez’s Request for Production No. 18 seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS RELATED
or referring to any cost estimate YOU have obtained or received to install an
‘additional crawl space vent’ as referenced in the REQUEST FOR REPAIRS No. 1.” 
Suarez’s Request for Production No. 19 seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS RELATED
or referring to any cost estimate YOU have obtained or received to ‘secure [ ]
with its own platform’ the ‘heating system in the storage area on third floor’
as referenced in the REQUEST FOR REPAIRS No. 1.” 
Yu’s responses to Request for Production Nos. 16, 17, 18, and 19
state, inter alia, “[s]ubject to and without waiving said objections,
Responding Party responds as follows: After performing a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry based on its understanding of this request, Responding Party
is unable to produce any responsive documents to this request as no such
documents exist. To the extent that any responsive documents do exist, they are
not in Responding Party’s possession, custody, or control.”[3]
Suarez asserts that “[i]f Plaintiff is unable to comply with a Request
for Production, he must state the reason – that it never existed; that it has
been lost or stolen; or that it was inadvertently destroyed. If the document is
not in Plaintiff’s possession, custody or control, then he must identify the
name and address of anyone who he believes to have the document.” (Suarez’s
Separate Statement at p. 24:21-24.) Suarez
cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230, which provides that “[a] representation of inability to comply with the particular demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent
search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is
because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed,
has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall set
forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.” 
But as set forth above, Yu states
in his responses to Request for Production Nos. 16, 17, 18, and
19 that “[a]fter
performing a diligent search and reasonable inquiry based on its understanding
of this request, Responding Party is unable to produce any responsive documents
to this request as no such documents exist. To the extent that any responsive
documents do exist, they are not in Responding Party’s possession, custody, or
control.” The Court finds that the responses comply with Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.230. 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Suarez has shown that further
responses are warranted as to Requests for Productions Nos. 11, 15-19, or
37-38. 
            Suarez
also seeks monetary sanctions against Yu and his counsel in the amount of $2,461.65. Suarez cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a), which provides that “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that
one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising
that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred
by anyone as a result of that conduct.” The Court does not find that Suarez has shown that Yu engaged in
the misuse of the discovery process. The Court
thus declines to award monetary sanctions against Yu. 
            In the
opposition, Yu asserts that sanctions should be awarded against Suarez. Yu also
cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, as well as Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (h), which provides that “[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but are not
limited to, the following:…(h) Making or opposing,
unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to
limit discovery.” The Court finds that Suarez acted with substantial
justification in presenting his position in the instant motion, and thus
declines to award sanctions against him. 
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Suarez’s motion is
denied.   
Yu ordered to provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  February 8, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


