 Case Number:  20STCV01544    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




MIKE YESSIAN, et al.
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
GARFIELD BEACH CVS LLC, et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 20STCV01544
  




Hearing Date:


February 8, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
PLAINTIFFS’
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 




            
Background
Plaintiffs Mike Yessian and Mandi Martinez filed this action on January
13, 2020 against Defendant Garfield Beach CVS LLC. On March 14, 2023, Plaintiffs
Michael Yessian (“Yessian”) and Mandi Martinez (“Martinez”)
(jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”)
against Defendants Garfield Beach CVS LLC dba CVS Pharmacy Store and Deborah
Padilla. The TAC alleges causes of action for (1) discrimination in violation
of the Unruh Act; (2) defamation per se; (3) intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and (4) negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of
employee. 
Plaintiffs now move “for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication in their favor as to each cause of action asserted by
Plaintiffs against Defendants Garfield Beach CVS, LLC and Deborah Padilla…in
the operative complaint.”[1] Garfield
Beach CVS LLC and Deborah Padilla (jointly, “Defendants”) oppose. 
 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Defendants’ evidentiary
objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1 (p. 2:4-18): overruled
Objection No. 2 (pp. 2:18-3:6): overruled
Objection No. 3 (p. 3:6-10): sustained as to
“who must have heard the statements made by Deborah,” overruled as to
the remainder. 
Objection No. 4 (pp. 3:10-4:10): overruled
Objection No. 5 (p. 4:10-24): overruled
Objection No. 6 (pp. 4:25-5:15): overruled
Objection No. 7 (pp. 5:15-6:3): overruled
Objection No. 8 (pp. 6:7-11): overruled
Objection No. 9 (pp. 6:12-7:17): sustained 
Objection No. 10 (pp. 7:18-8:22): sustained

Objection No. 11 (pp. 8:23-9:6): overruled
Objection No. 12 (pp. 9:7-18): overruled
Objection No. 13 (pp. 9:19-20:7): overruled 
The Court rules on Plaintiffs’ evidentiary
objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1 (p. 2:3-14): sustained  
Objection No. 2 (p. 2:15-19): overruled[2]
Objection No. 3 (p. 2:20-27): overruled
Objection No. 4 (p. 3:1-8): overruled 
Objection No. 5 (p. 3:11-18): sustained 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for
summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” ((Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party
may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an
action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or
one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has
no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that
there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that
there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” ((Id., § 437c,
subd. (f).) 
The moving party
bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there
are no triable issues of material fact. ((Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) If the moving party carries this burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing that a
triable issue of material fact exists. ((Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” ((Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
For purposes of motions for summary judgment and summary
adjudication, a plaintiff “has met his or her burden of showing that there is
no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on¿the¿cause of action.” (¿¿Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(1)¿¿.) 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the
TAC
In the TAC, Plaintiffs allege that on November 15, 2019, they visited
CVS’s store located at 775 E. Foothill Blvd., Pomona, CA 91767. (TAC, ¶ 7.)
After entering the store, Martinez needed to use the restroom but was told by
the store’s manager, William Pineda (“Pineda”), that the restroom was
unavailable because it was being cleaned. (TAC, ¶ 8.) 
Yessian then asked
Padilla, an employee of CVS, if she had seen Martinez. (TAC, ¶¶ 4, 9.) Yessian
alleges that Martinez is his fiancé. (TAC, ¶ 10.) Padilla responded by saying “you
mean the short fat Mexican with a purse?” (opening her arms as if to
demonstrate Martinez’s
size). (TAC, ¶ 9.) Padilla then stated that “she [Martinez] left with her stuff
and whatever else she took” implying that Martinez had stolen items. (TAC, ¶
9.) Padilla then went on to state, “if you have taken any stuff, remove them
from your bag now as the Cops are on their way.” (TAC, ¶ 9.) Yessian then walked
outside where he met with Martinez. (TAC, ¶ 10.) Yessian asked her if she had
stolen anything from the store, and she said no. (TAC, ¶ 10.) 
Plaintiffs then went back to the store to speak with Pineda. (TAC, ¶
11.) Martinez asked Padilla why she falsely accused Martinez of stealing and
why she decided to refer to Martinez as a “short fat Mexican woman.” (TAC, ¶
11.) Padilla tried to deny that she had accused Martinez of theft. (TAC, ¶ 11.)
Yessian indicated that Padilla had told him that the cops were on their way
after also accusing him of theft, which Padilla did not deny. (TAC, ¶ 11.)
Pineda offered apologies. (TAC, ¶ 11.) 
B.    First Cause of Action for Discrimination in Violation of the Unruh Act

“The Unruh Civil Rights Act, codified at [Civil Code section 51] was
enacted to prohibit discriminatory conduct by individual proprietors and
private entities offering goods and services to the general public.”
((Thurston v. Omni Hotels Management Corp. (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 299, 305 [internal
quotations omitted].) The elements of a claim for violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act are: (1) that defendant denied/aided or incited a denial
of/discriminated or made a distinction that denied full and equal
accommodations/advantages/facilities/privileges/
services to
plaintiff; (2) that a substantial motivating reason for defendant’s conduct was its perception of plaintiff’s protected characteristic;
or that the protected characteristic of a person whom plaintiff was
associated with was a substantial motivating reason for defendant’s conduct;
(3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor
in causing plaintiff’s harm. (CACI 3060.) Plaintiffs cite to Koire v. Metro Car Wash (1985) 40 Cal.3d 24, 29, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[t]he scope of
the [Unruh Act] clearly is not limited to exclusionary practices. The
Legislature’s choice of terms evidences concern not only with access to
business establishments, but with equal treatment of patrons in all aspects of
the business. Courts have repeatedly held that the Unruh Act is applicable
where unequal treatment is the result of a business practice.” 
            Plaintiffs argue that the first
cause of action “is subject to Summary Judgment or adjudication because
there is no genuine dispute of material fact…” (Mot. at p. 2:21-22.) As to the
first element that “defendant denied/aided or incited a denial of/discriminated
or made a distinction that denied full and equal
accommodations/advantages/facilities/privileges/
services to
plaintiff,” Plaintiffs assert that “Martinez was denied access to the
restroom and accused of theft while [Yessian] on his part, was also accused of
theft and was forced to exit the store.” (Mot. at p. 3:16-18.) 
            Plaintiffs appear to cite to the
following testimony from Martinez’s deposition: “Q[.] Is there anything
else specifically that you can recall the male CVS employee at the register
saying to you, aside from the bathrooms were being cleaned? A[.] Other than --
no. All he said was, ‘I’m sorry. They’re being cleaned at the moment.’” (Jones Decl. in Support of Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication, ¶ 5,
Ex. 3 (Martinez Depo.) at p. 82:10-15.)[3]
Martinez further testified that “[h]e said the police have been called
-- excuse me -- due to a gentleman who was smoking heroin in the bathroom,
which was the reason why the bathroom was out of order and needed to be cleaned
at the time I asked to use it.” (Id. at pp.
108:23-109:2.) Plaintiffs then cite to the following testimony from Mr.
Pineda’s deposition: “Q[.] So you do not know if it was a man or a woman who
was in the restroom doing heroin? A[.] Well, from what I remember, it was
probably a man. But I can’t remember the situation specifically. And it doesn’t
sound like, from the testimony, that it was on the same day. It sounds like it
was a different day than the incident.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B
(Pineda Depo.) at p. 23:3-9.) Plaintiffs assert that “[t]he restroom at the
store was available and Pineda simply did not allow [Martinez] to use it,” and
that “[a] denial of restroom access to [Martinez] was a denial of equal
accommodations and facilities.” (Mot. at p. 4:8-9; 4:23-24.) 
            In the opposition, Defendants assert
that there are disputes regarding Martinez’s assertion that she was denied
equal access to facilities because she was denied use of the restroom.
Defendants cite to the following testimony from Mr. Pineda’s deposition: “Q[.]
Do you recall which of the restrooms this person was allegedly doing heroin in?
A[.] I don’t. Q[.] Can you tell me whether or not it was standard procedure to
close both restrooms each time either of the restrooms was being cleaned? A[.]
Yes. Q[.] So you’re saying that every time that you have cleaners cleaning just
one restroom, the other one automatically be closed to customers? A[.] I
believe, in that situation, yeah. And that’s basically because of where the
restrooms were located in the store. Q[.] I’m not asking what happened in that
situation. I’m saying every time the restroom was being cleaned -- either
restroom was being cleaned, both restrooms automatically were closed to
customers; is that correct? A[.] Yes.” (Jones Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3 (Pineda Depo.)
at pp. 25:15-26:8.) 
            In the motion, Plaintiffs also
assert that there were “false allegations of theft and racial profiling.” (Mot.
at p. 4:10). Plaintiffs appear to cite to the Declaration of Hillary Williams
filed in support of Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, or in the
alternative, summary adjudication. Ms. Williams is an Investigator in CVS’s
Advice and Counsel Department, a division of CVS Human Resources. (Williams
Decl., ¶ 1.) In her declaration, Ms. Williams states that “[o]n or about
December 2, 2019, I received notice, via email, of an alleged incident between
a customer and colleague at CVS Store No 8895 in Pomona, California. The
complaint came in via the CVS customer service complaint phone line. I
investigated the complaint by speaking with the District Leader (a regional
supervisor over 10-15 CVS stores), and directing her to collect evidence. A
true and correct copy of my summarized investigation notes, which are
maintained in CVS’s Salesforce platform, is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.”
(Williams Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) Plaintiffs note that this Exhibit 1 provides, inter
alia, “Deborah admitted to describing a customer’s wife as ‘short and
hispanic’. There is no evidence of discrimination. The customer was suspected
of shoplifting previously. Deborah’s verbal comment was not discriminatory but
she should have used other language to describe a customer.” (Williams Decl., ¶
2, Ex. 1.) 
            Defendants submit the Declaration of
Deborah Padilla in support of their opposition to the instant motion. Padilla
states that “I did not know which customer was Mr. Yessian’s wife, but I
responded that I had seen a lady who was short, Hispanic, and carrying a large
reddish beige bag.” (Padilla Decl., ¶ 5.) Padilla asserts that she “absolutely
did not, as Mr. Yessian alleges, use the words ‘fat’ or ‘Mexican’ to describe Ms.
Martinez. I did not open my arms to demonstrate size or imply the word ‘fat.’”
(Padilla Decl., ¶ 8, emphasis omitted.) Padilla states that she is Hispanic,
and that she has “never treated anyone differently because of their race or
national origin.” (Padilla Decl., ¶¶ 20, 24.) 
            Plaintiffs also appear to cite to
Yessian’s deposition transcript attached to the Declaration of Leilani E. Jones
filed in support of Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, or in the
alternative, summary adjudication. Mr. Yessian testified that a female employee
told him that “‘[w]ell, she left with her bag and whatever else she took, and
the police are on their way. So if you have anything in your bag, you should
take it out.’ I told her, ‘That’s cool. What does it got to do with me?’” (Jones
Decl. ISO Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication, ¶ 3, Ex. 1 (Yessian Depo.) at p. 69:5-9.) Plaintiffs also
cite to the following testimony from Mr. Pineda’s deposition: “Q[.] Okay. Do
you recall whether or not the cops or the police were called to the store on
the day of the incident? A[.] I don’t recall, but I don’t believe so.” (Alaric-Lorenzo
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B (Pineda Depo.) at p. 26:9-12.) Plaintiffs assert that “[t]he
only reason why Defendant Padilla mentioned the police being called to the
store was to frighten Plaintiff Yessian and to further Defendants’ unlawful
enterprise.” (Mot. at p. 5:4-5.) 
            In her declaration in support of the
opposition, Padilla states that “Mr. Yessian’s version of our brief interaction
is simply not true. I did not have any reason to believe that Mr. Yessian’s
wife was attempting to steal any items from the store and I did not accuse her
of stealing. Similarly, I did not have any reason to believe that Mr. Yessian
was attempting to steal any items from the store and I did not accuse him of
stealing.” (Padilla Decl., ¶ 12.) Padilla also states that “[a]s I have
previously declared under penalty of perjury, I did not accuse Ms. Martinez of
shoplifting (or any form of theft).” (Padilla Decl., ¶ 7, emphasis omitted.)
Padilla states that “I absolutely did not say, as Mr. Yessian alleges, that Ms.
Martinez had left the store with her purse and ‘whatever else she took.’”
(Padilla Decl., ¶ 9, emphasis omitted.) Padilla also states that she
“absolutely did not say, as Mr. Yessian alleges, that he should ‘remove any
items from his bag.’” (Padilla Decl., ¶ 10, emphasis omitted.) Padilla states
that she “absolutely did not, as Mr. Yessian alleges, say or suggest that ‘the
police were on their way.’” (Padilla Decl., ¶ 11, emphasis omitted.) Defendants
assert that “a jury must weigh the Parties’ conflicting evidence and make the
ultimate credibility determination.” (Opp’n at p. 13:20-21.) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Defendants have raised a triable issue of material fact regarding
the first element of Plaintiffs’ first cause of action, i.e., whether defendant
denied/aided or incited a denial of/discriminated or made a distinction that
denied full and equal accommodations/advantages/facilities/privileges/services
to Plaintiffs. (CACI 3060.) Thus, the Court
denies Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication as to the first cause of
action. 
C.    Second Cause of Action for Defamation Per
Se 
Next, Plaintiffs assert
that their “second cause of action for Defamation per se is subject to
Summary Judgment or adjudication because there is no genuine dispute of
material fact…” (Mot. at p. 9:3-4.) “The
elements of a defamation claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3)
defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a tendency to injure or causes
special damage.” ((Briganti v. Chow (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 504, 509 [internal quotations omitted].) Plaintiffs also cite to CACI 1704,
which provides that the essential elements of defamation per se (private figure
– matter of private concern) are: (1) that defendant made one or more of the
statement(s) to a person/persons other than plaintiff; (2) that this person
reasonably understood that the statement(s) were about plaintiff; (3) that this
person reasonably understood the statement(s) to mean [the grounds for
defamation per se]; and (4) that defendant failed to use reasonable care
to determine the truth or falsity of the statement(s). (CACI 1704.) In
addition, “[i]t is
axiomatic that for defamatory matter to be actionable, it must be
communicated, or published, intentionally or negligently, to one other
than the person defamed.” ((Cabesuela v. Browning-Ferris Indus. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 101, 112 [internal
quotations omitted].)
In the second cause of
action, Plaintiffs allege that “[Padilla] falsely accused Plaintiffs of
stealing from the store. The store Manager, Adam William Pineda also accused
Plaintiffs of stealing from the store. [Padilla’s] defamatory statements about
Plaintiff Mandi Martinez were published to Plaintiff Michael Yessian. [Padilla]
told Michael that [Martinez] had left the store with her stuff and whatever
else she took. [Padilla’s] defamatory statements about plaintiff Michael
Yessian were also published to at least one other customer who was standing
close to [Padilla] and [Yessian] when [Padilla] told [Yessian] to remove
anything he had stolen from his bag as the Cops were on their way.” (TAC, ¶ 22.) 
Plaintiffs first assert in the motion that “CVS’ Employees including
Defendant Deborah Padilla, made defamatory statements about Plaintiffs to a
person or persons other than each individual Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p. 9:17-18.) Plaintiffs note,
as set forth above, that Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Hillary
Williams provides, inter alia, “Deborah admitted to describing a
customer’s wife as ‘short and hispanic’. There is no evidence of
discrimination. The customer was suspected of shoplifting previously.” (Williams
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) Plaintiffs also appear to note that this Exhibit 1 states
“QD spoke to the SM Adam (William) Pineda and he stated that the ‘customers’
were return customers who have been confirmed to have stolen in the past. QD
asked her SM what evidence there was and there wasn’t anything sufficient. - QD
called the customer originally and apologized for incident, customer was still
very irate.” (Williams Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) In addition, Plaintiffs note, as set
forth above, that Yessian testified that a female employee told him that
“‘[w]ell, she left with her bag and whatever else she took, and the police are
on their way. So if you have anything in your bag, you should take it out.’ I
told her, ‘That’s cool. What does it got to do with me?’” (Jones Decl. ISO
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication, ¶ 3, Ex. 1 (Yessian Depo.) at p. 69:5-9.)  
In the opposition, Defendants assert that there are “disputed facts
regarding the alleged ‘defamatory statements’.” (Opp’n at p. 17:19.) As set
forth above, Padilla states in her declaration that “[a]s I have previously declared
under penalty of perjury, I did not accuse Ms. Martinez of shoplifting (or any
form of theft).” (Padilla Decl., ¶ 7, emphasis omitted.) Padilla states that “I
absolutely did not say, as Mr. Yessian alleges, that Ms. Martinez had left the
store with her purse and ‘whatever else she took.’” (Padilla Decl., ¶ 9,
emphasis omitted.) Padilla also states that she “absolutely did not say, as Mr.
Yessian alleges, that he should ‘remove any items from his bag.’” (Padilla
Decl., ¶ 10, emphasis omitted.) Padilla states that she “absolutely did not, as
Mr. Yessian alleges, say or suggest that ‘the police were on their way.’”
(Padilla Decl., ¶ 11, emphasis omitted.) Padilla further states that “I did not
have any reason to believe that Mr. Yessian’s wife was attempting to steal any
items from the store and I did not accuse her of stealing. Similarly, I did not
have any reason to believe that Mr. Yessian was attempting to steal any items
from the store and I did not accuse him of stealing.” (Padilla Decl., ¶ 12.)
Defendants also assert that “a jury must resolve the factual disputes
regarding the content of Pineda’s statements, as documented in CVS’s Salesforce
platform.” (Opp’n at p. 18:20-21.) Defendants assert, inter alia, that
“Pineda will also testify that he was not confirming or stating that the
Plaintiffs were shoplifters, creating additional factual disputes.” (Opp’n at
p. 19:19-20.) In his deposition, Pineda testified as follows: “Q[.] Okay. I
know you don’t remember this conversation in full that you had with Quinn, and
what we looked at right there are just notes, I’m assuming, of what the HR
person took. But fair to say that whatever you were communicating was not
something you were just making up about those customers? A If that is what I
reported, then I’m assuming that’s accurate. Q[.] Okay. It sounds like you were
just remarking that they were possibly return customers, possibly return
shoplifters? A[.] Correct. Q[.] Okay. And you were just informing the business
that that might have happened, but might not have had concrete evidence one way
or another? A[.] That’s what it sounds like, yes.” (Jones Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3
(Pineda Depo.) at pp. 20:19-21:9.) Defendants also note that “[i]n all cases of alleged defamation…the truth of the
offensive statements or communication is a complete defense against civil
liability, regardless of bad faith or malicious purpose.” (Gilbert v. Sykes (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 13, 28 (internal
quotations omitted).)

In the motion, Plaintiffs also assert that “[t]he part of the
statement concerning [Martinez] was made to the hearing of [Yessian] and at
least one other customer who was standing in the area…The part of the statement
concerning [Yessian] was made to the hearing of the customer who was standing
in the area.” (Mot. at p. 10:2-4.) Plaintiffs point to Yessian’s supporting
declaration, in which he states that “[Padilla] then proceeded to say that ‘she
[Martinez] left with her stuff and whatever else she took’ implying that
[Martinez] had stolen stuff. [Padilla] then went on to say that, if I had taken
any stuff, that I should remove them from my bag now as the Police were on
their way. There was at least one other customer who was within hearing range
of this interaction…” (Yessian Decl., ¶ 5.) However, as set forth above, the
Court sustains Defendants’ evidentiary objection to the following underlined
portion of paragraph 5 of Mr. Yessian’s declaration: “[t]here was at least one
other customer who was within hearing range of this interaction and who must
have heard the statements made by Deborah.” (Yessian Decl., ¶ 5, emphasis
added.) The Court agrees with Defendants that “[t]here is insufficient evidence
to support a finding that the declarant, Mr. Yessian, has personal knowledge”
that such customer “‘must have heard’ the statements.” (Defendants’ Evidentiary
Objections at p. 3:7-9.) As noted by Defendants, Plaintiffs do not appear to
offer evidence “that the unidentified ‘other customer’ actually heard Padilla
and Yessian’s…interaction.” (Opp’n at p. 20:14-15.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have raised a
triable issue of material fact regarding whether “CVS’ Employees including
Defendant Deborah Padilla, made defamatory statements about Plaintiffs to a
person or persons other than each individual Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p. 9:17-18.)
Thus, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action.
D.            Third Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress  
“[T]o
state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a
plaintiff must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the
defendant’s intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct, to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.” (Johnson
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1097, 1108 [internal
quotations and reference to [Citation.]
omitted].)  
In support
of the third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct with
the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress when [Padilla] falsely accused Plaintiffs of theft.” (TAC, ¶
29.) Plaintiffs also allege that “[Martinez] no longer wants to have a child as
she fears she may gain some weight leading to further discrimination from
people who do not like ‘short fat Mexican’ women.” (TAC, ¶ 27.) In addition,
Plaintiffs allege that “[Yessian] has been very troubled by the incident and
suffers extreme anxiety each time he goes out shopping as he fears he might be
targeted.” (TAC, ¶ 29.)  Plaintiffs
assert that their third cause of action is “subject to Summary Judgment or
adjudication because there is no genuine dispute of material fact…” (Mot. at p.
12:12-14.) 
Plaintiffs asserts that here, “Defendants engaged in
extreme and outrageous conduct with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress when [Padilla]
falsely accused Plaintiffs of theft.” (Mot. at p. 12:24-26.) In support of this
assertion, Plaintiffs appear to point to Exhibit 1 to the Williams Declaration,
which, as discussed, provides, inter alia, that “Deborah admitted to
describing a customer’s wife as ‘short and hispanic’…The customer was suspected
of shoplifting previously...” (Williams Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) In the opposition,
Defendants counter that “[t]he nature and extent of the CVS Employees’ conduct
with respect to the Plaintiffs is disputed, as demonstrated above. It follows
that whether the above conduct rises to the level of ‘extreme’ or ‘outrageous’
is a question of fact.” (Opp’n at p. 24:24-26.)[4] As
discussed, Padilla states in her declaration in support of the opposition that
“I did not have any reason to believe that Mr. Yessian’s wife was attempting to
steal any items from the store and I did not accuse her of stealing. Similarly,
I did not have any reason to believe that Mr. Yessian was attempting to steal
any items from the store and I did not accuse him of stealing.” (Padilla Decl.,
¶ 12.)
Plaintiffs also assert that “[Padilla] and Pineda
acted intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that their acts were
likely to result in illness through mental distress.” (Mot. at p. 13:9-10.) As
an initial matter, with respect to this argument pertaining to Pineda, the
third cause of action of the TAC alleges (as set forth above) that “Defendants
engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress when Deborah
falsely accused Plaintiffs of theft.” (TAC, ¶ 29, emphasis added.) The third
cause of action does not appear to mention Pineda. The Court notes that “[t]he pleadings delimit the
scope of the issues on a summary judgment motion…Evidence offered on an
unpleaded claim, theory, or defense is irrelevant because it is outside the
scope of the pleadings.” (California Bank & Trust v.
Lawlor (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 625,
637, footnote 3 (internal citations omitted).) In
addition, as discussed, Plaintiffs argue that “Defendants engaged in extreme
and outrageous conduct with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of
the probability of causing, emotional distress when Deborah falsely accused Plaintiffs
of theft.” (Mot. at p. 12:24-26.) Thus, the Court does not see why Plaintiffs’
motion contains arguments pertaining to Pineda’s asserted intent. 
As to Padilla’s intent, Plaintiffs appear to point to
the following testimony from Yessian’s deposition: “Q[.] So what specifically
did she say about your bag? A[.] She said that my -- that Mandi had left with
her bag and whatever else she took, and if there’s anything in my bag, I should
take it out because the police are on their way. If that’s not -- that I have
something in my bag I shouldn’t, I don’t know what is.” (Jones Decl. ISO
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Adjudication, ¶
3, Ex. 1 (Yessian Depo.) at p. 83:3-10.) Plaintiffs also appear to point to the
Declaration of Deborah Padilla filed in support of Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication, in which she
states, inter alia, that “I did not have any reason to believe that Mr.
Yessian’s wife was attempting to steal any items from the store and I did not
accuse her of stealing. Similarly, I did not have any reason to believe that
Mr. Yessian was attempting to steal any items from the store and I did not
accuse him of stealing.” (Padilla Decl., ¶ 6.) 
In the opposition, Defendants assert that “[w]hether
the CVS Employees affirmatively ‘intended’ to cause the Plaintiffs harm is also
in dispute.” (Opp’n at p. 25:7-8.) In her declaration in support of the
opposition to the instant motion, Padilla states that “[d]uring my interactions
with Mr. Yessian, I did not accuse him or Ms. Martinez of any wrongdoing, and
did not hint or suggest that either had engaged in any wrongdoing…I had no
reason to do so. I did not suspect that Mr. Yessian or Ms. Martinez were attempting
to steal any items from the store.” (Padilla Decl., ¶¶ 26-27.) Padilla also
states that “I merely answered Mr. Yessian’s question after he asked, ‘if I had
seen his wife.’ And in doing so, I certainly did not intend to offend or cause
any harm to Mr. Yessian or Ms. Martinez.” (Padilla Decl., ¶ 28.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Defendants have demonstrated that there is a triable issue of material fact
concerning whether there was “outrageous conduct by the defendant” and whether the
defendant had an “intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing emotional distress.” Thus, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the third cause of action.  
E.     Plaintiffs’ Issues
Nos. 4-7 
Plaintiffs also seek summary adjudication on the
following issues: (1) “Deborah Padilla adoptively admitted that she told
Plaintiff Michael Yessian that the Police were on their way on the day of the
incident,” (2) that “Deborah Padilla adoptively admitted that she told
Plaintiff Yessian that if he had anything in his bag, he should take it out,”
(3) that “Deborah Padilla and William Pineda’s statements about Plaintiffs are
not protected by the common interest privilege,” and (4) that “Deborah Padilla
and William Pineda’s statements about Plaintiffs are not protected by the
litigation privilege and are not fair and true.” (See Notice of Motion
at p. 2:13-20, Issues Nos. 4-7.) 
In the opposition, Defendants assert that “an
adoptive admission determination cannot be made at the summary judgment stage.”
(Opp’n at p. 26:11-12.) Defendants cite to Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f)(1), which, as set forth
above, provides that “[a] party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the
Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a
duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” 
Defendants assert that “[a]n
‘adoptive admission,’ is a not cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue
of duty/claim for damages. It is an evidentiary rule, under California Evidence Code section 1221, governing when
a statement is admissible as a hearsay exception.” (Opp’n at p. 26:15-17.) Evidence Code section 1221, which concerns “Adoptive
admission,” provides that “[e]vidence
of a statement offered against a party is not made inadmissible by the hearsay
rule if the statement is one of which the party, with knowledge of the content
thereof, has by words or other conduct manifested his adoption or his belief in
its truth.” Plaintiffs do not appear to respond to this point in the reply. 
Indeed, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have
shown that their Issues Nos. 4-7 concern “one or more
causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or
more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty.” (Id., section
437c, subd. (f)(1).) Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Issues Nos. 4-7.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment, or in
the alternative, summary adjudication is denied in its entirety. 
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of
this ruling.
 
DATED:  February 8, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


