  Case Number:  20STCV48745    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  30 MICHAEL MOORE vs MARY LOU DORGALLI, et al.TENTATIVEThe motion to compel the deposition of non-party Andrew Miller is DENIED without prejudice.Legal Standard“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. The person deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as a public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental agency.”¿ (CCP § 2025.010.)“Personal service of a deposition subpoena obligates any resident of California to appear, testify and produce whatever documents or things are specified in the subpoena; and to appear in any proceedings to enforce discovery.” (CCP § 2020.220(c).)Where a deponent fails to appear or produce documents at a deposition, Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450 permits a party to seek a motion to compel a deposition. The motion is permissible after a party fails to appear without having served a valid objection pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.410. (Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(a).)CCP section¿2025.450(g)(1) provides, “(1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2025.450(g)(1).)DiscussionOn May 15, 2023, Cross-Defendant sent a deposition subpoena for Andrew Miller’s deposition to the Sheriff’s office. (Yehoshua Decl. ¶ 3.) Miller is Mary Dorgalli’s spouse. The deposition was to take place on June 29, 2023. (Id.) Cross-Complainant Dorgalli’s counsel stated that it had authority to accept service of the subpoena on behalf of Miller. (Id., ¶ 6; Exh. A.) On June 9, 2023, Defendant served the notice of Miller’s deposition on all parties. (Id.; Exh B.) No objections to the deposition notice were made. Miller did not appear for deposition on June 29, 2023. (Id., ¶ 10.)Cross-Complainants argue in opposition that there was no personal service of the subpoena on Miller. Also, Miller’s doctor has advised against Miller testifying at deposition because he is currently undergoing treatment for cancer and is immuno-compromised. He has been dealing with anxiety and panic disorder due to his disease and treatment, and should therefore avoid stressful circumstances such as depositions. (Herrera M.D. Decl.) Lastly, Cross-Complainants argue that the marital testimonial and communication privileges bars the deposition of Mary Dorgalli’s husband’s deposition without her consent. However, there is no indication that Miller was served with subpoena to appear for deposition, or the notice of the deposition. A motion to compel a nonparty’s deposition requires personal service on the deponent. (See CCP § 2020.220(c).) Further, in the moving papers filed, no service of the motion has been made on Miller. “A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346.)The motion was continued for supplemental briefing, which only repeats the same arguments that were made in the motion. Cross-Defendant argues that Cross-Complainants’ counsel stated they had authority to accept service of the subpoena on behalf of Miller.Cross-Complainant’s argue that the agreement to accept service was conditioned on there being no attempted personal service at Mr. Miller and defendant Mary Lou Dorgalli' s home because Mr. Miller is in poor health, his immune system is compromised, and therefore, they asked that people not come to his house. (Shaver Decl., Exh. A.) Cross-Defendant however attempted service at Miller’s home, so the conditions of the agreement were not met. As explained in the declaration of Mary Lou Dorgalli, the Sheriff s deputy who attempted to serve the deposition notice on Andrew Miller at his home failed to do so when, after being asked questions about the document, left and made no further attempts to serve the document. (Dorgalli Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)Therefore, the motion to compel the deposition of witness Andrew Miller is DENIED without prejudice for lack of personal service on the deponent of the motion and the subpoena.