 Case Number:  22STCV33496    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  30 TENTATIVEDefendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED. Plaintiff to give notice.Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)Meet and ConferThe demurrer and motion to strike are accompanied by the declaration of Kathy D’Andrea which satisfies the meet and confer requirements. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.)DiscussionCauses of Action for Assault and BatteryDefendant HBIC demurs to Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action against it, arguing they are based on a theory of vicarious liability, however, HBIC cannot be responsible for the alleged assault because the subject incident occurred while Plaintiff was being transported home on a van operated by Jorge’s Get Around Transport, Inc. The assault and battery, therefore, was not “committed ‘in and as part of” HBIC’s business.“An employer is vicariously liable for an employee’s tort under the doctrine of¿respondeat¿superior if the tort was committed within the scope of the employment. (See¿Montague v.¿AMN¿Healthcare, Inc.¿(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1515, 1520;¿Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital¿(1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 296.) Varied language has been used to “describe the nature of the required additional link (which, in theory, is the same for intentional and negligent torts): the incident leading to injury must be an ‘outgrowth’ of the employment [Citation]; the risk of tortious injury must be ‘inherent in the working environment’ [Citation] or ‘typical of or broadly incidental to the enterprise [the employer] has undertaken’ [Citation].” (Id. at 298.)“If an employee inflicts an injury out of personal malice, not engendered by the employment, the employer is not liable.” (Carr v. Wm. C. Crowell Company (1946) 28 Cal.2d 652, 656.)Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to constitute the first and second causes of action (vicarious liability for assault and battery). Specifically, Plaintiff pled sufficient facts, at least for pleading purposes, to establish that the alleged acts of assault and battery were committed within the course and scope of Defendant Doe-1’s employment with Defendant HBIC.Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were the agent, employee, partner, or joint venturer of each other. (SAC, ¶ 7.)Plaintiff also alleges that on September 16, 2021, Plaintiff Andrew Flores rode a van driven by Doe-1. (Id., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff Andrew Flores engaged in anticipated and expected behavioral issues. (Id.) Doe-1 assaulted Plaintiff by violently punching him in the face and battering him. After punching Plaintiff, Doe-1 threatened Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 15.) Doe-1’s assault and battery of Plaintiff arose from his employment status with Defendants. The assault occurred in the immediate course of an altercation between Doe-1 and Plaintiff which arose directly and proximately out of and was connected with the employment of Doe-1, and in the course and scope thereof, as Doe-1 was attempting to stop, or otherwise curtail, Plaintiff’s behavioral issues which included Plaintiff making noise and banging on the window of the van. Doe-1 assaulting and battering Plaintiff arose from the inherent risk of employing or hiring a driver who has authority to discipline students or riders who fail to follow protocol such as banging the window or kicking the window during the drive. (Id., ¶ 16.)The allegations in the SAC, taken as true for purposes of a demurrer, suggest that the alleged assault and battery by Doe-1 was an “outgrowth” of his employment with Defendant. (See Carr v. Wm. C. Crowell Company (1946) 28 Cal.2d 652, 656-657 (“The evidence here presented indicates without conflict that the injury to plaintiff was an outgrowth of Enloe's employment. Not only did the altercation leading to the injury arise solely over the performance of Enloe's duties, but his entire association with plaintiff arose out of his employment on the building under construction. He had never seen plaintiff before the day preceding the accident, and had never conversed with him before the dispute over the plate. He testified in addition that he was not angry with plaintiff before the dispute; that he had no personal grudge against him; and that he threw the hammer immediately, without ‘winding up,’ on seeing the plate ‘go past (his) face.’”).)Moreover, the SAC alleges sufficient facts to show Defendants ratified Doe-1’s conduct.An employer may also be liable for an employee’s acts where the employer either authorized the tortious act or subsequently ratified an originally unauthorized tort. (Baptist v. Robinson¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 151, 169.) “The failure to discharge an employee who has committed misconduct may be evidence of ratification.” (Id.) “The theory of ratification is generally applied where an employer fails to investigate or respond to charges that an employee committed an intentional tort, such as assault or battery.” (Id.)¿ “[For] adoption and ratification there must be some relation, actual or assumed, of principal and agent.” (Watkins v. Clemmer (1933) 129 Cal.App. 567, 572.) “A principal cannot ratify the act of the alleged agent, unless the agent purported to act on behalf of the principal.” (Emery v. Visa Internat. Service Ass’n (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 952, 961, emphasis added.)The SAC alleges that Defendant HBIC knew Doe-1 had a past history of getting in altercations with special needs students and engaging in other questionable conduct such as urinating in public while driving vans for special needs students. (SAC, ¶ 14.) However, Defendant did not undertake any steps or took inadequate steps to discipline Doe-1 or determine his unfitness for driving HBIC students. (Id., ¶ 11.) As such, based on these allegations of ratification, Defendant HBIC may be liable for its employees’ acts.As such, Defendant’s demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action is OVERRULED.