

 
             This is a defamation action. Plaintiff
Francisco Ferreras Rodriguez (Plaintiff) sued Defendants Netflix, Inc.
(Netflix) and David M. Rosenthal (Rosenthal) (jointly, Defendants) for their allegedly
false depiction of Plaintiff in the film entitled, “No Limit” (Film). 
 
            On November 21, 2023, Defendants
filed a Special Motion to Strike the Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16.
 
            Thereafter,
Plaintiff moved for leave to conduct discovery on Defendant’s Special Motion to
Strike. Defendants oppose this motion. 
 
The Court grants the motion in part.

 
            Defendants’ objection to Plaintiff’s evidence is ruled as
follows: Nos. 1-2 are sustained. 
 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to obtain
discovery in opposition to Defendants’ special motion to strike (anti-SLAPP). 
 
The filing
of an anti-SLAPP motion stays discovery in an action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (g).) However, on noticed motion and “for good cause shown,” the
court “may order that specified discovery be conducted notwithstanding” the
statutory discovery stay. (Ibid.) 
 
“ ‘[G]ood
cause’ ” in this context requires the plaintiff show that, “ ‘the specified
discovery is necessary for the plaintiff to oppose the [anti-SLAPP] motion and
is tailored to that end.’ ” (Balla v. Hall (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 652,
692.) That is, “[i]f the plaintiff makes a timely and proper showing in
response to the motion to strike, that a defendant or witness possesses
evidence needed by plaintiff to establish a prima facie case, the plaintiff
must be given the reasonable opportunity to obtain that evidence through
discovery before the motion to strike is adjudicated.” (Layfayette
Morehouse, Inc. v. Chronicle Publishing Co. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 855,
868.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff specifically seeks discovery
on the issue of actual malice, noting that the special motion to strike argues,
among other things, that Plaintiff cannot establish that Defendants acted with
actual malice. (Special Motion to Strike, pp. 20-21.)
 
“Defamation
is the intentional publication of a statement of fact that is false,
unprivileged, and has a natural tendency to injure or that causes special
damage.” (Grenier v. Taylor (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 471, 486.) “If the
person defamed is a public figure, he must show, by clear and convincing
evidence, that the defamatory statement was made with actual malice” (Mitchell
v. Twin Galaxies, LLC (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 207, 218.)
 
Prima Facie Showing for Defamation:
 
            In opposition, Defendants argue that
before the Court can even reach the question of whether there is good cause to
take limited discovery on the issue of Defendants’ actual malice, this Court
must first determine if Plaintiff has demonstrated a prima facie case of
falsity for the purposes of a defamation claim. That is, Plaintiff must first establish
that Defendants made a provably false statement of fact about him.
 
            Defendants
are correct on the law. In John Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 1300 (Doe), the court granted a writ of mandate and reversed the trial court’s grant
of discovery because the plaintiff had not established prima facie case of
defamation. Relying on the holding in Paterno v. Superior Court (2008) 163
Cal.App.4th 1342,
the Doe Court explained “a libel plaintiff may not obtain
special discovery under the anti-SLAPP statute without first making a prima
facie showing of the elements of libel for which the material facts are
available to the plaintiff.” (Id. at 1311–1312 [citing Paterno,
at pp. 1349–1351 and The Garment Workers Center v. Superior Court (2004)
117 Cal.App.4th 1156, 1162 [“Even if it looks as if the defendant's actual
malice may be an issue in the case, if it appears from the SLAPP motion there
are significant issues as to falsity or publication—issues which the plaintiff
should be able to establish without discovery—the court should consider
resolving those issues before permitting what may otherwise turn out to be
unnecessary, expensive and burdensome discovery proceedings”].)
 
            Here, Plaintiff
argues that “a
trier of fact could conclude that a reasonable viewer would understand the
character in the Film (Pascal Gautier) to be the person identified in the
Complaint (Plaintiff) and to have the characteristics as described (murdering
his wife and refusing to rescue her), and therefore it should proceed to
consider the merits of this motion by determining whether [Plaintiff] has shown
good cause for conducting discovery on actual malice.” (Mot., 12:8-13.)
Specifically, Plaintiff describes the Film as a “thinly veiled account” of the
events surrounding the death by drowning of Plaintiff’s wife, Audrey Anne Marie
Mestre Ferreras (Audrey Mestre), in 2002.
 
            In
response, Defendants argue that no reasonable viewer would understand this Film
as making statements about Plaintiff. 
 
“In actions based on the
identification of a fictional character with the actual plaintiff, the test is
whether a reasonable person . . . would understand that the fictional character
therein pictured was, in actual fact, the plaintiff acting as described.” (Tamkin
v. CBS Broad., Inc. (2011) 193 Cal. App. 4th 133, 146; see also Aguilar v.
Universal City Studios, Inc. (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 384, 387 [“The
test is whether a reasonable person, viewing the motion picture, would
understand the character ... was, in actual fact, [the plaintiff] conducting
herself as described.”].)
            
Where a work
is sufficiently transformative, a defamation claim is barred. (Sarver v.
Hurt Locker LLC (C.D. Cal., Oct. 13, 2011, No. 2:10-CV-09034-JHN) 2011 WL
11574477, at *8.)
 
In this case, Plaintiff’s
allegations are based on the purported similarities between Plaintiff’s life
and the Film, coupled with the memoriam to Audrey Mestre at the end of the
Film. Plaintiff contends that these similarities would lead viewers to conclude
that he behaved the same way that the character Pascal is portrayed as behaving
in the Film.
 
Plaintiff’s
argument is well taken. While the Film does not identify Plaintiff by name, the
major elements in the Film parallel major elements in Plaintiff’s life and his relationship
with Audrey Mestre. (Mot., 5:19-7:16.) Further, the Film ends with the memoriam to Mestre, indirectly
tying the Film to Plaintiff’s life. In other words, the “physical
description,” and “biographical references” present in the Film “would allow a reasonable person to conclude that the fictional [Pascal Gautier] was in
fact the real [Plaintiff].” (Gaprindashvili v. Netflix,
Inc. (C.D. Cal., Jan. 27, 2022, No. 221CV07408VAPSKX) 2022 WL 363537, at
*5.) 
 
            Because
the contents of the Film could allow a reasonable person to conclude that the
fictional Pascal
Gautier was in fact
the real Plaintiff and the Film insinuates that Pascal Gautier killed his wife, the Court
finds that, for the purposes of this Motion, Plaintiff has made a prima
facie showing on the issue of falsity. 
 
Therefore,
the Court will now turn to whether Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause to
obtain discovery on the issue of actual malice.
 
Showing of Good Cause for Actual
Malice Discovery:
 
As noted
above, Plaintiff seeks limited discovery on the issue of actual malice. 
 
To prove
actual malice, a plaintiff must show that statements were made with “
‘knowledge that [they were] false or with reckless disregard of whether [they
were] false or not.’ ” (Reader's Digest Assn. v. Superior Court (1984)
37 Cal.3d 244, 256-257.) “ ‘There must be sufficient evidence to permit the
conclusion that the defendant in fact entertained serious doubts as to the
truth,’ ” and the evidence must be clear and convincing. (Reader's Digest,
supra, 37 Cal.3d at p. 252, 256; see Copp v. Paxton (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 829, 846 [“burden of proof by clear and convincing evidence
‘requires a finding of high probability’; must ‘leave no substantial doubt’
”].)
 
“[A]ctual
malice can be proved by circumstantial evidence.” (Reader's Digest, supra,
37 Cal.3d at p. 257.) Considerations such as “anger and hostility toward the
plaintiff,” “reliance upon sources known to be unreliable [citations] or known
to be biased against the plaintiff,” and “failure to investigate” may, “in an
appropriate case, indicate that the publisher himself had serious doubts
regarding the truth of his publication.” (Id. at p. 258.) Such evidence
is relevant “to the extent that it reflects on the subjective attitude of the
publisher,” and failure to investigate, without more, generally is
insufficient. (Ibid.)
 
In response to Rosenthal’s declaration
in support the Anti-SLAPP motion claiming no actual malice, Plaintiff “seeks
discovery to obtain the materials about himself and Audrey that Rosenthal read
or watched during his research in order to establish that his research revealed
no credible basis for believing that Ferreras sabotaged Audrey’s equipment or
refused to try to rescue her.” (Mot., 14:17-19.) 
 
As to Netflix, Plaintiff also seeks
both the deposition of Sonia Aksil – who describes herself as “Manager of
Content Acquisition in France for Netflix, Inc” and who provided a declaration
in support of the Anti-SLAPP motion – and the deposition of the PMK at Netflix on
the issues of the acquisition of the streaming rights for the Film and the
knowledge it acquired during that process. (Mot., 15:20-16:8.) 
 
Plaintiff also seeks any
communications between Rosenthal and third parties in which these matters were
mentioned because they may shed light on Rosenthal’s subjective beliefs. In particular,
Plaintiff seeks the following documents:
 
(1.) All documents and
communications pertaining to Audrey or Ferreras.
(2.) All documents and
communications pertaining to Rosenthal’s research for the Film.
(3.) The articles and books that
Rosenthal refers to (but does not name) in the last
sentence of ¶5(e) of his
declaration.
(4.) All documents and
communications pertaining to the inclusion of the In Memoriam pages in the
Film.
(5.) All documents and
communications pertaining to the statement in the Film that it was
"inspired by real events.”
(6.) All documents and
communications pertaining to the “real events” that “inspired” the Film.
(7.) All documents and
communications pertaining to the wording of disclaimers in the Film.
 
Plaintiff has demonstrated good
cause for limited discovery on this Motion from Rosenthal. That is, Plaintiff
has demonstrated a specific need for the discovery as the information
pertaining to actual malice is uniquely within Rosenthal’s possession as the
writer and director of the Film. Further, Rosenthal admitted
to being inspired by the lives of Plaintiff and Audrey Mestre in his making of
this Film.
 
However, the discovery requests
identified in this Motion pertaining to Rosenthal are not narrowly tailored as
required under the law. Specifically, the scope of the deposition and its document
demands are overboard. Rather, a corresponding document demand on
Rosenthal limited to the books and articles that he read about Plaintiff and
the events surrounding Mestre’s death before and during the creating of the
Film is also appropriate – to the extent such publications are not available publicly.

       
With respect to Rosenthal, the
Plaintiff has shown good cause to request the documents and communications
specified in items nos. 2, 3, and 5, above, and also inquire in the deposition
of Rosenthal on those topics. In other respects Plaintiff’s motion is denied.
            
            Regarding discovery from Netflix, on
the other hand, Plaintiff has not demonstrated good cause. Plaintiff identifies
the declaration of Aksil regarding her knowledge of the Film and her belief
that Netflix was purchasing a fictional work for its streaming services. However,
Plaintiff has not provided any justification for anti-SLAPP discovery except to
test the veracity of Aksil’s declaration. (1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568, 593 [“Discovery may not
be obtained merely to ‘test’ the opponent's declarations.”].) Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel limited discovery bearing on the anti-SLAPP motion
from Netflix is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the Plaintiff’s motion
for leave to conduct discovery from Defendant Rosenthal on Defendants’
Anti-SLAPP motion is granted with respect to documents, communications, and
testimony from Rosenthal regarding his research for the Film, including the
articles and books consulted, or that relate to the assertion that the Film was
inspired by real events.  It is otherwise
denied as to Rosenthal.  The motion with
respect to Defendant Netflix is denied.