


[1]            For
reference, 70% of the year is approximately 8.4 months out of the year or
approximately 255 days.


[2]            In
reviewing the evidence and arguments made by Defendant on the motion for
summary adjudication of this issue, Defendant relies on evidence discovered
after the filing of this Complaint of disability discrimination. Nonetheless,
the Court can consider this evidence on this issue of whether Plaintiff was
qualified to perform the essential functions of his job. (See e.g., Anthony
v. Trax International Corporation (9th Cir. 2020) 955 F.3d 1123, 1126.) 
 
In
Anthony v. Trax International Corporation, the employer in that case
discovered during litigation, long after any alleged discrimination, that the
employee lacked a required degree for his position, so he was indisputably
unqualified. (Id. at p. 1126-1128.) The issue on appeal was therefore
whether such after-acquired evidence that an employee does not satisfy the
prerequisites for the position, including educational background, renders the
employee ineligible for relief. (Ibid.)
 
In
Anthony, the Ninth Circuit held that the McKennon rule, which prohibits
after-acquired evidence as a defense to discriminatory motive, does not apply
to the “qualified individual” element of an ADA claim. (Id. at 1134.)
The plaintiff and the amicus EEOC argued plaintiff's lack of a bachelor's
degree, which was a prerequisite for her position as a “technical writer,” was
irrelevant to the decision to terminate her employment because the defendant
learned of this information after the adverse employment action occurred. (Id.
at 1128.) The Court disagreed. (Ibid.) Although plaintiff's lack of a
bachelor's degree had no relevance to discriminatory intent, the evidence was
probative of whether plaintiff was qualified at the time of her termination
from employment, regardless of when the employer learned of the information. (Id.
at 1129.) Because “an employee must show she was qualified at the time of the
of the adverse employment action, rather than some earlier or later time,” the
qualification determination is not limited to “facts known to the employer at
the time of challenged employment action.” (Id.) The Court explained
that “an employer's subjective knowledge has no bearing on the skill,
experience, education and other job-related qualifications that a person in
fact possesses.” (Id.)  

