

 
            This is an employment discrimination
case brought by Plaintiff Aubrey Pittman against his employer, MV Transportation,
Inc. (Defendant or MV). Plaintiff alleges that during his employment as a bus
driver he was discriminated against based on a knee injury he suffered while on
the job. 
 
On February 20, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant alleging
claims for: (1.) failure to accommodate a disability; (2) failure to engage in
the interactive process; (3) disability discrimination (case no. 20STCV07214).
 
On April 2, 2021, Defendant MV filed a Motion for Summary Judgment to
dispose of all Plaintiff’s disability-related claims. On June 16, 2021, based
on the facts known at that time, the Court denied Defendant’s Motion as to all
claims except for Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. 
 
On May 23, 2022, Plaintiff was terminated from his employment. On
December 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed a second lawsuit against Defendant (case no.
22STCV38830), alleging causes of action for (1.) retaliation under FEHA, and
(2.) retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5. The two matters were consolidated
on March 13, 2023 with the earlier case, no. 20STCV07214, as the lead case. 
 
Now,
Defendant MV moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication of all the claims in the two consolidated matters.
Plaintiff opposes the
motion.
 
            The
motion for summary judgment is denied. The motion for summary adjudication is
granted as to Issues Nos. 1, 3, 5, 11 and denied as to Issues. Nos. 7-10. The
motion for summary adjudication is moot as to Issues Nos. 2, 4, and 6.  
 
Evidentiary Issues:
 
 Plaintiff’s single objection to Defendants’
evidence is overruled; instead of citing evidence, Plaintiff objects to the
material facts in the separate statement, which is not evidence. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request that the Court take judicial notice of Exhibits 1-5 is granted. 
 
            Defendant’s
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence is ruled as follows: Nos. 1-17, 22, 24-25,
29-31, 37, 40-42, 46-49, 54-55 are overruled, Nos. 18-21, 23, 26-28, 32-36, 39,
43-45, 50-53, 56-57.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“The
party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is
no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue of material fact exists if the evidence
would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of
the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of
proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467; Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
            “California uses the three-stage burden-shifting test
established by the United States Supreme Court for trying claims of
discrimination based on a theory of disparate treatment,” known as the McDonnell
Douglas test. (Scotch v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 986, 1004.) Under the McDonnell Douglas test, “the plaintiff
[first] has the burden of establishing a prima facie case of discrimination.
Second, if the plaintiff meets this burden, the employer must offer a
legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment decision. Third,
and finally, the plaintiff bears the burden of proving the employer's proffered
reason pretextual.” (Knight v. Hayward Unified School Dist. (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 121, 129.)
 
            ” ‘A defendant employer's motion for summary judgment
slightly modifies the order of these [McDonnell Douglas] showings.’ “ (Scotch,
supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at p. 1005.) To prevail on summary judgment, the
defendant employer is “required to show either that (1) plaintiff could not
establish one of the [prima facie] elements of the FEHA claim, or (2) there was
a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for its decision to terminate
plaintiff's employment.” (Avila v. Continental Airlines, Inc. (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1237, 1247.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
             Defendant moves for summary judgment on the
grounds that Plaintiff cannot establish all the elements of his claims and there
are no triable issues of material fact in dispute.  
 
Disability
Discrimination Cause of Action: 
 
            In support
of the motion for summary adjudication, Defendant argues that the claim fails
because (1.) Plaintiff cannot prove he was a qualified individual who could
perform his job with or without reasonable accommodations and he did not suffer
an adverse employment action because of his disability (Issue No. 1), and (2.) Defendant
had legitimate, nondiscriminatory business reasons for all decisions made
regarding Plaintiff’s employment and Plaintiff cannot prove that Defendant’s
proffered reasons for the alleged adverse employment actions are pretext for any
discrimination (Issue No. 2). 
 
            The 20STCV07214 Complaint alleges “Plaintiff
was released [to work] on July 30, 2019 following the knee surgery with
restrictions to work in a sedentary only position.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) Thereafter,
Defendant informed Plaintiff that that “they could not accommodate him and for
him to stay at home.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) “Plaintiff was expecting to be
accommodated by being assigned to the call center.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) When “Plaintiff
was released on December 20, 2019, without restrictions” he “was expecting to
start driving.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) “By refusing to allow Plaintiff to return to
work following his medical leave of absence caused by his knee surgery due to
an injury that occurred at work as described herein, Defendants have violated
California Government Code §12940.” (Compl., ¶ 32.) 
 
            With respect to Issue No. 1,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case
because he was not qualified to perform the essential functions of his job with
or without accommodation.  
 
            In the context of disability
discrimination, the plaintiff can meet this burden to establish
a prima facie case of discrimination by presenting evidence
that demonstrates, even circumstantially or by inference, that he (1) suffered
from a disability, or was regarded as suffering from a disability; (2) could
perform the essential duties of the job with or without reasonable
accommodations, and (3) was subjected to an adverse employment action because
of the disability or perceived disability. (Jensen v. Wells Fargo Bank
(2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 254.)
 
            Here, Defendant submits evidence
that Plaintiff was not qualified to perform the essential function of his job—commercial
driving – based on Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations and his knee
injury. 
 
Drivers of commercial motor vehicles, like
Plaintiff, are required to demonstrate they are physically qualified to drive
per the Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations by submitting to a
physical examination with a certified DOT medical examiner. (DSS 3-4.) If the
medical examiner determines that a driver is not physically qualified to drive,
then the driver cannot legally drive. (DSS 5.) 
 
Pursuant to 49 C.F.R. section 391.41,
Appendix A to Part 391.415, subdivision (b)(5)(1), a person is physically
qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle if that person has no established
medical history or clinical diagnosis of a respiratory dysfunction likely to
interfere with ability to control and drive a commercial motor vehicle safely.
(49 C.F.R. § 391.41, Appendix A to Part 391.415, subd. (b)(5)(1).) A diagnosis
of Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA or sleep apnea) is considered a respiratory
dysfunction likely to interfere with ability to control and drive a commercial
motor vehicle safely. (DSS 79.)
 
In this case, Defendant’s evidence shows
that Plaintiff was diagnosed with OSA in February 2016 and prescribed a CPAP
machine. (DSS 78.) To establish that he was physically qualified to operate a
commercial motor vehicle while suffering from this medical condition, Plaintiff
had to provide the DOT Medical Examiner evidence of his CPAP use compliance.
(DSS 80-81.) 
 
It is undisputed that to comply with DOT
regulations on CPAP usage in order to maintain his commercial driver's license,
Plaintiff was required to continuously use the CPAP machine for four hours or
greater for 70% of the time throughout the year. (DSS 81.)[1]

 
Here, the evidence shows that, during a deposition
in May 2022, Plaintiff testified he used his CPAP machine “[j]ust for the
requirements to pass the CPAP test, which is 30 to 90 days out of the year.”
(DSS 80-81.) Thus, Defendant contends Plaintiff was not in compliance with his
CPAP usage and his OSA was not controlled. 
 
Based on this noncompliance with DOT
regulations, Defendant contends that Plaintiff was not qualified to work as a
commercial driver.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff submits his declaration
stating that he misunderstood the defense counsel’s question and “focused” his
testimony “on what [he] needed to show the DOT medical examiner to be compliant,
not how often [he used his] CPAP machine throughout the year.” (PSS 80 [Pittman
Decl., ¶ 26].) He states that he used his CPAP machine “at least four hours per
night for at least 70% of the nights.” (PSS 80 [Pittman Decl., ¶¶ 27, 31].) 
 
Plaintiff’s declaration conflicts with his
earlier deposition testimony. Although Plaintiff attempts to explain his
statement as result of a confusing defense question, the Court disagrees. 
 
The relevant portion of the deposition was
as follows:
 
“Q
So you were diagnosed with sleep apnea and never told that you no longer had
sleep apnea; is that correct? 
A
Yes. It's a requirement that you must wear a CPAP machine to be a commercial
driver. 
Q If you have sleep apnea; correct? 
A If you have sleep apnea. 
Q Do you wear a CPAP machine at night? 
A Not every night. 
Q How long do you wear one? 
A
Just for requirements to pass the CPAP test, which is 30 to 90 days out of the
year.
 Q
What do you mean, “requirements to pass the CPAP test”? 
A It's part of your medical evaluation. 
Q
So you have to wear that sleep apnea mask only for 30 to 90 days before your
Department of Transportation medical evaluation? 
 A
Yes. 
Q
Is that because you want your results on that Department of Transportation
medical evaluation to be positive so you could drive? 
A Yes.” (Gross Decl., Ex. B [Pittman Depo:
275:15-276:12].)
 
            There was nothing confusing or
misleading about the defense counsel’s question. Based on the questions asked
by defense counsel, Plaintiff volunteered this information regarding the 30-90
day usage when asked specifically how often he wears his CPAP machine at night.

 
            Thus, Plaintiff’s declaration evidence
does not create a triable issue of material fact in dispute. It “is
well-established in California that a declaration must be disregarded if in
conflict with deposition testimony.” (See D'Amico v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1; Jacobs v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1995) 36
Cal.App.4th 1258, 1270 [“A court may disregard a declaration, prepared for
purposes of a summary judgment motion, which conflicts with deposition
testimony of the declarant. [Citations.]”]; see also Schiff v. Prados
(2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 692, 705 [in reviewing the trial court's grant of motion
for summary judgment, appellate court disregarded nonparty expert's declaration
that conflicted with his deposition testimony].)
 
            Thus, Defendant’s evidence on CPAP
usage is undisputed. Accordingly, the undisputed evidence shows Plaintiff was
not qualified to perform the essential functions of his job because he failed
to comply with DOT regulations.[2]
 
Additionally, Plaintiff was also diagnosed
with diabetes mellitus. (DSS 85.)
 
Pursuant to 49 C.F.R section 391.46,
subdivision (a), an individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for
control is physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle provided:
“ . . . “(2) The individual has the evaluation required by paragraph (b) and
the medical examination required by paragraph (c) of this section.” (49 C.F.R §
391.46, subd. (a).) Prior to a DOT medical examination, an individual with
diabetes mellitus must be evaluated by his treating clinician, during which the
treating clinician must complete the Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus
Assessment Form, MCSA-5870 (Form). (49 C.F.R. § 391.46(b)(1).) No later than 45
days after the treating clinician signs and dates this Form, an individual with
diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control must be medically examined
and certified by a DOT medical examiner as physically qualified in accordance
with Section 391.43 as free of complications from diabetes mellitus that might
impair his ability to operate a commercial motor vehicle safely. (49 C.F.R. §
391.46, subd. (c)(2).) 
 
An individual is “not physically qualified
to operate a commercial motor vehicle if he or she is not maintaining a stable
insulin regimen and not properly controlling his or her diabetes mellitus.” (49
C.F.R. § 391.46, subd. (c)(2)(i).) Further, the individual is not physically
qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle up to the maximum 12- month
period under Section 391.45(e) “until he or she provides the treating clinician
with at least the preceding 3 months of electronic blood glucose self-monitoring
records while being treated with insulin. The individual who does not provide
the treating clinician with at least the preceding 3 months of electronic blood
glucose self-monitoring records while being treated with insulin . . . . is not
physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle for more than 3
months.” (49 C.F.R. § 391.46, subd. (c)(2)(iii)-(iv).)
 
Defendant presents evidence showing that Plaintiff
did not take insulin to treat his diabetes mellitus. (DSS 85.) Based on this
noncompliance with DOT regulations, Defendant contends Plaintiff was not
qualified to work as a commercial driver.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that he
was not prescribed insulin; instead, he states that he lost weight and began
taking Metformin to control his diabetes. (PSS 85 [Pittman Decl., ¶ 34; see
also ¶ 35, Ex. 25].)  Citing 49 C.F.R. §
391.41(b)(3), Plaintiff notes that the regulation states that “[a] person is
physically qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle if that person has no
established medical history or clinical diagnosis of diabetes mellitus
currently treated with insulin for control . . ..”
 
Although Plaintiff state that he was “was
never treated with insulin,” this evidence is contradicted by Plaintiff’s deposition
testimony. During his deposition, he first states – in response to how he was controlling
his diabetes – that he was not “under any medication.” (Ex. B [Pittman Depo.
432:1-15].) This testimony contradicts his declaration that he was taking
Metformin.
 
Plaintiff testified that insulin was
prescribed to him, but he did not take it. (DSS 85 [Gjedsted Decl., Ex. B
[Pittman Depo. 435:1-15]].) He also stated that at some point he began treating
his diabetes mellitus with Metformin. (DSS 85 [Gjedsted Decl., Ex. B [Pittman
Depo. 432:16-20; see also 453:4-16]].) Thus, Plaintiff’s own deposition
testimony indicates he was prescribed insulin to control his diabetes at some
point and did not take it. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff also submits a letter
from Dr. Assaad, MD., dated December 22, 2023, regarding Plaintiffs diabetes
and treatment. (PSS 85 [Koron Decl., Ex. 25].) The letter states that Plaintiff
was under Dr. Assaad’s care and Dr. Assaad never prescribed insulin. (PSS 85
[Pittman Decl., Ex. 25].) As noted above, Defendant’s objection to this unsworn
letter is well taken. (Defendant’s objections nos. 56 and 57.)
 
Based on this additional basis for noncompliance
with DOT regulations, Plaintiff was not qualified to work as a commercial
driver.
 
Lastly, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
cannot show he was able to perform the essential functions of his job as result
of an injury to his right knee. 
 
In support, Defendant submits evidence
that, in August 2019, Plaintiff’s workers compensation (WC) doctor determined
that Plaintiff had reached permanent and stationary status and issued
restrictions, including no prolonged walking/standing and no repetitive ladder
and stair climbing. (DSS 40.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s job required him
to repeatedly climb stairs in order to board/deboard a bus and that the
walking/standing involved driving a bus also prevent Plaintiff from physically performing
his duties as a bus driver. (DSS 44.) 
 
In July 2020, Plaintiff was fully released
to return to work by his WC doctor. (DSS 73, 75.) However, it is undisputed
that Plaintiff went back on leave in July 2021 because his knee injury was exacerbated
by driving. (DSS 76.)  
 
Plaintiff was on leave until February 2022
when he again returned to full duty. (PSS 31.) 
 
While Defendant may take issue with
whether Plaintiff could continue to remain on full duty, the evidence shows he
was returned to full duty with and without restrictions during various periods
after February 2019 knee surgery, including in February 2022 when he returned
to full duty without restriction. Thus, there is a triable issue of material
fact with respect to whether Plaintiff’s knee injury rendered Plaintiff unable to
perform his essential duties with or without reasonable accommodation during
the periods of the 20STCV07214 Complaint. 
 
While summary adjudication of Issue No. 1
cannot be granted based on Plaintiff’s knee injury, Plaintiff fails to
establish a prima facie case that he was qualified to perform his job based on
his failure to use the CPAP machine and to take insulin as prescribed.
 
Issue No. 2 concerns whether Defendant’s
adverse employment decision was due to Plaintiff’s disability or for a legitimate
non-discriminatory reason. But the Court need not reach that point because
Plaintiff has failed to prove a prima facie case that he was eligible to work
as a commercial driver.  Accordingly,
Issue No. 2 is moot.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication is granted as to Issue No. 1, which renders Issue No. 2 moot.
 
Failure
to Accommodate Cause of Action: 
 
In support of the motion for summary
adjudication, Defendant argues that this claim fails because (1.) the undisputed
material facts establish that Plaintiff cannot prove that at the time he claims
Defendant failed to accommodate him, he was a qualified individual with a
disability who could perform the essential functions of his position, with or
without a reasonable accommodation (Issue No. 3.), and (2.) Defendant
reasonably accommodated Plaintiff for all known disabilities (Issue No. 4.) 
 
To establish a failure to accommodate
claim, a plaintiff must show (1) he has a disability covered by FEHA; (2) he
can perform the essential functions of the position; and (3) his employer
failed reasonably to accommodate his disability. (Jensen v. Wells Fargo Bank
(2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 256–257.)
 
For the reasons discussed in Issue No. 1
of the disability discrimination cause of action, Plaintiff cannot prove that –
at the time he claims Defendant failed to accommodate him – he was a qualified
individual with a disability who could perform the essential functions of his
position, with or without a reasonable accommodation.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of Issue No. 3 is granted, and Issue No. 4 is moot.
 
Failure
to Engage in the Interactive Process Cause of Action:
 
            In support of the motion for summary
adjudication, Defendant argues that this claim fails because (1.) the
undisputed material facts establish that Plaintiff cannot prove that at the
time he claims Defendant failed to engage in the interactive process with him,
he was a qualified individual with a disability who could perform the essential
functions of his position, with or without a reasonable accommodation (Issue
No. 5.), and (2.) the undisputed material facts establish that Defendant
interacted with Plaintiff to the full extent required under the law (Issue. No.
6). 
 
            Under FEHA, it is an unlawful
practice for an employer to fail to engage in a good faith interactive process
with the employee to determine an effective reasonable accommodation if an
employee with a known physical disability requests one. (Gov. Code § 12940,
subd. (n); see § 12926.1, subd. (e); A.M. v. Albertsons, LLC (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 455, 463.)
 
In Nadaf-Rahrov v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 952, 963, the court of appeal held that a cause of action for
either failure to accommodate (§ 12940, subd. (m)) or failure to engage in the
interactive process (§ 12940, subd. (n)) requires a showing by the employee
that he or she was a “qualified individual with a disability” in that he or she
was able with reasonable accommodation to perform the essential functions of
the job held or desired. (Id. at pp. 963, 975–976.)
 
For the reasons discussed in Issue No. 1
of the disability discrimination cause of action, Plaintiff cannot prove that –
at the time he claims Defendant failed to adequately engage in the interactive
process with him – he was a qualified individual with a disability who could
perform the essential functions of his position, with or without a reasonable
accommodation. 
 
Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of Issue No. 5 is granted, and Issue No. 6 is moot.
 
Retaliation
in Violation of the California Fair Employment and Housing Act Cause of Action:
 
In support of the motion for summary
adjudication, Defendant argues that this claim fails because (1.) Plaintiff
cannot establish a prima facie case as the undisputed material facts fail to
establish any causal connection between any protected activity and any adverse
employment action (Issue. No. 7), and (2.) Defendant had legitimate,
non-retaliatory business reasons for all actions taken against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff cannot prove that Defendant’s proffered reasons for the alleged
adverse employment actions are pretext for any retaliation (Issue No. 8.) 
            
To state a claim for retaliation under FEHA, a plaintiff must
show: (i) he engaged in protected activity, (ii) defendants subjected him to an
adverse employment action, and (iii) there was a causal link between the
protected activity and the adverse employment action. (Patten v. Grant Joint
Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.) 
 
Here, the Complaint in 22STCV38830 states in relevant part: “In
retaliation for requesting an accommodation for his work restrictions,
requesting and taking a medical leave of absence, and/or reporting Defendant's
FEHA violations, Plaintiff was terminated by Defendant.” (Compl., ¶ 13.)
 
Defendant argues that there is no evidence
to support causal connection between Plaintiff’s requests for accommodation for
his right knee injury, which occurred in 2018 and for which he took a leave
from February 2019 to August 2020, and his termination two years later in May
2022. (DSS 30-94.) Further, Plaintiff never complained about any employee
conduct towards him based on any retaliation, including when he was terminated.
(DSS 107.)
 
In opposition, without restating the
litany of facts at issue in this case, Plaintiff relies on the timing of events
and Defendant’s conduct during Plaintiff’s return to work to demonstrate retaliation.
(PAF 12-63.) Specifically, he argues that the evidence shows he was kept out of
work for a year despite being cleared to return to work, and then terminated
shortly after returning from his protected leave. (PAF 12-63.)
 
Plaintiff’s evidence to support retaliation
is limited. However, unlike in the other claims, the evidence here turns on
Defendant’s purported unlawful intent – not Plaintiff’s qualification to work. Here,
the long history of various leaves of absence and Defendant’s purported reasons
from preventing Plaintiff’s return to work and then Plaintiff’s subsequent
termination are sufficient to create an inference of a causal relationship
between the protected activities and the adverse employment decision. 
 
Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of Issues Nos. 7 and 8 are denied. 
 
Retaliation
in Violation of the California Labor Code Section 1102.5 Cause of Action:
 
            In support of the motion for summary
adjudication, Defendant argues that this claim fails because (1.) Plaintiff
cannot establish a prima facie case as the undisputed facts show Defendant did
not subject Plaintiff to any adverse employment action due to any alleged
whistleblower complaint under Labor Code Section 1102.5 (Issue No. 9), and (2.)
Defendant would have taken the action in question for legitimate, independent
reasons even had Plaintiff not engaged in protected activity and Plaintiff
cannot demonstrate pretext (Issue No. 10).
 
            In
contrast to the FEHA cause of action, Labor Code section 1102.6 provides the
framework for adjudicating a Labor Code section 1102.5 claim – not the McDonnell
Douglas burden shifting standard. Under this standard, the plaintiff bears
the burden of establishing, “by a preponderance of the evidence, that
retaliation for an employee's protected activities was a contributing factor in
a contested employment action.” (Lawson v. PPG Architectural
Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718.)
Second, “[o]nce the
plaintiff has made the required showing, the burden shifts to the employer to
demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that it would have taken the
action in question for legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff
not engaged in protected activity.” (Ibid.)
 
            That is, under Labor Code section
1102.5, a plaintiff need only “demonstrate[] by a preponderance of the
evidence” that the employee’s protected whistleblowing was a "contributing
factor" to an adverse employment action. (Lab. Code § 1102.6.)
 
            Thus, for the reasons discussed in
Issue No. 7 of the retaliation based on FEHA claim, Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication of Issues Nos. 9 and 10 are denied. 
 
Punitive
Damages (Issue No. 11):
 
            In seeking summary adjudication of
this issue, Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot prevail on his request for
punitive damages because the undisputed material facts establish that no
officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant acted with malice,
oppression, or fraud towards Plaintiff, acted with advanced knowledge and
disregard for Plaintiff’s rights or safety, or authorized or ratified any
fraudulent, oppressive, or malicious conduct towards Plaintiff.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff states it
is not opposing Defendant's motion as it relates to his punitive damages claim.

 
            The motion for summary adjudication
of Issue No. 11 is granted.          
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion for
summary judgment is denied. The motion for summary adjudication is granted as
to Issues Nos. 1, 3, 5, and 11, and denied as to Issues. Nos. 7-10. The motion
for summary adjudication of Issues Nos. 2, 4, and 6 are moot.   


