  Case Number:  21STCV14556    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  49 JD Classics Limited v. Jeff LotmanDEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE OR TAX COSTS MOVING PARTY: Defendants Jeff Lotman RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff JD Classics LimitedSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:Plaintiff JD Classics Limited (in administration) was a dealer and restorer of high value classic and prestige cars. Plaintiff alleges that its founder and former Chief Executive Officer, Derek Hood, formed a scheme with Defendant Jeff Lotman to misrepresent JDCL’s financial information to facilitate a sale of the Company. This caused JDCL’s accounting and financial records to be materially misstated, which led to the eventual sale of JDCL. Plaintiff brings causes of action against Lotman for (1) fraud, (2) aiding and abetting fraud, (3) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, and (4) negligent misrepresentation.The matter proceeded to a bench trial on 1/30/24, 1/31/24, 2/1/24, 2/2/24, and 2/5/24. After hearing the evidence, the court found Defendant Lotman liable on all causes of action and awarded Plaintiff $9,048,630 in damages.Defendant now moves to strike or tax Plaintiff’s costs. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion to Strike or Tax is GRANTED IN PART an DENIED IN PART, as expressly stated herein.Moving party is ordered to give notice, unless waived.  DISCUSSION:Motion to Tax CostsAnalysisFirst and foremost, although this Court has yet to issue its final ruling in this case, based upon the post-trial motions which are currently under submission, and even if there were to be a net zero monetary verdict entered in this case, it is the intention of this Court to declare and find the Plaintiff to be the “prevailing party” in this case, which would allow it to claim recoverable costs under CCP sections 1032(a)(4), and 1033.5. Plaintiff filed a Memorandum of Costs on July 26, 2024, seeking $110.741.63 in total costs. Defendant now moves to strike or tax.When the items on the verified cost bill appear to be proper, the burden of proof is on the contesting party. (Fennessy v. Deleuw-Cather Corp., 218 Cal. App. 3d 1192, 267 Cal. Rptr. 772 (1st Dist. 1990)).  However, when items claimed as costs do not appear on their face as proper and necessary and the items are properly challenged by a motion to tax costs, the burden of establishing the necessity of the items is on the party claiming them as costs. (Whitney v. Whitney, 164 Cal. App. 2d 577, 330 P.2d 947 (1st Dist. 1958)). A. Filing and Motion FeesPlaintiff claims $6,757.74 for filing and motion fees. Defendant argues Plaintiff has not identified what specific filing each fee pertains to the costs claimed between May 14, 2021 and February 15, 2023. Defendant also argues the filing fees are inflated.As a preliminary note, Plaintiff submitted Form MC-010, Memorandum of Costs (Summary), but did not include Form MC-011 (Worksheet), which requires a more-thorough breakdown of the costs claimed. Only in Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion to strike or tax did Plaintiff include additional information necessary to assess the reasonableness of the fees. Be that as it may, because Defendant had the opportunity to file a Reply and respond to the evidence raised in Plaintiff’s opposition, Defendant has not suffered any prejudice from Plaintiff’s failure to file a more detailed breakdown with its initial costs memorandum. The court therefore considers Plaintiff’s obligations satisfied.Here, the items on the cost bill appear to be proper, placing the burden of proof on Defendant to show the costs claims for filing and motion fees are unreasonable. Based on the evidence presented and the scope and extent of the instant litigation, Defendant has not demonstrated that the fees sought are unreasonable. Accordingly, the filing and motion fees sought are fully recoverable.B. Deposition CostsPlaintiff claims $73,155.46 in deposition costs. $9,293.94 of these costs were payment for the “Examiner” appointed by the High Court of Justice in England to preside over the Hood and Harper depositions. (Speas Decl. ¶¶ 7, 8.)Defendant argues the cost of the examiner should be taxed. However, Defendant does not dispute that use of the Examiner was required by English law. Therefore, this cost was reasonable and necessary. Defendant also argues the travel expenses incurred by Plaintiff’s counsel while in London to conduct the depositions were unreasonable. This Court agrees, in part. In particular, Defendant objects to a $700 round-trip flight from Zurich to London, a $118 dollar meal for one person, lodging at a “five-star resort” amounting to $4,941.15, and a $128.10 laundry service.Here, while it was necessary for Plaintiff’s counsel to obtain lodging and accommodations in London during the depositions, Counsel’s two-night stay at the Rosewood Hotel for nearly $5,000 is clearly unreasonable and excessive. The court will therefore tax the lodging fees by one-half, which reflects a more reasonable cost under the totality of the circumstances.  ($4,941.15 / 2 = $2,470.58).The Court will also tax the laundry service in its entirety, as it is not a “travel expense,” per se.  ($128.10)   All of the other “deposition travel expenses” are allowed as under CCP section 1033.5 (a)(3)(C).Accordingly, $2,598.68 is ordered taxed from the deposition costs. The court finds all other claimed deposition costs to be reasonable and necessary. C. Service of Process CostsPlaintiff claims $10,015.77 in service of process costs. Defendant argues $6,500 for investigative services to locate Robert Jewers should be taxed. Defendant also argues $2,449.37 should be taxed where personal service was unnecessary.The court concludes the costs claimed were reasonable and necessary. Although, as noted by Plaintiff, CCP section 1033.5(b)(2) generally precludes costs for “[i]nvestigation expenses in preparing the case for trial,” the investigative costs here were directly related to service of process. It is therefore fully recoverable.D. Court Reporter FeesPlaintiff claims $7,642.50 in court reporter fees. Defendant argues the court reporter fees incurred at trial should be taxed because the parties agreed to split trial court reporter fees. Plaintiff does not dispute that the parties agreed to split court reporter fees for trial. The court will therefore tax the court reporter fees incurred at trial. (See Anthony v. Xiaobin Li (2020) 47 Cal. App. 5th 816, 825 [“Because the parties agreed to share…court reporter fees equally, without providing for the later recovery of those shared fees by a prevailing party, we see no error or abuse of discretion in the trial court's taxing those fees as items of costs”].)It is not clear from Plaintiff’s records how much of the court reporter fees were incurred at trial. Based on the totality of the circumstances, the court will therefore reduce the total court reporter fees sought by one-half, which reflects the reasonable and necessary court reporter fees—not including those from trial ($7,642.50 / 2 = $3,821.25).Accordingly, $3,821.25 is ordered taxed from the court reporters fees. E. Other CostsFinally, Plaintiff seeks $12,183.50 in other costs. Defendant argues $8,722 should be taxed because the technology technician used by Plaintiff at trial was not necessary to the litigation.  Based on the totality of the circumstances, the court concludes all claim costs for “other” are fully recoverable and declines to strike or tax any portion thereof.Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Strike or Tax is GRANTED IN PART an DENIED IN PART, as expressly stated herein.Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 3, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.