 Case Number:  BC640352    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CHRISTOPHER MITCHELL, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
JEREMY DANIELS-STOCK, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  BC640352
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO AMEND CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date: 
  March 20, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendant and Cross-Complainant Jeremy Daniels-Stock
(“Cross-Complainant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants Christopher
Mitchell, Koi Pond, and Monty Dog (“Cross-Defendants”)
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiffs commenced this action on November
10, 2016. The operative Fourth Amended Complaint was filed on October 16, 2020,
and alleges 10 causes of action arising from alleged wrongful actions in
connection with investments in real estate ventures. 
            On December 31, 2018,
Cross-Complainant filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants for (1)
breach of written contract, (2) declaratory relief for quiet title, (3)
accounting, (4) receivership, (5) fraud, (6) breach of fiduciary duty, (7)
assault, and (8) involuntary dissolution. 
            
Trial is set for June 3, 2024.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
CCP §473(a)(1) states: “The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
 
Judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, the
courts have held that “there is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance
of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268)
[“Trial courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting
amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial where the adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].) 
Pursuant to CRC 3.1324(a), a
motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered; and (2) state what allegations are
proposed to be deleted from or added to the previous pleading and where, by
page, paragraph, and line number, such allegations are located.  CRC 3.1324(b) requires a separate declaration
that accompanies the motion, stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
 
Leave to Amend
            Cross-Complainant
represents that the effect of the proposed amendment is to: (a) remove the
causes of action for Receivership and Involuntary Dissolution; and (b) add
evidentiary facts to existing claims. (Grossman Decl., ¶3; Notice of Errata.) Cross-Complainant
believes the existing Cross-Complaint is sufficient, but seeks leaves to amend
to add in facts and issues which were argued about during several mediations
and contained in the mediation briefs. (Grossman Decl., ¶¶4-10.)
 
As Cross-Defendants point out, the Cross-Complaint was filed seven
years ago. Cross-Complainant represents that the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations have been known to him for years. (Grossman Decl., ¶5.) A
similar ex parte application was denied in July 2023. Cross-Complainant
represents that the application was denied because of the proximity of the then-current
trial date, but the trial date has since been continued to June 3, 2024. Now,
the trial date is a little over two months away and discovery is closed.
Cross-Defendants contend the new allegations are not slight modifications to
conform the pleading to proof, such as new allegations of fraud which would
require further discovery and delay of trial. Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Cross-Defendants would be prejudiced by allowing leave to amend this
late in the case and this close to trial. 

 
The Court DENIES the motion for leave to amend.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 20th day of March 2024
 
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


