  Case Number:  21STCV13165    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SSI REFRIGERATED EXPRESS, INC., et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
UTILITY TRAILER MANUFACTURING
COMPANY, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV13165
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT 
 
Date: 
  March 20, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendant Chevron Corporation (“Chevron”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff SSI Refrigerated Express, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            SSI alleges a single cause of action
for negligence based on Plaintiff being provided hydraulic oil as opposed to
what was ordered, i.e., motor oil, which resulted in damage to Plaintiff’s semi
fleet. The 55 gallon drum of hydraulic oil was mislabeled on the outer top
portion of the barrel as motor oil. The drum was then sold to Plaintiff, who
used it on a number of his vehicles. (Complaint, ¶10.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant
had a duty to inspect said barrel of oil to make certain, verify and confirm
that the contents were correct and that the barrel's labeling was accurate.
Since the barrel was mislabeled, defendant breached said duty when the
defendant supplied the incorrect product to plaintiff.” (Id. at ¶11.)
Chevron was added to the Complaint as Doe 4. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Chevron’s evidentiary objections are
OVERRULED.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
“Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence,
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor
Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)  “[A] party may
not defeat summary judgment by means of declarations or affidavits which
contradict that party’s deposition testimony or sworn discovery
responses.”  (Minish v. Hanuman Fellowship (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
437, 459; see also D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11
Cal.3d 1, 25.) A plaintiff cannot “rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists.”  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears
the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and
that he or she is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 828.)  Once the
moving party has met its burden, the burden then shifts to the non-moving party
to show that there is a triable issue as to any material fact.  (Id.
at 849.)  With respect to a motion for summary judgment “the moving
party’s affidavits are strictly construed while those of the opposing party are
liberally construed.”  (Walker v. Blue Cross of California (1992) 4
Cal.App.4th 985, 990.) With respect to a motion for summary judgment “if
it is not set forth in the separate statement, it does not exist.”  (San
Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th
308, 313.) “A defendant . . . has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
causes of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  By
contradicting prior discovery responses, a party cannot create a triable issue
of material fact.  (Whitmire v. Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1078, 1087-1090.)  The trial court “give[s] great weight to
admissions made in discovery and disregard[s] contradictory and self-serving
affidavits of the party.”  (Id. at 1087.)  “Summary
adjudication motions are procedurally identical to summary judgment
motions.”  (Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
830, 859.)  “A party may not avoid summary judgment based on mere
speculation and conjecture . . . but instead must produce admissible evidence
raising a triable issue of fact.”  (Compton v. City of Santee (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 591, 595-596.)
 
In the context of
a summary judgment motion “[t]he mere existence of a scintilla of evidence in
support of the plaintiff’s position will be insufficient; there must be
evidence on which the jury could reasonably find for the plaintiff.”  (Anderson
v. Liberty Lobby, Inc. (1986) 477 U.S. 242, 252.)  “If the defendant
in a run-of-the-mill civil case moves for summary judgment . . . based on the
lack of proof of a material fact, the judge must ask himself [or herself] not
whether he [or she] thinks the evidence unmistakably favors one side or the
other but whether a fair-minded jury could return a verdict for the plaintiff
on the evidence presented.”  (Id.)  “[A] party may present a
motion for summary adjudication challenging a separate and distinct wrongful
act even though combined with other wrongful acts alleged in the same cause of
action.”  (Edward Fineman Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1118.)  A triable issue of material fact is found “if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.”  (King v. United Parcel Service,
Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 433.) 
 
Negligence
            In essence,
this is a no-evidence motion for summary judgment based upon allegedly factually
devoid discovery responses. Chevron argues that Plaintiff has no evidence that
Chevron mislabeled the drum as motor oil and admitted in discovery that Chevron
complied with its alleged duty by placing an accurate “gear oil” label on the
drum. Chevron cites to Plaintiff’s responses to Special Interrogatories, a copy
of photos of the label on the Drum at issue, and a copy of a report prepared by
Michael Stapleford of JCB Forensic Engineering Inc., hired by Plaintiffs, dated
July 20, 2020 and produced to Chevron by Plaintiffs in their Verified Responses
to Defendant Chevron Corporation’s Request for Production of Documents.
(Chevron’s UMF Nos. 3, 5, Ananian Decl., ¶¶2, 4-5, Exhs. A, C-D.) 
 
First, the Court notes that
Chevron has not pointed out the relevant portions of these documents or
explained their relevance. Upon review, the Court does not find the documents
support Chevron’s contention that it complied with its duty by placing an
accurate “gear oil” label on the drum, since there was also an incorrect label
over it. The documents do not show that Chevron had nothing to do with the placement
of the second label, nor does it otherwise explain the second label. Chevron
only specifically points to Plaintiff’s response to interrogatory Nos. 4 and 5
in support of its contention that Plaintiff has no evidence. The responses are
identical and state: “Plaintiff is alleging that Chevron is within the chain of
custody of the labels and/or oil. Plaintiff is informed and believes that
Chevron Corporation negligently failed to properly vet, oversee and/or
supervise their ‘preferred vendors’ in which they delegated, permitted, and/or
allowed access to Chevron’s product labels – with no oversight. Further, the
labeling and product itself within the drum was Chevron’s. Discovery is ongoing
and continuous, and Plaintiff reserves the right to supplement this response
upon discovery of additional facts and/or evidence pertinent to this request.”
(Ananian Decl., ¶2, Exh. A.) This does not show that Plaintiff has no evidence.
The interrogatory does not ask for evidence, but every fact in support of
Plaintiff’s contentions. Further, Chevron does not provide Plaintiff’s
responses to other discovery requests such as requests for production of
documents to show that Plaintiff has not produced any evidence. Moreover, the
responses are stale as they were provided in August 2023. Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Chevron has not met its initial burden. 
 
The Court therefore DENIES the motion for summary judgment.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 20th day of March 2024
 
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 