 Case Number:  23STCV19505    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
August 15, 2023, Plaintiff Stella Kae (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Ernesto Chitica Galvan Flavio (“Defendant”) and Does 1-20 for
negligence. 
On
October 5, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to strike the attorneys’ fees and
punitive damages requests from the complaint. 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for February 11, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Defendant
requests that the Court strike from the complaint (1) the allegation that
Defendant was driving under the influence (paragraphs 10 and 11), (2) the
request for attorneys’ fees, and (3) the request for punitive damages. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.      Motion
to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).)  “The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading of from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437, subd. (a).)  “Where the motion to
strike is based on matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant
to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be specified in
the notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255
(Clauson).)  “In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.”  (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
B.       Punitive damages 
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
* * * 
“(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
“(3) ‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention
on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal
rights or otherwise causing injury.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds.
(a), (c).) 
C.      Attorneys’ fees 
The Court
may award attorneys’ fees as an item of costs only when they are authorized by contract,
statute, or law.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1033.5, subd. (a)(10).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.      The
complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On April
1, 2023, Defendant was negligently driving an automobile while under the influence
and as a result collided with Plaintiff’s automobile, injuring Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶¶ 10-11.)  By driving under the influence, Defendant engaged
in despicable conduct.  (Complaint ¶¶ 10-11.)  Defendant
“knew, or in exercise of reasonable care customary for entrustment,
maintenance, control, management, driving, manufacture, operation, repair,
inspection, of said automobile, should have known such actions and omissions
constituted a dangerous and an unreasonable risk of harm, of which Plaintiff
was at all times unaware of.  [Defendant]
. . . negligently failed to take steps to either make the condition safe or
warn Plaintiff of the dangerous condition, thereby causing the hereinafter
described injuries and damages to Plaintiff.” 
(Complaint ¶ 12.) 
In the prayer, the complaint requests compensatory damages, attorneys’
fees, and punitive damages.  B.       Defendant’s
motion 
1.    Punitive damages request and driving under the influence allegations 
Defendant
argues the complaint does not allege facts that support a punitive damage claim
against Defendant.  
“Simple
negligence will not justify an award of punitive damages.” (Spencer v. San
Francisco Brick Co. (1907) 5 Cal.App.126, 128.) But a complaint states
facts that support a punitive damage claim when its gravamen is that
“‘[d]efendant became intoxicated and thereafter drove a car while in that
condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he created thereby’” (Peterson
v. Superior Court (1983) 31 Cal.3d 147, 163, quoting Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 896 (Taylor).)  “[T]he act of operating a motor vehicle while
intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under section 3294 if performed
under circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probably
dangerous consequences.”  (Taylor,
supra, 24 Cal.3d at p. 892.) 
“There
is a very commonly understood risk which attends every motor vehicle driver who
is intoxicated. One who willfully consumes alcoholic beverages to the point of
intoxication, knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor vehicle, thereby
combining sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with a vehicle capable
of great force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious
disregard of the safety of others.  The
effect may be lethal whether or not the driver had a prior history of drunk
driving incidents.” (Taylor, supra, 24 Cal.3d at pp. 896-897.) 
“In
addition to the requirement that the complaint set forth the elements as stated
in [Civil Code] section 3294, it must include specific factual allegations
showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to
support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137,
1193, citing Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872 (Brousseau).)
“Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.”  (Ibid., citing Brousseau, 73
Cal.App.3d at p. 872.) 
“[C]onclusory
allegations will not be stricken where they are supported by other, factual
allegations in the complaint.”  (L. Edmon
& C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter
2023) ¶ 7:181, p. 7(l)-80, emphasis omitted.) 
Applying
these authorities, the Court concludes that the complaint does not allege facts
showing that Defendant acted with malice, oppression, or fraud for purposes of
Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (c).   The complaint does not allege that Defendant intentionally
harmed Plaintiff.  And the allegations
that Defendant engaged in despicable conduct
by driving under the influence and that Defendant knew, or should have known, such
actions constituted a dangerous and unreasonable risk of harm are too general
to support a claim for punitive damages based on a defendant’s “conscious
disregard of the probably dangerous consequences” of driving under the
influence.  (Taylor, supra,
24 Cal.3d at p. 892.) However, the
Court will not strike all of paragraphs 10 and 11 as Defendant requests.  Plaintiff is entitled to allege that Defendant drove while under the influence at the time of the accident.  Instead, the Court strikes
the parenthetical phrase “(despicable conduct)” from paragraphs 10 and 11 and
strikes the punitive damage request in the prayer. 

B.       Attorneys’ fees request 
Plaintiff has not pleaded facts showing that she is entitled to attorneys’ fees as based
on contract, statute, or other source of law. 
Therefore, the Court grants the motion to strike the complaint’s request
for attorneys’ fees. 
CONCLUSION  The
Court GRANTS IN PART the motion to strike of Defendant Ernesto Chitica Galvan
Flavio as follows: 
The
Court strikes from the complaint the parenthetical phrase “(despicable
conduct)” from paragraphs 10 and 11 and strikes the punitive damage request in the
prayer. 
The
Court strikes from the complaint the request for attorneys’ fees in the prayer. 
In
all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion. 
The
Court grants Plaintiff Stella Kae 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.