 Case Number:  21STCV32863    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and replying papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
September 7, 2021, Plaintiff Jose Munoz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants RCF Development, Richard Cooper Francis, Ridgewood Properties, LLC,
Ocean Spaulding, Inc. dba Ocean Construction, Tiran “Terry” Avgi, Eadan Avgi,
and Does 1-25 for negligence, premises liability, and negligent hiring,
supervision and retention. 
On
December 22, 2021, Defendant Ocean Spaulding, Inc. filed an answer. On August
9, 2022, Defendants Richard Cooper Francis, Tiran “Terry” Avgi, and Eadan Avgi filed
an answer.  On October 31, 2022, Defendant
RCF Development filed an answer. On January 6, 2023, Defendant Ridgewood
Properties, LLC filed an answer. 
On
August 29, 2023, non-party Topa Insurance Company (“Topa”) filed a motion to quash a deposition subpoena for records served by Plaintiff. On November 1, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On November 7, 2023, Topa filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 17, 2024. 
REQUESTS 
Topa
requests that the Court quash Plaintiff’s subpoena for business records or
issue a protective order. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion and impose sanctions on Topa. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides: 
“(a) Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making
an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) 
As a
general rule, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would be admissible evidence at
trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior
Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) When the information sought to be
discovered impacts a person’s constitutional right to privacy, limited
protections come into play for that person. (Shaffer v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover both a person’s personal
and financial matters. (Ibid.) The court must balance competing rights —
the right of a litigant to discover relevant facts and the right of an
individual to maintain reasonable privacy — in determining whether the
information is discoverable. (Ibid.) For discovery purposes, information
is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
or about December 13, 2019, Plaintiff was performing roofing work on a
multistory construction project at 1002 N. Ridgewood Avenue, Los Angeles,
California while employed by Defendants. 
Plaintiff fell from a great height, suffering serious injuries including
permanent paralysis and paraplegia. 
Before
the date of the injury Defendants were aware of dangerous conditions at the worksite
but failed to take any remedial measures to provide a safe work environment. 
B.   Subpoena 
On
July 19, 2023, Plaintiff served a deposition subpoena for production of business
records on Topa, the insurer for Defendant Ocean Spaulding, Inc. dba Ocean
Construction (“Ocean”).  Topa objected to
the subpoena and filed this motion. 
C.   Analysis 
1.    Insurance Code 
Topa
argues that Insurance Code section 791.13 prevents it from complying with the
deposition subpoena because the statute requires the insured’s written authorization
before disclosing “personal or privileged information about an individual
collected or received in connection with an insurance transaction . . . .”
(Motion p. 5, citing Ins. Code, § 791.13, subd. (a); see Motion p. 6 [“Topa’s insured have not authorized any
disclosure of their insurance information to Plaintiff.  Ins. Code § 791.13(a). Therefore, Topa is
forbidden from disclosing it to anyone, and this Court should quash the
subpoena in its entirety”].) 
The
argument is frivolous.  Insurance Code
section 791.13, subdivisions (g) and (h), authorize an insurer to disclose this
information if the disclosure is “Otherwise permitted or required by law” or “In
response to a facially valid administrative or judicial order, including a
search warrant or subpoena.” 
Topa’s
attempt to shoehorn the subpoena into other provisions of the Insurance Code is equally meritless.  (See Ins. Code, § 791.02,
subds. (m)(1), (m)(2) [defining term “insurance transaction”].) 
2.    Attorney client privilege and work product doctrine 
Topa
asserts that, as Ocean’s insurer, it “would or could suffer prejudice if [Ocean’s]
insurance information, which includes, or could include, information related to
the defense of the instant lawsuit, is required to be produced. See Code Civ.
Proc. § 2018.010, et seq. (attorney work product doctrine), Evid. Code § 954 [attorney-client
privilege].” (Motion p. 7.)  Topa does
not explain how its attorney client privilege or an attorney’s work product
protection would be jeopardized by compliance with the subpoena. 
3.    Overbreadth 
Topa
states: “As the [subpoena’s] categories are described, there is no limitation
on the documents/communications sought, where the subpoena seeks all
documents/communications in Topa’s possession, custody, or control, which
“reflects, discusses, mentions, comments upon or otherwise refers to” the
various individuals/entities named in the subpoena. Without conceding that
responsive documents and/or information exist, a response to such an overly
broad category would undoubtedly contain privileged communications/documents,
including those reflecting confidential attorney communications and
work-product.”  (Motion p. 7.) 
Topa has not identified any specific requests
that are overbroad or explained why any particular request is overbroad. 
4.    Relevance 
According
to Topa, “[t]he subpoena seeks business records regarding a [number] of overly
broad categories of documents, seeking ‘any and all’ documents/communications
for ‘any time’ not limited to the issues, persons, properties, or projects at
issue in the litigation. Without conceding that responsive documents and/or
information exist, even absent the applicable privileges set forth above, the
burden, expense, cumulativeness and intrusiveness of the discovery sought
outweighs the likelihood that the records sought will lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence, further supporting quashing the subpoena.”  (Motion p. 7.) 
          Topa has not identified any specific requests for irrelevant
information.  It has not explained why any particular request seeks information that (1) would be not admissible at trial and (2) does not appear reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
The
Court denies Topa’s motion to quash or for a protective order. 
5.    Sanctions 
Plaintiff
requests sanctions, arguing Topa filed its motion in bad faith or without
substantial justification.  
Topa’s
motion lacked the required separate statement (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a)(5)) and included a frivolous argument based on inapplicable Insurance
Code provisions.  The Court has found that the motion lacked merit. 
Nonetheless,
the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions.  The Court does not conclude that Topa filed the motion in bad faith or without substantial
justification. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Topa Insurance Company’s motion to quash the deposition subpoena
served by Plaintiff Jose Munoz or for a protective order.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff Jose Munoz's request for sanctions.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.