 Case Number:  22STCV11502    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
April 5, 2022, Plaintiff Maria Guadalupe Valadez Vallejo (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants TLC Laundry, LLC, James Lee Carson, Crocker
Holdings Group LLC, California Coin Laundries, and Does 1-50 for negligence and
premises liability. 
On
August 11, 2023, Defendant Jameswood Holdings, LLC,
erroneously sued as Crocker Holdings (“Jameswood”), filed an answer. 
On
August 14, 2023, Defendant James Lee Carson dba TLC Laundry, LLC (“Carson”)
filed an answer. 
On
September 25, 2023, Jameswood filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint
to be heard on November 15, 2023.  No
opposition has been filed. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 13, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Jameswood
requests leave to file a cross-complaint against Carson. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30 provides: 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a
party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his
answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter
in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action
not pleaded. 
“(b) This section does not apply if either of the
following are established: 
“(1) The court in which the action is pending does not
have jurisdiction to render a personal judgment against the person who failed
to plead the related cause of action. 
“(2) The person who failed to plead the related cause
of action did not file an answer to the complaint against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:           
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant,
upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or
to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to
plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally
construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
          Code of
Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
          “A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following: 
“(a) Any
cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing
of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7
(commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
or about April 17, 2020 at approximately 7:00 p.m., Plaintiff was sitting on a
bench located on Defendants’ premises located at 1901 West Bardillo Street,
West Covina, California 91790 when the improperly secured bench lifted over,
causing her to fall and hit her head on a metal rod. 
Defendants
knew or should have known through reasonable inspection and monitoring that the
bench was not secured and created a dangerous condition and posted a serious
risk of injury to Plaintiff.  Defendants
did not take corrective action or warn Plaintiff of the dangerous condition. 
Defendants
have a non-delegable duty to provide a safe place for visitors and patrons, to
inspect the premises, and to discover and correct any dangerous conditions. Defendants
breached these duties by allowing Plaintiff to be injured when the improperly
secured bench she was sitting on lifted over and caused her to fall over and
hit her head. 
As a
result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff suffered injuries. 
B.   Jameswood’s proposed cross-complaint against Carson 
Jameswood’s
proposed cross-complainant alleges that Carson is obligated under a lease
agreement to indemnify and defend Jameswood in Plaintiff’s action.  However, Carson has refused to perform its defense obligations under the lease agreement. The proposed cross-complaint asserts
claims for express indemnity, total
implied indemnity, partial implied indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
C.   The Court grants the motion for leave to file the
cross-complaint 
In
support of Jameswood’s motion for leave to file the proposed cross-complaint, its
counsel submitted a declaration stating that when Jameswood filed its answer,
Carson had not yet responded to Jameswood’s tender of the defense.  After Jameswood filed the answer, Carson
denied the tender of defense.  (Kang Dec.
¶ 6.) 
The
Court finds that Jameswood acted in good faith in failing to file the
cross-complaint when it filed its answer. 
The Court has no information suggesting that Carson will suffer unfair
prejudice if Jameswood files the cross-complaint. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion for leave to file a cross-complaint filed by Defendant Jameswood
Holdings, LLC, erroneously sued as Crocker Holdings.  Jameswood is ordered
to file and serve the cross-complaint within 30 days of the hearing on this
motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.