..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: Not specified
Plaintiff's Name: Allstate Insurance Company
Defendant's Name: Encino Open MRI, Inc., Burbank Imaging & Open MRI, Inc., Southern California Medical Imaging & Open MRI, Inc. d/b/a SoCal Imaging and Open MRI, SoCal MRI Centers LLC d/b/a Montclair Open MRI, Total MRI, LLC dba Santa Clarita MRI, LA MRI Center, Inc., Harry Golbahar, Akhtar Golbahar, Nick Golbahar, Bobak Kardan, Stanton Kremsky, M.D., Alexander Grimm, M.D., and Ranon Udkoff, M.D.
People-Names: Not specified
Company-Names: Allstate Insurance Company, First Priority Management Services, LLC, Encino Open MRI, Inc., Burbank Imaging & Open MRI, Inc., Southern California Medical Imaging & Open MRI, Inc. d/b/a SoCal Imaging and Open MRI, SoCal MRI Centers LLC d/b/a Montclair Open MRI, Total MRI, LLC dba Santa Clarita MRI, LA MRI Center, Inc.
Places: Not specified
Dates: August 9, 2023, August 1, 2024, August 21, 2024, September 9, 2024, October 23, 2024, October 29, 2024
Events: Filing of complaint, issuance of deposition subpoena, filing of motion to quash, filing of opposition, filing of reply
Money: Not specified
Intentions: Allstate seeks to discover information from First Priority about its transactions with the defendant entities and patient files to prove its claims of insurance fraud.
Facts: First Priority is an accounts receivables purchaser that buys discounted accounts receivable from medical providers, including the defendant entities. Allstate alleges that First Priority was involved in the fraudulent scheme by providing patient referrals to the defendant entities and buying their accounts receivable at discounted rates, allowing them to collect on the full amount from Allstate and other insurers.
Disputes: The dispute is over the scope and breadth of the deposition subpoena and whether it is unduly burdensome, premature, and seeks privileged or protected information.
Acts: Allstate issued a deposition subpoena to First Priority seeking documents and communications regarding its transactions with the defendant entities and patient files.
Agreements: The parties have a stipulation and protective order in place that allows them to designate confidential documents, testimony, or information.
Laws: California Insurance Fraud Prevention Act (IFPA), Unfair Competition Law (UCL), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
Case Citations: People ex rel. Allstate Ins. Co. v. Weitzman (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 534, 548; Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216
Statutes: Insurance Code Section 1871.7, Business and Professions Code Section 17200 et seq., Code of Civil Procedure Section 1987.1, Code of Civil Procedure Section 2017.010, Code of Civil Procedure Section 2020.220, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
Roles: The parties are Allstate Insurance Company, First Priority Management Services, LLC, and the defendant entities.
Significant Statements:
* The Court finds that the information sought is relevant and not overly broad.
* The Court finds that First Priority has not established unreasonable burden.
* The Court finds that the Protective Order and redactions of individually identifying information will address any privacy concerns.
* The Court finds that Allstate's interests in preventing fraud under the IFPA outweigh any privacy concerns that cannot be mitigated.
```

And here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Court has issued a tentative ruling denying the Motion to Quash Allstate's deposition subpoena to First Priority Management Services, LLC. The subpoena seeks documents and communications regarding First Priority's transactions with the defendant entities and patient files to prove Allstate's claims of insurance fraud.

The Court found that the information sought is relevant and not overly broad, and that First Priority has not established unreasonable burden. The Court also found that the Protective Order and redactions of individually identifying information will address any privacy concerns.

Allstate alleged that First Priority was involved in the fraudulent scheme by providing patient referrals to the defendant entities and buying their accounts receivable at discounted rates, allowing them to collect on the full amount from Allstate and other insurers. The Court found that Allstate's interests in preventing fraud under the California Insurance Fraud Prevention Act (IFPA) outweigh any privacy concerns that cannot be mitigated.

The Court's ruling is based on the following laws and statues: California Insurance Fraud Prevention Act (IFPA), Unfair Competition Law (UCL), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), Insurance Code Section 1871.7, Business and Professions Code Section 17200 et seq., Code of Civil Procedure Section 1987.1, Code of Civil Procedure Section 2017.010, Code of Civil Procedure Section 2020.220.
