
 Background              On
August 9, 2023, Relator Allstate Insurance Company (“Allstate”), on behalf of
itself and on behalf of the People of the State of California (the “State”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”), filed this action against Encino Open MRI, Inc.,
Burbank Imaging & Open MRI, Inc., Southern California Medical Imaging &
Open MRI, Inc. d/b/a SoCal Imaging and Open MRI, SoCal MRI Centers LLC d/b/a
Montclair Open MRI, Total MRI, LLC dba Santa Clarita MRI, LA MRI Center, Inc.
(collectively “Entity Defendants”), Harry Golbahar, Akhtar Golbahar, Nick
Golbahar, Bobak Kardan, (collectively “Owner Defendants”), Stanton Kremsky,
M.D., Alexander Grimm, M.D., and Ranon Udkoff, M.D. (collectively “Professional
Defendants”). The Complaint alleges that, as early as 2016, Owner and Entity
Defendants defrauded Allstate by presenting more than $5 million in false bills
for sham diagnostic radiology services they provided but were not licensed to
render.  The alleged scheme is as follows:
Owner and Entity Defendants hired “sham” medical directors who appeared to be
supervising the imaging services, yet in reality, the non-physician Owner
Defendants exercised complete control. Owner Defendants would obtain patient
referrals from providers, personal injury attorneys, or others. Non-physician
radiologic technologists would perform the MRI imaging on patients. Then,
independent licensed teleradiologists, the Professional Defendants, would
review the images and provide their professional opinion to help legitimize the
claim. Owner Defendants paid Professional Defendants on a discounted basis in
exchange for patient referrals—the practice is called patient “steering.” Owner
Defendants were then able to inflate the bill price and collect the bulk of the
insurance claim payments. Such payments are referred to as “kickbacks.” The
Complaint alleges Owner and Entity Defendants’ fraudulent scheme has allowed
them to pocket extraordinary sums. The Complaint alleges two causes of action:
(1) Violations of the California Insurance Fraud Prevention Act (IFPA)
(Insurance Code Section 1871.7) and (2) Violations of the Unfair Competition
Law (UCL) (Business and Professions Code Section 17200 et seq.).  On August 1, 2024, the parties filed a
Stipulation and Protective Order to allow the parties to designate confidential
documents, testimony, or information that each party believes in good faith to
contain information entitled to confidential treatment.  On August 21, 2024, Allstate issued a
deposition Subpoena to Nonparty First Priority Management Services, LLC (“First
Priority”), which requested documents and communications regarding its
agreements and transactions with Entity Defendants since January 1, 2015, as
well as patient files for patients treated by Entity Defendants (“Subpoena”).  On September 9, 2024, First Priority
filed this Motion to Quash Subpoena.  On October 23, 2924, Allstate filed an
Opposition.  On October 29, 2024, First Priority filed a Reply.  Legal Standard  Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 states the following:  “(a)
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  Subdivision
(b)(1) permits a party to seek relief.  Discussion             The parties dispute the following
issues: (1) the relevance and breadth of the documents sought, (2) whether the
Subpoena is unduly burdensome, (3) whether the Subpoena is premature, and (4) whether
the Subpoena seeks privileged or protected information. Relevance and Breadth            First Priority argues that the
Subpoena seeks irrelevant and overbroad information relating to its business
records. As an accounts receivables purchaser, First Priority did not present
invoices directly to Allstate. Under the IFPA, First Priority maintains, Allstate
can only seek remedies for the dollar amount of claims submitted to it.
Allstate’s theory of fraud against Defendants, First Priority argues, has
nothing to do with First Priority’s business records. Allstate argues that First Priority is more than an ordinary “factoring
company,” but also refers personal injury plaintiffs to medical providers in
exchange for the purchase of related accounts receivable at a discount. (Steele Decl., ¶
3, Ex. A.) Allstate argues that discovery of Defendants Encino Open MRI,
Total MRI, and LA MRI Center bank accounts with
Wells Fargo revealed that First Priority paid thousands of dollars to Encino
Open MRI between 2017 and 2021. (Steele Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Allstate’s
theory is that First Priority referred patients to Entity Defendants and bought
their account receivables at discounted rate so it could pursue collection of
the full amounts charged from insurers. (Steele Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4, 6, 7; Ex. A, at
1:18-21, 2:4-6, Ex. B; Ex. D, at 5:13-15.) Thus, the Subpoena seeks relevant
information that tends to prove whether First Priority is an is an aider and
abettor, coconspirator, and illegal referrer of patients, and to establish
Defendants’ intent to defraud. In response, First
Priority argues that Allstate cannot justifiably claim that all of First
Priority’s patient files, business transactions, and communications are
relevant to IFPA claims against parties in this case. First Priority further
argues that Allstate has an improper purpose in propounding the Subpoena—“to
make First Priority a target in this litigation simply by virtue of transacting
with certain Defendants in this case.” (Reply, 4:8-9.) First Priority believes
it is being targeted because Allstate has a similar pending lawsuit against
another MRI entity, where Allstate pursued discovery against First Priority.For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably
assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating
settlement.¿¿(Gonzalez v. Superior Court¿(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.)¿¿Generally, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence
at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010;¿Schnabel v. Superior
Court¿(1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)¿¿             The Court finds the information
sought to be relevant and not overly broad. The Subpoena seeks documents and communications regarding First
Priority’s agreements and transactions with Entity Defendants since January 1,
2015, as well as patient files. Such information is relevant to determine
whether First Priority was involved in the fraudulent scheme by providing
patient referrals to Defendants in exchange for purchasing discounted accounts
receivables so it could collect on the full amount from Allstate and other
insurers. (Steele Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4, 6, 7; Ex. A, at 1:18-21,
2:4-6, Ex. B; Ex. D, at 5:13-15.) Such information is further relevant to
determine if First Priority was an aider, abettor, and coconspirator in the
scheme and should be named a Doe defendant. Further, the Subpoena is not overbroad. The
Complaint alleges all Defendants were engaged in the fraudulent scheme as early
as 2016. (Compl., ¶¶ 56, 120, 123). It is reasonable that First Priority may
have established an agreement prior to the alleged scheme, and prior to Frist
Priority’s payments to certain Entity Defendants between 2017 and 2021. (Steele Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.)Burden            First Priority argues the Subpoena is unduly
burdensome because it will incur significant expense in identifying and
differentiating patients who made claims to Allstate. First Priority estimates
it will cost $10,000 to retain an e-Discovery vendor to
collect, review, and produce all potentially responsible documents, not
including costs of review or redaction of patient health information. (Kohli
Decl., ¶ 5.) Allstate argues the Subpoena is not unduly burdensome. First
Priority need not separate and identify patients whose services were billed to
Allstate because, as a relator in a qui tam action, Allstate is entitled to
civil penalties and assessments under Insurance Code section 1871.7(b) for all
fraudulent claims defendants presented to any insurer. First Priority
has failed to show that the information is not “reasonably accessible.”Civil Code of Procedure section 2020.220, subdivision (e) states the
following: “The subpoenaed person opposing the production. . .of electronically
stored information on the basis that the information is from a source that is
not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or expense shall bear the
burden of demonstrating that the information is from a source that is not
reasonably accessible because of undue burden or expense.” Subdivision (f)
states further that, “[i]f the person from whom discovery of electronically
stored information is subpoenaed establishes that the information is from a
source that is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or expense,
the court may nonetheless order discovery if the subpoenaing party shows good
cause. . .”The Court finds that First Priority, as the party opposing the Subpoena,
has not established unreasonable burden. First Priority’s argument regarding
the burden of segregating bills paid by Allstate is misguided. The Subpoena is
not so limited, and, given the pleadings, need not be. Allstate is entitled to
civil penalties for fraudulent claims defendants presented to any insurer.
The information sought is “reasonably accessible” to First Priority. (See Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2020.220, subd. (f).) Prematurity            First Priority argues the Subpoena
is premature because Allstate is seeking the information from First Priority
instead of from Entity Defendants directly and has provided no explanation as
to why. Allstate argues in response that it, in fact, demanded the information
from the Entity Defendants via written interrogatories and requests for
production of documents. (Steele
Decl. ¶¶ 6-8, Exs. C, D, E.) At least one party, Defendant LA MRI, has
indicated it will not provide information on any referral agreements (Request
for Product of Materials, Set One, Request No. 5.). (Steele Decl. ¶¶ 7-8, Ex.
E, at 5:25-7:27.)  In response, First
Priority argues that Allstate mischaracterizes Defendant LA MRI’s response to
Allstate’s Request No. 5, which states that “Responding Party will comply with
this request by producing, by a mutually convenient time, relevant
non-privileged documents responsive to this Request.” (Steele Decl., ¶¶ 7-8,
Ex. E.) Further, First Priority argues Plaintiff should have filed a motion to
compel discovery if it believed it was entitled to additional information from
Defendants.              The
parties dispute whether Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court)
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216 applies. “As between parties to litigation and
nonparties, the burden of discovery should be placed on the latter only if the
former do not possess the material sought to be discovered. An exception to
this may exist where a showing is made the material obtained from the party is
unreliable and may be subject to impeachment by material in possession of the
nonparty.” (Id. at p. 225.)            The
Court finds that Calcor is distinguishable from this case in two ways.
In that case, the discovery request was unduly burdensome on the third-party. (Id.
at p. 221.) That is not the case here. Further, in contrast to Calcor,
where the requesting party did not demonstrate why it could not obtain the
materials from the party to the litigation, here, Allstate has demonstrated
that it made a diligent effort to seek information about Defendants’
relationship with First Priority directly from Defendants. (Id. at p.
225.) Despite these efforts, Allstate has been unable to obtain such
information. Allstate is thus justified in seeking the information from First
Priority.Privileged or Protected Informationi.               
First Priority’s
Business InformationFirst Priority argues the Subpoena seeks confidential, commercial,
financial, and proprietary business information, and is thus protected by
privacy rights. Allstate argues that First Priority has not produced any
privilege log or attempted to meet and confer. (Steele Decl., ¶ 9.) Even if
protected information were at issue, Allstate’s need for information outweighs
any confidentiality interest. Further, the Protective Order in place renders
any objection based in confidentiality as moot. In response, First Priority
argues its privacy interests outweighs any countervailing interests, and that
the breadth of the Subpoena is unjustified. The Court finds
that, in balancing First Priority’s privacy interests against Allstate’s
interests in discovery, Allstate’s interests prevail. The Legislature, in enacting the Insurance Fraud Prevention Act, has
identified a compelling interest in preventing insurance fraud. (Ins. Code § 1871; see also People ex rel. Allstate Ins. Co. v. Weitzman (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 534, 548 (finding IFPA’s purpose is “to deter
fraudulent automobile insurance claims and to facilitate the investigation and
prosecution of insurance fraud”).) First Priority has not provided any evidence
to support why its privacy interests in business records outweigh this
compelling interest. Further, the Court finds that the Stipulation and
Protective Order will mitigate any privacy concerns.ii.             
Patient Information First Priority argues that the Subpoena seeks confidential patient
information in violation of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act (HIPAA), which requires the protection of individually identifiable health
information, and the patients’ constitutional privacy rights. In response,
Allstate argues the Subpoena does not violate HIPPAA or infringe on patients’
constitutional rights. The Protective Order in place complies with HIPAA’s
limited permittable use of patient information in lawsuits, citing 45 C.F.R.
§164.512(e)(1)(iv)(A), (B). The Subpoena will not infringe on the patients’
constitutional privacy rights because the patients waived privacy protections
over their records when they filed a suit or claim and submitted their records
for payment of their personal-injury settlements or judgments. The fact that
First Priority, a non-medical provider, has patients’ records suggests that the
records do not implicate patients’ medical privacy. Lastly, any privacy
concerns are mitigated because individually identifying information can be
redacted from the records. In response, First Priority argues that when
patients put their medical condition at issue when they filed a claim, this did
not amount to a full waiver of all health information in future litigation. The Court finds
that the Protective Order and redactions of individually identifying
information will address any privacy concerns. The Protective Order is HIPAA
compliant—any documents designated as “Confidential” may only be accessed for
purposes of prosecuting and defending the lawsuit and will be returned or
destroyed by the lawsuit’s end. (See 45 C.F.R. §164.512(e)(1)(iv)(A), (B).) The
Court further finds that the patients’ constitutional privacy rights are not
violated where the records sought are not individually identifying. First
Priority has not provided evidence that the records sought cannot be redacted
and has not provided a privilege log. The Court finds that Allstate’s interests
in preventing fraud under the IFPA outweigh any privacy concerns that cannot be
mitigated.Conclusion            The Court DENIES the Motion to Quash Allstate’s Subpoena on First Priority. 
