  Case Number:  23STCV01136    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LUIS TORRES, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
JOSE RAFAEL MORALES
  CORONA, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV37263
  Hearing Date:  March 13, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant corona’s motion for leave to
  amend answer 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 12, 2021, Plaintiffs Luis
Torres, Beatriz Torres, and Jocelyn Marlene Ramirez filed this habitability
action against Defendants Jose Rafael Morales Corona and Manuel Yanez. 
            On November 16, 2021, Defendants
filed a joint answer through their counsel, Shirley Kenninger. Ms. Kenninger
has since substituted out of the case. Defendant Corona is currently
representing himself, while Defendant Yanez has retained other counsel.   
            On February 14, 2024, Defendant
Corona filed the instant motion to amend his answer on the grounds that the
answer mistakenly identifies the owner of the subject property. Plaintiffs have
not filed an opposition. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading. (Code
Civ. Proc, §§ 473, subd. (a), 576.) Courts must apply a policy of liberality in
permitting amendments at any stage of the proceeding, including during trial,
when no prejudice to the opposing party is shown. (Duchrow v. Forrest
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1377.) In determining the extent of prejudice to
the opposing party, the court must consider various factors, such as whether
the amendment would delay trial or increase the discovery burden. (Demetriades
v. Yelp, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 294, 306.)
DISCUSSION
            Defendants’ original answer either
admitted or denied each allegation from the complaint and asserted ten
affirmative defenses. Some of the admissions implied that Defendants owned the
property and/or owed a duty of care to Plaintiffs. Defendant Corona contends in
his motion that neither Defendant is the owner. Mr. Corona argues that he was
simply the handyman and that Mr. Yanez, Sr. no longer owned the property once
his son, Yanez, Jr., transferred title to himself. In the proposed amended
answer, Mr. Corona changes certain admissions and denials to be consistent with
his assertion that he does not own the subject property. Mr. Corona files the
motion on behalf of himself only. 
            Ms. Kenninger filed a declaration in
support of the motion, averring that at the time she represented the Defendants
and filed the original answer, Mr. Yanez, Sr. was unaware that his son had
transferred title of the property to himself. (Kenninger Decl. ¶ 4.) Ms.
Kenninger further avers that Mr. Corona was never an owner. (Id., ¶ 5.)
After realizing the change in ownership caused by Yanez, Jr.’s actions, Ms.
Kenninger failed to file a motion for leave to amend the answer prior to
substituting out of the case. (Id., ¶ 6.) Ms. Kenninger acknowledges
that this was caused by her own mistake or inadvertence. (Ibid.)  
            Plaintiffs have not filed an
opposition, essentially conceding the motion. Plaintiffs have not articulated
any prejudice that would result from Mr. Corona filing an amended answer. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Jose Rafael Morales Corona’s
motion for leave to file amended answer is GRANTED. Amended answer shall be
filed within 10 days of this order. 