  Case Number:  20STCV49949    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  57 PLAINTIFFS’
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS/LEAVE TO AMEND AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE # 13 --
DUTY TO DEFEND
On May 13,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to
the Thirteenth Affirmative Defense in Defendants’ Answer, which, as the Court
concluded at the May 13, 2024 hearing, posits that Defendants owed no duty to
defend the insured under the insurance policy at issue in this case.  The Court ruled that this Affirmative Defense
fails as a matter of law because, by its terms, the policy does not clearly and
unambiguously exclude the duty to defend. 
The issue left open for today is whether the Court should grant Defendants
leave to amend their Thirteenth Amendment Defense to add allegations, based on
extrinsic evidence, that policy can reasonably be construed to clearly and unambiguously
exclude the duty to defend.  The Court is
declining to grant Defendants leave to amend.  This action has been pending for more than two
years and the trial is scheduled to begin in less than three weeks.  Defendants have not demonstrated at this late
stage that there is any extrinsic evidence that would support the position in
the Thirteenth Affirmative Defense that the policy clearly and unambiguously
excludes the duty to defend.
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION  TO COMPEL PLAINTIFFS TO PRODUCE DOCUMENTS AT THE DEPOSITON OF PETER VOUTSAS 
The Court
previously granted Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiffs to Produce Documents
at the Deposition of Peter Voutsas.  The
Court continued the hearing on this Motion, however, to ascertain whether Plaintiffs
complied with the Court’s order to produce the documents that Defendants requested.  The Motion is on the Court’s calendar again
today.  Based on the parties’ blizzard of
submissions on the subject, the Court has concluded that the Plaintiffs have  complied with the order.  Therefore, the Court is taking this Motion
off calendar.
DEFENDANTS’
EX PARTE APPLICATION TO CONTINUE THE TRIAL DATE
This Ex
Parte Application is based on the supposition that the Plaintiffs have not
complied with the Court’s order granting Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiffs
to Produce Documents at the Deposition of Peter Voutsas.  As indicated above, the Court has determined
that the Plaintiffs have complied with the order.  Accordingly, the Court is denying the Defendants’
Ex Parte Application to continue the trial date.
DEFENDANTS’ EX PARTE APPLICATION TO SHORTEN
TIME ON HEARING ON MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PETER MARCO, LLC
The Motion
that is the subject of this Ex Parte Application has yet to be filed.  The Ex Parte Application asks the Court that
the Motion be specially set for May 20, 2024. 
The Court is unable to hear the Motion on May 20, 2024.  More importantly, the Court is deeply concerned
about the parties’ continued inability to get their collective acts together and
sort out issues such as the one raised in the Ex Parte Application and the
remarkable level of rancor and conflict that has gripped the case.  
Under the circumstances,
the Court is handling the Ex Parte Application in the following manner.  The deposition of Peter Voutsas, the
principal of Peter Marco, LLC, that the Court previously ordered still needs to
be completed.  The parties are ordered to
meet and confer immediately to select a date for that deposition to be
completed.  That deposition also will
double as the deposition of Peter Marco, LLC that Defendants are seeking to
compel through the Motion that the Ex Parte Application seeks to have specially
set.  The Court suspects that the deposition
of Peter Marco, LLC will be largely redundant of the deposition of Peter Marco,
LLC. But the deposition of Peter Marco, LLC should go forward.  
Defendants have
requested that Peter Marco, LLC produce certain documents at the
deposition.   The documents that Defendants are requesting
for that deposition appear to overlap substantially (and perhaps entirely) with
the documents that Defendants requested and the Court ordered to be produced
for the deposition of Voutsas.  For
purposes of the Peter Marco, LLC deposition, Peter Marco, LLC is not required
to respond to the requests for production of documents to which Voutsas already
responded in connection with the Voutsas deposition. 
This upshot
of this resolution is that the Ex Parte Application is DENIED, but the Court is
making orders that effectively give the Defendants some of what they were
seeking in the Motion that has yet to be filed.