 Case Number:  22STCV39547    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




eduardo luna

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
villa patrician home
   owner’s association, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV39547




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   1, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file first
  amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Plaintiffs Eduardo Luna and Sinai
Mariel Valverde Dominguez     
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Defendants BJD Services, LLC, Dawn
Kuykendall, Jerilyn Rivetti Kuykendall, Brian McWilliams, Rodney Owens, and
Villa Patrician Home Owner’s Association Inc.      
Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs Eduardo Luna and Sinai Mariel Valverde Dominguez
(“Plaintiffs”) move the court for an order granting them leave to file a First
Amended Complaint (1) to clarify that Plaintiffs are alleging both individual
and derivative claims against defendants BJD Services, LLC, Dawn Kuykendall,
Jerilyn Rivetti Kuykendall, Brian McWilliams, Rodney Owens, and Villa Patrician
Home Owner’s Association Inc. (“Defendants”), (2) to plead facts relating to
the formation of the new homeowner’s association and to add the new association
as a defendant, and (3) to plead additional facts regarding Defendants’ alleged
misconduct.  (Kurtz Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, subd.
(b).)
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect . . . .  The court
may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon
any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿473, subd. (a)(1).)  
The court finds that (1) it is in furtherance of justice to allow
Plaintiffs to amend their complaint to clarify that they are bringing
derivative claims and to plead additional facts regarding the newly formed
homeowner’s association and Defendants’ alleged wrongful acts or omissions, and
(2) Defendants have not shown that (i) Plaintiffs’ approximate four-month delay
was unwarranted and justifies denying their motion, or (ii) Defendants will be
unduly prejudiced by the proposed amendment. 

First, the court finds that Plaintiffs have shown that (1) it is in
furtherance of justice to allow them to amend their pleading in the manner
requested, and (2) permitting amendment is supported by the liberal policy
favoring leave to amend.  (Tung v.
Chicago Title Company (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 734, 747 [“Statutes like
section 473 are ‘construed liberally so that cases might be tried upon their
merits in one trial where no prejudice to the opposing party . . . is
demonstrated’”] [internal citation omitted].)
Second, the court finds that Defendants have not shown that Plaintiffs’
delay in filing this motion was unwarranted and therefore supports denial of
this motion. 
Plaintiffs’ counsel has stated, in his declaration, that (1) “[t]he
major impetus for the amendment is the Court’s ruling on the disqualification
motion, where it was pointed out that the operative complaint may be
interpreted in a way that did not include derivative claims[,]” such that (2)
the court’s ruling “gave rise to the need to amend the complaint.”  (Kurtz Decl., ¶ 4.)  As noted by Defendants, the court issued its
ruling denying plaintiff Eduardo Luna’s motion for disqualification on October
31, 2023.  (Oct. 31, 2023 Order, p.
4:14.)  Plaintiffs filed the pending
motion a little under four-and-a-half months later, on March 12, 2024.  The court finds that this approximate
four-month delay does not constitute “unwarranted delay” that “justifies denial
of leave to amend.”  (Miles v. City of
Los Angeles (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 728, 739.)  
Third, the court finds that Defendants have not shown that they will
be unduly prejudiced by the amendment.  Although
Defendants assert that they will need the opportunity to challenge the amended
pleading and potentially file appropriate dispositive motions, they may still
do so before trial, which is set to begin on November 20, 2024.  Moreover, to the extent that Defendants are
concerned that they will be unable to set a hearing on responsive pleadings
directed to the First Amended Complaint before trial, Defendants may file an ex
parte application or other appropriate motion requesting that the court advance
any hearing that is scheduled after trial. 
            Thus, the court grants Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to file first amended complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a); Tung,
supra, 63 Cal.App.5th at p. 747 [liberal policy of granting leave to
amend “applies to amendments at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial, absent prejudice to the adverse party”] [internal quotations
and citations omitted].) 
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiffs Eduardo
Luna and Sinai Mariel Valverde Dominguez’s motion for leave to file first
amended complaint.
            The court orders plaintiffs Eduardo
Luna and Sinai Mariel Valverde Dominguez to file their First Amended Complaint,
in the form attached to the declaration of Gary Kurtz as Exhibit 2, within 5
days of the date of this order.
            The court orders plaintiffs Eduardo
Luna and Sinai Mariel Valverde Dominguez to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  July 1, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court