 Case Number:  23SMCV00234    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:                       Guven Uzun
v. City of Santa Monica, et al.         
CASE NO.:                            23SMCV00234           
MOTION:                              Defendants City of
Santa Monica, Officer Arsenio Valenzuela, Officer Evan Raleigh, Officer Ryan
King, Sergeant Lewis Gilmour, and Sergeant Michael Chun’s Motion for Summary
Judgment or Summary Adjudication 
HEARING DATE:                12/14/23
 
Background
 
On January 17, 2023, following a
dismissal from a related district court case, Plaintiff Ivan Field filed the
instant complaint against Defendants City of Santa Monica, Officer Arsenio Valenzuela, Officer Evan Raleigh,
Officer Ryan King, Sergeant Lewis Gilmour, Sergeant Michael Chun, and Does
1 through 50, inclusive for negligence. 
 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants failed to exercise reasonable and ordinary care by “negligently
approaching and detaining Plaintiff without probable cause or reasonable
suspicion to believe that Plaintiff had or was committing a crime, negligently
using excessive and unreasonable physical force upon the person of Plaintiff,
when the same was unnecessary and unjustified, negligently failing to double-lock
Plaintiff’s handcuffs twice (during the arrest and before placing Plaintiff in
the police vehicle), failing to determine that Plaintiff posed no threat of
physical harm to any person when Plaintiff was assaulted and battered,
negligently attacking Plaintiff as described, negligently failing to intercede
when fellow Defendant Officers violated Plaintiffs rights, and negligently
failing to render timely medical aid to Plaintiff after he was injured by the
individual defendants” which resulted in “severe injuries including but not
limited to radial nerve injury to Plaintiff.” (Compl. ¶ 39.) 
 
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
 
On June 28, 2020, Plaintiff filed a
complaint for damages alleging various federal and state claims associated with
his arrest on June 7, 2019 in Federal District Court, Central Division, Los Angeles,
California (Case No.: 2:20-cv-05756-SB-MAA). (Defendants’ Undisputed Material
Facts “UMF” no. 1.) Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) in
federal court on January 7, 2023, pursuant to stipulation of the parties on
December 17, 2020. (UMF no. 2.) Plaintiff’s FAC included Monell claims,
violations of his Fourth and Fourteenth Amendment rights and state-law claims
for assault and battery, negligence, and violation of California's Bane Act. (Id.)
 
On June 29, 2021, the District
Court issued a 12-page order granting Defendants’ motion for summary judgment
after “[f]inding that the officers had probable cause to arrest UZUN and did
not use excessive force in doing so.” (UMF no. 3.) On July 9, 2021, the
District Court entered judgment in favor of Defendants. (UMF no. 11.) On July
23, 2021, Plaintiff filed a timely Notice of Appeal with the Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeal, which affirmed the District Court’s order granting summary
judgment for defendants as to Plaintiff’s excessive force claim under 42 U.S.C.
§ 1983, and the state-law battery claim. (UMF no. 14.)  The Ninth Circuit, however, reversed and
remanded the district court’s order granting summary judgment on Plaintiff’s
third cause of action for state-law negligence. (UMF no. 17.) Since the Ninth
Circuit did not determine whether California Government Code section 820.2
immunized the officers’ conduct (UMF no. 18), it instructed the district court
“to consider in the first instance whether section 820.2 immunizes the officers’
conduct.” (UMF no. 18.) After the case was remanded, the district court issued
an amended final judgment on January 9, 2023, in which it stated:
 
For the reasons stated in the Court’s
June 29, 2021 order granting summary judgment the Ninth Circuit’s November 8,
2022 decision affirming that order in part and reversing in part, and the Court’s
separate order entered this day declining supplemental jurisdiction over
Plaintiff’s negligence claim, it is ORDERED and ADJUDGED that Plaintiff Dr.
Guven Uzun shall take nothing on his federal claims and his state law battery
claim against all Defendants, and those claims are DISMISSED on the merits with
prejudice. The Court declines to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over
Plaintiff's state law negligence claim, and that claim is DISMISSED without
prejudice.
 
(UMF no. 20.) 
Basis for motion
 
Defendants argue that there are no triable issues of
material fact in this action and defendants are entitled to summary judgment
or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of issues as a matter of law, as
follows:
 
Issue 1:
Plaintiff is barred by a final judgment entered by the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals and the District Court as to all other claims outside
of state-law negligence, therefore Defendants are entitled to summary judgment
on any additional claims raised.
 
Issue 2:
Plaintiff failed to assert a viable claim against the
non-arresting officers, therefore Defendants Officer Raleigh and Sergeants Chun
and Gilmour are entitled to summary judgment on all causes of action alleged in
Plaintiff's Complaint.
 
Issue 3:
Defendants were not negligent and therefore entitled to
summary judgment on Plaintiff's sole cause of action for Negligence.
 
Issue 4:
Defendants are entitled to immunity and therefore summary
judgment on Plaintiff's claims should be granted.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“The
supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a separate
statement may in the court's discretion constitute a sufficient ground for
denial of the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(b)(1); see also Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1350(c)(2) & (d).)  “The
opposition papers shall include a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
if the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The
statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts
the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the
opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence. Failure to comply with this requirement of a
separate statement may constitute a sufficient ground, in the court's
discretion, for granting the motion.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437b(b)(3) (emphasis added).)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment [or summary adjudication],
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.
B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  The
moving party is entitled to summary judgment or summary adjudication if they
can show that there is no triable issue of material fact or if they have a
complete defense thereto. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfiend Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In analyzing
motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 

When deciding whether to grant summary judgment,
the Court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except evidence to which the Court has sustained an
objection, as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from
that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment. (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)   
A motion for summary adjudication
shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c(f)(1).)  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Defendants’ objections
 
Exhibit 3 - U.S. Dep’t of Justice, Nat’l Inst. of Justice
Standard for Metallic Handcuffs §§ 3.1, 3.4, 4.4, 5.6.2 (1982)
Overruled: The Court granted
judicial notice of this exhibit.
Exhibit 5 – MRI Report re: UZUN’s Right Wrist completed
on 05-05-2021
            Overruled
 
Exhibit 6 – Neurological Evaluation Report from Dr. Young
            Overruled
 
Exhibit 7 - Supplemental Affidavit of Timothy T. Williams
            Overruled
 
Exhibit 8 – Declaration of Dr. Young
            Overruled
 
Exhibit 20 – Declaration of UZUN and all statements
regarding a medical diagnosis therein.
            Overruled
 
Exhibit 21 – Declaration of Dr. Young, in its entirety
            Overruled
 
Request for judicial notice
 
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice
 
For Defendants’ requests, the Court takes judicial notice of
the amended complaints, orders, and status report. However, none of those orders
are binding on this Court or control the decision in this case except the
issues that the summary judgment addressed that Plaintiff failed to appeal.
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice in
full, subject to concerns re Defendants’ judicially noticed exhibits.
 
Analysis
 
Since Defendants do not prevail on
the entire motion, summary judgment is denied. 
The motion for summary adjudication is granted, in part, for the reasons
explained below.
 
Collateral Estoppel/Issue Preclusion 
 
“Issue
preclusion prohibits the relitigation of issues argued and decided in a previous case, even if
the second suit raises different causes of action.” (DKN Holdings LLC v.
Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 824.) “Under issue preclusion, the prior
judgment conclusively resolves an issue actually litigated and determined in
the first action.” (Id.) “[I]ssue preclusion applies: (1) after final adjudication (2) of an
identical issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily decided in the first
suit and (4) asserted against one who was a party in the first suit or one in
privity with that party.” (Id. at 825.)
            
Defendants argue that Plaintiff is
barred under collateral estoppel and issue preclusion from relitigating the
claims and issues dismissed with prejudice in federal court, including any
claims of unreasonable force, failing to intervene, failing to investigate, and
false arrest, which have all been adjudicated on the merits and dismissed.  In opposition, Plaintiff argues that his
negligence claim is not barred under res judicata or collateral estoppel
because the District Court removed the state cause of action for negligence to
state court and the issues were never decided. 
Plaintiff argues that the reversal of the grant of summary judgment on
the state-negligence claim was the equivalent of the denial of summary
judgment, because the Ninth Circuit concluded that 
“a reasonable trier of fact could conclude the officers were
negligent.” (Opp. p. 11:20-24.) 
 
            In reply,
Defendants argue that the Ninth Circuit’s decision does not preclude
Defendants’ instant motion for summary judgment. In particular, Defendants
assert as follows: (1) the Ninth Circuit remanded Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment to the district court in regards to Plaintiff’s negligence
claim; (2) the Ninth Circuit did not analyze all elements of a negligence claim,
such as proximate cause; (3) the Ninth Circuit’s decision is devoid of opinion
or analysis regarding the feasibility of handcuffing at the time Officer
Valenzuela placed Plaintiff under arrest; and (4) Defendants have raised new
facts and issues in the instant motion for summary judgment that need to be
adjudicated. 
 
            Here, Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action was not litigated and
determined in the prior federal action. In fact, the Ninth Circuit reversed the
District Court’s granting of summary judgment on the state-negligence claim,
and the District Court dismissed the negligence claim without prejudice because
it declined to assert supplemental jurisdiction. Further, neither the District
Court nor Ninth Circuit ruled on the state immunity issue. Thus, there was no
final adjudication of the negligence issue at hand and Plaintiff’s claim is not
barred by collateral estoppel/issue preclusion. The Court also finds
Plaintiff’s argument that Defendants’ instant motion is precluded by the
Ninth Circuit’s reversal of summary judgment on the state-negligence claim to be without merit. 
 
            Thus,
the Court DENIES summary adjudication as to the first issue barring Plaintiff’s
action based on the Ninth Circuit and District Court’s prior judgments.
 
Viable Claims Against Officer Raleigh, Sergeant Chun, and
Sergeant Gilmour
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff failed to assert a viable claim against Officer Raleigh,
Sergeant Chun, and Sergeant Gilmour because the District Court granted summary
judgment on all of Plaintiff’s claims as to the non-arresting officers (Officer
Raleigh, Sergeant Chun, and Sergeant Gilmour), including negligence, which
Plaintiff did not appeal. Alternatively, Defendants state that the
uncontroverted facts demonstrate that Defendants Officer Raleigh, Sergeant
Chun, and Sergeant Gilmour were not involved in the handcuffing of Plaintiff.
(UMF no. 62.) Furthermore, these Defendants have no liability since the Ninth
Circuit already determined that no excessive force was used in handcuffing
Plaintiff. (UMF no. 15.) These Defendants also cannot be liable for failing to
intervene since there was probable cause to arrest Plaintiff. (UMF nos. 3, 5.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that these Defendants can be liable based on
vicarious liability. Plaintiff states that all Defendants were involved in the
decision not to double-lock the cuffs at Plaintiff’s house and prior to putting
Plaintiff in the patrol car. Since these Defendants were dispatched to
Plaintiff’s house to assist and supervise the arrest procedure by Valenzuela,
Plaintiff argues that all Defendants acted in concert and were collectively
responsible for Plaintiff’s injuries in failing to double-lock the cuffs when
feasible.
 
The Court agrees that Plaintiff’s
claims against these officers are estopped by the District Court’s grant of
summary judgment.  The court entered
summary judgment in favor of all defendants on the negligence claim, which
includes Raleigh, Chun and Gilmour.  That
decision was not appealed and is final.  While
the District Court declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction of the
remanded state law negligence claim and subsequently dismissed that claim, that
dismissal did not revive the negligence claims as to Raleigh, Chun or Gilmour.  Here, the District Court’s grant of summary
judgment on Plaintiff’s claims as to Officer Raleigh, Sergeant Chun, and
Sergeant Gilmour, and Plaintiff’s failure to appeal that ruling, forecloses
Plaintiff’s claims in this action as to these officers. 
 

Thus, the Court GRANTS summary
adjudication as to Defendants Officer Raleigh, Sergeant Chun, and Sergeant
Gilmour as set forth in issue no. 2. 
 
Negligence
 
“[I]n order to prove facts
sufficient to support a finding of negligence, a plaintiff must show that [the]
defendant had a duty to use due care, that he breached that duty, and that the
breach was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Nally v.
Grace Community Church (1988) 47 Cal.3d 278, 292; see Conroy v.
Regents of University of California (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1250.)”
(Hayes v. County of San Diego (2013) 57 Cal.4th 622, 629.)  
            
1.     Unreasonable
Force 
Defendants argue that they are
entitled to summary adjudication on this claim because there was no
unreasonable use of force. Defendants rely on the District Court’s finding that
“Arrest Video and Booking video show the Officers acting professionally
throughout their interaction with” Plaintiff (UMF no. 9) and the Ninth
Circuit’s finding that “body camera footage shows the officers used only the
force necessary to handcuff Uzun.” (UMF no. 15.) Defendants also cite to Scott
v. Harris, 550 U.S. 372, 380 (2007), in which they claim summary judgment
is properly granted where there is video evidence of the incident from which no
jury could find that a defendant used an unreasonable amount of force. They further
rely on California Penal Code section 835(a) which provides that “[a]ny peace
officer who has reasonable cause to believe that the person to be arrested has
committed a public offense may use reasonable force to effect the arrest, to
prevent escape or to overcome resistance,” “[a] peace officer who makes or
attempts to make an arrest need not retreat or desist from his efforts by
reason of the resistance or threatened resistance of the person being
arrested,” and the “officer [shall not] be deemed an aggressor or lose his
right to self-defense by the use of reasonable force to effect the arrest or to
prevent escape or to overcome resistance.” Defendants argue that Officer
Valenzuela’s actions were objectively reasonable because he used a minimal
amount of force to handcuff Plaintiff as shown in the body-worn camera video
footage.
 
2.     Duty
to Double-Lock Handcuffs
Defendants assert that “[t]he only
live issue in this case to be determined by this Court is whether Defendants
Officer Valenzuela, Officer King, and by vicarious liability, the City of Santa
Monica breached a duty of care to UZUN in their failure to double-lock the
handcuffs in their first application of such in the doorway of UZUN’s home.”
(Mot. p. 22:6-9.) Defendants argue that the failure to double-lock handcuffs is
insufficient to establish negligence because there is no duty to double-lock
handcuffs and an internal policy is insufficient to establish the standard of
care. Defendants also state that a failure to choose the safest course of
action is not grounds for liability so long as a defendant acted reasonably
under the circumstances. Defendants also state that the video of the arrest
establishes that double-locking was not feasible in the short period of time
when the arrest and handcuffing occurred given that Plaintiff was standing in
dim light, Officer Valenzuela heard a dog in the house, Plaintiff called to
someone in the house, and Plaintiff initially resisted and attempted to return
inside the house. Defendants claim that Plaintiff failed to articulate an
actionable duty that required Defendants to double-lock Plaintiff’s handcuffs,
but even if the internal policy is suggestive of a duty, that duty was not
breached. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that the internal policy may establish a standard of care. Plaintiff relies on Dillenbeck
v. City of Los Angeles (1968) 69 Cal.2d 472, 478, which states that “[t]he
safety rules of an employer are . . . admissible as evidence that due care
requires the course of conduct prescribed in the rule.” Plaintiff states that
Defendants were negligent in failing to check if the handcuffs were double
locked on three occasions, and that there was no resistance or exigent
circumstances during the course of the arrest and prior to entering the
vehicle. Further, Plaintiff argues that the arrest video alone does not
establish that Plaintiff resisted the arrest.  In reply, Defendants contest that
double-locking is the standard of care and that there is a mandatory duty
requiring double-locking. Further, Defendants state that it was not feasible
for Officer Valenzuela to double-lock the handcuffs. Defendants rely on Artiglio
v. Corning Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 604, 614, to claim that the threshold
element of the existence of duty is a question of law to be resolved by the
court. 
 
In Artiglio, the court
found that the issue of duty is a question of law for the Court, stating “whether Dow Chemical’s
alleged actions, if proven, would constitute an ‘undertaking’ sufficient,
within the meaning of section 324A’s negligent undertaking theory, to give rise
to an actionable duty of care is a legal question for the court.”
(Artiglio, supra, 18 Cal.4th at 615.) However, it also found that
“there may be fact questions ‘about precisely what it was that the defendant
undertook to do.’ That is, while ‘[t]he “precise nature and extent” of [an
alleged section 324A] duty “is a question of law ... it depends on the nature
and extent of the act undertaken, a question of fact.” ’ [Citation.] Thus, if
the record can support competing inferences (ibid.), or if the facts are
not yet sufficiently developed [Citation], ‘ “an ultimate finding on the
existence of a duty cannot be made prior to a hearing on the merits” ’ [Citation]
and summary judgment is precluded.” (Id.) The Court finds that to be the
case here. While there may be no authority establishing a mandatory duty to
double-lock handcuffs at the time of arrest, the internal policy that requires
such a rule creates a triable issue of fact as to Defendants’ duty and the
determination of the standard of care at the time of the arrest and
handcuffing. 
 
Thus, the Court DENIES summary
adjudication as to third issue of negligence.
 
3.     Immunity
under California Government Code section 820.2
Defendants argue they are entitled
to immunity under California Government section 820.2 which provides, in
relevant part, that a public employee is not liable for an injury resulting
from his act or omission where the act or omission was the result of the
exercise of the discretion vested in him, whether or not such discretion be
abused. “Immunity under section 820.2 turns on the reasonableness of the
conduct complained of, not simply whether or not a public employee exercised
his or her discretion.” (Stoddard-Nunez v. City of Hayward, No.
3:13-cv-4490 KAW, 2013 WL 6776189, at *10 (N.D. Cal. Dec. 23, 2013); Buckhalter
v. Torres, No. 2:17-CV- 02072-KJM-AC 2019 WL 3714576, at *12 (E.D. Cal.,
Aug. 7, 2019).) Defendants argue that Defendant Officer Valenzuela’s actions
were both reasonable and discretionary since the district court and the Ninth
Circuit both determined that minimal force was used, and only to the extent
necessary to handcuff Plaintiff.  In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that “[a]s a matter of law, section 820.2
[‘discretionary’] immunity does not apply to an officer’s decision to detain or
arrest a suspect” (Liberal v. Estrada, 632 F.3d 1064, 1084 (9th Cir.
2011), and that immunity does not apply to ministerial acts, such as the case
here.
 
As stated, the Court has found that
there is a triable issue of fact as to the standard of care for double-locking.  Thus, the Court finds that the issue of
whether double-locking is a discretionary decision and whether governmental
immunity applies cannot be resolved as a matter of law.
 
Thus, the Court DENIES summary
adjudication as to the fourth issue.
 
Continuance
 
            As more
fully set forth in the Court’s ruling on Plaintiff’s December 12, 2023, ex
parte application, the request for a continuance is denied. Here, Plaintiffs
have not met their burden of establishing that additional facts exist that are
essential to justify this opposition, but cannot be presented.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(h); Chavez v. 24
Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 643.) 
 
Conclusion
 
            For
the reasons explained above, Defendants motion for summary judgment is
DENIED.  The motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED as to issues one, three and four, and GRANTED as to
issue two and Defendants Officer Raleigh, Sergeant Chun, and Sergeant Gilmour. 