 Case Number:  23PSCV02590    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff Accutec, Inc. dba Accutec Blades, Inc.’s
Application
for Right to Attach Order and Order for Issuance of Writ of Attachment is DENIED.
Background   
Plaintiff Accutec, Inc. dba Accutec Blades, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff sold and
delivered $180,260.62 in merchandise to Traxx Corporation (“Defendant”) as per
an Order Acknowledgment. Defendant returned some of the merchandise and made a
small payment but still owes Plaintiff $100,465.58.
 
On August 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of
action against Defendant and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Written Agreement 
2.                 
Goods
Sold and Delivered
3.                 
Account
Stated
4.                 
Unjust
Enrichment 
A Case Management Conference is set for April 11, 2024.
Discussion
Plaintiff applies for a right to attach order and writ of
attachment against Defendant. The amount to be secured by the attachment is $112,055.34,
which includes estimated costs of $600.00 and estimated allowable attorney fees
of $1,000.00.
Analysis
“Attachment is a prejudgment remedy which requires a court
to make a preliminary determination of the merits of a dispute. It allows a
creditor who has applied for an attachment following the statutory guidelines
and established a prima facie claim to have a debtor's assets seized and held
until final adjudication at trial.” (Lorber
Industries, Inc. v. Turbulence, Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 532, 535.) “A
purpose of the attachment statutes is to confine attachments to commercial
situations and to prohibit them in consumer transactions. The language, ‘trade,
business or profession,’ in section 483.010, subdivision (c) fulfills that
purpose by limiting the use of attachments to ‘commercial transactions’ and
precluding them in ‘consumer transactions.’” (Kadison, Phaelzer, Woodard, Quinn
& Rossi v. Wilson (1987) 197 Cal.App.3d 1, 4 [citation omitted].)
Attachment is
governed by Attachment Law, Title 6.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, sections
481.010-493.060. “[A]ttachment procedures are solely creatures of
statute and . . . such statutes must be strictly construed.” (Arcata Publications Group v. Beverly Hills
Publishing Co. (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 276, 279.)
Procedural Considerations: “Upon the filing of the complaint or
at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply…for a right to attach order and
a writ of attachment by filing an application for the order and writ with the
court in which the action is brought.”
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 484.010, 485.210, subd. (a).) “No order or writ shall be
issued. . . except after a hearing. At the times prescribed by subdivision (b)
of Section 1005, the defendant shall be served with all of the following:
(a) A copy of the summons and complaint. (b) A notice of application and
hearing. (c) A copy of the application and of any affidavit in support of the
application.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
484.040.)
On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
“Notice and Acknowledgment of Receipt,” which reflected that Defendant’s
counsel acknowledged receipt of, inter alia, the summons and complaint on
October 12, 2023. On December 1, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.
On January 4, 2024, the instant application
and supporting documents were filed. On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a “Proof
of Service Cia USPS Mail Re: Application for Right to Attach Order, Notice of
Application and Hearing for Right to Attach Order, Declaration of Rick Gagliano
In Support of Application for Writ of Attachment, Memorandum of Points and
Authorities,” which reflected that the foregoing documents had been served, via
mail, on January 4, 2024.
The court, then, determines that adequate notice has been provided.
Substantive Considerations: “At the hearing, the court shall
consider the showing made by the parties appearing and shall issue a right to
attach order, which shall state the amount to be secured by the attachment
determined by the court in accordance with Section 483.015 or 483.020, if it
finds all of the following:
1.         The claim upon which the attachment is
based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.
2.         The plaintiff has established the
probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.
3.         The attachment is not sought for a
purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is
based.
4.         The amount to be secured by the
attachment is greater than zero.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 484.090, subd. (a).)
“The court's
determinations shall be made upon the basis of the pleadings and other papers
in the record; but, upon good cause shown, the court may receive and consider
at the hearing additional evidence, oral or documentary, and additional points
and authorities, or it may continue the hearing for the production of the
additional evidence or points and authorities.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090, subd. (d).) “The court has the power
to determine disputed facts on the basis of a preponderance of the
evidence as disclosed in the affidavits and declarations… [Hobbs v. Weiss (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 76, 80…].” (Weil
& Brown, et al., CAL. PRAC. GUIDE: 
CIV. PRO. BEFORE TRIAL (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 9:948 (emphasis
theirs).)
“The following
property of the defendant is subject to attachment: (a) Where the defendant is
a corporation, all corporate property for which a method of levy is provided by
Article 2 (commencing with Section 488.300) of Chapter 8. (b) Where the
defendant is a partnership or other unincorporated association, all partnership
or association property for which a method of levy is provided by Article 2
(commencing with Section 488.300) of Chapter 8. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
487.010.)
Plaintiff must
provide a statement that the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than
the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based, a statement that
the applicant has no information or belief that the claim is discharged in a
proceeding under Title 11 of the United States Code (Bankruptcy) or that the
prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding under Title 11 of the
United States Code (Bankruptcy). (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.020, subds. (c) and
(d).) Plaintiff has complied with these requirements.
Plaintiff must also
provide a description of the property to be attached under the writ of
attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes that
such property is subject to attachment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.020, subd.
(e).) “Where the defendant is a corporation, a reference to ‘all corporate
property which is subject to attachment pursuant to subdivision (a) of Code of
Civil Procedure Section 487.010’ satisfies the requirements of this
subdivision. Where the defendant is a partnership or other unincorporated
association, a reference to ‘all property of the partnership or other
unincorporated association which is subject to attachment pursuant to
subdivision (b) of Code of Civil Procedure Section 487.010’ satisfies the
requirements of this subdivision. Where the defendant is a natural person, the
description of the property shall be reasonably adequate to permit the
defendant to identify the specific property sought to be attached.” (Id.)
Plaintiff has sufficiently complied with this requirement.
CLAIM:
“[A]n attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim
or claims for money, each of which is based upon a contract, express or
implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount
not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and
attorney's fees.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
483.010, subd. (a) [emphasis added].)
“An attachment may
not be issued on a claim which is secured by any interest in real property
arising from agreement, statute, or other rule or law . . . [h]owever, an
attachment may be issued where the claim was originally so secured but, without
any act of the plaintiff or the person to whom the security was given, the
security has become valueless or has decreased in value to less than the amount
then owing on the claim . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (b).) “If the
action is against a defendant who is a natural person, an attachment may be
issued only on a claim which arises
out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff asserts
that the claim is for money, and based upon a contract, whose total sum is more
than $500. (Gagliano Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 1.) Defendant, however, contends that purported
contract attached as Exhibit 1 to both the complaint and Declaration of Rick
Gagliano (“Gagliano”) is actually an unsigned invoice titled “Order Acknowledgment,”
that “an invoice, standing alone, is not a contract” (India Paint &
Lacquer Co. v. United Steel Products Corp. (1954) 123 Cal.App.2d 597, 697)
and that “[a]n invoice is a mere detailed statement of the nature, quantity,
and the cost or price of the things invoiced.” (Id. [quotations and
citation omitted].)
Defendant further
asserts that the alleged debt is not readily fixed or ascertainable, on the
basis that while Plaintiff’s complaint and Gagliano’s declaration allege the
parties entered into a written agreement in the amount of $180,260.62, the
“Order Acknowledgment” indicates that the amount owed is $101,761.60. (See
Opp., 6:5-18). Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant made two payments of
$1,851.20 and $126.26 and obtained a refund in the total amount of $77,817.58
after certain merchandise was returned, such that $100,465.58 is owing.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 8, 9 and 11; see also Gagliano Decl., ¶¶ 5-8). Plaintiff,
however, has failed to provide any admissible evidence reflecting how the
refund amount was calculated and documenting what merchandise was returned.
Probable Validity:
“A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely
than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on
that claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
481.190.) “In determining the probable validity of a claim where the defendant
makes an appearance, the court must consider the relative merits of the
positions of the respective parties and make a determination of the probable
outcome of the litigation.” (Loeb & Loeb v. Beverly Glen Music, Inc.
(1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1110, 1120.)
The court determines that Plaintiff has not
shown the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based. “[T]he
elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are (1) the existence of
the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.  Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
Plaintiff has failed to provide the court with admissible evidence
demonstrating that it is more likely than not that it will obtain a judgment
against Defendant on
the contract claim. Again, an invoice is not a contract. Again, Plaintiff has
failed to provide any
admissible evidence reflecting how the refund amount was calculated and
documenting what merchandise was returned. Additionally, Defendant’s Chief
Executive Officer Craig Silvers (“Silvers”) attests that approximately four
years ago, the parties entered into an arrangement whereby Defendant
would serve as the exclusive distributor of Plaintiff’s products; that,
according to this arrangement, Plaintiff would supply Defendant with
Plaintiff’s product, which Defendant would sell to third parties at a marked up
price and then pay Plaintiff for the items sold; that, during this exclusive
distributor arrangement, Plaintiff negotiated a deal to appoint a new
distributor without Defendant’s knowledge or consent; that in April 2022, while
knowing it intended to terminate the parties’ exclusive distributor
relationship, Plaintiff encouraged Defendant to place larger than normal orders
for product Plaintiff represented was saleable, which Defendant did; that in
May 2022, Plaintiff terminated Defendant’s exclusive distributor relationship,
which rendered the product Plaintiff encouraged Defendant to order
significantly less valuable as customers could now purchase Plaintiff’s
products through other distributors; that Plaintiff refused Defendant’s request
that Plaintiff reimburse Defendant for expenses related to the unexpected
termination and accept a return of the product Defendant was now unable to sell
and that Defendant remains ready and willing to return Plaintiff’s inventory.
(Silvers Decl., ¶¶ 2-12).
RULING:
The application is denied.