 Case Number:  22NWCV00260    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  C Lisa Avila vs Lourdes K. Campbell, et al.
Case No.: 22NWCV00260
Hearing Date: April 23, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#2
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Lourdes Campell’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint is
GRANTED.  Defendant Campbell is ordered
to separately file the proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint within five (5)
days.  
Defendant/Cross-Complainant to give notice. 
 
Background 
In the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed on July
12, 2022, Plaintiff Lisa Avila ("Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendant
Lourdes Campell (“Defendant”) breached her written agreement to sell her
condominium to Plaintiff by failing to timely close escrow.  
On August 10, 2022, Defendant answered the FAC and
concurrently filed a Cross-Complaint. 
On December 22, 2022, this Court issued an order requiring
Plaintiff and Defendant to mediate their dispute. On December 16, 2023, this
Court re-assumed jurisdiction based on a stipulation showing that it would have
been cost prohibitive for Defendant to submit to arbitration. 
On December 18, 2023, Defendant filed the instant Motion
for Leave to File a Cross-Compliant. 
This motion is unopposed as of April 16, 2024. 
Legal Standard 
Leave to
amend is permitted under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)
and section 576. The policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the
same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to
amend can be justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of
great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . ..
[citation].  A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion
for leave to amend a pleading must also comply with the procedural requirements
of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting
declaration to set forth explicitly what allegations are to be added and where,
and explicitly stating what new evidence was discovered warranting the
amendment and why the amendment was not made earlier. The motion must also
include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered amendment, (2) specifications
by reference to pages and lines the allegations that would be deleted and
added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect, necessity and propriety of
the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for delay. (See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
Discussion 
Defendant seeks leave of court to
file a First Amended Cross-Complaint to add a third cause of action for
Equitable Indemnity.  Defendant alleges
the amendment is necessary in order to seek indemnity from the Seller’s Real
Estate Agents.  The amended Cross-Compliant
could not be filed sooner as the Court only recently lifted the stay in this
matter, which previously precluded Defendant from filing the instant motion. 
Counsel has filed a declaration
in compliance with CRC Rule 1.324(b), which includes an explanation about when
the facts giving rise to the amendment were discovered and why leave to amend
was not sought sooner.
Defenant’s Motion for Leave to File
an Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.  Defendant
Campbell is ordered to file the proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint within
five (5) days.  