 Case Number:  22STCV04425    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  C Constance Brady vs The City of Whittier, et al.
Case No.: 22STCV04425
Hearing Date: April 23, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#4 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendants The City of Whittier and Charles
“Chuck” Drylie’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Constance Brady’s Independent
Mental Examination is GRANTED in part.  Defendants are ordered to file a proposed
order in compliance with CCP § 2032.320, subd. (d), by April 26, 2024.  
 
Defendants to give notice. 
 
This case arises out of alleged acts of sexual assault that
Plaintiff suffered as a child while participating in Explorer Post of the
Whittier Police Department.
Defendants The City of Whitter and Charles “Chuck” Drylie
move for an order Compelling Plaintiff’s Independent Mental Examination. 
Objections
Defendant’s Objections Nos. 1-9 to Plaintiff’s opposition are
OVERRULED. 
Legal Standards
“Any
party may obtain discovery … by means of a physical or mental examination of
(1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of any party, or (3) a natural person
in the custody or under the legal control of a party, in any action in which
the mental or physical condition … of that party or other person is in
controversy in the action.” (CCP § 2032.020(a).)  Absent stipulation,
mental examinations require a court order. Such order may be made only after
notice and hearing, and “for good cause shown.” (CCP § 2032.320(a); Carpenter
v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 259 (“To protect the
plaintiff’s privacy interests from unnecessary intrusion, the mental
examination may be ordered only upon a showing of good cause.”).)   
 
A
showing of good cause requires that the party “produce specific facts
justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of
the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) This
requirement is designed to protect the plaintiff’s privacy interest. (Id.)  
 
Analysis
 
It
is undisputed that Plaintiff has placed her mental state in controversy. The
Complaint alleges that as a result of Defendants’ acts and omissions, “Plaintiff has suffered
and continues to suffer great pain of mind and body, shock, emotional distress,
physical manifestations of emotional distress, severe anxiety, post-traumatic
stress, depression, feelings of self-blame, shame, embarrassment, a lost sense
of trust, relationship and intimacy issues, and a sense of being tainted, and
was prevented and will continue to be prevented from performing daily
activities and obtaining the full enjoyment of life.” (Complaint ¶¶
59, 79.) Plaintiff alleges her mental suffering is ongoing and she continues to
receive treatment to this day. (Arredondo Dec. ¶¶ 2-3, Exhs. A, B.)  Plaintiff’s mental state
is “in controversy” and Defendants “must be allowed to investigate the
continued existence and severity of plaintiff’s alleged damages.” (Vinson,
supra, 43 Cal.3d at 841.) 
 
However,
this does not mean there are no restrictions on the scope of permissible
inquiry. (Id. at 840 (“While a plaintiff may place his mental state in
controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional distress, the opposing
party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing solely on the basis of
speculation that something of interest may surface.”).) 
 
Regarding
the scope and conditions of the examination, it appears the parties have met
and conferred and significantly narrowed the issues in dispute.  The remaining points of contention are: 1)
whether the examination may be video recorded, 2) cancellation fees, and 3) whether
Plaintiff may be asked questions regarding her sexual conduct with individuals
other than the alleged perpetrator.  
 
Defendants argue that a video recording may
better capture the demeanor of Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff argues, and the Court agrees, that
it is sufficient for Defendants to audio record the mental examination (CCP § 2032.530(a)) and
video record Plaintiff’s deposition.  Accordingly,
the request to video record the mental examination is DENIED.   
 
Defendants propose that any party who cancels
the mental exam less than five (5) calendar days prior to the scheduled date
will be responsible for paying the late cancellation fee of three thousand five
hundred dollars ($3,500) if the examiner is unable to reschedule alternative
appointments totaling his fee of $3,500 for the exam.  The Court declines to impose a cancellation
fee in the absence of any reason to believe Plaintiff will cancel the
examination.  
 
On April 18, 2024, the
Court ordered the parties to meet and confer regarding the questions Plaintiff
may be asked regarding her sexual conduct with individuals other than the
alleged perpetrator.  The hearing on
Defendant’s discovery motion was continued to May 9, 2024 and the parties were
ordered to file a JOINT STATEMENT by April 26, 2024 if there are any remaining
disagreements.  Defendants
are ordered to file a proposed order in compliance with CCP § 2032.320, subd.
(d), by April 26, 2024.  The Court intends
to finalize the order on May 9, 2024.  