 Case Number:  23VECV001505    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




RACHEL
  RABIZADEH, et al.,
Plaintiffs.
 
   v..,GMP
  ASSOCIATES, INC., et al      
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
 22VECV01505                       
  107




 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Demurrer to
  Complaint



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
[Tentative] Ruling: OVERRULED – as to
the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action; SUSTAINED
with LEAVE TO AMEND – as to the seventh cause of action.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On October 10, 2022, Plaintiffs Rachel
Rabizadeh, individually, and as Guardian Ad Litem for Asher Rabizadeh
(“Plaintiffs”), filed this action against Defendants GMP Associates, Inc.,
Gabriel Martin Perez, High-definition Glass Inc., and Adan Negrete, for seven
causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) negligent infliction of emotional
distress, (3) breach of contract, (4) breach of express warranties, (5) breach
of implied warranties, (6) negligent product liability, and (7) unfair business
practices. Plaintiffs allege that they have incurred damages resulting from a
shattered glass shower door (the “Product”). 
 
On March 8, 2023, Defendant High-definition
Glass, Inc., and Adan Negrete filed a Cross-Compliant against Roes 1 through
50.
 
On May 17, 2023, Defendant High-definition
Glass, Inc. amended its Cross-Complaint to name C.R. Laurence Co., Inc., and
Jasan Fabricated Glass, Inc. as Roe 1, and Roe 2, respectively.
 
On August 24, 2023, Plaintiffs amended their
Complaint to add C.R. Laurence Co., Inc. as Doe 2.  
 
On October 19, 2023, Defendant C.R. Laurence
Co., Inc. (“C.R. Laurence”) filed the instant demurrer based on the contention
that all causes of action as applied to Defendant C.R. Laurence failed to state
facts sufficient to establish a cause of action, under Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10 subdivision (e), and that the pleading is uncertain, under Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10 subdivision (f).
 
On January 3, 2024, Plaintiffs opposed the
demurrer. Subsequently, on January 9, 2024, C.R. Laurence replied.
 
II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS FOR THE DEMURRER
            
            Defendant
C.R. Laurence demurs to all causes of action as applied to it. The demurrer is
based on the contention that Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action under Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10 (e), and
the pleading is uncertain under Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10 (f).
            
III. ANALYSIS
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party
shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has filed
the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration detailing their
meet and confer efforts.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) However, an
insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to¿overrule or sustain a
demurrer.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)
 
Here, on September 19, 2023, Defendant C.R.
Laurence’s counsel emailed a meet-and-confer letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel,
discussing the grounds for demurrer. On the following day, the counsel for C.R.
Laurence filed a Declaration of Demurring Party in Support of Automatic
Extension. (Schmidt Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) As of the filing of this demurrer, the counsel
for C.R. Laurence has not received responses from the Plaintiffs. (Schmidt
Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
The Court determines that Defendant C.R.
Laurence has met the meet and confer requirement, whereas Plaintiffs have not. Although
an insufficient meet and confer process does not serve as a basis to either
overrule or sustain a demurrer, the Court reminds both parties of their
requisite adherence to the mandates of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41
subdivision (a).
 
Demurrer
 
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of the
allegations in a complaint as a matter of law.” (Grosz v. Cal. Dep't of Tax
& Fee Admin. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 428, 438.) A demurrer is properly
sustained where the complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 430.10 subd. (e).)
 
“In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer
tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal. App. 4th 1308, 1315.) As
such, the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or
implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747.)
 
“But it is error to sustain a general
demurrer if the complaint states a cause of action under any possible legal
theory." In re Electric Refund Cases (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1490,
1500.) “It is also an abuse of discretion for the court to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend if the plaintiff has shown there is a reasonable
possibility a defect can be cured by amendment.” (Donorovich-Odonnell v.
Harris (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1127.)
 
First Cause of Action – Negligence 
 
“The elements of a negligence claim [are]: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.” (Staats v. Vintner's Golf Club, LLC, (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 826,
832.)
 
In its demurrer, Defendant C.R. Laurence
contends that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged facts that support these
elements. 
 
The Court of Appeal expressed its opinion
regarding a manufacturer’s general duty in GEM Developers v. Hallcraft Homes
of San Diego, Inc. (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 419. In that case, it was stated
that “[t]here is no question that a manufacturer has a duty, i.e. a
responsibility, to provide consumers with defect-free products; that duty
underlies strict products liability. The duty exists independently of any
lawsuit filed by a consumer; a consumer’s lawsuit does not create the
manufacturer’s duty, rather it seeks to enforce that preexisting duty and to
recover damages for its breach.” (Id. at p. 428.)
 
Here, C.R. Laurence is the manufacturer of
the glass shower door, and as such, it is subject to this preexisting duty. Additionally,
Plaintiffs have pleaded, in their Complaint, that all Defendants “owed a duty
of care to Plaintiffs to own, keep safe, install, maintain, and control the
Product in a reasonable manner.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) Consequently, the Court determines
that the duty element has been sufficiently pleaded.
 
Furthermore, in its demurrer, C.R. Laurence
argues that Plaintiffs have failed to prove that her injury was due to a defect
in the product, citing Milwaukee Elec. Tool Corp. v. Superior Court,
(1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 547, 556 (Milwaukee Elec. Tool). C.R. Laurence asserts
that the mere occurrence of an injury, or like here where the breakage of glass
that was installed without a gasket by a third-party, is insufficient to prove
a defect in the product. (Dem., at p.3.)
 
The Milwaukee Elec. Tool court stated
that “a plaintiff injured by an allegedly defective product may seek recovery
at the same time on alternative theories of strict liability in tort and in
negligence.” (Id., at p. 557.) “[There is] functional similarity between
negligence theory and strict products liability insofar as duty and breach are
concerned.” (Id., at p. 559.) “Strict liability differs from negligence
in that it eliminates the necessity for the injured party to prove that the
manufacture of the product which caused injury was negligent.” (Id., at
p. 556.)
 
First, the Court is not convinced by C.R.
Laurence’s contention regarding the absence of a necessary defect allegation
under a product liability theory. The Court is obligated to construe the
allegation liberally. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) Here, the Complaint states that
“the glass bathtub/shower door suddenly, and without warning, exploded and
shattered into countless sharp pieces inside the tub, causing severe
lacerations to both Plaintiffs.” (Compl. ¶ 15.) 
 
Therefore, while C.R. Laurence suggests the
possibility that the glass breakage resulted from third-party installation
without a gasket and was an accident, this possibility does not negate the
alleged defect in the product. Especially when the allegation is construed
liberally, it can be interpreted as asserting that both the glass breakage and
the requirement for a gasket in the product’s design constitute defects in the
product. Consequently, the Court determines that the allegations provide
sufficient facts to demonstrate a defect in the product. 
 
Second, when reviewing the allegation on its
face for a negligent cause of action, Plaintiffs have indeed alleged that the
manufacturer acted negligently. In their Complaint, Plaintiffs assert that “the
flawed installation and/or manufacturer and/or warning of the Shower Door … was
not disclosed upon reasonable inspection.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) Since this pleading go
beyond than the installation, an action taken by a third party, and also include
specific conduct, such as manufacturing, design, and warning related to the
product, by Defendant C.R. Laurence, the Court determines that Plaintiffs have
sufficiently alleged facts to state the first cause of action.
 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer
as to the first cause of action.
 
Second Cause of Action – Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress (NIED)
 
            For
an NIED cause of action, the traditional elements of a negligence cause of
action apply. (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 884.)
A “direct victim” claim alleges emotional distress was suffered as a proximate
result of defendant's breach of a duty that is assumed by the defendant, or
imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of the
defendant's preexisting relationship with the plaintiff. (Burgess v.
Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1073-1074.)
 
Defendant C.R. Laurence contends that due to
Plaintiffs’ failure to provide sufficient facts for state negligence, their
NIED cause of action would be unsuccessful. (Dem., at p. 6.) Additionally, C.R.
Laurence asserts that Plaintiffs’ allegations are conclusory but have not
included facts demonstrating “emotional distress of such substantial quality or
enduring quality that no reasonable person in civilized society should expect
to endure it,” citing Bock v. Hansen (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 215, 233 (Bock).
(Dem., at p. 6.)
 
However, the Court disagrees with C.R.
Laurence's argument. The standard that C.R. Laurence cites from Bock pertains
specifically to the emotional distress element in an Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (IIED) cause of action. (Ibid. [“Liability for intentional
infliction of emotional distress ‘“does not extend to mere insults, … Severe
emotional distress means “‘emotional distress of such substantial quality
or enduring quality that no reasonable person in civilized society should be
expected to endure it.’””]) (Underlines added.)
 
While both elements share the name “emotional
distress,” they should be applied with separate standards according to the
settled rules. Notably, NIED requires a threshold of “serious emotional
distress” (Bogard v. Employer Casualty Co. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 602,
618), whereas IIED necessitates a higher threshold of “severe emotional
distress.” (Bock, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at p. 233.) The
California Civil Jury Instructions (CACI) No. 1620 explains that “[e]motional
distress includes suffering, anguish, fright, horror, nervousness, grief,
anxiety, worry, shock, humiliation, and shame. Serious emotional distress
exists if an ordinary, reasonable person would be unable to cope with it.”
 
Here, in line with the discussion of the
first cause of action, the Court has determined that Plaintiffs have pleaded
sufficient facts for the negligence cause of action. Therefore, C.R. Laurence’s
contention, which rests on a different premise, lacks persuasiveness.
Additionally, C.R. Laurence has relied on authorities that are not applicable
to the current issue, specifically the showing of the emotional stress element
under NIED. Consequently, it has failed to substantiate its demurrer as to the
second cause of action.
 
The Court notes that Plaintiffs, in their
Complaint, allege that “Plaintiff suffered serious emotional distress and the
conduct of Defendants were a substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs’
emotional distress.” (Compl., ¶ 27.) The Court agrees with Plaintiffs’
contention that these allegations are adequate to withstand a demurrer.
 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer
as to the second cause of action.
 
Third Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
 
 
The elements of a claim for breach of
contract are (1) the existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage
to plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman, 51
Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs plead that they
entered into an agreement with GMP Associates, Inc. (“GMP”), the contractor,
for renovating Plaintiffs’ home, including the acquisition and installation of
the glass shower door. (Compl., ¶¶ 29-33.) Furthermore, Plaintiffs assert that
“Defendants and Does 1 through 50, inclusive, were agents, servants, employees,
successors in interest … and were as such acting within the course, scope, and
authority of said agency….” (Compl. ¶ 7.)
 
Thus, based on the allegations of the
Complaint, Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded the cause of action for breach
of contract against both the principal, GMP, and its agents, including C.R.
Laurence, as the other contracting party.
 
In its Reply, C.R. Laurence argues that a
construction contractor does not usually have an agency relationship with its
parts supplier. (Reply, at p. 1.)
 
When reviewing a demurrer, the Court is
required to assume the truth of all properly pleaded facts, but not
contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Kamen v. Lindly
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 197, 201.) Here, because C.R. Laurence’s argument is not rooted
in the content of the Complaint but instead attempts to introduce new evidence to
contend Plaintiffs’ allegation, rendering its argument unfounded.
 
Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer
as to the third cause of action.
 
Fourth Cause of Action – Breach of Express
Warranties
 
            “In
order to plead a cause of action for breach of express warranty, one must
allege the exact terms of the warranty, plaintiff’s reasonable reliance
thereon, and a breach of that warranty which proximately causes plaintiff
injury. [Citation.]” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 142 (Beechnut).) 
 
Privity is not a barrier to recovery in cases
of personal injury due to defective products. (See Greenman v. Yuba Power
Products, Inc. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 57; Seely v. White Motor Co. (1965)
63 Cal.2d 9.)
 
            In
Beechnut, the Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s demurrer to the
plaintiff child’s complaint for a product liability action against the
manufacturer of a glass juice bottle, alleging that it broke and injured the
plaintiff child during use. With regard to the cause of action for breach of
express warranty, the Court of Appeal determined that the complaint
substantially complied with these requisite elements for a breach of express
warranty cause of action. The Beechnut Court reasoned that the complaint
asserted that the defendant manufacturer utilized the advertising media to urge
the use and application of the subject product and expressly warranted to the
general public, including the plaintiff, that said product was effective,
proper, and safe for its intended use. Additionally, the Beechnut court
further stated that the element of reliance, although not specifically pleaded,
can be reasonably inferred from the tenor and totality of the allegations in
the complaint. (Beechnut, supra, 185 Cal.App.3d at p. 142.) 
            
Here, similar to the complaint in Beechnut,
Plaintiffs’ Complaint alleges that Defendant and Does 1 – 100 “expressly
warranted to Plaintiffs and the general public that the Product was safe,
effective, fit and proper for its intended purpose.” (Compl., ¶¶ 37-38.) Additionally,
akin to the inferred reliance element in Beechnut, here, it cannot be
said that purchasing a glass shower door does not inherently involve reliance
on an express warranty of its safety and suitability for its intended use. 
 
In its Reply, C.R. Laurence contends that
Plaintiffs have not identified a specific form of express warranty such as “by
advertising, labels, or otherwise.” (Reply, at p. 4.) However, the Court considers
this to be non-fatal as the factual allegations in the Complaint must be
liberally construed in the plaintiff’s favor when reviewing the demurrer. (Acre
v. City of L.A. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1455, 1471.) In line with the Beechnut
court’s rationale, the specific method of “by advertising” can be reasonably
inferred from the overall context and content of the allegations in the
Compliant, as Plaintiffs refer to “general public” (Compl., ¶ 37), and mention
that the product was not properly “advertised.” (Compl., ¶ 47.)
 
 Consequently,
the Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the fourth cause of action. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action – Breach of Implied
Warranties
 
            “Although
a breach of implied warranty claim is rooted in contract theory (Citation),
claims for breach of implied warranty and breach of contract are distinct and
separate.” (State Farm General Insurance Company v. Oetiker, Inc. (2020)
58 Cal.App.5th 940, 953.)  When an action
is brought against a manufacturer for its defective product, “[b]reach of
implied warranty and strict products liability causes of action are similar –
“under both theories, a manufacturer is liable if the product is defective and
no proof of negligence or fault is required.” (Ibid.)
 
            Essentially,
there exist two legal theories pertaining to the breach of implied warranties when
product liability is implicated. The first theory is the Breach of Implied
Warranty of Merchantability against the defendant seller. The second theory
is strict products liability against the defendant manufacturer. As it
is applied to C.R. Laurence, the strict products liability theory is applicable
because it is the manufacturer and is not engaged in the sale of the subject
glass shower door to Plaintiffs.
 
            A
prima facie case of strict liability requires plaintiff to demonstrate that:
(1) the product was placed on the market; (2) there was knowledge that it would
be used without inspection for defect; (3) the product proves to be defective;
and (4) the defect causes injury to a human. (Greeman v. Yuba Power
Products, Inc. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 57, 62.)
 
Here, C.R. Laurence first contends that
Plaintiffs have alleged no facts demonstrating that it placed any goods in the
stream of commerce. (Dem. at p. 7.) The Court determines that this is non-fatal,
given that both parties have no dispute over the fact that C.R. Laurence is the
manufacturer of the subject glass shower door. And it is reasonable to infer
that C.R. Laurence placed its subject product in the stream of commerce, as it
was supplied by a contractor for installation at Plaintiff’s residence. 
 
Furthermore, C.R. Laurence argues that the
Plaintiffs failed to allege that the product does not fit for the ordinary
purpose. (Dem. at p. 7.) The Court notes that while this element is necessary under
the theory of implied warranty for merchantability, it is not required where,
as here, the theory of strict products liability is applicable. 
 
A demurrer may not be sustained if the
pleading alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action “under any
possible legal theory.” (Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores California
(2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1242.) (Underlined added.)
 
The Court notes that C.R. Laurence has not
substantiated its demurrer as the possible legal theory of strict products
liability, therefore, the demurrer as to the fifth cause of action is
OVERRULED.
 
Sixth Cause of Action – Negligent Products
Liability
 
To prevail on a product liability claim based
on negligence the plaintiff must show that the defendant owed the plaintiff a
legal duty, breached the duty, that the breach was a proximate or legal cause
of the plaintiff’s injury, and that the defect in the product was due to the
negligence of the defendant. (See Gonzalez v. Autoliv ASP, Inc., (2007)
154 Cal.App.4th 780.) 
 
Here, C.R. Laurence's argument is misplaced,
as it does not directly address or argue the alleged cause of action, instead,
it contends that Plaintiffs fail to allege facts support the elements of a “strict
products liability cause of action.” (Dem. at p. 8.) 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that C.R. Laurence
has not substantiated its demurrer as to the sixth cause of action.
 
Seventh Cause of Action – Unfair Business
Practices under Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq.
 
            The
Business and Professions Code section 17200 provides, in part, that “unfair
competition shall mean and include any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business
act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.”
 
            “To
bring a claim under the Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”), a plaintiff must show
either an (1) unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practice, or (2) unfair,
deceptive, untrue, or misleading advertising.” (Adhav v. Midway Rent A Car,
Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 954, 970.) A claim alleging a violation of the
UCL requires the plaintiff to allege that it lacks an adequate remedy at law.
(See Prudential Home Mortgage Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 1236, 1249.)
 
            Here,
C.R. Laurence argues that Plaintiffs have failed to plead sufficient facts to
demonstrate any of the required elements. (Dem. at p. 8.) In their Opposition,
Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s conduct resulted in Plaintiffs’ loss of
property, constituting unfair competition under the Code. (Opp’n., at p. 13.) However,
the Court does not find Plaintiffs’ argument persuasive. In the Complaint,
plaintiffs only allege that Defendant’s actions … constitute unfair business
practices because they offend the established public policies of the City and
County of Los Angeles, and harm consumers, as well as competitors; Defendants
have obtained a competitive unfair advantage over similar businesses.” (Compl.,
¶ 53.) The Court determines that these allegations amount to a legal conclusion
and are not considered material facts when reviewing a demurrer. 
 
            Additionally,
Plaintiffs fail to allege any facts to demonstrate the required element of
“unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent” business act or misleading advertising.
 
Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as
to the seventh cause of action. 
 
 
III. CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is OVERRULED as to
the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action.
 
The Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
as to the seventh cause of action.