 Case Number:  23VECV03412    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Triway
  Logistics (USA), Inc
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
Tryways
  Logistics, Inc. et al.             
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV03412                107




 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Demurrer to
  Complaint



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
[Tentative] Ruling:   Demurrer is Overruled
 
I.
BACKGROUND
 
On August 4, 2023, Plaintiff
Triways Logistics (USA), Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action, alleging
tortious conduct involving conversion of funds through the deposit of
Plaintiff’s checks into a bank account not associated with Plaintiff, against
Defendants Trywys Logistics, Inc., Orho Systems, Inc. dba Ovation Medical, Bank
of America National Association, Rafael Jimenez, and Does 1 through 10.
Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: (1) fraudulent concealment,
(2) conversion by embezzlement, (3) violation of California Penal Code section
496, (4) negligence, (5) conversion under California Commercial Code section
3420, and (6) violation of California Commercial Code section 3404. The fifth
and sixth causes of action are brought against the moving Defendant Bank of
America National Association (“Bank of America”).
 
Plaintiff Triways
Logistics (USA), Inc., engaged in the shipping industry, delivered orthopedic
parts and supplies from China to Defendant Ortho Systems, Inc. dba Ovation
Medical (“Ortho Systems”). (Compl. ¶ 23.) Defendant Rafael Jimenez (“Jimenez”) acted
as a commissioned sales agent for Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶ 19.) On April 21, 2021,
Jimenez incorporated Trywys Logistics Inc. (“Trywys”). (Compl. ¶ 26.) Between
December 15, 2021, and May 10, 2022, Ortho Systems issued ten checks, totaling
$653,294.45, to Jimenez and made them payable to Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶¶ 35-45.)
Although the ten checks were made payable to Plaintiff, they bore the address
of Trywys, an entity of Jimenez. (Compl. ¶ 32.) Each of these checks was
deposited into Trywys’ account at Bank of America. (Id.)
 
On December 11,
2023, Defendant Bank of America filed this demurrer without a motion to strike
to Complaint. On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff opposed. Subsequently, on January
9, 2024, Bank of America replied.
 
II.
MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS FOR THE
DEMURRER
 
            Defendant demurs to the fifth and
sixth cause of action, specifically those alleging conversion under California
Commercial Code section 3420 and violation of California Commercial Code
section 3404, respectively. The demurrer is based on the contention that Plaintiff
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action under Code of Civil
Procedure § 430.10 (e).  
            
III. ANALYSIS
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Before filing a
demurrer, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).) However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not
grounds to¿overrule or sustain a demurrer.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)
 
Here, on November
21, 2023, Defendant Bank of America’s counsel engaged in a discussion with Plaintiff’s
counsel. (Hovespyan Decl. ¶ 2.) Despite their efforts, both parties’ counsels
were unable to resolve the issues raised in this demurrer. (Id.) Thus,
the meet and confer requirement was satisfied. 
 
Demurrer
 
Under California
law, “A demurrer tests the sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint as a
matter of law.” (Grosz v. Cal. Dep't of Tax & Fee Admin. (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 428, 438.)
 
A demurrer is
properly sustained where the complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 430.10 subd. (e).)
 
“In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)
 
As a general
matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.
App. 4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s
properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the
complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)
 
“But it is error to
sustain a general demurrer if the complaint states a cause of action under any
possible legal theory." In re Electric Refund Cases (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1490, 1500.)
 
 
Fifth Cause of
Action – Conversion Under California Commercial Code Section 3420 
 
California
Commercial Code section 3420 subdivision (a) provides: 
“The law applicable
to conversion of personal property applies to instruments. An instrument is
also converted if it is taken by transfer, other than a negotiation, from a
person not entitled to enforce the instrument or a bank makes or obtains
payment with respect to the instrument for a person not entitled to enforce
the instrument or receive payment. An action for conversion of an
instrument may not be brought by (1) the issuer or acceptor of the instrument
or (2) a payee or indorsee who did not receive delivery of the instrument
either directly or through delivery to an agent or a copayee.” (Underlines
added.)
 
First, Bank of
America recognizes that Jimenez acted as Plaintiff’s commissioned sales agent
when he received these ten checks from Ortho Systems (Compl. ¶ 19.) Because the
receipt of these checks fell within the scope of Jimenez’s actual or ostensible
authority, all the rights and liabilities are thus accrued to the principal,
Plaintiff in this case. (See Cal. Civil Code § 2330.) Consequently, Plaintiff is
considered to have received the checks through its agent. Therefore, Plaintiff is
not precluded by section 3420 subdivision (a)(2) of the California Commercial
Code, which applies to a payee of the instrument who did not receive delivery
of said instrument.     
 
Next, Bank of
America contends that Jimenez, acting as Plaintiff’s agent, should not be
characterized as “a person not entitled to enforce the instrument” or “a person
not entitled to receive payment,” even though he deposited these checks into an
account unrelated to the payee. Consequently, Bank of America posits that
section 3420 of the California Commercial Code is inapplicable to it, as
Jimenez’s actions do not fit the criteria of being unauthorized, thereby negating
the section’s relevance in this context. The essence of Bank of America’s
argument hinges on its assertion that Jimenez’s deposit of these checks falls within
the scope of his authority. 
 
The Court disagrees
with this argument. When reviewing a demurrer, the Court is required to assume
the truth of all facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions, or
conclusions of fact or law. (Kamen v. Lindly (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 197,
201.)
 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff pleads that it did not have any accounts at Bank of America; Nevertheless,
Jimenez successfully deposited ten checks issued to the order of Plaintiff into
Jimenez’s own company’s account. (Compl. ¶¶ 34 -45.) Moreover, Plaintiff asserts
that “Jimenez was not authorized to directly deposit payments into his own bank
account or to bank accounts belonging to entities that were fully controlled by
Rafael Jimenez.” (Compl. ¶ 83.)
 
Bank of America
cannot claim, without proof, that Jimenez’s action of depositing the checks in
question falls within the scope of his agency authority with Plaintiff, whether
actual or ostensible. Moreover, it is insufficient for Bank of America to infer
such authority merely based on Jimenez’s different role in receiving checks
from Ortho System, an action that falls within Jimenez's scope of authority as
a commissioned sales agent. The nature and inherent authorities of these two
actions – receiving checks from Ortho System and depositing them into an
unrelated account - are distinct. Bank of America bears the burden of
demonstrating either actual or ostensible agency at the time of Jimenez’s
deposit. 
 
Given that Plaintiff
has explicitly stated in the Complaint that Jimenez lacked authority to perform
such deposits, the Court determines that Bank of America has not substantiated
its demurrer. Specifically, the Court concludes that Bank of America has failed
to demonstrate that the provision regarding conversion under California
Commercial Code section 3420 is not applicable in this instance. 
 
Therefore, the
Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the fifth cause of action. 
 
Sixth Cause of
Action – Violation of California Commercial Code Section 3404
 
            “If an imposter, by use of the mails
or otherwise, induces the issuer of an instrument to issue the instrument to
the imposter, or to a person acting in concert with the imposter,  by impersonating the payee of the instrument
or a person authorized to act for the payee, an indorsement of the instrument
by any person in the name of the payee is effective as the indorsement of the
payee in favor of a person who, in good faith, pays the instrument or takes it
for value or for collection.” (Cal. Com. Code., § 3404, subd. (a).) 
                        
            First, both parties recognize that in
applying California Commercial Code section 3404 to this case, the role and impact
of an imposter are defined as to “induce the issuer of an instrument to issue
the instrument to the imposter.” This does not encompass the actions or
intentions of a person who fraudulently impersonates the rightful owner of the
checks or the account holder during the process of depositing them at a bank. 
 
In its demurrer, Bank
of America argues that Jimenez was not acting as an imposter when he received
checks from Ortho Systems, citing Plaintiff’s acknowledgment of Jimenez as its
commissioned sales agent. 
 
However, the Court
notes that Bank of America’s argument does not square with Plaintiff’s
allegation. 
 
Plaintiff, in its
Complaint, alleges that on April 21, 2021, Defendant Jimenez registered a new
corporation named TRYWYS LOGISTICS, INC., a name notably similarity to
Plaintiff’s company name TRIWAYS LOGISTICS (USA), INC. (Compl. ¶ 26.) Plaintiff
further pleads that when Ortho Systems intended to issue ten checks to
Plaintiff as the payee, the address mistakenly inscribed on these checks
belonged to Jimenez’s similarly named entity. (Compl. ¶ 32.)  Thus, Plaintiff argues that Jimenez acted as
an imposter by forming an entity with a name closely resembling its own and
then inducing Ortho Systems to issue the checks in question with the address of
his own entity, while Ortho Systems’ intention was to issue these checks to
Plaintiff. (Opposition, pages 8-9.)
 
The Court notes
that although an agent might legitimately receive an instrument under his
authority, the same agent could still assume the role of an imposter by
inducing the issuer to issue an instrument under false pretenses or a
fabricated persona. This distinction highlights the possibility for an agent to
exceed the limits of legitimate agency authority by engaging in deceptive
practices.
 
The Court
determines that Plaintiff has sufficiently stated the cause of action by effectively
demonstrating the element of “imposter” under California Commercial Code
section 3404.
 
Therefore, the
Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the sixth cause of action. 
 
 
Accordingly, the
Demurrer is OVERRULED.   
 
 
            