

Hearing
Date:             October 23, 2023
Case
Name:                Elisa Ortego v. Magic
Laundry Services, Inc. 
Case
No.:                    22STCV01605
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Magic Laundry Services, Inc.

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Elisa Ortego

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending resolution of arbitration.


 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Elisa Ortego (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on
January 13, 2022, alleging a single PAGA cause of action complaint against her former
employer, Defendant Magic Laundry Services, Inc. (Defendant). The PAGA claim
incorporated numerous Labor Code violations.
 
            On
September 28, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the
parties’ arbitration agreement. In opposition, Plaintiff argues the arbitration
agreement includes a specific PAGA carve-out, and the arbitration agreement is unenforceable
based on unconscionability. Defendant filed a reply.
 
            The motion to compel
arbitration is granted. The matter is stayed pending the outcome of
arbitration. 
 
            Evidentiary Issues
 
            Plaintiff’s objections
to the declaration of Crystal Portillo are ruled upon as follows: No. 1, 3-4
are overruled, and No. 2 is sustained.
 
            Defendant’s request for
judicial notice of Ex. A is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h); see e.g., Nguyen
v. Applied Medical Resources Corp. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 232, 240.) 
 
            Defendant’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Elisa Ortego are ruled upon as follows: Nos.
1-3 are overruled. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims and stay the remaining
representative PAGA claims while the arbitration is pending. Defendant seeks to
compel arbitration based on a 2019 Arbitration Agreement. In support of the
existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendant submits evidence that Plaintiff
began
working for Defendant in November of 2018. (Portillo Decl., ¶ 4.) Then, in
January 2019, Defendant conducted training for all employees to inform them
about Defendant’s updated employee handbook, which included an arbitration agreement.
(Portillo Decl., ¶¶ 6-7; Gallegos Reply Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)
During this training Plaintiff received this Arbitration Agreement to review
and sign, which she did on January 7, 2019. (Portillo Decl., ¶¶ 8-9, Ex. A [signed
version of Arbitration Agreement]; Gallegos Reply Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; see also Ortego
Decl., ¶¶ 5-8.) The
Agreement is a stand-alone document that was titled “ARBITRATION AGREEMENT.” (Portillo
Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. B [English version of Arbitration Agreement].) 
 
The Agreement provides that
Plaintiff and Defendant mutually “agree that any legal dispute or controversy
covered by this Agreement, or arising out of, relating to or concerning the
scope, formation, validity, enforceability or breach of this Agreement, shall
be resolved by final and binding arbitration in accordance with the Employment
Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association (“AAA Rules”) then in
effect, and not by court or jury trial . . ..” (Portillo Decl., Ex. B, p. 1, ¶
1.) The Agreement continues by stating it “also
applies, without limitation, to disputes with any entity or individual arising
out of or related to the application for employment, background checks,
privacy, the employment relationship or the termination of that relationship,
contracts, trade secrets, unfair competition, compensation, classification,
minimum wage, seating, expense reimbursement, overtime, meal periods and rest
breaks, termination, retaliation, discrimination or harassment . . ..” (Portillo Decl., Ex. B, p. 1, ¶ 1.)
 
Finally, the Arbitration Agreement
states it “is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1, et
seq.).” (Portillo Decl., Ex. B, p. 1, ¶ 1.) Additionally, Defendant submits evidence
that its activities and operations involve interstate commerce. (Portillo
Decl., ¶ 3.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of the arbitration
agreement or otherwise deny signing the agreement. Thus, there is no factual
dispute as to the existence of a valid arbitration agreement between the
parties. Nor does Plaintiff provide any legal or factual argument as to why the
FAA does not apply to this Agreement.[1]

 
            Rather,
the opposition challenges Defendant’s position that the arbitrator decides
gateway issues and further argues that the Arbitration Agreement contains a
carve-out of Plaintiff’s PAGA claims. These issues are addressed below. 
 
            First, Defendant
argues that the Arbitration Agreement delegates all threshold questions to the
arbitrator to resolve. 
 
            “There are
two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the language
of the clause must be clear and unmistakable. [Citation.] Second, the
delegation must not be revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud,
duress, or unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 231, 242;
see Rent-A-Center,
West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68, 69, fn. 1.) The “clear and unmistakable”
test reflects a “heightened standard of proof” that reverses the typical
presumption in favor of the arbitration of disputes. (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e,
L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 787.)
 
Here, Defendant contends the
following language in the Arbitration Provision supports delegating the resolution
of “gateway” issues to the arbitrator: “any legal dispute or controversy . . .
arising out of, relating to, or concerning the scope, formation, validity,
enforceability or breach of this Agreement, shall be resolved by final and
binding arbitration.” (Portillo Decl., Exh. B at 1, ¶ 1.) Defendant also argues
that the parties incorporated the AAA Rules. According to Defendant, both the
language of the Arbitration Agreement and the AAA rules constitutes clear and
unmistakable evidence that the parties intended to delegate the gateway issues
to the arbitrator.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues there
is no clear and unmistakable evidence that Plaintiff intended to delegate the
determination of arbitrability to the arbitrator. Further, Defendant did not
attach the AAA rules. Finally, the purported delegation provision is
unconscionable.
 
The Court will first address the initial
question of whether the language of the Arbitration Agreement clearly and
unmistakably intended to delegate the “arbitrability” of the Agreement to the arbitrator.

 
Defendant’s reliance on Aanderud v.
Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880 is instructive. In Aanderud, a solar
power purchase agreement contained an arbitration provision that permitted
claims to be resolved “through binding arbitration or small claims court
instead of courts of general jurisdiction.” (Id. at pp. 885–886.)
Relevant to the issues here, the arbitration provision delegated issues of
validity and enforceability of the arbitration provision to arbitration. (Id.
at p. 891.) Importantly, the Aanderud arbitration provision contained a nearly
identical delegation provision to the delegation provision here: “the parties
‘agree to arbitrate all disputes ... arising out of or relating to ... the
interpretation, validity, or enforceability of this Agreement, including the
determination of the scope or applicability of [the arbitration] section.’ ” (Id.
at 892.) The court in Aanderud concluded that this provision constituted
“clear and unmistakable evidence that the parties intended to arbitrate
arbitrability.” (Ibid.)
 
In response,
Plaintiff appears to suggest that this provision is ambiguous because the Arbitration
Agreement contains a carve-out for the court to resolve disputes involving the
enforceability of the class and collective action waiver. Specifically, the Arbitration
Provision states: “Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the
AAA Rules, disputes in court or arbitration regarding the scope, formation,
validity, enforceability or breach of the Class Action Waiver may be resolved
only by the court and not by an arbitrator.” (Portillo Decl., Ex. B, pp.
2-3, ¶ 2.) 
 
The provision carving out specific
disputes to be resolved by the Court, however, strengthens Defendant’s argument
because it indicates that the Agreement’s intent to reserve only the “Class
Action Waiver” enforceability provisions for the Court to resolve – reserving the
remaining issues for the arbitrator. (See Mohamed v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (9th Cir.
2016) 848 F.3d 1201, 1209 [arbitration carve-outs did not change enforceability of
delegation clause].)
 
Additionally,
as in Aanderud, the Arbitration Agreement’s reference to the AAA
rules in the delegation provision further “evidences the parties' clear and
unmistakable intent to submit issues of arbitrability to the
arbitrator.” (Aanderud, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 893; see Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010)
185 Cal.App.4th 1413, 1442 [“ ‘when ... parties explicitly incorporate rules
that empower an arbitrator to decide issues of arbitrability, the incorporation
serves as clear and unmistakable evidence of the parties' intent
to delegate such issues to an arbitrator’ ”]; Brennan v.
Opus Bank (9th Cir. 2015) 796 F.3d 1125, 1130  [incorporation of AAA rules that provide that
disputes regarding the validity of an arbitration agreement are also delegated to
the arbitrator, rather than the Court, constitutes clear and unmistakable delegation
of intermediate issues of arbitrability to the arbitrator]; Bazine v.
Kelly Services Global, LLC (N.D. Cal., June 21, 2023, No. 22-CV-07170-BLF) 2023
WL 4138252, at *4-*5 [same].) 
 
Here the AAA Rules state that “[t]he
arbitrator shall have the power to rule on his or her own jurisdiction,
including any objections with respect to the existence, scope or validity of
the arbitration agreement” and “[t]he arbitrator shall have the power to
determine the existence or validity of a contract of which an arbitration
clause forms a part.” (Def.’s RJN Ex. A, p. 12, ¶ 6(a), (b).) Further, contrary
to the opposition argument, it is of no consequence that the rules were not
attached where the Arbitration Agreement provides the electronic location of
the rules and provides instructions on how to obtain a copy of the rules from Defendant’s
Human Resources Department. (See Lane
v. Francis Capital Management LLC
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 691 [concluding that “the failure to attach a copy
of the AAA rules did not render the agreement procedurally unconscionable” as
“[t]here could be no surprise, as the arbitration rules referenced in the
agreement were easily accessible to the parties—the AAA rules are available on
the Internet”].) Nor is Plaintiff’s self-proclaimed status
as unsophisticated party determinative. (Hernandez
v. United HealthCare Services, Inc.
(C.D. Cal., July 26, 2018, No. SACV180420DOCKESX) 2018 WL 7458649, at *5 [expressly
holding that the incorporation of AAA rules to the delegation issue applies to unsophisticated
parties].) 
 
Accordingly, the language of this
delegation provision and its incorporation of the AAA is sufficiently “clear
and unmistakable” for the Court to find that the parties have agreed to
delegate the Court’s responsibility to determine arbitrability to the
arbitrator. Thus, the issue of whether the Arbitration Provision carves out
Plaintiff’s PAGA claim from arbitration is for the arbitrator to decide – not
this Court. 
 
Next, the Court will address Plaintiff’s
unconscionability arguments directed specifically at the delegation provision. 
 
“When considering
an unconscionability challenge to a delegation provision, the court must
consider only arguments ‘specific to the delegation provision.’ ” (Mohamed
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (9th Cir. 2016) 848 F.3d 1201, 1210 [quoting Rent-A-Ctr.,
W., Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 73].) 
 
Rather than address the delegation
provision, Plaintiff challenges the validity of the Arbitration Agreement as
a whole. That is, Plaintiff does specifically challenge the validity of the
Arbitration Agreement that empowers the arbitrator to rule on “formation, interpretation, validity,
applicability, unconscionability, or enforceability” of the
arbitration agreement. Because Plaintiff did not challenge the delegation
provision specifically, the enforceability of the arbitration agreement as a
whole must be decided by the arbitrator. (Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v.
Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 75-76; Luxor Cabs, Inc. v. Applied
Underwriters Captive Risk Assurance Co. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 970, 979 [“[A] delegation clause
nested in an arbitration provision is severable from the remainder of the
contract and the question of its enforceability is for the court to
decide if a challenge is directed specifically at the
validity of the delegation clause.”].) “[A] party's challenge to the
arbitration agreement [as a whole] does not invalidate the delegation clause,
and therefore the arbitrator, and not a court, must consider any challenge to
the arbitration agreement as a whole.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc., supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at 240.)
 
Further, the
only argument Plaintiff raises with respect to substantive unconscionability of
the Arbitration Agreement is the claim that the Arbitration Agreement lacked
mutuality because there was no space for Defendant to countersign in the
Agreement. 
 
This
argument is without merit. First, a “missing signature is irrelevant to whether the substance of
the contact is fair.” (Fuentes v. Empire Nissan, Inc. (2023) 90
Cal.App.5th 919, 933.) Said another way, this argument does not inform at all
on the substantive unconscionability of the agreement. Moreover, under the
circumstances, the absence of Defendant’s signature on the Arbitration
Agreement does not demonstrate a lack of assent by Defendant to the Arbitration
provision. (See e.g., Fuentes v. Empire Nissan, Inc., surpa, 90
Cal.App.5th at 933 [“A signature can be important to show contractual assent,
but that is beside the point here: Nissan certainly assented to its own
arbitration agreement—the agreement that it drafted and required Fuentes to
sign and that it now is trying to enforce. In this setting, no signature was
necessary to prove Nissan's assent.”].)
 
Based on the
foregoing, even assuming the Court could find that this substantive unconscionability
argument applies specifically to the delegation provision, the
unconscionability argument fails. (See OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8
Cal.5th 111, 125–126 [“Both procedural and substantive unconscionability must
be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they need not be present in
the same degree.’”].) Plaintiff has not met her burden of demonstrating that
the delegation provision is unconscionable or otherwise unenforceable. 
 
In contrast, Defendant has met its
burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid, enforceable delegation
provision in the Arbitration Agreement. Thus, the Court will enforce the plain
terms of the Arbitration Agreement, which require it to delegate to the
arbitrator the threshold questions of: (1) whether the individual portion of
Plaintiff’s PAGA claim falls within the scope of the Agreement; and (2) whether
the Agreement is otherwise enforceable. Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim is
ordered to the AAA for resolution of these gateway issues as well as resolution
of the claim itself (assuming the arbitrator finds that the Arbitration Agreement
is valid and encompasses Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim). 
 
The remaining representative PAGA
claims are stayed pending the resolution of this arbitration. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.4; Barrera v. Apple American Group LLC (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 63 [remanding to the trial court to exercise their discretion on
“whether a stay of plaintiffs’ non-individual PAGA claims would be appropriate
under the circumstances”].)
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant Magic Laundry Services, Inc.’s motion to compel
arbitration. The motion
to compel arbitration is granted as to Plaintiff’s individual Labor Code claims.
The remaining representative PAGA claims are stayed pending the outcome of
arbitration. 
 


