 Case Number:  23STCV14081    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




angela bustamante

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
greenfield care center of
   fillmore, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV14081




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   23, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to compel arbitration
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Greenfield Care
Center of Fillmore, LLC, Eva Care Group, LLC, Jenq H. Chen, Teresa Chen, and
Paul Salazar
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Angela Bustamante
Motion to Compel Arbitration
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on defendants Greenfield Care Center of Fillmore, LLC,
Eva Care Group, LLC, Jenq H. Chen, Teresa Chen, and Paul Salazar’s evidentiary
objections, filed on October 16, 2023, as follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 2-11 and 15.
The court sustains Objections Nos. 1 and 12-14.
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Greenfield Care Center of Fillmore, LLC, Eva Care Group,
LLC, Jenq H. Chen, Teresa Chen, and Paul Salazar (“Defendants”) move the court
for an order compelling plaintiff Angela Bustamante (“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate
the claims alleged in her Complaint. 
1.     Existence
of Written Agreement to Arbitrate
A
written provision in any contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce
to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract
shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist
at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.[1]¿ (9 U.S.C. §
2.)¿ The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) requires courts to direct parties to
proceed to arbitration on issues covered by an arbitration agreement upon a
finding that the making of the arbitration agreement is not in issue.¿ (9
U.S.C. § 4; Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Sys. (9th Cir. 2000) 207
F.3d 1126, 1130.)¿ “The court’s role under the [FAA] is therefore limited to
determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists and, if it does,
(2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.”¿ (Chiron Corp.,
supra, 207 F.3d at p. 1130.)¿ The FAA reflects “both a ‘liberal federal
policy favoring arbitration,’ [citation], and the ‘fundamental principle that
arbitration is a matter of contract,’ [citation].”¿ (AT&T Mobility LLC
v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿¿ 
“‘
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the petition
bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s enforcement.” ’”¿
(Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292, 302.)¿ The burden of
production as to this finding shifts in a three-step process.¿ (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)¿ First, the
moving party bears the burden of producing prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate, which can be met by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opponent’s signature.¿ (Ibid.)¿ If the
moving party meets this burden, the opposing party bears, in the second step,
the burden of producing evidence to challenge its authenticity.¿ (Ibid.)¿
If the opposing party produces evidence sufficient to meet this burden, the
third step requires the moving party to establish, with admissible evidence, a
valid arbitration agreement between the parties.¿ (Ibid.)¿ 
First, the
court finds Defendants have met their burden to show the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate the controversy between Defendants and Plaintiff. 
In support
of their motion, Defendants submit two arbitration agreements purporting to
bear the signature of Plaintiff. 
Defendants first submit the “Mutual Agreement for Employment At-Will and
Mediation/Arbitration,” which states that it was entered into by and between
defendant Greenfield Care Center of Fillmore, LLC (“GCC Fillmore”), on the one
hand, and Plaintiff, on the other hand, on December 14, 2021.  (Ambriz Decl., Ex. A, p. 1, ¶ 1.)  This arbitration agreement provides that the
parties agree to submit to arbitration “any claim, dispute, and/or controversy
. . . between Employee and Employer and its owners, directors, officers,
shareholders, employees, agents, and parties affiliated with its employee
benefit and health plans, arising from, related to, or having any relationship
or connection whatsoever with Employee’s seeking employment with . . . or
termination with Employer, whether based on tort, contract, statute, equity, or
otherwise . . . .”  (Id., p. 1, ¶ 2.)  This agreement further provides that “[n]on-signatory
agents, employees and/or representatives of Employer have the benefit of
electing to utilize this mediation and arbitration mechanism, to the extent
that a claim is made against them by Employee or Employer and the underlying
controversy arises from or relates to Employee’s employment by Employer, and
may enforce the same as third-party beneficiaries or pursuant to any other
applicable legal standard.”  (Id.,
p. 4, ¶ 17.)  
Next, Defendants
submit the “Arbitration Agreement” entered into by and between defendant GCC
Filmore, on the one hand, and Plaintiff, on the other hand, on December 15,
2022.  (Ambriz Decl., Ex. B, p. 3
[purporting to bear Plaintiff’s signature]; Ambriz Decl., ¶¶ 3 [Ambriz has
access to GCC Fillmore’s personnel records], 8 [Plaintiff’s personnel file
included the agreement].)  The second
agreement provides that the parties agree to arbitrate “all statutory,
contractual and/or common law claims arising from employment with the Company[,]”
including claims for retaliation, discrimination, harassment, and claims under
the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
(Ambriz Decl., Ex. B, p. 2.)  
Further, Defendants submit the declaration of Rosa Ambriz, the
Director of Staff Development for defendant GCC Fillmore.  (Ambriz Decl., ¶ 2.)  Ambriz asserts that (1) she has access to personnel
records of GCC Fillmore’s employees, which include copies of documents signed
by employees in connection with their employment; (2) she is familiar with
Plaintiff; (3) during the time of Plaintiff’s employment, GCC Fillmore’s
employees were given a hard copy of the first arbitration agreement along with
other onboarding documents, including the employee handbook; (4) as part of the
onboarding process, employees underwent an eight-hour orientation, during which
time they were presented with those documents and advised to sign them,
including the first arbitration agreement; (5) she recalls providing Plaintiff
with a hard copy of the first arbitration agreement; (6) she recalls Plaintiff
returning a signed copy of the arbitration agreement on December 14, 2021, and
Ambriz signed the same document in order to attest that the document was
reviewed and signed by Plaintiff; and (7) the second arbitration agreement was also
placed in Plaintiff’s personnel file. 
(Ambriz Decl., ¶¶ 3-8.) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that there is an agreement to arbitrate this controversy between Defendants and
Plaintiff, as (1) a signatory (defendant GCC Fillmore), and (2) owners,
directors, officers, shareholders, employees, and agents of defendant GCC
Fillmore (defendants Eva Care Group, LLC, Jenq H. Chen, Teresa Chen, and Paul
Salazar).  (Ambriz Decl., Ex. A, Mutual
Agreement for Employment At-Will and Mediation/Arbitration, p. 1, ¶ 2;
Compl., ¶¶ 4 [alleging that defendants Teresa Chen and Jenq H. Chen are
principals of defendants GCC Fillmore and Eva Care Group, LLC], 11 [alleging
that defendants GCC Fillmore and Eva Care Group, LLC are “joint employers”], 30
[alleging that Salazar is an employee].) 

Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to
challenge the authenticity of either arbitration agreement.  
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Plaintiff did not argue,
in her opposition brief, that Plaintiff did not sign the arbitration agreements
or otherwise dispute their authenticity. 
However, Plaintiff has submitted her declaration, in which she states
that (1) she “recognize[s] [her] signature on” the first arbitration agreement
but attests that she “did not sign [the first arbitration agreement] on the
date indicated[;]” (2) she does not recognize the second arbitration agreement
and “den[ies] that [she] signed any arbitration agreement in December 2022[;]”
and (3) she did not meet Ambriz until 2022. 
(Bustamante Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)
The court finds that this declaration is insufficient to challenge the
authenticity of the arbitration agreements. 
As to the first arbitration agreement, Plaintiff expressly “recognize[s]
[her] signature” and does not dispute that she signed the agreement – only the
date.  (Bustamante Decl., ¶ 4.)  Moreover, the court finds Plaintiff’s
assertion that she did not meet Ambriz until 2022 is not supported by the first,
wrtiten arbitration agreement, which includes Ambriz’s signature, dated
December 14, 2021.  (Ambriz Decl., Ex. 5;
Ambriz Decl., ¶ 7.)  Thus, the court
finds that Plaintiff’s declaration is insufficient to show that Plaintiff did
not sign the first arbitration agreement. 
(Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 756 [“In the
absence of any evidence that [the plaintiffs’] purported signatures were not their
own, there was no evidence that plaintiffs did not in fact sign the
agreement”].)  The court further finds
that Plaintiff’s assertions that she did not sign the second arbitration
agreement are insufficient to challenge the authenticity of her signature
thereto or the agreement.  (Id. at
p. 758 [“If a party confronted with his or her handwritten signature on an
arbitration agreement is unable to allege that the signature is inauthentic or
forged, the fact that that person does not recall signing the agreement neither
creates a factual dispute as to the signature’s authenticity nor affords an
independent basis to find that a contract was not formed”].)  
Thus, the court finds that Defendants have met their burden “of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement[.]”  (Beco, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at
p. 302 [internal quotations omitted].)  
 
 
2.     Defense
to Enforcement
As set forth above, Plaintiff “bears the burden of establishing a
defense” to the enforcement of the arbitration agreements.  (Beco, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at
p. 302 [internal quotations omitted].) 
Plaintiff contends that the arbitration agreements are invalid and unenforceable
pursuant to the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual
Harassment Act of 2021 (9 U.S.C. §§ 402, 402) (the “Act”).  
The Act “represent[s] the first major amendment of the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA) [citation] since its inception 100 years ago.”  (Murrey v. Superior Court (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 1223, 1230 [internal citation omitted].)  It “voids predispute arbitration clauses in
cases . . . involving sexual harassment allegations.”  (Ibid.)  Specifically, the Act states, in relevant
part, as follows: “at the election of the person alleging conduct constituting
a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute . . ., no predispute
arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or
enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or
State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment
dispute.”  (9 U.S.C. § 402, subd.
(a).)  
Here, because Plaintiff has included a cause of action for sexual
harassment under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”) in her
Complaint, Plaintiff asserts that the Act applies and voids the arbitration
agreements.  The court disagrees.
In evaluating whether the Act applies, the court must first determine
whether Plaintiff’s operative complaint alleges a plausible claim of sexual
harassment.  (9 U.S.C. §§ 402, subd.
(a), 401, subd. (4); Yost v. Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 2023 WL
2224450 at *10-11.)  “The term ‘sexual
harassment dispute’ means a dispute relating to conduct that is alleged to
constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State
law.”  (9 U.S.C. § 401, subd. (4).)  As set forth above, Plaintiff has included in
her Complaint a hostile work environment sexual harassment claim under the FEHA,
which “requires a plaintiff employee to show [he or] she was subjected to
sexual advances, conduct, or comments that were (1) unwelcome [citation]; (2)
because of sex [citation]; and (3) sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter
the conditions of [his or] her employment and create an abusive work
environment [citation].”  (Taylor v.
Nabors Drilling USA, LP (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1236.)  
In her Complaint, Plaintiff has alleged that (1) she experienced
sexual harassment after she reported lapses in care and negligence on the part
of defendant Salazar, who cursed at Plaintiff, threatened her, and “tried to
intimidate Plaintiff because she was a female,” and (2) Defendants did not take
remedial action after she complained of such harassment.  (Compl., ¶¶ 31-32.)  These allegations are conclusory and do not
set forth specific facts establishing that she was subjected to sexual
harassment by Salazar or any of the other named defendants.  Specifically, the court finds that these
allegations do not allege sufficient facts to state a plausible claim for
relief for sexual harassment under FEHA because Plaintiff has not alleged facts
showing that (1) she was subjected to sexual advances, conduct, or comments
that were unwelcome and because of her sex, or (2) the conduct of Salazar, as
alleged in the Complaint, was “sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions
of” Plaintiff’s employment “and create an abusive work environment
[citations].”  (Taylor, supra,
222 Cal.App.4th at p. 1236.)   
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show
that the Act applies and renders unenforceable the arbitration agreements
because Plaintiff has not “allege[d] conduct constituting a sexual harassment
dispute” by failing to allege facts sufficient to constitute a valid, plausible
cause of action for sexual harassment under FEHA, or any other claims that
would constitute a “sexual harassment dispute” or “sexual assault dispute”
under the Act.  (9 U.S.C. §§ 401, subds.
(3), (4), 402, subd. (a); Yost, supra, 2023 WL 2224450 at *10-11,
17 [“to read the [Act] to void arbitration agreements after the point at which
plaintiffs have proven themselves unable to plead claims of sexual harassment
consistent with Iqbal, [citation], could destabilize the FAA’s statutory
scheme”] [internal citation omitted].) 
3.     Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that (1) Defendants
have met their burden to prove the existence of agreements to arbitrate the
controversy alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint, and (2) Plaintiff has not met her
burden to show that the arbitration agreements are unenforceable or
invalid.  The court therefore grants
Defendants’ motion.  The court orders
that this action is stayed pending resolution of arbitration.  (9 U.S.C. § 3.) 
ORDER
            The court grants defendants
Greenfield Care Center of Fillmore, LLC, Eva Care Group, LLC, Jenq H. Chen,
Teresa Chen, and Paul Salazar’s motion to compel arbitration. 
The court orders (1) plaintiff Angela Bustamante and defendants
Greenfield Care Center of Fillmore, LLC, Eva Care Group, LLC, Jenq H. Chen,
Teresa Chen, and Paul Salazar to arbitrate the claims alleged in plaintiff
Angela Bustamante’s Complaint, and (2) this action is stayed until arbitration
is completed. 
The court sets an Order to Show Cause re: completion of arbitration
for hearing on May 21, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 53. 
The court orders defendants Greenfield Care Center of Fillmore, LLC,
Eva Care Group, LLC, Jenq H. Chen, Teresa Chen, and Paul Salazar to give notice
of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 23, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


