 Case Number:  22STCV32743    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




gladys hampton

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
department of motor
   vehicles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV32743




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   23, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s demurrer to first amended
  complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Department of Motor
Vehicles
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Gladys Hampton
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with this
demurrer. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant Department of Motor Vehicles’ request for
judicial notice.  (Evid. Code,
§ 452, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Gladys Hampton (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First
Amended Complaint in this FEHA action on February 10, 2023, alleging eight
causes of action against defendant Department of Motor Vehicles (“Defendant”)
for (1) disability discrimination; (2) failure to accommodate; (3) failure to
engage in the interactive process; (4) gender discrimination; (5) age
discrimination; (6) harassment on the bases of disability, gender, and age; (7)
retaliation; and (8) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation. 
Defendant now moves the court for an order sustaining its demurrer to
each cause of action alleged in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action
for disability discrimination because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not (1) alleged facts
establishing that she has a disease, disorder, or condition that affects the
body systems enumerated by statute that limits a major life activity, instead
alleging that, as a result of the actions of Defendant’s employee, Brian Burns
(“Burns”), she “continues to suffer from . . . physical injuries such as
headaches, body aches, an abnormally high heart rate, and inability to sleep[,]”
or (2) alleged facts establishing that she has a mental or psychological
disorder or condition that limits a major life activity, instead alleging that,
as a result of Burns’ actions, she “continues to suffer from depression,
anxiety, stress, humiliation, and trauma,” which (i) does not sufficiently
allege that she has a psychological disorder or condition that limits a major
life activity, (ii) appears to describe the existence of noneconomic damages,
not the existence of a disability, and (iii) appears to allege that Plaintiff
could not work with a particular employee due to stress and anxiety, which does
not constitute a mental disability.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Gov. Code, §§ 12926, subds. (m) [defining
physical disability], (j) [defining mental disability], 12940, subd. (a)
[prohibiting discrimination because of a person’s physical or mental
disability]; FAC ¶¶ 20, 38; Higgins-Williams v. Sutter Medical Foundation (2015)
237 Cal.App.4th 78, 85 [“an employee’s inability to work under a particular
supervisor because of anxiety and stress related to the supervisor’s standard
oversight of the employee’s job performance does not constitute a mental
disability under FEHA”] [emphasis in original].)  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not
alleged the element of a physical or mental disability.[1]  (Ibid.) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action
for failure to accommodate because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since, for the reasons set forth above, Plaintiff
has not alleged facts establishing that she had a physical or mental disability
covered by FEHA.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m); Cuiellette v.
City of Los Angeles (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 757, 766 [elements of a failure
to accommodate claim include that “the plaintiff has a disability covered by
the FEHA”].)
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action
for failure to engage in the interactive process because it does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since, for the reasons set
forth above, Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that she had a
physical or mental disability covered by FEHA. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Gov. Code, § 12940,
subd. (n) [employer has duty to engage in interactive process in response to
request for reasonable accommodation “by an employee or applicant with a known
physical or mental disability or known medical condition”].)
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action
for gender discrimination because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing
that she was subjected to an adverse employment action, and instead has alleged
that the adverse employment action she suffered was “unjustified harassment due
to her gender[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); FAC ¶ 67; Soria
v. Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016)
5 Cal.App.5th 570, 583-584 [elements of claim for unlawful discrimination under
FEHA].)  The court notes that, elsewhere
in the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant allowed her
to telework, which she alleges “frustrate[d] her ability to perform her duties
as a manager and to timely complete her heavy workload.”  (FAC ¶ 24.)  However, the decision to make Plaintiff’s
position remote does not appear to be alleged as an adverse employment action,
and instead is alleged to support Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendant failed
to provide to her a reasonable accommodation. 
(FAC ¶¶ 24, 30.)  The court also
notes that, while Plaintiff asserts in her opposition that she was “forced out
of her job[,]” she did not allege that fact in her operative complaint.  (Opp., p. 5, n. 3.)  Finally, although Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s denial of her request for a hardship transfer was an adverse
employment action, the court disagrees; “[n]o court has ever held that a
failure to reasonably accommodate an employee’s disability—which is a separate
cause of action under FEHA (§ 12940, subd. (m))—can qualify as the adverse
action underlying a discrimination or retaliation claim.”  (Opp., p. 5:19-20; Doe v. Department of Corrections &
Rehabilitation (2019) 43
Cal.App.5th 721, 735-736.)
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action
for age discrimination because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that she
was subjected to an adverse employment action, and instead has alleged only
that “she was subjected to an adverse employment decision in that she was
subjected to unjustified harassment due to her age relating to her duties as an
employee of Defendant[,]” which is insufficient.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e);
FAC ¶ 78; Soria, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at pp. 583-584 [elements of
claim for unlawful discrimination under FEHA].
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action
for harassment on the bases of disability, gender, and age because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since (1) as to
disability harassment, Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that she
had a disability for the reasons set forth above, and (2) Plaintiff has not
alleged facts establishing that Defendant subjected Plaintiff to unwelcome
harassment that was based on her protected characteristics (i.e., her age and
gender).  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Galvan v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 549, 563 [elements of cause of action for harassment].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action
for retaliation because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since (1) Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing an
adverse employment action, instead alleging that Defendant intensified their
harassment and mistreatment of Plaintiff (i.e., other claims under FEHA), and
(2) although Plaintiff alleges in conclusory fashion that she was “ultimately
terminate[d]” from her employment, she has also alleged that she is “currently
employed” at the Van Nuys location. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e);
FAC ¶¶ 99, 101, 21; Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th
855, 878-879 [elements of cause of action for retaliation under FEHA].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action
for failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation because it
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since the court
has sustained the underlying causes of action for discrimination, harassment,
and retaliation.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e).) 
ORDER

The court sustains defendant Department of Motor Vehicles’ demurrer to
plaintiff Gladys Hampton’s First Amended Complaint. 
The court grants plaintiff Gladys Hampton 20 days leave to file a
Second Amended Complaint that cures the deficiencies set forth above. 
The court orders defendant Department of Motor Vehicles to give notice
of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 23, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


