 Case Number:  23STCP03504    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  82 Cesar Magdaleno Jr.                                                            Case No. 23STCP03504
 
v.
                                                                                Hearing
Date: April 24, 2024
                                                                                                Location:
Stanley Mosk #82
Department
of Motor Vehicles                                            Judge: Stephen I. Goorvitch 
 
 
[Tentative] Order Granting
Petition for Writ of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Cesar Magdaleno Jr. (“Petitioner”) petitions
for a writ of administrative mandate directing the Department of Motor Vehicles
(“Respondent” or the “DMV”) to set aside its decision suspending Petitioner’s
driving privilege for one year. 
Petitioner argues that the DMV did not afford him due process, as
required by California DUI Lawyers Association v. California Department of
Motor Vehicles (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 517. 
The DMV did not comply with the clear holding of this case, so the court
grants this petition and remands this matter for a new hearing before the
DMV.       
 
FACTUAL BACKGROUND 
 
            On
July 12, 2022, at approximately 11:55 p.m., Officer J. Diaz of the California
Highway Patrol stopped Petitioner for driving 70 miles per hour, in a 65-mile-per-hour
zone, and for driving in the carpool lane while being the only occupant in the
vehicle.  (AR 8, 10.)  Officer Diaz observed that Petitioner
exhibited signs and symptoms of alcohol intoxication.  (AR 10.) 
Officer Diaz administered field sobriety tests, which Petitioner failed.  According to Officer Diaz, Petitioner refused
a preliminary alcohol screening test. 
(AR 8, 10.)
 
            Officer
Diaz arrested Petitioner at approximately 12:14 a.m. on July 13, 2023, after
concluding there was reasonable cause to believe Petitioner was driving while
under the influence of alcohol.  (AR 8.)  At approximately 1:11 a.m., Officer Diaz read
Petitioner the chemical test admonition required by Vehicle Code section
23612.  (AR 9.)  When Officer Diaz asked whether Petitioner
would take a breath test, Petitioner responded “Nope.”  (AR 9.) 
When Officer Diaz asked whether Petitioner would take a blood test,
Petitioner “started talking about [the] form saying he could have family
interpret [the] form ….”  (AR 9.)  Petitioner’s blood was drawn at 2:46 am on
July 13, 2022.  (AR 8.)  The blood test indicated a blood alcohol
content of .087 +/- .004.  (AR 29; see
Opening Brief (“OB”) 3.)
 
            Officer
Diaz issued a DMV Form DS367 to Petitioner. 
In the sections of the form titled “Violation,” Officer Diaz checked the
box stating “0.08% or more BAC Chemical Test Results.”  Officer Diaz did not check the box stating that
the Vehicle Code violation was a “Chemical Test Refusal.”   (AR
8-13.)  
 


 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
 
            On
or about July 24, 2023, Petitioner filed a petition to seal arrest and related
records pursuant to Penal Code section 851.91. 
This section states: “A person who has suffered an arrest that did not
result in a conviction may petition the court to have his or her arrest and
related records sealed . . . .”  (Pen.
Code § 851.91(a).)  Petitioner indicated
in the petition that the arrest did not result in a conviction.  (AR 19.) 
On August 17, 2023, the court (Judge Susan J. Townsend) granted the
petition and ordered that “the record of arrest in this matter shall be sealed
under the provisions of section 851.91, and the arrest deemed not to have
occurred.”  (AR 16-17.)
 
            The
DMV initiated administrative proceedings against Petitioner.  After several continuances, an administrative
hearing concerning the suspension of Petitioner’s driving privilege commenced
on August 30, 2023, before DMV Hearing Officer Curtis Cheung (the “Hearing
Officer”).  (AR 57-59.)  Petitioner was represented at the hearing by
attorney Donald Hammond.  (Ibid.)  The DMV was not represented by counsel at the
hearing.  Petitioner objected to the
“single Hearing Officer format pursuant to California DUI Lawyers
Association v. DMV.”  (AR 60.)  Petitioner’s counsel also objected that DMV
had not provided notice on Form DS367, or otherwise, that the license
suspension was based on a chemical test refusal.  (AR 61-62.) 
The Hearing Officer asked Petitioner’s counsel whether his client would
waive notice, and he refused to waive notice. 
(AR 64, 66.)  Over objection of
Petitioner’s counsel, the Hearing Officer continued the hearing to provide
notice to Petitioner that he was alleged to have committed a chemical test
refusal.  (AR 62-70.)  
 
The DMV hearing resumed on October
3, 2023.  Petitioner appeared at the
hearing and testified that he still had not received any notice from DMV that
his suspension was based on a chemical test refusal.  (AR 101-102.) 
Subsequently, after Petitioner’s counsel’s direct examination, the Hearing
Officer cross-examined Petitioner and asked, “Did anyone make you aware that
this hearing was for a refusal, a chemical test refusal?”  Petitioner responded, “only my lawyer.”  The Hearing Officer overruled Petitioner’s
counsel objection based on the attorney-client privilege.  (AR 102-103.)
 
On October 5, 2023, the Hearing
Officer issued his decision suspending Petitioner’s driver’s license for
one-year. (AR 5.)  Based on a review of
the evidence, the Hearing Officer determined that the peace officer had
reasonable cause to believe that Petitioner was driving under the influence,
Petitioner was lawfully arrested, Petitioner was properly admonished, and
Petitioner refused to complete chemical testing after being requested to do so.
(Ibid.)
            
On September 21, 2023, Petitioner
filed his petition for writ of mandate, and on October 24, 2023, Petitioner
filed his first amended petition.  On
October 19, 2023, the court (Judge Mitchell Beckloff) granted Petitioner’s ex
parte application for a stay of the administrative order.  On February 23, 2024, Petitioner filed his
opening brief in support of the petition and lodged the administrative
record.  On March 25, 2024, Respondent
filed its opposition.  On April 9, 2024,
Petitioner filed his reply.
 


 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
When a driver
petitions for a writ of mandate following an order suspending his or her
driver’s license, the trial court is required to determine, based on its
independent judgment, whether the weight of the evidence supports the
administrative decision.  (Lake v. Reed (1997) 16 Cal. 4th 448,
456.) 
 
Under the
independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130,
143.)  The court must draw its own
reasonable inferences from the evidence and make its own credibility
determinations.  (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of
Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  However, “in exercising its independent
judgment, a trial court must afford a strong presumption of correctness
concerning the administrative findings, and the party challenging the
administrative decision bears the burden of convincing the court that the
administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the evidence.”  (Fukuda
v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)
 
“On questions of
law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent
judgment.’”  (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  The interpretation of statute or regulation
is a question of law.  (See State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.)  “A challenge to the procedural
fairness of the administrative hearing is reviewed de novo on appeal because
the ultimate determination of procedural fairness amounts to a question of
law.”  (Nasha L.L.C. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 470,
482.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Petitioner contends that DMV
violated his due process rights by using a “single hearing officer format” in
which the Hearing Officer acted both as an advocate for DMV and as the trier of
fact.  (OB 8-10.)  In California DUI Lawyers Association v.
California Department of Motor Vehicles (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 517 (“CDLA”),
the Court of Appeal held that “combining the roles of advocate and adjudicator
in a single person employed by the DMV violates due process under the
Fourteenth Amendment and the California
constitution Article I, section 7.”  (Id. at 532-533.)  Summarizing prior appellate decisions, the CDLA
Court reasoned as follows: 
 
Although procedural fairness does not prohibit the
combination of the advocacy and adjudicatory functions within a single
administrative agency, tasking the same individual with both roles violates the
minimum constitutional standards of due process. The irreconcilable conflict
between advocating for the agency on one hand, and being an impartial
decisionmaker on the other, presents a “particular combination of circumstances
creating an unacceptable risk of bias.”  
 
(Id. at 532.)  Accordingly, in remanding the case to the
trial court, the Court of Appeal instructed that the modified judgment shall
state that “the DMV is permanently enjoined and restrained from having its APS
hearing officers function as advocates for the position of the DMV in addition
to being finders of fact in the same adversarial proceeding.”  (Id. at 538.)  On remand, the trial court issued the
permanent injunction as ordered by the Court of Appeal.  (Request for Judicia Notice, Exh. A.)  
 
            As
noted by Respondent in opposition, the CDLA Court suggested that the DMV
could allow its hearing officers to perform multiple functions, as long as the
hearing officers refrained from advocating on behalf of the DMV.  (Oppo. 9, citing CDLA, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at 533, fn. 5 [“CDLA
concedes the DMV may task the same person with both collecting and developing
the evidence and rendering a final decision…. He or she must refrain, however,
from advocating on behalf of the DMV ….”].)  Respondent
argues that, based on the circumstances of this case, the Hearing Officer’s “combination of collecting
and developing the evidence and rendering a final decision” did not cross the
line into advocacy on behalf of the DMV. (Oppo. 10-11; see also Id. 17-18.)  
 
            On
April 4, 2024, the Fifth District Court of Appeal issued its decision in Knudsen
v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2024) __ Cal.App.5th __, 2024 WL 1453228,
which held that a DMV hearing officer impermissibly acted as an adjudicator and
advocate in a DMV administrative hearing, and that this lack of impartiality
was a structural error that entitled the driver to a new administrative
hearing.  The Knudsen Court
analyzed CDLA at length and set forth the following test for analyzing a
driver’s due process challenge to a DMV hearing: 
 
[T]o resolve such a challenge, it is first necessary to
determine whether a particular driver’s due process right to an impartial
adjudicator was violated. Consistent with DUI
Lawyers, that determination is made by
assessing the administrative record and the revocation decision to see if the
public hearing officer actually acted as both an adjudicator and an
advocate, or merely acted as an adjudicator and a collector and developer of
evidence. If the relevant documents demonstrate that the public hearing officer
did not act as an advocate, then the driver’s due process right to an impartial
adjudicator was not violated, and the constitutional issue is resolved. If the
relevant documents demonstrate that a public hearing officer actually acted as
an advocate, then the driver’s due process right to an impartial adjudicator is
violated. In the latter circumstance, because we conclude that a violation of
the due process right to an impartial adjudicator is a structural error, then
the driver is entitled to a new APS hearing before a constitutionally impartial
adjudicator.
 
(Id. at *1; see also id.
at *9-*10 [same test].)  
 
            Petitioner
argues that the Hearing Officer acted as both the trier of fact and advocate,
which was a structural error that deprived Petitioner his right to an impartial
adjudicator.  (OB 9-10.)  Specifically, Petitioner contends that the
Hearing Officer acted as an advocate for DMV when he: (1) moved for and granted
his own continuance—over Petitioner’s objection—to cure DMV’s failure to
provide Petitioner proper notice of the hearing issues; (2) asked Petitioner
questions about the notice he received, including a question that invaded the
attorney-client privilege; and (3) decided which of the DMV documents should be
used as evidence.  (OB 8-9; Reply 2-4.)[1]  
 
The central question is whether the
Hearing Officer was simply “collecting and developing the evidence” and acting
as a trier of fact, or whether he was also advocating on behalf of DMV.  (See CDLA, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at
533, fn. 5; see also Knudsen, supra, at *9-*14.)  In this case, the Hearing Officer acted as an
advocate for DMV when he proposed and granted his own continuance of the
hearing in order to cure a defect in notice that would have prevented DMV from
pursuing the case against Petitioner. 
DMV Form DS367 issued to Petitioner on July 13, 2022, did not give
Petitioner any notice that the license suspension was based on a
chemical test refusal. (AR 8-13.)[2]  At the hearing on August 30, 2023, the
Hearing Officer informed Petitioner’s counsel that the case would be pursued as
a chemical test refusal.  (AR 61.)  Petitioner’s counsel then objected that DMV
had not provided notice on Form DS367, or otherwise, that the license
suspension was based on a chemical test refusal.  (AR 61-62.) 
After reviewing the DMV’s records, the Hearing Officer acknowledged that
there was “no indication” that Petitioner had been given notice that the case
would be treated as a refusal.  (AR
64.)  Immediately thereafter, the Hearing
Officer stated that he would “pull up my scheduling system” in order to
continue the hearing so that Petitioner could be given notice.  (AR 64-65.) 
Before initiating a continuance, the Hearing Officer did not show any
neutral consideration of whether there was good cause.  (See Reales Investment, LLC v. Johnson (2020)
55 Cal.App.5th 463, 468 [continuances are “disfavored” and may be granted “only
on an affirmative showing of good cause.”].)  For instance, the Hearing Officer did not
first solicit argument or input from Petitioner’s counsel about whether a
continuance should be granted.  Further,
after Petitioner objected, the Hearing Officer noted that Petitioner had been
granted multiple continuances and stated “all things being fair, we
should do so as well.”  (AR 65-66
[bold italics added].)  This record makes
clear the Hearing Officer was acting as an advocate for DMV when he proposed
and granted the continuance.  
 
In opposition, Respondent does not squarely address
Petitioner’s argument that proposing and granting the continuance–in order to
cure a notice issue that would have barred DMV’s case–demonstrated that the
Hearing Officer was acting as an advocate for DMV.  (Oppo. 9-10; Sehulster
Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1345,
fn. 16 [failure to address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  In discussing Petitioner’s request for fees, Respondent states that the Hearing Officer “thought a
continuance would assist in Petitioner’s representation as a neutral fact
finder.”  (Oppo. 17:25-27.)  This argument is disingenuous.  Petitioner’s counsel objected to the
continuance.  Clearly, the purpose of the
continuance was to cure the defect in notice to assist the DMV, not to assist
in Petitioner’s representation.  (See AR
64-65.)  
 
The Hearing Officer also acted as an
advocate for DMV when he cross-examined Petitioner and developed the (privileged)
communications based upon which he found that Petitioner received proper notice
of the refusal allegation.  During the
hearing, Petitioner’s counsel conducted a direct examination focusing on the
lack of notice that the hearing related to an alleged refusal to submit to a
chemical test:
 
Counsel:          Mr.
Magdaleno, within the last month, have you received any documents from [the
DMV]?
 
Petitioner:       I
have not. 
 
Counsel:          And
you gave us your address earlier.  That’s
an address where you regularly check your mail; is that right?
 
Petitioner:       Yes.
 
Counsel:          And
when is the last time you checked your mail at that location?
 
Petitioner:       I
would say about two weeks ago.  I am here
now, and I don’t have any mail from the DMV.
 
Counsel:          Okay.  So you’re looking through mail now, and you
can confirm that you haven’t received anything; is that accurate?
 
Petitioner:       Correct.
 
Counsel:          Okay.  I have no further questions.
 
(AR 101-102.)  Then, the Hearing Officer cross-examined
Petitioner.  The Hearing Officer  asked, “Did anyone make you aware that this
hearing was for a refusal, a chemical test refusal?”  (AR 103.)
 
            There
were several problems with this question. 
First, this was not a “clarifying question,” as argued by Respondent’s
counsel, because the question did not seek information to elucidate
Petitioner’s answers whether he received any documents from the DMV.  Instead, the Hearing Officer asked a question
to develop a record that Petitioner received notice of the refusal
allegation.  Second, and more troubling,
the Hearing Officer’s question did not exclude attorney-client communications,
and before Petitioner’s counsel could object, Petitioner responded, “only my
lawyer.”  (Ibid.)  Then, Petitioner’s counsel objected based
upon attorney-client privilege, and the Hearing Officer (incorrectly) overruled
Petitioner’s counsel objection.  (AR
102-103.)  The question—which elicited
privileged communications—was important to DMV’s case, and Petitioner’s answer was
the basis for finding that Petitioner received prior notice.  Indeed, the administrative decision shows
that the Hearing Officer found proper notice of the chemical test refusal issue
based on “verbal service.”  (AR 4-5.)  This constitutes advocacy on behalf of the DMV.  
 
Finally, Petitioner argues that the Hearing
Officer acted as an advocate for DMV when he decided
which of the DMV documents should be used as evidence.  (See OB 9:16-19.)  Petitioner’s counsel made a “blanket
objection” to the DMV’s use of arrest and related records that had been
sealed.   (AR 85.)  The Hearing Officer’s decision to exclude
records based on the sealing order does not necessarily show advocacy on the
part of DMV.  (AR 88-89.)  On the other hand, the Hearing Officer’s
admission of Form DS367, over Petitioner’s objection, arguably shows some
advocacy on the part of DMV.  In any
event, because the court finds that the DMV was not impartial in other
respects, the court need not decide the extent to which his admission or
exclusion of evidence may also show advocacy on the part of DMV.
 
In sum, the Hearing Officer acted as
an advocate for the DMV when he proposed and granted a continuance that was
necessary to cure DMV’s failure to provide adequate notice, without first hearing
argument from Petitioner’s counsel and considering whether there was good
cause.  The Hearing Officer also acted as
an advocate for DMV when he cross-examined Petitioner, invaded the
attorney-client privilege, overruled Petitioner’s counsel’s (valid) objection, and
relied on privileged information in adjudicating the case against Petitioner.    The  DMV’s failure to provide an impartial
adjudicator was structural error that denied Petitioner due process of
law.  (See Knudsen, supra, at
*9-*14; see also Today’s Fresh Start, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Office of
Education (2013) 57 Cal.4th 197, 212 [“whenever ‘due process requires a hearing, the adjudicator must
be impartial”].)  Because of the
structural error, Petitioner is not required to make a specific showing of
prejudice.  The decision must be set
aside and the matter remanded for a new hearing consistent with due process.  The court need not address Petitioner’s
remaining arguments.[3]  
 
Petitioner requests
attorneys’ fees under Government Code section 800 and Code of Civil Procedure
section 1095.  Petitioner must file a
separate noticed motion that outlines the statutory basis for attorneys’ fees,
the application to this case, the total amount of attorneys’ fees sought, and
the basis for those fees, e.g., the billing rate, specific tasks performed, and
number of hours. 
 
///
///

CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            
            Based upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The
petition for a writ of administrative mandate is granted.
 
            2.         The court
shall issue a writ directing Respondent to set aside the decision of October 5,
2023, suspending Petitioner’s driver’s license, per Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.5(f).
 
            3.         The
matter is remanded to the DMV.  Should
the DMV elect to hold a new administrative hearing, it shall do so in a manner
not inconsistent with California DUI Lawyers Association
v. California Department of Motor Vehicles
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 517 and Knudsen v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2024)
__ Cal.App.5th __, 2024 WL 1453228. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(f).)  
 
            4.         Petitioner’s counsel shall prepare and
lodge a proposed judgment.
 
            5.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
 
Dated:  April 24, 2024                                                ______________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge
 


