 Case Number:  BS174007    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  82 Peter
Heffner v. California Commission on Teacher Credentialing
Case
Number BS174007
Motion
to Enforce Writ of Mandate
 
Peter Heffner (“Petitioner”) filed
this petition for a writ of administrative mandate against the California
Commission on Teacher Credentialing (the “Commission” or “Respondent”).  In 2018, the Commission suspected
Petitioner’s teaching credential for 90 days and placed him on probation for
five years.  Petitioner sought to restore
his teaching credential free of these restrictions.  
 
On August 10, 2021, the court
(Beckloff, J.) granted Petitioner’s writ of mandate.  In the Commission’s decision, “it expressly
found that Petitioner’s ‘conduct does not constitute unfitness to teach.’”  (See Court’s Order Granting Petition, dated
July 6, 2020, at 7.)  Judge Beckloff
found that the Commission’s finding “precludes the Commission’s disciplinary
actions complained of by Petitioner here.” 
Specifically, Judge Beckloff held: “While the Commission labeled
Petitioner’s conduct ‘unprofessional,” such unprofessional conduct did not
render him unfit to teach.  Without such
a finding, the Commission’s disciplinary action was unwarranted.”  (Ibid.) 

 
On remand, the Commission held a new
hearing.  On August 11, 2022, the
Commission issued a new order finding: “Analysis of the totality of the
Morrison criteria, set forth above, indicates that Respondent’s misconduct is
related to his fitness to teach. 
Respondent has demonstrated that he requires further instruction on
professional boundaries, in respect to inappropriately invading the privacy of
students, and the duties and requirements of reporting suspicion of child
abuse.”  (See Writ-Return (Writ of Mandate),
dated September 7, 2022, at 9.)  The
Commission imposed the same discipline, viz., an actual suspension of 90 days
and probation for five years.  
 
            Now,
Petitioner moves for an order directing the Commission to “comply with the Writ
of Mandate, and completely restore Petitioner’s credential to good standing
forthwith.”  Petitioner also seeks an
order finding that Respondent is in noncompliance with the court’s order.  There are several problems with Petitioner’s
motion.
 
            As
an initial matter, the motion is procedurally defective.  The proof of service is defective on its
face.  The proof of service was executed
on October 6, 2022, but the motion was served on April 9, 2024.  Even assuming the motion was served on April
9, 2024, which was the date of filing, this does not afford statutory notice,
per Code of Civil Procedure section 1005(b). 
At the close of his brief, Petitioner requests leave for an amended
briefing schedule and “waives [his] right to file a Reply brief, to allow
Respondent sufficient time to file an Opposition any time prior to the hearing
of April 24, 2024.”  (Mot. 9.)  Petitioner was required to make this request,
by ex parte application, before filing his motion.  His untimely request to amend the statutory
schedule and hear the motion on shortened time is denied.  
 
            More
important, Respondent complied with Judge Beckloff’s order, and Petitioner
seeks to challenge a new administrative decision.  Judge Beckloff merely ordered that
“Respondent’s decision of February 16, 2018, is set aside.”  (See Judgment, dated August 31, 2021, at
2.)  Judge Beckloff deleted all of
Petitioner’s requested findings, including that “Petitioner is fit to teach”
and that Respondent “shall cease and desist from all current disciplinary
actions against Petitioner . . . related to this action and its accusations.”  (See ibid.) 
Respondent did so and held a new hearing, following which Respondent
issued a new administrative decision, dated August 11, 2022.  Thus, the motion is effectively a
supplemental petition for writ of mandate pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1094.5, which requires proper notice, full briefing, and
lodging of the administrative record.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s motion is denied.
 
            2.         Petitioner shall provide notice and
file proof of service with the court. 
 