  Case Number:  23STCP03093    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  82 John Edward
Humiston, M.D. v. Medical Board of California
Case No.
23STCP03093
Motion Requesting
Leave to Conduct Discovery
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            John Edward
Humiston, M.D. (“Petitioner”) filed this petition for writ of administrative
and/or traditional mandamus against the Medical Board of California
(“Respondent” or the “Board”) seeking to set aside the Board’s revocation of
his medical license.  Now, Petitioner
seeks leave to conduct discovery, which Respondent opposes.  The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.  
 
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
 
            Petitioner was licensed to practice
medicine in California in 2003. 
(Petition for Writ of Administrative Mandate (“Pet.”) ¶ 1.)  On December 16, 2020, Respondent filed an
accusation against Petitioner alleging negligence and failure to maintain
accurate medical records.  (Id. ¶
9.)  According to the petition, “this
case involved the treatment of one patient's addiction to benzodiazepines with
Neurorecover and informed consent issues regarding a second patient receiving
antigen receptor injections.”  (Ibid.)  Petitioner filed a timely notice of defense
to the accusation.  (Ibid.) Respondent
subsequently filed second and third amended accusations expanding the
allegations to include vaccine exemptions issued to two minors.  (Id. ¶¶ 10-11.)  
 
            On July 14, 2022, Petitioner’s
initial attorney withdrew as counsel of record in the administrative
proceedings.  (Id. ¶ 12)   According to the petition, attorney John
Richardson or “J.R.”, who was licensed in the state of Illinois but not
California, substituted in as attorney of record in the administrative
proceedings.  (Id. ¶ 12)   
 
            Petitioner alleges that the
administrative law judge (“ALJ”) subsequently granted the Deputy Attorney
General’s oral objection, with prejudice, that Richardson could not represent
Petitioner in the administrative proceeding because he was not licensed to
practice law in California.  (Id. ¶¶
13-16.)  According to the petition, the
ALJ’s ruling on this objection and prohibition on Richardson representing
Petitioner was “highly prejudicial.” 
(Id. ¶ 17.)  Petitioner contends
that he was denied a fair trial when the ALJ ruled on the objection without
giving Richardson the opportunity to argue for pro hac vice admission.  (Id. ¶¶ 27,
30.)  Petitioner also alleges other
prejudicial abuses of discretion by the ALJ, which are not directly relevant to
the instant motion for discovery.  (Id.
¶¶ 18-25.)
 
            Respondent adopted the ALJ’s
decision to revoke Petitioner’s medical license.  (Id. ¶ 20.) 
Effective March 8, 2023, Respondent issued its order revoking
Petitioner’s medical license.  (See Pet.
¶ 39.)  This petition follows.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD  
 
“As a general rule, a hearing on
a writ of administrative mandamus is conducted solely on the record of the
proceeding before the administrative agency.” 
(Richardson v. City and County of San Francisco (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 671, 702.)  However, relevant
evidence may be admitted if, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, it could
not have been produced or was improperly excluded at the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(e).)  
 
“An
administrative mandamus action … reviews the administrative record which should
contain all evidence the parties consider necessary to the resolution of
contested issues. Consequently posthearing discovery may reasonably be limited
to inquiries calculated to yield evidence which through no fault of the offeror
does not appear in the administrative record.” 
(Pomona Valley Hospital Medical
Center v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 93, 102.)
 
“In
other words, discovery under section
1094.5, unlike general civil discovery,
cannot be used to go on a fishing expedition looking for unknown facts to
support speculative theories. The stringent requirements set forth
in section
1094.5, subdivision (e) require the
moving party to identify what evidence is sought to be discovered for purposes
of adding it to the record; to establish the relevancy of the evidence; and to
show that either (a) any such relevant, additional evidence was improperly
excluded at the administrative hearing, or (b) it could not have been produced
at the hearing with the exercise of reasonable diligence. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1094.5, subd. (e).) If the moving party
fails to make the required showing, it is an abuse of the court’s discretion to
allow posthearing discovery.”  (Pomona Valley, supra, 55 Cal.App.4th at
102.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Petitioner seeks
leave to serve a request for production of documents from Respondent seeking
the following: 
 
·       Request for Production No. 1: “Any and
all COMMUNICATIONS, including attempted or failed e-filings or electronic
correspondence, between RESPONDENT and the Office of Administrative Hearings
(OAH), General Jurisdiction Division in San Diego California regarding the
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING.”
 
·       Request for Production No. 2: “Any and
all COMMUNICATIONS, including attempted or failed e-filings or electronic
correspondence, between RESPONDENT and PETITIONER’s prior counsel, John
Richardson, regarding the ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING.”  (Motion Requesting Leave of Court to Conduct
Discovery (“Mot”) Exh. A.)  
 
Petitioner
also seeks leave to serve a subpoena duces tecum (“Subpoena”) on Respondent
seeking the following: “Electronic filing logs related to the Medical Board of
California case no. 800-2018-048053, OAH case no. 2021030917, entitled In the
Matter of the Third Amended Accusation Against John Edward Humiston, M.D.;
copies of any and all filings by any party, including rejected filings; and any
and all correspondence between any party or their counsel and OAH related to
the above referenced Medical Board case.” 
(Mot. Exh. B.)
 
Petitioner contends that “[t]he
correspondence and filing/rejection logs sought are relevant because they could
tend to prove or disprove … whether Respondent ever communicated, filed or
attempted to file a written objection to J.R.’s service pro hac vice,
whether the denial of J.R.’s request by the ALJ was based in whole or in part
on improper ex parte communication and/or rejected filings that were not
shared with or served on Dr. Humiston, and whether any written communication by
Dr. Humiston or his counsel on such matters was ever erroneously rejected by
OAH.”  (Mot. 5.)
 
            In his motion, Petitioner contends
that Richardson made a “request” to be admitted pro hac vice in
California for the administrative proceeding. 
(Mot. 5-6.)  However, Petitioner
does not submit any evidence that a formal request for pro hac vice admission
was made, such as excerpts from the administrative record, written proof of
such request, or a declaration of Richardson. 
In opposition, Respondent’s attorney, Christine Rhee, who represented
Respondent in the administrative proceeding, declares that Petitioner and
Richardson never filed a motion or application for Richardson to appear as pro
hac vice counsel in the proceeding. 
(Rhee Decl. ¶ 4.)  In reply,
Petitioner submits excerpts from the administrative record, but not any motion
or application for Richardson to appear pro hac vice.  (See Reply Archibald Decl.)
 
            Petitioner contends that the “the
ALJ issued no written decision on this pivotal issue and the records certified
by the agency included no written objections to J.R.’s service as Dr.
Humiston's attorney.”  (Mot. 6.)  The parties have not lodged the certified
administrative record, but have submitted certain excerpts which show the
following.  The ALJ issued an order on or
about July 19, 2022, which stated: “Mr. Richardson is not licensed to practice
law in the State of California. Ms. Rhee objected and stated she would be
filing a motion objecting to his appearance as respondent’s attorney.  As such, Mr. Richardson stated he would take
steps to resolve this issue.”  (Reply
Archibald Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. D.)  The
Prehearing Conference Order, dated July 26, 2022, indicated that Petitioner was
representing himself.  (Id., Exh.
E.)  At a hearing on September 13, 2022,
the ALJ asked Petitioner if he was representing himself, and Petitioner
responded: “I am representing myself today with the assistance of John
Richardson, my attorney.”  The ALJ then
stated: “Yes, but he’s not making an appearance for you because he is not
licensed in the State of California as I understand it, correct?”  Petitioner then responded, “Correct.”  (Id. Exh. F.) 

 
Petitioner does not submit excerpts
from the administrative record showing any formal request made by Petitioner or
Richardson for Richardson to appear pro hac vice.  Thus, Petitioner contends that he seeks
discovery because his “fight to remain represented by his retained counsel,
J.R., apparently took place primarily outside the official written record,
potentially only in oral motions or arguments that were not transcribed by a
court reporter and/or by way of informal communications back and forth between
Respondent’s counsel, OAH, and Dr. Humiston’s prior counsel.”  (Mot. 6.)
 
            A.        Request
for Production Number One – DENIED 
 
Request
for Production Number Two seeks all communications, without
limitation, between Respondent and the Office of Administrative Proceedings
regarding the administrative proceeding. 
The request is not narrowly tailored to any communications pertaining to
whether or not Richardson made a pro hac vice request informally, or
whether Respondent objected to Richardson’s representation of Petitioner in the
proceeding.  As worded, this request is
overbroad and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of evidence
that could be admissible pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5(e).  “[D]iscovery under section
1094.5, unlike general civil discovery,
cannot be used to go on a fishing expedition looking for unknown facts to
support speculative theories.”  (Pomona Valley, supra, 55 Cal.App.4th at
102.)  
 
As
drafted, this request would encompass ex parte communications between
the Board and the OAH relating to the mandatory settlement conference.  This runs afoul of Evidence Code section
1119, which states: “No evidence of anything said . . . in the course of, or
pursuant to, a mediation . . . is admissible or subject to discovery, and
disclosure of the evidence shall not be compelled in any . . . civil action . .
. .”  (Evid. Code § 1119(a).)  Similarly, “[a]ll communications,
negotiations, or settlement discussions by and between the participants in the
course of a mediation . . . shall remain confidential.”  (Evid. Code § 1119(c).)  A “mediation” includes a settlement
conference.  (See Evid. Code § 1115(a).)
 
Any
communications between Petitioner and OAH on which Richardson was copied would
be responsive to Request for Production Number Two.  Petitioner does not explain why there would
be any discoverable ex parte communications between Respondent and the
Office of Administrative Proceedings concerning Richardson’s request to appear pro
hac vice.  In sum, Petitioner’s
request is hopelessly overbroad, and is not reasonably calculated to lead to relevant
evidence under Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(e).  Therefore, the motion is denied with respect
to Request for Production Number One.  
 
            B.        Request for Production Number Two –
GRANTED 
 
            Request for Production Number Two seeks
all communications, including attempted or failed e-filing or electronic
correspondence, between Respondent and Richardson regarding the administrative
proceeding.  Since Respondent objected to
Richardson’s representation of Petitioner, it appears that any communications
between Respondent and Richardson would likely have concerned Richardson’s
representation of Petitioner or pro hac vice admission.  Respondent has not argued, or shown with
evidence, that communications between Respondent and Richardson likely
concerned other topics.  
 
The petition alleges that Petitioner
was denied a fair trial when Richardson was not permitted to represent
Petitioner, and that the administrative record does not reflect Richardson’s
attempts to be admitted pro hac vice. 
(Pet. ¶¶ 16-17, 27, 30.) 
Respondent contends that “Petitioner failed to file a motion or
application for pro hac vice counsel,” so “[t]he out-of-court
communications between Complainant’s counsel and J.R.” are not relevant to
whether Petitioner received a fair trial, and the request is an impermissible
fishing expedition.  (Oppo. 4-5.)  However, if Respondent and Richardson
communicated about his representation or pro hac vice admission, that
could provide relevant evidence concerning the procedural context in which the
ALJ ruled that Richardson could not represent Petitioner.  Thus, Request for Production Number Two is
relevant within the meaning of section 1094.5(e).  
 
            Respondent does not submit any
evidence suggesting that communications between Respondent and Richardson
concerned matters other than Richardson’s representation of Petitioner or pro
hac vice admission.  Nor does
Respondent establish that it would be burdensome to produce these
communications (which presumably are limited in number).  Thus, the request appears narrowly tailored
to the legal theory pleaded in the petition. 
(See Pet. ¶¶ 16-17, 27, 30.) 
Petitioner is not required to prove his underlying claim to pursue
discovery.  Regardless, Respondent may
respond to the request with appropriate objections if it contends certain
responsive records are not relevant or otherwise privileged.  (See Oppo. 6-7.)  There are no confidentiality concerns because
Petitioner is seeking only communications between Respondent and himself, by
and through counsel.  Based upon the
foregoing, the motion is granted with respect to Request for Production Number
Two.    
 
            C.        Subpoena
Duces Tecum – GRANTED IN PART; DENIED IN PART  
 
The proposed subpoena duces tecum seeks
“[e]lectronic filing logs related to the Medical Board of California case no.
800-2018-048053, OAH case no. 2021030917, entitled In the Matter of the Third
Amended Accusation Against John Edward Humiston, M.D.; copies of any and all
filings by any party, including rejected filings; and any and all
correspondence between any party or their counsel and OAH related to the above
referenced Medical Board case.”  (Mot.
Exh. B.)  As phrased, the subpoena is not
narrowly tailored to any communications pertaining to whether or not Richardson
made a pro hac vice request informally, or whether Respondent objected
to Richardson’s representation of Petitioner in the proceeding. 
 
The court grants the motion in one
narrow respect: Respondent shall produce copies of the following documents: (1)
Any motion for pro hac vice admission served on Respondent by John Richardson;
(2) Any motion to disqualify John Richardson served by Respondent; and (3) Any
entry in the electronic docket demonstrating that John Richardson filed, or attempted
to file, a motion for pro hac vice admission. 
These requests are narrowly-tailored to address the dispositive issue, viz.,
whether Petitioner received due process during his administrative hearing.  As discussed, Petitioner is not required to
provide his underlying claim at this stage, and Respondent may object on the
basis of relevance.  Finally, the court
finds that this would not pose an undue burden on Respondent given the limited
scope (assuming such documents exist in the first place).    
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s
motion for leave to conduct discovery is granted in part and denied in part.
 
            2.         Respondent
shall produce the following documents within thirty (30) days: (a) All
communications between Respondent’s counsel and John Richardson concerning this
case; (b) Any motion for pro hac vice admission served on Respondent by John
Richardson; (c) Any motion to disqualify John Richardson served by Respondent;
and (d) Any entry in the electronic docket demonstrating that John Richardson
filed, or attempted to file, a motion for pro hac vice admission.  
 
            3.         The
motion is denied in all other respects.
 
            4.         Petitioner’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.       