 Case Number:  23STCP04655    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  26  Oates v. Hi-Tech Builders, Inc., et al.PETITION
TO RELEASE MECHANIC’S LIEN(Civil
Code § 8480)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Julie Oates’ Petition to Release Property from
Mechanic’s Lien is GRANTED. PETITIONER IS TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED ORDER
WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS RULING.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Petitioner Julie Oates (“Petitioner”) filed the instant
Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien against Respondent Hi-Tech Builders,
Inc. (“Respondent”) on December 28, 2023. The Petition initially came for
hearing on May 28, 2024 and was continued to allow for proper notice on
Respondent. No response to the Petition has been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner moves to have the mechanic’s lien recorded
against their property by Respondent released. Under Civil Code section 8484
the petition for release order must be verified by the petitioner and allege
the following:
 
(a) The date of recordation of the
claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the
petition.
(b) The county in which the claim of
lien is recorded.
(c) The book and page or series number
of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded.
(d) The legal description of the
property subject to the claim of lien.
(e) Whether an extension of credit has
been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for
commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired.
(f) That the owner has given the
claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and
record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do
so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found.
(g) Whether an action to enforce the
lien is pending.
(h) Whether the owner of the property
or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is
another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to
enforce the lien.
 
(Civil Code, § 8484.) The Petition contains all the required
information. Civil Code section 8486, subdivision (b) also requires service of
the Petition and Notice of Hearing to “be made in the same manner as service of
summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested . . . .” (Civ. Code, § 8486, subd. (b).) Petitioner has now filed a
compliant proof of service of the Petition and the Notice of the Hearing Date.
The proof of service filed on June 27, 2024 shows substitute service of the
papers on Respondent by delivery to the receptionist at its office, following
multiple attempts to serve Respondent’s agent for service of process. (Proof of
Service, 06/27/24, ¶¶3-5 and pp. 4-5.) This complies with the statute for
service of process on a corporation. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Therefore, Petitioner Julie Oates’ Petition to Release
Property from Mechanic’s Lien is GRANTED. PETITIONER IS TO FILE AND SERVE A
PROPOSED ORDER WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS RULING.
 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 