 Case Number:  21STCV25794    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JACK SHULKEY, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  JANE LOREG, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV25794  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 6, 2024  I. BACKGROUND On July 14, 2021, plaintiff Jack Shulkey (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Jane Loreg (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident.. Trial is currently set for August 19, 2024.    Defendant now moves to continue the trial date to January 2, 2025, or to a date thereafter. As of May 23, 2024, no opposition has been filed.  II. MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL Legal Standard Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  Discussion Defendant argues that a continuance is necessary in order for her to submit the Court’s ruling on her motion directing the Department of Veteran Affairs’ to comply with the deposition subpoena for medical records. Defendant asserts that without the records, she cannot proceed with completing an independent medical examination of Plaintiff and to engage in expert discovery. Defendant avers there have been two prior continuances, and that a continuance until January 2025 would provide enough time for Defendant to obtain Plaintiff’s records. Plaintiff has not opposed the motion, and there has otherwise been no prejudice demonstrated by a continuance.  III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  The August 19, 2024 trial date is continued to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The August 5, 2024 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 31. All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 5th day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   