 Case Number:  21STCV21874    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  LUNA KURDY, ET AL. Plaintiff(s),  vs.  TANNER JOHN HAYNES, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV21874  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF MINOR TO BE FILED UNDER SEAL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 6, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Abigail Bostadjian, a minor, by and through her guardian ad litem, Luna Kurdy (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant motion for an order allowing her petition for approval of compromise to be filed under seal. Plaintiff seeks to seal a significant portion of the petition, such as her identity, injuries, and all information surrounding the settlement and net settlement. Cross-defendant Hamazasb Aghajaniani opposes the motion. Defendants Tanner John Haynes and Alan Douglas Haynes join the opposition, and Plaintiff filed a reply.  II. MOTION TO SEAL  Legal Standard California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1) states, “[a] party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  CRC 2.550(d) makes clear that records cannot be sealed without appropriate findings.  It provides:   The Court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:  (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;  (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record;  (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;  (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and  (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)    Discussion  Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not articulated a compelling reason as to why the petition should be sealed, especially to the extent requested, nor is the request narrowly tailored. The Court agrees with opposing parties’ contention that the facts of this case do not implicate any significant privacy interest. Plaintiff’s contention that her information “can be used to foster criminal activity” is speculative, and the authority relied upon by Plaintiff are not applicable to the facts of this action to justify sealing.    III. CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to seal is DENIED.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 5th day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  