 Case Number:  21STCV43384    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  KRYSTYN CHAVEZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  JOSE TORRES CARBALLO, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV43384  [TENTATIVE] ORDER FINDING PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL AND MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED MOOT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 6, 2024  I.  MOTIONS TO COMPEL & DEEM RFAS ADMITTED Plaintiff Krystyn Chavez ("Plaintiff”) served set two of special interrogatories, request for production of documents (“RPDs”), and requests for admission (“RFAs”) on defendant Mehran Termechi (“Termechi”) on December 1, 2023. Termechi served unverified responses. Plaintiff therefore seeks an order compelling Termechi to respond, without objections, to the written discovery, and further seeks an order to deem the RFAs, set two, admitted against Termechi and for Termechi to pay sanctions.   In opposition, Termechi argues the motions were timely served, and that verifications were not provided due to inadvertence. Termechi contends the motions are now moot, because verifications were served on April 15, 2024.  In reply, Plaintiff argues verifications were served on May 30, 2024, and that sanctions are still warranted because of the delay.  Here, regardless of the date of service, the parties do not dispute that verifications have indeed been served. The Court therefore finds that the motions to compel and motion to deem RFAs admitted moot in light of the responses and verifications served on Plaintiff prior to the hearing. (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 776.)  The only remaining issue is monetary sanctions.   II. SANCTIONS Plaintiff requests $1,660 in monetary sanctions against Termechi for each motion. Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response, unless a court makes certain findings.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) Additionally, where a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) It is undisputed that discovery was untimely served. However, a court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) Because verifications/responses were served late, the Court finds sanctions warranted, but not to the full extent requested.  Plaintiff is awarded $800 collectively for the three motions, as attorney’s fees.  Sanctions are imposed against Termechi and Termechi’s counsel of record, jointly and severally. Termechi and/or his counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $800, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 5th day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   