  Case Number:  BC715362    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 7, 2023                  JUDGMENT: September
26, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Vichit Tilakamonkul v. Vichai
Tilakamonkul, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC715362            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO AMEND JUDGMENT
(2)  
MOTION TO TAX COSTS CLAIMED BY DEFENDANTS
(3)  
MOTION
TO TAX COSTS CLAIMED BY PLAINTIFFS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendant Vichit and Somsak
Tilakamonkul; (3) Defendants/Cross-Complainants Virut, Vichai, Sumeth, and
Narlong Tilakamonkul, T-Team Investments, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine II, Inc.,
Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc., and Siriratn Tilakamonkul
 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2) Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Virut, Vichai, Sumeth, and Narlong Tilakamonkul, T-Team Investments, Inc.,
Royal Thai Cuisine II, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc., and Siriratn
Tilakamonkul; (3) Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendant Vichit and Somsak Tilakamonkul;
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
07/25/18: Complaint filed.
·        
03/12/19: Complaint in Intervention filed by
Royal Thai Cuisine II
·        
04/29/19: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
08/21/19: Second Amended Complaint filed.
·        
04/07/20: Cross-Complaint filed by T-Team
Investment
·        
11/02/20: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by
T-Team Investment.
·        
03/05/21: Second Amended Cross-Complaint filed
by T-Team Investment.
·        
06/30/22: Statement of Decision Rendered
·        
10/11/22: Amended Statement of Decision Rendered
·        
09/26/23: Judgment entered. 
 
//
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This case involves a dispute among seven Tilakamonkul brothers in which
Plaintiffs sought to quiet title, dissolve a partnership, and partition and
sell the restaurants and real property alleged to be jointly owned by the
brothers, among other causes of action. Plaintiffs alleged that the defendant
siblings denied that Plaintiffs had any interest in the properties at issue. In
a cross-complaint, T-Team investment also sought quiet title and declaratory
relief with respect certain real properties.
 
Plaintiffs Vichit and Somsak Tilakamonkul
move to amend the judgment to declare that Plaintiffs are the prevailing
parties on their claims against Siriratn Tilakamonkul, Royal Thai Cuisine II,
Inc., and Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc. The parties also filed cross-motions to
tax costs.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Amend the
Judgment is DENIED. 
 
On its own motion, the Court orders
that the Judgment be amended such that paragraph 8 line 8 is corrected to read
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(a)(4),” and such that paragraph 10 lines
25 through 27 are corrected to read “and against defendants Vichai
Tilakamonkul, Virut Tilakamonkul, Narlong Tilakamonkul, Sumeth Tilakamonkul,
Pramorte Tilakamonkul, Royal Thai Cuisine II, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine IV,
Inc., and Siriratn Tilakamonkul.”  The
Judgment is to remain unchanged in all other respects.  Plaintiffs are ordered to submit a corrected
Judgment reflecting this amendment within 10 days of this ruling.
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Strike or Tax
Costs is GRANTED. Defendants Royal Thai Cuisine II, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine
IV, Inc., and Siriratn Tilakamonkul’s Memorandum of Costs is hereby stricken. 
 
Defendants’ Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED IN PART.  Somsak Tilakamonkul’s Memorandum of Costs is
taxed by $60 for a total cost recovery of $495. Vichit Tilakamonkul’s
Memorandum of Costs is taxed by $480, for a total cost recovery of $20,220.
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
Motion for Leave
to Amend Judgment
 
Plaintiffs Vichit and Somsak Tilakamonkul
move to amend the judgment to declare that Plaintiffs are the prevailing
parties on their claims against Siriratn Tilakamonkul, Royal Thai Cuisine II,
Inc., and Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc. 
 
//
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs request
that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the transcript of the proceeding in
this matter held on May 8, 2019; (2) the Declaration and Memorandum of Points
and Authorities filed by Defendant’s counsel on July 14, 2020 in this action;
and (3) the Court’s Amended Statement of Decision. Plaintiffs’ requests are
GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
Procedural History
 
On July 25, 2018, Plaintiff Vichit
Tilakamonkul (Vichit)[1]
filed a verified complaint for damages and other relief against Defendants
Vichai Tilakamonkul, Virut Tilakamonkul, Somsak Tilakamonkul, Marasri (Mary)
Tilakamonkul, Narong Tilakamonkun, Sumeth Tilakamonkul,[2]
and others claiming an interest in certain described real and personal
property. In the initial complaint, Vichit asserted claims for breach of
written contract, partnership accounting, dissolution of partnership and
accounting, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, constructive fraud, and
partition and sale and accounting.
 
After several revised iterations of
the complaint, the Second Amended Complaint was filed on August 21, 2019, which
was the operative complaint at trial. In that pleading, Vichit Tilakamonkul
joined with brother and former defendant, Somsak Tilakamonkul (jointly
"Plaintiffs") to assert twelve causes of action against their
brothers, Defendants Vichai, Virut, Narlong, Sumeth, and Pramorte, as well as
Siriratn Tilakamonkul and several entities owned by some or all of the seven
Tilakamonkul brothers. These entity defendants included Royal Thai Cuisine II,
Inc. ("RT II"), Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc. ("RT IV"), and
T-Team Investments, LLC. ("T-Team"). The Second Amended Complaint
asserted claims for quiet title, breach of oral contract, negligence,
partnership accounting, partnership dissolution and accounting, partition and
sale of partnership property, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
Various defendants filed
Cross-complaints in the action. By the time of trial, there were three at
issue. In its Second Amended Cross-Complaint, filed on March 25, 2021,
Defendant T-Team sued Plaintiffs Vichit and Somsak, as well as Sudatip
Tilakamonkul, who is also known as Dawn Tilakamonkul, alleging causes of action
for declaratory relief, quiet title, breach of contract, account stated, and
goods and services rendered. T-Team's cross-complaint focused on the ownership
of real property located at 4941 Mount Bigelow in San Diego ("Mt. Bigelow
Property") and at 4199 and 4201 Ransom Street in Long Beach ("Ransom
Properties"), and the related issue of whether funds paid to Vichit in
2007 constituted a buyout of his interest or a loan still owed by Vichit to
T-Team. RT II intervened in the action on or about March 12, 2019 to bring a
claim for declaratory relief against Plaintiffs, seeking a judgment regarding
the ownership of the Royal Thai Cuisine restaurant in Newport Beach. Further, Defendants
Vichai, Virut, Narlong and Sumeth cross-complained against Plaintiffs for
declaratory relief on June 30, 2018, requesting a declaration that Plaintiffs
own no part of the restaurant businesses or real property they claim to own
jointly with the five defendant brothers.
 
The Court ordered a bifurcated
trial with equitable claims to be tried first, followed by legal issues to be
tried in a second phase if necessary. A bench trial was conducted from December
13, 2021 to December 21, 2021 and then on January 3, 2022. The Court issued its
initial statement of decision on June 30, 2022, and an amended statement on
October 11, 2022. The Court subsequently concluded that all issues were
disposed of in Phase I, and a Phase II trial was not necessary. 
 
Consequently, the Court entered
final judgment on September 25, 2023, finding in favor of Vichit and Somsak and
against Vichai, Virut, Narlong, Sumeth, and Pramorte on the partition cause of
action in the Second Amended Complaint and on all cross-claims and affirmative
defenses asserted against Vichit and Somsak, and in favor of Sudatip (as well
as Vichit and Somsak) and against T-Team Investment, LLC on T-Team’s Second
Amended Cross-Complaint. (Final Judgment.) The Court also found that Vichit and
Somsak each sought only one-seventh of the real and personal property or sales
proceeds therefrom at issue with respect to the Ransom and Mt. Bigelow
properties only, and that each of the brothers were entitled to a one-seventh
share of the proceeds from sale of those properties. (Id.) 
 
Legal Basis for Amendment of Judgment
 
Plaintiff brings this motion under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b), which permits a party, on motion, to
seek relief from an order, default, or judgment taken against them due to
inadvertence, mistake, or neglect, whether the fault of the party or of the
party’s counsel. (Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).) Plaintiff offers no authority
supporting the position that a judgment on the merits, once entered, may be
amended by way of a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b).
However, the Court may on its own motion correct clerical mistakes in its
judgment or orders as entered so as to conform to the judgment or order
directed. (Code Civ. Proc. § 473(d).) A clerical error results when the order
or judgment misstates the court’s actual intent (i.e., error in recording the
judgment rendered, and judicial error results when the order or judgment
entered was intended, even though based on an error of law (i.e., error in
rendering the judgment.” (Burch v. CertainTeed Corp. (2019) 34
Cal.App.5th 341, 346.) 
 
Propriety of Amendment
 
            Plaintiffs
claim that the judgment should be amended because the judgment, whether through
mistake, inadvertence, or neglect, omitted a finding that Plaintiffs were the
prevailing parties against RT II, RT IV, and Siriratn Tilakamonkul. Plaintiffs
therefore seek to add (1) a finding that Plaintiffs have achieved a greater net
monetary award than all Defendants; (2) to correct an erroneous citation in the
judgment; and (3) to add Royal Thai Cuisine II, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine IV,
Inc., and Siriratn Tilakamonkul as parties against whom Plaintiffs have
prevailed.  
 
A prevailing party, as defined by
the Code of Civil Procedure “includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a
defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither
plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those
plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1032(a)(4).) A party who has been denied direct relief on a claim may
nevertheless be the prevailing party if it has otherwise achieved its main
litigation objective. (See Hsu v. Abbara (1995) 9 Cal.4th 863, 877.)
 
Plaintiffs’ claims against RT II
and RT IV were grounded on the contention that the Tilakamonkul brothers formed
a partnership agreement to operate their restaurants which survived the
incorporation of the restaurant businesses. (See Amended Statement of Decision
p. 11.) The Court considered Plaintiffs’ arguments at great length before
rejecting them, finding that RT II and RT IV were independent corporations
jointly owned by all seven brothers as equal shareholders. (Id. p. 14.) The
Court found, however, that Plaintiffs had not sold or otherwise terminated
their business interests, such that they remain owners of both RT II and RT IV.
(Id. p. 30.) 
 
Plaintiffs contend that RT II and
RT IV are not prevailing parties because they obtained no monetary award and no
non-monetary relief. Defendants, in response, claim that Plaintiffs did not
prevail as to RT II and RT IV because their partnership claims were
unsuccessful. This argument is not persuasive.  As Plaintiffs state in their reply brief, Plaintiffs’
principal litigation objective was to assert their ownership interest in the
businesses and the properties held by those businesses. Defendants sought to deny
those interests. The Court affirmed the existence of those interests, but not in
the form claimed by Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs thus achieved their principal
litigation objective. 
 
Defendants also object to
Plaintiffs’ request that they be declared the party with the net monetary
recovery (Proposed Amended Judgment ¶ 7) because, when the sale of all
properties is accounted for, Sumeth and Virut receive the largest
distributions. Plaintiffs, in reply, contend that Defendants improperly include
the distribution from the Georgia Sue property, neglect that only 2/7 of the
Mt. Bigelow and Ransom properties were actually in dispute, and entirely
neglects the distribution of funds from the settlement regarding the separate
Melrose property. (See Declaration of James T. Stroud ISO Reply Exh. A.) The
Court finds Plaintiffs’ calculations to be questionable. It is true that
settlement proceeds may be considered as part of the calculation of “net
monetary recovery.” (DeSaulles v. Community Hospital of Monterey Peninsula
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1140, 1157-58.) Plaintiffs offer no authority, however, for
the argument that the Defendants’ shares in the properties should be excluded
from the calculation of who is a prevailing party. Further, although Plaintiffs
assert that the Georgia Sue property was not at issue, a cursory review of the
extensive record in this case belies that statement. In any event, the Court
does not consider the proposed language to be appropriate where the currently
operative Judgment already declares Vichit and Somsak to be the prevailing
parties in this action. (Final Judgment ¶8.) A finding that Plaintiffs are
receiving a net monetary recovery is not necessary, as the Court has already
exercised its authority under section 1032(a)(4) to deem Plaintiffs the
prevailing parties in the action. 
 
As to Siriratn, Plaintiffs
initially offer little explanation for why the Judgment should be amended with
respect to that Defendant in the moving papers. Defendants, in opposition,
claim that Plaintiffs are not the prevailing party as against her because they obtained
no relief against her. To the contrary, Plaintiffs, as stated in the Second
Amended Complaint, sought to assert their ownership interests in the subject
properties to the exclusion of all named Defendants, including Siriratn, except
for the other Tilakamonkul brothers. (See SAC Prayer ¶ 1.) The Court found that
Plaintiffs were entitled to a finding that only the brothers had any interests
in the subject properties, although not the apportionment initially claimed.
(Amended Statement of Decision p. 30.) Moreover, the Court considered and
rejected the affirmative defenses to the Second Amended Complaint asserted by
all Defendants, including Siriratn. (Final Judgment ¶ 5.) 
 
Upon review of the record, the
Court concludes that the omission of RT II, RT IV, and Siriratn Tilakamonkul as
Defendants against whom Plaintiffs were the prevailing parties was a clerical
error in that the omission caused the Judgment as entered to fail to reflect
the Court’s Amended Statement of Decision and further caused the Judgment to be
internally inconsistent. The Court also finds that the citation of Code of
Civil Procedure section 1032(c)(4), rather than (a)(4), was a clerical error on
its face. 
 
The Court therefore orders that the
Judgment be amended such that paragraph 8 line 8 is corrected to read “Code of
Civil Procedure section 1032(a)(4),” and such that paragraph 10 lines 25
through 27 are corrected to read “and against defendants VIchai Tilakamonkul,
Virut Tilakamonkul, Narlong Tilakamonkul, Sumeth Tilakamonkul, Pramorte
Tilakamonkul, Royal Thai Cuisine II, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc., and
Siriratn Tilakamonkul.”  The Judgment is
to remain unchanged in all other respects.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion to Amend the Judgment is DENIED. 
 
On its own motion, the Court orders
that the Judgment be amended such that paragraph 8 line 8 is corrected to read
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(a)(4),” and such that paragraph 10 lines
25 through 27 are corrected to read “and against defendants VIchai
Tilakamonkul, Virut Tilakamonkul, Narlong Tilakamonkul, Sumeth Tilakamonkul,
Pramorte Tilakamonkul, Royal Thai Cuisine II, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine IV,
Inc., and Siriratn Tilakamonkul.”  The
Judgment is to remain unchanged in all other respects.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to submit a
corrected Judgment reflecting this amendment within 10 days of this ruling.
 
//
Motion to Tax Costs of Defendants
 
            Plaintiffs
move to strike or tax a memorandum of costs filed by Royal Thai Cuisine II,
Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc., and Defendant Siriratn, on the basis that
they are not prevailing parties. For the reasons stated above, the Court
agrees. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Strike or Tax Costs is GRANTED. Defendants Royal Thai
Cuisine II, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc., and Siriratn Tilakamonkul’s
Memorandum of Costs is hereby stricken. 
 
Motion to Tax Costs Sought by Plaintiffs
 
            Defendants
Vichai, Virut, Sumeth, Narlong, and Siriratn Tilakamonkul, as well as T-Team
Investment LLC and Royal Thai Cuisine II, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc.,
move to tax three costs claimed by Plaintiffs in their Memoranda of Costs. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
In general, the “prevailing party” is entitled as a matter
of right to recover costs for suit in any action or proceeding. (Code Civ.
Proc. §1032(b); Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 606; Scott Co.
Of Calif. v. Blount, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1103, 1108.)  Assuming the
“prevailing party” requirements are met, the trial court has no discretion to
order each party to bear his or her own costs of suit.  (Michell v.
Olick (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1198; Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 111, 129.) A defendant who is dismissed from the action is the
“prevailing party.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §1032(a)(4).) This is so whether the
dismissal is voluntary or involuntary.  (Santisas, 17 Cal.4th at 606.)  
 
Allowable costs under Section 1033.5 must be reasonably
necessary to the conduct of the litigation, rather than merely convenient or
beneficial to its preparation, and must be reasonable in amount.  An item
not specifically allowable under Section 1033.5(a) nor prohibited under
subdivision (b) may nevertheless be recoverable in the discretion of the court
if they meet the above requirements (i.e., reasonably necessary and reasonable
in amount).  If the items appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper
charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show that they were
not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc.
(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 773-774.)  On the other hand, if the items are
properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the
party claiming them as costs.  (Ibid.) Whether a cost item was
reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for the
trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion.  (Ibid.) 
However, because the right to costs is governed strictly by statute, a court
has no discretion to award costs not statutorily authorized.  (Id.) 
Discretion is abused only when, in its exercise, the court “exceeds the bounds
of reason, all of the circumstances being considered.”  (Ibid.)   
 
//
 
Timeliness of Motion
            
            “Any notice of motion to strike
or to tax costs must be served and filed 15 days after service of the cost
memorandum. If the cost memorandum was served by mail, the period is extended
as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1013.” If the cost memorandum was served
electronically, the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure
section 1010.6(a)(4).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(b)(1).)  Further, the parties disputing costs
may agree to extend the time for filing and serving a cost memorandum and
motion to strike, but that agreement “must be confirmed in writing, specify the
extended date for service, and be filed with the clerk.” (Id.
Rule 3.1700(b)(3) [emphasis added].) 
 
            Plaintiffs filed three memoranda of
costs on October 4, 2023, served electronically that same day: (1) a memorandum
of costs on behalf of Vichit seeking $20,700 in costs; (2) a memorandum of
costs on behalf of Somsak seeking $555 in costs; and (3) a memorandum of costs
on behalf of Sudatip as Cross-Defendant seeking $435 in costs. The deadline to
file this motion was 15 calendar days from October 4, 2023 plus two court days
for electronic service. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.6(a)(4).) Fifteen days
after October 4, 2023 was October 19, 2023, and two court days after that date
was Monday, October 23, 2023, the date this motion was filed and served.
Defendants’ Motion to Tax Costs is therefore timely.
 
Disputed Cost
Items
 
            Defendants
first challenge all three memoranda in their entirety as to RT II, RT IV, and
Siriratn Tilakamonkul. Defendants contend that Plaintiffs are did not prevail
as to these parties. For the reasons stated above in connection with the other
motions, the Court rejects Defendants’ arguments that the memoranda should be
stricken in their entirety as to these parties.  
 
            Defendants
also challenge 7 sets of $60 filing fees claimed in the memoranda which
Defendants state contain duplicative or erroneous entries. These filing fees are
for (1) a December 1, 2020 Demurrer claimed on both Somsak and Vichit’s
Memoranda. (See Somsak Memorandum ¶ 1, Vichit Memorandum Attach. 1); (2) fees
for an ex parte application purportedly filed on May 8, 2019, which was not
actually filed (Vichit Memo. Attach.1, see also Defendants’ Exh. 2); (3) fees
for one ex parte application filed February 14, 2019 and two for February 14,
2020, when there should instead be only two filed on the 2019 date; (3) two
extra sets of fees for a motion to disqualify filed June 3, 2020; (4) an extra
set of fees for another motion to disqualify filed November 13, 2020; (5)
another extra set of fees for a May 8, 2020 motion; (6) fees incurred on two
motions for sanctions filed May 8, 2020 and May 15, 2023, when the only motion
for sanctions was filed May 8, 2023; and (7) extra filing fees for a motion to
bifurcate filed on June 22, 2020. Plaintiffs concede that these requests are
duplicative or erroneous as identified, but contend that the claimed costs
should be permitted to stand because there were other fees incurred not set
forth in the memoranda. Plaintiffs offer no authority for the position that
they are entitled to costs not described in the cost bill. The Court therefore
finds that these costs are improper and must be taxed.
 
            Defendants
next argue that Plaintiffs improperly requested filing fees for an October 14,
2022 motion to reopen evidence that was withdrawn because it was filed in
error. (See Vichit Memorandum Attach.1.) Plaintiffs concede in their opposition
that this cost should not have been sought. The Court therefore finds that this
item should also be taxed. 
 
            Defendants’
third challenge is to a claim of $795 for depositions costs for a nonappearance
of Chau Letrinh ($386.00) and Sumeth Tilakamonkul ($409.00). (Vichit Memo.
Attach. 4e.) Defendants contend that these costs were not reasonably necessary
to the litigation because the depositions did not go forward on those dates because
of the unavailability of the witnesses. (See Defendants’ Exh. 4.) The Court is not persuaded by Defendants’
assertion that deposition costs for a notice of nonappearance are unnecessary.
A certificate of nonappearance is routine practice when a witness does not
appear for a deposition to establish a record in the event that a motion to
compel is needed. Plaintiffs’ choice to do so demonstrates prudence and
attention to detail, not unnecessary spending that should be taxed. 
 
            Finally, Defendants challenge
Plaintiffs’ claim for interpreter fees at trial in the amount of $3,581 on the
basis that such costs are purportedly not recoverable. (See Vichit Memo.
Attach. 13c.) Contrary to Defendants’ assertion, Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5 is silent on the recovery of interpreter fees in contexts other
than a deposition, where they are expressly allowed. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
1033.5(a)(3)(B); (a)(12).) Since such fees are not expressly disallowed, it is
within the Court’s discretion to award those costs. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1033.5(c)(4).) As Defendants offer no other basis for taxing these costs, the
Court finds no reason why Plaintiffs should not be awarded these interpreter
fees. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to
Tax Costs is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
            Somsak Tilakamonkul’s Memorandum of
Costs is taxed by $60, leaving a total cost recovery of $495. 
 
            Vichit Tilakamonkul’s Memorandum of
Costs is taxed by $480, leaving a total cost recovery of $20,220.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Amend the Judgment is DENIED. 
 
On its own motion, the Court orders
that the Judgment be amended such that paragraph 8 line 8 is corrected to read
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(a)(4),” and such that paragraph 10 lines
25 through 27 are corrected to read “and against defendants VIchai
Tilakamonkul, Virut Tilakamonkul, Narlong Tilakamonkul, Sumeth Tilakamonkul,
Pramorte Tilakamonkul, Royal Thai Cuisine II, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine IV,
Inc., and Siriratn Tilakamonkul.”  The
Judgment is to remain unchanged in all other respects.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to file an
amended Judgment reflecting these modifications within 10 days of this ruling. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Strike or Tax
Costs is GRANTED. Defendants Royal Thai Cuisine II, Inc., Royal Thai Cuisine
IV, Inc., and Siriratn Tilakamonkul’s Memorandum of Costs is hereby stricken. 
 
Defendants’ Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED IN PART.  Somsak Tilakamonkul’s Memorandum of Costs is
taxed by $60 for a total cost recovery of $495. Vichit Tilakamonkul’s
Memorandum of Costs is taxed by $480, for a total cost recovery of $20,220.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 7,
2023                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 


