  Case Number:  22STCV11519    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  73 5/30/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
WHITFIELD v. MUSIC ROYALTY
CONSULTING, INC. (22STCV11519)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Ayo Omotosho (Johnson
Omotosho, LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Kevin J Cole
(KJC Law Group, APC)
 
Defendant’s motion for TERMINATING OR
EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF (filed on 03/29/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s Motion for Terminating or Evidentiary Sanctions against
Plaintiff is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff
Roland Whitfield brings this contractual fraud action against Defendants Music
Royalty Consulting, Inc., Parviz Omidvar, Oliver Omidvar, and O’Neal Omidvar.
Plaintiff’s first amended complaint asserts causes of action for: (1)
anticipatory breach of contact; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) fraud in the inducement; (4) specific performance; and
(5) declaratory judgment. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges the following: Defendant Music Royalty Consulting, Inc. (“MRCI”) is
100% owned by Defendant Parviz Omidvar. (FAC, ¶ 3.) Parviz’s two adult sons,
Defendants Oliver Omidvar and O’Neal Omidvar, were agents or employees of MRCI.
(Ibid.) As heir to the late Billie Rae Calvin (“Songwriter”), Plaintiff
had rights to Songwriter’s works and was entitled to the same royalty payments
Songwriter received. (Id., ¶¶ 6, 9.) On July 8, 2011, Plaintiff executed
an Irrevocable Royalty Purchase Agreement (“Royalty Agreement”) with MRCI,
where MRCI paid Plaintiff $250,000.00 for the rights to Songwriter’s works. (Id.,
¶ 10.) The Royalty Agreement provided Plaintiff with the option of repurchasing
the rights to Songwriter’s works for $1.00, effective 15 years from the date of
the Agreement. (Id., ¶ 11.) However, MRCI added a term to the Agreement
which purportedly gave MRCI the right to purchase Plaintiff’s buy-back option
at any time for $50,000. (Id., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff intended to execute the
$1.00 buy-back option within the period specified by the contract. (Id.,
¶ 24.) But, on August 17, 2021, MRCI sent Plaintiff a letter and $50,000 check
attempting to exercise their right to purchase Plaintiff’s option—and thus the
rights to Songwriter’s works in perpetuity. (Id., ¶ 16.)
 
On March 29,
2024, Defendant Music Royalty Consulting, Inc. filed this Motion for Terminating
or Evidentiary Sanctions against Plaintiff, due to:
·      
The now-uncontroverted record evidence, following Plaintiff’s
March 20, 2024 deposition, that Plaintiff has been on notice of these (alleged)
claims since at least the end of 2011 (far outside the statute of limitations),
and even consulted with an attorney.
o  
Plaintiff’s testimony at his deposition—that he discovered Parviz
Omidvar (Defendant’s founder) allegedly stole from him in the “fall of 2011,”
at which point Plaintiff hired an attorney (in 2011)—entirely confirms that
Plaintiff has been on notice of these (alleged) claims since at least the end
of 2011 (far outside the statute of limitations).
·      
Plaintiff’s own testimonial admission that he lacks the capacity
to pursue these claims
o  
About thirty minutes into his deposition, Plaintiff refused to
answer a question about why Plaintiff is not presently employed, justifying his
refusal by declaring, “I’m not all there, you dope . . . I was born defected,
weirdo.” (Ex. A at 21:3–12.)
·      
Plaintiff’s refusal to give further deposition testimony, with
trial-related and dispositive motions deadlines fast approaching
o  
Plaintiff abruptly ended his deposition after only thirty minutes
o  
When Defendant’s counsel asked how soon Plaintiff could sit for
another deposition—even offering to rearrange his schedule over the next few
days (including over the weekend) to accommodate Plaintiff—Plaintiff’s counsel
suggested that Plaintiff might never be available
·      
Thus, Defendant requests an order dismissing the case with
prejudice, or alternatively, Plaintiff is precluded from testifying at trial or
otherwise introducing any evidence in his case in chief.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
·      
According to Ruvalcaba v. Government Employees Insurance Co.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d.1579, terminating, issue, and evidentiary sanctions
cannot be imposed unless there is a showing that the party against whom the
sanctions are being imposed violated a prior court order directing that party
to comply with discovery request. Defendant did not file a motion to compel
further deposition testimony, Defendant did not request an informal discovery
conference, Defendant did not even allow a meaning meet and confer prior to
filing this motion. Therefore, the court cannot impose terminating, issue, or
evidentiary sanctions on Plaintiff.
·      
Regarding Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff should have brought
his claim earlier, Defendant’s statute of limitations argument has already been
addressed by the court during the hearing on demurrer. The FAC alleges the
anticipatory breach occurred on August 17, 2021 because Plaintiff elected to
treat the letter and check from MRCI as terminating his buy-back option.
According to the allegations in the FAC, the statute of limitations did not
begin to run until August 17, 2021, which is less than four years before
Plaintiff brought this action.
·      
Plaintiff’s counsel states he later found out Plaintiff was on
medication during his deposition that impacted his ability to understand,
recollect and provide testimony. During Plaintiff’s deposition, Defense Counsel
failed to issue the standard deposition admonition (Is there any reason, such
as being under unusual stress, a physical or mental condition, or being under
the influence of any substances, which would prevent or limit you today from
giving truthful answers to my questions?)
Defendant filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s lack of capacity makes
prosecuting this case impossible
o  
Plaintiff recently-filed an application for Guardian Ad Litem
(“GAL”), in which Plaintiff (i) asks the Court to appoint “Linda Koenig” as his
GAL (an individual who shares the same home address, phone number, and email
address as Plaintiff, but who Plaintiff never disclosed as a witness), and (ii)
claims he “lacks capacity to understand the nature or consequences of the
proceeding, and is unable to assist counsel in the preparation of the case.”
(Cole Reply Decl., ¶ 3 & Ex. D.)
·      
Plaintiff’s counsel stated on the record he didn’t think Plaintiff
would ever be available for deposition. (Cole Decl., Ex. A [Whitfield’s
deposition] at p. 24 [“Mr. Cole: Meaning, you don’t think he’s ever going to be
available for a deposition? Mr. Omotosho: Correct.”].)
o  
Plaintiff ignores that courts may impose terminating sanctions as
a first penalty, without a prior court order, where (as here) lesser sanctions
would fail to cure the prejudice. (Collisson & Kaplan v. Hartunian
(1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1618 [“The point that defendants fail to
acknowledge is that, while this may have been their first effort to respond, it
was not plaintiff’s first effort at receiving straightforward responses.
Defendants chose to ignore the many attempts, both formal and informal, made by
plaintiff to secure fair responses from them.”])
·      
This Court could alternatively impose evidentiary sanctions by
entering an order precluding Plaintiff from testifying in this case (not just
at trial, given Plaintiff’s incompetence). (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subds.
(b) & (c).)
o  
Plaintiff does not challenge the imposition of evidentiary (as
distinct from terminating) sanctions; and the failure to oppose Defendant’s
request for evidentiary sanctions is deemed a concession of the argument. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 8.54, subd. (c) [“A failure to oppose a motion may be
deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.”].) But regardless of
Plaintiff’s concession, an order preventing Plaintiff from testifying in this
case would (i) be at least somewhat of a remedy in response to these circumstances,
and (ii) somewhat mitigate Defendant’s prejudice (by avoiding unfair surprise
at trial).
·      
If the Court is disinclined to award those, the Court should—at an
absolute minimum—continue this trial. Defendant needs time to conduct discovery
with respect to the GAL and the resulting impact on Plaintiff’s claims
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
The Court may issue a terminating sanction against a party
who engages in the misuse of the discovery process by one of the following
orders: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) An order staying
further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is obeyed; (3)
An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party; (4)
An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2023.030, subd. (d).) 
 
Misuse of the
discovery process includes, but is not limited to, failing to respond or submit
to an authorized method of discovery; making an evasive discovery response, and
disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (CCP § 2023.010(d), (f), (g).) The trial court may terminate a party’s
action as a sanction for discovery abuse “after considering the totality of the
circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were
willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and
informal attempts to obtain the discovery.” (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)¿ Terminating sanctions should be used sparingly
and the trial court should attempt less severe alternatives unless the record
clearly shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective to induce the offending
party’s compliance. (R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999)
75 Cal. App. 4th 486, 496 (finding terminating sanctions proper where
plaintiffs violated two discovery orders).) 
 
B.     Discussion
 
Defendant
moves for terminating or evidentiary sanctions against Plaintiff and seeks an
order dismissing
the case with prejudice, or alternatively, Plaintiff is precluded from
testifying at trial or otherwise introducing any evidence in his case in chief.
 
Defendant asserts that terminating or evidentiary sanctions are
warranted following Plaintiff’s March 20, 2024 deposition due to: (1)
Plaintiff’s admission at his deposition that he has been on notice of these
claims since at least the end of 2011 (which is outside the statute of
limitations), and even consulted with an attorney, (2) Plaintiff’s testimonial
admission that he lacks the capacity to pursue these claims, (3) Plaintiff
having abruptly ended his deposition after only thirty minutes, and (4)
Plaintiff’s refusal to give further deposition testimony, with trial-related
and dispositive motions deadlines fast approaching.
 
In
balancing Plaintiff’s conduct against the harm to Defendant, the Court finds
that imposition of terminating sanctions is not appropriate at this time. 
 
Defendant
has not presented evidence that it attempted to depose Plaintiff again after
the March 20, 2024 deposition. There is also no evidence that Defendant filed a motion to compel further deposition testimony, that
Defendant requested an informal discovery conference, or that Defendant met and
conferred prior to filing this motion. Thus, there is no indication at this
time that Plaintiff repeatedly failed to respond to Defendant’s discovery requests
such that he has misused the discovery process. Defendant cites to Collisson
& Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1618 in support of
its contention that courts may impose terminating sanctions as a first penalty,
without a prior court order, where lesser sanctions would fail to cure the
prejudice. However in Collisson, the plaintiff first made “many
attempts, both formal and informal” to receive discovery responses from defendant
before it filed for sanctions. (Ibid.) On the other hand here, Defendant
has not made further attempts to depose Plaintiff before filing this motion. As
the Court stated in Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 262, 279, “A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” Thus, on this
basis, the Court does not grant Defendant’s request for terminating or
evidentiary sanctions. 
 
The Court also notes that it does not find Defendant’s arguments
regarding Plaintiff’s admissions during his deposition as to when he was on
notice of the alleged claims and his comment “I’m not all there, you dope . . .
I was born defected, weirdo” as warranting terminating or evidentiary
sanctions. (Def’s Ex. A at 21:3–12.) The Court may issue terminating or
evidentiary sanctions against a party who misuses the discovery process, which
includes failing to respond or submit to an
authorized method of discovery; making an evasive discovery response, and
disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (CCP § 2023.010(d), (f), (g).) As
discussed above, the record does not indicate at this time that there has been
a pattern of Plaintiff repeatedly failing to respond to
Defendant’s discovery requests such that he has misused the discovery process.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the
Motion. 
 

 II. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant’s Motion for Terminating or Evidentiary
Sanctions against Plaintiff is DENIED.