 Case Number:  22STCV35384    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  73 5/30/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
JOHN DOE J.V., an individual v. DOE
1, a public entity (22STCV35384)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  James Lewis (Slater
Slater Schulman, LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant LAUSD/moving party:  Elizabeth
Kessel (Kessel & Megrabyan)
 
Defendant LAUSD’s motion for SUMMARY
JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES (filed by Los Angeles Unified School
District 02/08/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant LAUSD’s motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s
first and third causes of action are DENIED.
 
Defendant LAUSD’s motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s
second and fourth causes of action are MOOT.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
November 4, 2022, Plaintiff John Doe J.V.
("Plaintiff") filed this action against Defendants Doe 1, a public
entity, and Does 2 through 60, inclusive, asserting the following causes of
action.
(1) Negligence based on Government Code Sections 815.2 and 820
(Against Does 1 and Does 2 through 20)
(2) Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse (Government Code §
815.2, § 815.6 and § 820) (Against Does 1 and 21 through 40)
(3) Negligent Supervision of a Minor (Government Code § 815.2 and
§ 820) (Against Does 1 and 2 through 20)
(4) Negligence (Against Does 40 through 50)
 
On March 2,
2023, Plaintiff substituted Los Angeles Unified School District, a public
entity ("LAUSD"), for the defendant sued fictitiously as Doe
1.  
 
On August 14,
2023, Plaintiff dismissed the second cause of action for failure to report
suspected child abuse without prejudice.  
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. The incidents giving rise to this action occurred
in or around 1975 when Plaintiff was approximately 13 or 14 years old and
a ninth-grade student at El Sereno Junior High School. (Compl., ¶ 11.) At the time Plaintiff
filed his Complaint, he was 60 years old. (Compl., ¶ 10.)  
Plaintiff was
the victim of unlawful childhood sexual assault, molestation, and other
misconduct by Defendant's teacher and/or employee and/or agent, Jay
Giswein ("Giswein"), who is now deceased.  (Compl., ¶ 11.) Giswein was Plaintiffs reading
teacher at El Sereno Junior High School and, on information and belief,
also worked as a student counselor at the school. (Compl, ¶ 12.) On several occasions,
Giswein groomed Plaintiff for sexual abuse on school grounds by complimenting
him, befriending him, being affectionate towards him, giving him rides
from school, and taking him on outings to theme parks and Dodger baseball
games. (Compl., ¶ 13.) After
several instances of grooming, Giswein, by and through his authority as a
teacher and/or counselor on school grounds, pulled Plaintiff out of his classes
for no other reason other than to isolate him for sexual abuse.  (Compl., ¶ 14.) Specifically, Giswein sent hall
passes to Plaintiff's classroom, which directed Plaintiff's teachers to allow
Plaintiff to leave class and see Giswein in his classroom. (Compl., ¶ 14.) Giswein caused hall passes
to be delivered to Plaintiff at least 2 or 3 times every week. (Compl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff would leave his
classroom and walk into Giswein's classroom, where Giswein would lock the
doors  and cover the only window with paper for no other reason than to
sexually assault the minor. (Compl., ¶
15.) Giswein sexually abused Plaintiff on school grounds on numerous occasions
for over a year. (Compl., ¶ 16.)  On
information and belief, administrators, teachers, and staff at El Sereno Junior
High School, which is part of the Defendant, received complaints and warnings
about Giswein's improper behavior from  parents and students, including that
Giswein sexually harassed and sexually assaulted students. (Compl., ¶ 17.)  
Given those
complaints, Defendant should have investigated Giswein's conduct but failed to
investigate the complaints and take action against Giswein. (Compl., ¶¶ 18-20.) Because Defendant
failed to take appropriate actions against Giswein, Giswein was able to
sexually abuse and attack Plaintiff on numerous occasions and, on information
and belief, sexually assaulted, abused, and harassed several other students
on campus. (Compl., ¶ 21.)
Defendant failed to supervise Plaintiff and Giswein adequately. (Compl., ¶ 22.)  
 
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 ("Section 340.1"), effective
January 1, 2022, the Complaint is timely because it is a lawsuit for the
recovery of damages suffered as a result of a childhood sexual assault and
the time for commencement of the action is on or before December 31, 2022.
(Compl., ¶ 23.)  
 
Pursuant to
Section 340.1, subdivision (q), any claims arising from childhood sexual
assault that would otherwise be time-barred as of January 1, 2020, because
of the prior statute of limitations, prior claim presentation deadlines, or the
expiration of any other time limit, are revived and may be commenced within
three years of January 1, 2020. (Compl., ¶ 24.)  
 
Government
Code section 905(m) specifically exempts childhood sexual abuse cases from
the requirement of filing a government tort claim. (Compl., ¶ 25.)  
 
On February 8,
2024, Defendant LAUSD filed this Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
alternative, Summary Adjudication,
arguing:
·      
LAUSD moves for summary adjudication of the following issues:
o   ISSUE NO. 1:
The District Is Not Liable For Negligence of Its Employees Where Harm to
Plaintiff Was Not Foreseeable Based on Any Actual or Constructive Knowledge Of
His Conduct or Propensity for Sexual Assault of Students 
§  Plaintiff
Lacks Evidence The District’s Employees Had Actual Knowledge About Giswein’s
Conduct or Propensity To Commit Sexual Assault Of Students, Despite His
Allegations the School Had Such Actual Knowledge.
§  Even if
Actual Knowledge of Giswein’s Conduct or Propensity is Not Required, The
District Cannot Be Liable Without Having Had Some Reason to Know or Suspect
Wrongful Conduct.
o   ISSUE NO. 2:
Plaintiff Cannot Establish the Elements of the First and Third Causes of Action
Because He Cannot Provide Evidence Any District Employee Actually Was Negligent
With Respect to Hiring, Training or Supervision of Giswein 
o   ISSUE NO. 3:
The Second Cause of Action Based on CANRA Is Barred Because This Statute Had
Not Been Enacted At the Time of the Events Alleged in the Complaint 
o   ISSUE NO. 4:
The Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence is Barred Because the District Cannot
Be Liable For Tort Liability That Is Not Based on a Statute
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
·      
Plaintiff Already Dismissed the Second Cause of Action And
Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause Of Action Is Not Alleged Against LAUSD Rendering
Defendant’s Motion Moot As To These Causes Of Action
·      
Defendant is vicariously liable for the negligence of its other
employees in negligently supervising Giswein, in negligently supervise
Plaintiff, and failing to protect Plaintiff from foreseeable harm.
·      
Doe v. Lawndale Elementary’s holding rejects Defendant’s meritless arguments raised in its
Motion. Once a court determines a defendant owes a duty to a plaintiff, the
remaining liability questions—breach as well as factual and legal causation—are
usually questions for the jury.
·      
The Rowland factors weigh in favor of the Court finding
that there are no policy considerations exempting Defendant from its duties to
take measure to protect minors from sexual abuse
·      
Whether LAUSD Breached Its Duty To Plaintiff And Whether The
Breach Caused Or Contributed To Plaintiff’s Injuries Present Questions Of Fact
For The Jury
Defendant LAUSD filed a reply, maintaining
that There Is No
Evidence of Failure to Supervise Plaintiff or Giswein By Any District Employee.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
A party may
move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc.
Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. 
In determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or evidence
that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.”  (Id., § 437c,
subd. (c).) 
 
Motions for summary adjudication are
procedurally identical to motions for summary judgment. (Serri v. Santa
Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 859.) “A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code of Civ. Proc., §¿437c,¿subd. (f)(1).)¿
 
A defendant
moving for summary judgment must show “that one or more elements of the cause
of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to
the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also,
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of
action.  The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does
not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through
admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he
has discovered nothing.  But… the defendant must indeed present
evidence."  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in original].)   “In other words, all that
the defendant need do is to show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least
one element of the cause of action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot
prove element¿X.”  (Id., at 853.) The court in Aguilar
distilled summary judgment to “a single proposition:  If a party moving
for summary judgment in any action . . . would prevail at trial without
submission of any issue of material fact to a trier of fact for determination,
then he should prevail on summary judgment.  In such a case . . . the
‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and “avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’
by nonsuit or directed verdict or similar device.  (Id. at
855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar,
“the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts
usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by
the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s
showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a
judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion prima facie justifies
a judgment, the third and final step is to determine whether the opposition
demonstrates the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Ojavan
Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385
[citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing
parties must present substantial evidence in order to avoid summary
judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative value
that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts
“construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe the opponent's
affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the
motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v. Angeles-IPA
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.) 
“The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The
court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of: (1) The Legislative history and materials of Code of Civil Procedure
340.1 dated July 2, 2019, which Plaintiff filed his Complaint under and
attached to the declaration of Babak Shirdel as Exhibit F.
 
The court
may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿¿ 
 
The Court
grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.
 
C.     First and
Third Causes of Action: Negligence based on Government Code Sections 815.2 and
820 and Negligent Supervision of a Minor
 
LAUSD moves for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s first of
action for Negligence based on Government Code Sections 815.2 and 820, and
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for Negligent Supervision of a Minor.
 
Plaintiff’s first and third causes of action are both premised on
Government Code §§ 815.2 and 820, which set forth “‘the general rule ... that
an employee of a public entity is liable for his torts to the same extent as a
private person (§ 820, subd. (a)) and the public entity is vicariously liable
for any injury which its employee causes (§ 815.2, subd. (a)) to the same
extent as a private employer (§ 815, subd. (b)).’ [Citation.]” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 868 (“Hart”).)
 
Here, the
Complaint alleges the following. The incidents giving rise to this action
occurred in or around 1975 when Plaintiff was approximately 13 or 14 years
old and a ninth-grade student at El Sereno Junior High School. (Compl., ¶ 11.) At the time Plaintiff
filed his Complaint, he was 60 years old. (Compl., ¶ 10.)  Plaintiff was the victim of unlawful childhood
sexual assault, molestation, and other misconduct by Defendant's teacher
and/or employee and/or agent, Jay Giswein ("Giswein"), who is now
deceased.  (Compl., ¶ 11.)
Giswein was Plaintiffs reading teacher at El Sereno Junior High School and,
on information and belief, also worked as a student counselor at the
school. (Compl, ¶ 12.) On
several occasions, Giswein groomed Plaintiff for sexual abuse on school
grounds by complimenting him, befriending him, being affectionate towards
him, giving him rides from school, and taking him on outings to theme
parks and Dodger baseball games. (Compl., ¶ 13.) After several instances of grooming, Giswein, by and
through his authority as a teacher and/or counselor on school grounds, pulled
Plaintiff out of his classes for no other reason other than to isolate him for
sexual abuse.  (Compl., ¶
14.) Specifically, Giswein sent hall passes to Plaintiff's classroom, which
directed Plaintiff's teachers to allow Plaintiff to leave class and see Giswein
in his classroom. (Compl., ¶
14.) Giswein caused hall passes to be delivered to Plaintiff at least 2 or
3 times every week. (Compl., ¶
14.) Plaintiff would leave his classroom and walk into Giswein's
classroom, where Giswein would lock the doors and cover the only window
with paper for no other reason than to sexually assault the minor. (Compl., ¶ 15.) Giswein sexually abused
Plaintiff on school grounds on numerous occasions for over a year. (Compl., ¶ 16.)  On information and
belief, administrators, teachers, and staff at El Sereno Junior High School,
which is part of the Defendant, received complaints and warnings about
Giswein's improper behavior from parents and students, including that Giswein
sexually harassed and sexually assaulted students. (Compl., ¶ 17.)  
Given those
complaints, Defendant should have investigated Giswein's conduct but failed to
investigate the complaints and take action against Giswein. (Compl., ¶¶ 18-20.) Because Defendant
failed to take appropriate actions against Giswein, Giswein was able to
sexually abuse and attack Plaintiff on numerous occasions and, on information
and belief, sexually assaulted, abused, and harassed several other students
on campus. (Compl., ¶ 21.)
Defendant failed to supervise Plaintiff and Giswein adequately. (Compl., ¶ 22.)  
LAUSD argues that Plaintiff cannot establish his first and third
causes of action and LAUSD moves for summary adjudication as to: (1) Issue No.
1: The District Is Not Liable For Negligence of Its Employees Where Harm to
Plaintiff Was Not Foreseeable Based on Any Actual or Constructive Knowledge Of
His Conduct or Propensity for Sexual Assault of Students; and (2) Issue No. 2:
Plaintiff Cannot Establish the Elements of the First and Third Causes of Action
Because He Cannot Provide Evidence Any District Employee Actually Was Negligent
With Respect to Hiring, Training or Supervision of Giswein.
 
a.     Summary
Adjudication as to Issue No. 1: The District Is Not Liable For Negligence of
Its Employees Where Harm to Plaintiff Was Not Foreseeable Based on Any Actual
or Constructive Knowledge Of His Conduct or Propensity for Sexual Assault of
Students
 
“Whether a defendant owes a duty of care to a
plaintiff is primarily a question of law to be decided on a case-by-case
basis.” (Bartell v. Palos Verdes Peninsula Sch. Dist. (1978) 83
Cal.App.3d 492, 498, citing Weirum v. RKO General, Inc. (1975) 15 Cal.3d
40, 46.) “As a general principle, a ‘defendant owes a duty of care to all
persons who are foreseeably endangered by his conduct, with respect to all
risks which make the conduct unreasonably dangerous.’” (Bartell, supra,
83 Cal.App.3d at p. 498, citing Tarasoff v. Regents of University of
California (1976) 17 Cal.3d 425, 434-435.) “However, absent some special
relationship, a defendant falls under no duty to control the conduct of
another, and incurs no liability to those endangered by such conduct.” (Bartell,
supra, 83 Cal.App.3d at p. 498, citing DeSuza v. Andersack (1976)
63 Cal.App.3d 694, 702-703.)
 
“While school districts and their employees have never
been considered insurers of the physical safety of students, California law has
long imposed on school authorities a duty to ‘supervise at all times the
conduct of the children on the school grounds and to enforce those rules and
regulations necessary to their protection. [Citations.]’ [Citations.] The
standard of care imposed upon school personnel in carrying out this duty to
supervise is identical to that required in the performance of their other duties.
This uniform standard to which they are held is that degree of care ‘which a
person of ordinary prudence, charged with [comparable] duties, would exercise
under the same circumstances.’ [Citations.] Either a total lack of supervision
[citation] or ineffective supervision [citation] may constitute a lack of
ordinary care on the part of those responsible for student supervision. Under
section 815.2, subdivision (a) of the Government Code, a school district is
vicariously liable for injuries proximately caused by such negligence.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart,
53 Cal.4th 861, 869; Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist. (1998) 19
Cal.4th 925, 932–933; Hoyem v. Manhattan Beach City Sch. Dist. (1978) 22
Cal.3d 508, 513.)¿
 
“In addition,
a school district and its employees have a special relationship with the
district’s pupils, a relationship arising from the mandatory character of
school attendance and the comprehensive control over students exercised by
school personnel, “analogous in many ways to the relationship between parents
and their children.” (Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist., supra, 19
Cal.4th at p. 935; see M.W. v. Panama Buena Vista Union School Dist.
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 508, 517; Leger v. Stockton Unified School Dist.,
supra, 202 Cal.App.3d at pp. 1458–1459.) Because of this special
relationship, imposing obligations beyond what each person generally owes
others under Civil Code section 1714, the duty of care owed by school personnel
includes the duty to use reasonable measures to protect students from
foreseeable injury at the hands of third parties acting negligently or
intentionally. [Footnote omitted.]” (C.A. v. William S. Hart, 53 Cal.4th
861, 870.) 
 
As an initial
matter, LAUSD does not appear to dispute that it owed Plaintiff a duty of care.
Instead, LAUSD argues it is not liable for negligence of its employees where
harm to Plaintiff was not foreseeable based on any actual or constructive
knowledge of Giswein’s conduct or propensity for sexual assault of students. 
 
                                                   
i.     Actual
Knowledge
 
First, LAUSD
argues Plaintiff alleges in conclusory terms that the school had actual
knowledge that Giswein posed a risk of sexual assault to Plaintiff and other
students, but Plaintiff lacks any evidence to support those allegations.
 
However, as
the court in Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 113, 131 (“Lawndale”) established, actual knowledge is not
required. In Lawndale, the defendant school district asserted that it
did not have a duty to protect the plaintiff from sexual abuse unless it knew
that the perpetrator/sexual abuser/employee had previously engaged in sexual
misconduct with minors or had a propensity to do so. Yet, the Lawndale
court held that “consistent with California negligence law. . . school
administrators have a duty to protect students from sexual abuse by school
employees, even if the school does not have actual knowledge of a particular
employee’s history of committing, or propensity to commit, such abuse.” (Lawndale,
supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at 119.)
 
Therefore,
the Court does not find LAUSD’s argument persuasive. Even if LAUSD did not have
actual knowledge of Giswein’s conduct or propensity for sexual assault of
students, LAUSD can still be held liable.
 
                                                  
ii.     Constructive
Knowledge/Foreseeability 
 
Next, LAUSD
argues that it cannot be liable without having had some reason to know or
suspect wrongful conduct. 
 
“Once a court
determines a defendant owes a duty to a plaintiff, “the remaining liability
questions—breach as well as factual and legal causation—are usually questions
for the jury.” (Lawndale, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at 126-127.) Nevertheless,
“‘[e]ven if an organization has a special relationship with the tortfeasor or
plaintiff, “[t]he court may depart from the general rule of duty ... if other
policy considerations clearly require an exception. (Ibid.)
 
“In¿Brown¿the
Supreme Court established a two-step inquiry to determine whether a defendant
has a legal duty to take action to protect a plaintiff from injuries caused by
a third party: ‘First, the court must determine whether there exists a special
relationship between the parties or some other set of circumstances giving rise
to an affirmative duty to protect. Second, if so, the court must consult the
factors described in [Rowland v. Christian¿(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, (Rowland)]
to determine whether relevant policy considerations counsel limiting that
duty.’ ”  (Doe v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles¿(2021)
70 Cal.App.5th 657, 670 [quoting Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p.209.) 
 
The¿Rowland¿factors
are “ ‘the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty
that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for¿breach, and the availability, cost,
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.’ ” (Regents, supra, 4
Cal.5th at p. 628, 230 Cal.Rptr.3d 415, 413 P.3d 656, quoting¿Rowland, supra,
69 Cal.2d at p. 113, 70; see¿Brown,¿supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 217.)
“The¿Rowland¿factors fall into two categories. The first group involves
foreseeability and the related concepts of certainty and the connection between
plaintiff and defendant. The second embraces the public policy concerns¿of
moral blame, preventing future harm, burden, and insurance availability.” (Regents,¿at
p. 629; see¿Brown v. USA Taekwondo,¿supra, 40 Cal.App.5th at p.
1096.) “ ‘The most important factor to consider in determining whether to
create an exception to the general duty to exercise ordinary care ... is
whether the injury in question was¿foreseeable.’ ” (Regents, at
p. 629, quoting¿Kesner v. Superior Court¿(2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1145, (Kesner).) 
 
(Roman,
supra, 70 Cal.App.5th at pp.673–674.) 
 
Here,
LAUSD does not address each of the Rowland factors, but appears to argue
in its motion that Plaintiff’s injury was not foreseeable. LAUSD argues
Plaintiff cannot provide admissible evidence of any facts or behavior by Giswein or any other District employees, that would have
signaled to LAUSD or its employees to take any particular precautions to
address sexual assaults by Giswein or any other employee in this period of
time.
 
However,
regarding foreseeability, the Lawndale court stated the issue “is not whether it is foreseeable a particular
adult will sexually abuse a student if left alone with the student…  the
issue is whether it is reasonably foreseeable that organizations or entities
that provide services primarily or exclusively for children have employees who
may sexually abuse a child if the organization fails to take reasonable
measures to prevent the abuse. In any event, to the extent John R.
suggests sexual abuse of students by school employees is not reasonably
foreseeable, it is inconsistent with the Supreme Court's more recent holding in
[C.A.] that school personnel owe students a duty to take reasonable
measures to protect them from foreseeable injury, including “injuries to a
student resulting from a teacher's sexual assault.” [Citation.] .” (Lawndale, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at 132.) The Lawndale court further stated “sexual abuse
by members “of an organization that provide[s] activities exclusively for children
—like an elementary school district—is reasonably foreseeable, even where the
organization had no knowledge that [the employee] had previously sexually or
physically abused anyone or had a propensity to do so.” (Ibid.) Thus,
based on the court’s reasoning in Lawndale, the Court finds it is similarly
reasonably foreseeable that if LAUSD failed to take reasonable measures to
prevent childhood sexual abuse of its minor students enrolled at its school,
one of its employees may sexually abuse a minor student. 
 
LAUSD has not carried its
initial burden. Accordingly, the Court DENIES summary adjudication as to issue
no. 1. 
 
b.     Summary
Adjudication as to Issue No. 2: Plaintiff Cannot Establish the Elements of the
First and Third Causes of Action Because He Cannot Provide Evidence Any
District Employee Actually Was Negligent With Respect to Hiring, Training or
Supervision of Giswein 
 
LAUSD argues Plaintiff has absolutely no evidence of any
negligence in hiring, training, or supervising Giswein at El Sereno by any
District supervisory or administrative employee.
 
The law is
well established that “a public school district may be vicariously liable under
[Government Code] section 815.2 for the negligence of administrators or
supervisors in hiring, supervising and retaining a school employee who sexually
harasses and abuses a student.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union School Dist.
(“C.A. v. William S. Hart”) (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 879.) 
 
LAUSD asserts
Plaintiff cannot establish that any LAUSD employee was negligent in hiring,
training, or supervising Giswein. The Court notes that LAUSD does not present
any evidence in support of its argument. For example, LAUSD does not provide
any evidence of LAUSD’s due
diligence prior to hiring Giswein, and that its due diligence failed to uncover any concerns
about Giswein.
LAUSD also asserts that many of the incidents of sexual assault
Plaintiff describes, occurring in Giswein’s apartment or while Plaintiff was
travelling with Giswein, did not occur on school premises and could not have
been known to or observed by any school employee. However, LAUSD seems to
ignore the undisputed material facts that Rudy Jimenez, a teacher at Defendant’s
El Sereno Junior High School, knew about Giswein’s frequent off-campus trips
with Plaintiff, that Jimenez attended some of these off-campus trips, and that
Plaintiff’s pre-lunch classroom teacher would receive the hall passes and
approve Plaintiff to go to Giswein’s office. (UMF 5, 12, 13, 25.)
 
Further, courts have held that whether a defendant breached its
duty of care, and whether the breach caused or contributed to the plaintiff’s
injuries are fact specific issues, appropriate for the trier of fact. (Hoyem,
supra, 22 Cal.3d 508, 513.) The Supreme Court has explained: “the issues
of whether or not the school acted negligently in failing to provide adequate
supervision,” and “if so, whether the student’s injuries were proximately
caused by such negligence, [fall] within the province of the jury.” (Ibid.)
“The question of actual causation [that is, whether or not more diligent
supervision would have prevented the accident] is essentially a factual
determination for the jury.” (Id. at p. 520.) Here, LAUSD has not shown
that the issue of whether or not the school acted negligently in failing to
provide adequate supervision should be adjudicated at this stage.
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds LAUSD has not carried its initial burden. The burden
does not shift to Plaintiff. Thus, the Court DENIES summary adjudication as to
issue no. 2. 
 
Accordingly, LAUSD’s motion for summary adjudication as
to Plaintiff’s first and third causes of action are DENIED.
 
D.     Second and
Fourth Causes of Action: Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse and Negligence
 
LAUSD also moves for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s second
and fourth causes of action. 
 
However, Plaintiff
filed a request for dismissal as to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action against
all Defendants on or about August 14, 2023. Thus, the Court finds LAUSD’s motion
for summary adjudication as to the Second Cause of Action is moot. 
 
In addition,
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for negligence is not directed or alleged
against Defendant LAUSD. Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is solely alleged
against unnamed Defendant Does 41 through 50, only. As such, the Court also
finds LAUSD’s motion for summary adjudication as to the Fourth Cause of Action
is moot.
 
LAUSD’s motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s second and
fourth causes of action are MOOT.
 

 II. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant LAUSD’s motion for summary adjudication as
to Plaintiff’s first and third causes of action are DENIED.
 
Defendant LAUSD’s motion for summary adjudication as
to Plaintiff’s second and fourth causes of action are MOOT.