 Case Number:  24STCP02846    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  26 Enenwali v. Framework Constr. & Remodeling, Inc.,
et al.TENTATIVE RULING:Petitioner Esomchi Enenwali’s Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE TO BRINGING AN AMENDED PETITION.ANALYSIS: Petitioner Esomchi Enenwali (“Petitioner”) filed the instant Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien against Respondent Framework Construction & Remodeling, Inc. (“Respondent”) on September 3, 2024. Petitioner filed a proof of service by mail on October 1, 2024. No response to the Petition has been filed to date. DiscussionPetitioner moves to have the mechanic’s lien recorded against their property by Respondent released. Under Civil Code section 8484 the petition for release order must be verified by the petitioner and allege the following:(a) The date of recordation of the claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the petition.(b) The county in which the claim of lien is recorded.(c) The book and page or series number of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded.(d) The legal description of the property subject to the claim of lien.(e) Whether an extension of credit has been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired.(f) That the owner has given the claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found.(g) Whether an action to enforce the lien is pending.(h) Whether the owner of the property or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to enforce the lien.(Civil Code, § 8484.) Petitioner filed a proof of service of the Petition and notice of the new hearing date on October 1, 2024, showing service by first-class mail on September 10, 2024. (Proof of Service, filed 10/01/24.) Service by first-class mail, however, does not meet the statutory requirements. Civil Code section 8486, subdivision (b) provides that “[t]he petitioner shall serve a copy of the petition and a notice of hearing on the claimant at least 15 days before the hearing. Service shall be made in the same manner as service of summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the claimant as provided in Section 8108.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 8486, subd. (b).)The Petition is also incomplete in that it does not indicate that Petitioner has not filed for relief under any law and fails to include a legal description of the subject property. The Petition only includes the subject property’s Assessor’s Parcel Number. (Pet., ¶3.) (MTC Financial Inc. v. California Dept. of Tax & Fee Administration (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 742, 749 [“a parcel number, by itself, does not necessarily demonstrate the actual, physical location of a property.”]Therefore, the Petition does not meet the procedural and substantive statutory requirements to release the mechanic’s lien. ConclusionPetitioner Esomchi Enenwali’s Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE TO BRINGING AN AMENDED PETITION.Court clerk to give notice. 