 Case Number:  23STLC02758    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  26 LAC Verdugo Operations, LLC v. Yelsik, et al.,TENTATIVE RULING: Motion of Defendant Evelyn Faith
Corder, individually, and as Successor Trustee of the 2014 Dorothy Louise
Yelsik Revocable Trust for
Relief from Default and/or Default Judgment is GRANTED. THE DEFAULT ENTERED ON
APRIL 29, 2024 AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT ENTERED ON JULY 29, 2024 ARE HEREBY
VACATED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE THE PROPOSED ANSWER WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER. THE PARTIES ARE ALSO ORDERED TO FILE A JOINT REPORT REGARDING STATUS OF SETTLEMENT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.                                                                                                       
ANALYSIS: On April 25,
2023, Plaintiff LAC Verdugo Operations, LLC, dba Glendale Post Acute Center
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Dorothy Yelsik aka Dorothy
Louise Yelsik (“Yelsik”) and Evelyn Faith Corder, individually, and as
Successor Trustee of the 2014 Dorothy Louise Yelsik Revocable Trust
(“Defendant”), and Does 1-20, alleging causes of action for Breach of Written
Contract, Common Counts, and Quantum Meruit. Yelsik was subsequently dismissed
on July 10, 2023. On June 9,
2023, the Court issued a “Notice of Rejection of Pleadings Re: Defendant’s
proposed answer.” Defendant was directed to submit the answer in proper format
and to use the correct forms. (6/9/23 Notice of Rejection.) Following
Defendant’s failure to file a responsive pleading, the Court entered their
default on April 29, 2024 and default judgment on July 29, 2024.On October
18, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Notice of Motion and Motion for Relief
from Default and/or Default Judgment (the “Motion”). Plaintiff filed an opposition
on November 14, 2024, and Defendant replied on November 22, 2024.DiscussionDefendant moves to vacate the entry of default and default
judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). An
application for discretionary relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b) must be made within a reasonable time, no more
than six months after entry of the order from which relief is sought, and must
be accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to the party’s excusable
mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b);
English v. IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) The
motion must also be accompanied by a copy of the moving defendant’s proposed
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) This can be corrected if the defendant
submits a proposed responsive pleading by the hearing date. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (b); Carmel, Ltd. v. Tavoussi (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 393,
403.)The Motion is supported by Defendant’s declaration, which
explains she made multiple attempts to file a responsive pleading in May 2023
but was hindered by her lack of knowledge of California court procedure.
(Motion, Corder Decl., ¶¶4-5 and Exhs. 4-7.) Defendant’s attempt to respond
upon receipt of Plaintiff’s request for entry of default judgment was also
unsuccessful. (Id. at ¶¶6-7 and Exhs. 12-14.) Until September 2024,
Defendant an elderly person living in New Mexico, could not find an attorney to
take the case. (Id. at ¶2.)In opposition, Plaintiff explains that its attorney has been
in communication with Defendant since May 2023 and sought to settle the action.
(Opp., Salamoff Decl., ¶¶3-9.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant agreed to a settlement, and that a
check Defendant sent to Plaintiff’s counsel in the summer of 2023 was rejected by the
bank. (Id. at ¶10.) Plaintiff also offers evidence that more than a year later, the parties may have reached another settlement and Defendant sent Plaintiff’s counsel a cashier’s check in
September 2023. (Id. at ¶¶21-23.) Plaintiff’s counsel was then contacted
by defense counsel in October 2023 with a retraction of the settlement
agreement and request to return the cashier’s check. (Id. at ¶¶24-26.) The court notes that no party has submitted a copy of a signed, or enforceable, settlement agreement.As an initial matter, the
Court finds the Motion is timely. Where the statute requires that “ ‘ “the
application must be made within a ‘reasonable time’ … what is a reasonable time
in any case depends upon the circumstances of that particular case.” While in
“the determination of that question, a large discretion is necessarily confided
to [the trial] court” ... there must be some showing—some evidence—as the basis
for the exercise of such discretion.’ ” (Caldwell v. Methodist Hospital
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1521, 1524 [citing Carrasco v. Craft (1985) 164
Cal.App.3d 796, 805].) The Motion contends that moving for relief almost six
months after entry of default was reasonable based on Defendant’s inability to
file a pleading without the assistance of counsel, whom she only was able to
retain in September 2024. The same facts demonstrate
that Defendant’s failure to timely file a responsive pleading was the result of
excusable mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect. As Defendant
points out, “[u]nless inexcusable neglect is clear, the policy favoring trial
on the merits prevails. Doubts are resolved in favor of the application for
relief from default, and reversal of an order denying relief results. Reversal
is particularly appropriate where relieving the default will not seriously
prejudice the opposing party.” (Elston v. Turlock (1985) 38 Cal. 3d 227,
235.) Moreover, the evidence attached to the papers indicates that the parties were in the
process of settling the claims, but had an unresolved dispute over the accuracy of outstanding balance reflected in the health insurance billing information, and what Defendant owed
Plaintiff for care rendered to Defendant Yelsik, Defendant’s sister. (Motion,
Corder Decl., ¶¶10-11 and Exh. 16; Opp., Salamoff Decl., ¶15.) None of the evidence clarifies whether there was an eventual meeting of the minds regarding the outstanding balance, the amount owed, or the sum and terms under which the matter would settle.   It is excusable
that Defendant did not file a responsive pleading based on all these
circumstances: several unsuccessful attempts to file a response, ongoing
settlement discussions with Plaintiff’s counsel, unresolved disputes regarding the accuracy of the billing and what was
owed for Yelsik’s care,  and the difficulty in finding an attorney. Therefore, relief under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b) is granted.   The same facts demonstrate
that Defendant’s failure to timely file a responsive pleading was the result of
excusable mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect. As Defendant
points out, “[u]nless inexcusable neglect is clear, the policy favoring trial
on the merits prevails. Doubts are resolved in favor of the application for
relief from default, and reversal of an order denying relief results. Reversal
is particularly appropriate where relieving the default will not seriously
prejudice the opposing party.” (Elston v. Turlock (1985) 38 Cal. 3d 227,
235.) Moreover, the evidence attached to the papers indicates that the parties were in the
process of settling the claims, but appeare to have an unresolved dispute over the accuracy of outstanding balance reflected in the health insurance billing information, and what Defendant owed
Plaintiff for care rendered to Defendant Yelsik, Defendant’s sister. (Motion,
Corder Decl., ¶¶10-11 and Exh. 16; Opp., Salamoff Decl., ¶15.) It is excusable
that Defendant did not file a responsive pleading based on all these
circumstances: several unsuccessful attempts to file a response, ongoing
settlement discussions with Plaintiff’s counsel, unresolved disputes regarding the accuracy of the billing and what was
owed for Yelsik’s care, and the difficulty in finding an attorney. Therefore, relief under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b) is granted.   Finally, Plaintiff asks the
Court to impose a penalty in the amount of $1,000.00 against Defendant pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (c)(1), which states:Whenever the court grants relief from a
default, default judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions of this
section, the court may do any of the following: (A) Impose a penalty of no greater than
one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending attorney or party.(B) Direct that an offending attorney
pay an amount no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar
Client Security Fund.(C) Grant other relief as is
appropriate. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (c)(1).) To the extent the
request for a penalty and/or sanction is brought “for requiring Plaintiff to
unnecessarily and unjustifiably incurring [sic] the costs of preparing, filing
and appearing on this motion,” the Court finds such a sanction is not warranted
based on its ruling granting the Motion. 
Conclusion 
Motion of Defendant Evelyn Faith Corder, individually, and as Successor Trustee of the 2014 Dorothy Louise Yelsik Revocable Trust for Relief from Default and/or Default Judgment is GRANTED. THE DEFAULT ENTERED ON APRIL 29, 2024 AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT ENTERED ON JULY 29, 2024 ARE HEREBY VACATED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE THE PROPOSED ANSWER WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER. THE PARTIES ARE ALSO ORDERED TO FILE A JOINT REPORT REGARDING STATUS OF SETTLEMENT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.  
Court clerk to give
notice.