 Case Number:  23STCV05954    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories.
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses
to Requests for Production.
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
Background
This case arises out of an alleged motor vehicle accident on
July 25, 2021, near the intersection of Vernon Avenue and Vermont Avenue in Los
Angeles, California.
On March 17, 2023, Plaintiff Karina Elizabeth Hernandez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint asserting causes of action for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence against Defendants Lyft, Inc., Crystal
Villalobos, Juan C. Davalos, Guilda Asuncion Davalos, and Does 1 through 100.
The named defendants all filed answers during the period of
May through July 2023.
On May 3, 2023, Defendant Villalobos filed a cross-complaint
against Juan C. Davalos, Guilda Asuncion Davalos, and Roes 1 through 25.  The named cross-defendants filed an answer to
the cross-complaint on June 12, 2023.
Also on May 3, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant Villalobos
(“Defendant”) with Special Interrogatories (Set One) and Requests for
Production (Set One).  (Wong Decls., Exh.
1.)  On July 10, 2023, Defendant served
responses to the special interrogatories and requests for production that
consisted entirely of objections.  (Id.,
Exh. 2.)  No verification was provided
(or required).
Following a meet-and-confer, Plaintiff filed these two motions
to compel further responses on August 28, 2023. 
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions. 
Defendant filed an opposition on October 6, and Plaintiff filed a reply
on October 12.
The parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference
(IDC) on September 20, 2023.  The
discovery dispute was not resolved.
The Court is aware that additional discovery motions in this
matter are or were on calendar in the month of October 2023.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Defendant responded to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories
(Set One) and Requests for Production (Set One) with objections only, and no
substantive response.  (Wong Decl., Exh.
2.)  Plaintiff argues that the objections
should be overruled and Defendant should be ordered to provide code-compliant,
verified responses, without objections.
In the Opposition, Defendant does not attempt to argue the
merits of the objections.  Instead,
Defendant’s counsel states that, despite diligent efforts, counsel has lost
contact with Defendant and has been unable to communicate with her.  As a result, counsel states, the insurer has
offered to settle for policy limits, that no sanctions should be awarded
against Defendant or counsel, and that if anyone is sanctioned it should be
Plaintiff’s counsel.
Beginning with the merits, the Court has reviewed the
objections to each of the interrogatories in Special Interrogatories (Set One)
and Requests for Production (Set One). 
Those objections are overruled, and the motions to compel further
responses are GRANTED.
As to sanctions, the Court concludes that sanctions should be
awarded against Defendant.  She is a
party to pending litigation and has an obligation to comply with the provisions
of the Civil Discovery Act.  The failure
to remain in contact with her counsel does not excuse her obligations,
constitute substantially justified conduct, or make the imposition of sanctions
against her unjust.
The Court concludes that no sanctions should be awarded
against Defendant’s counsel.  When discovery
responses are due and a client refuses to communicate with counsel, counsel is
placed in an untenable situation.  Under
the difficult circumstances, serving objection-only responses is not
unreasonable, and the Court finds that the imposition of sanctions against
counsel would be unjust.
No sanctions are awarded against Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s
counsel.
Monetary sanctions for each motion are set in the amount of $885.  The Court has taken into consideration the
declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel (Wong Decl., ¶ 9), the relatively
straightforward nature of this motion, and the economies of scale associated
with preparing multiple parallel motions to compel.  The Court bases its sanction award on 1.5
hours of attorney time, multiplied by counsel’s billing rate of $550 per hour,
plus the filing fee of $60.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motions to compel further
responses.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve code-compliant, verified
responses, without objection, to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories (Set One),
within 45 days of service of this order.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve code-compliant, written, verified
responses, without objection, to Defendant’s Request for Production (Set One),
within 45 days of service of this order.
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to monetary sanctions under the
Civil Discovery Act to Defendant in the amount of $1,770 ($885 per motion,
multiplied by two motions), within 45 days of service of this order.
All other requests for relief in connection with this motion
are DENIED.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 