  Case Number:  18STPB04469    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION OF RESPONDENT FIDELITY NATIONAL TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES
 
Case: In
re: Trust of Hazel N. Winchester, dated November 24, 2004 
Petition:
Shelia Mitchell, et al. v. William Bernard Winchester, et al. 
Case No. 18STPB04469
Hearing
Date: March 1, 2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
          Respondent Fidelity
National Title Insurance Company, as successor-in-interest to Lawyers Title
Insurance Corporation (“Fidelity”) contends that no relief can be granted to Petitioner
Shelia Mitchell (“Shelia”) based on the causes of action to which it is a party
because those are barred by a three-year statute of limitation, as well as lack
of any justiciable controversy.[1]
Shelia argues in response that the four-year statute applies and in the
alternative that if the three-year statute applies, the statute did not begin
to run until less than three years before filing of the petition when she
contends she learned of the alleged fraud. Further, she contends there is an “actual
and present” controversy for purposes of declaratory relief related to
Fidelity’s claim of lien against the Property. 
 
STATEMENT OF FACTS 
Hazel Winchester (“Hazel”) owned real property at 10610 S. St.
Andrews Place in Los Angeles (“the Property”). 
Hazel created the above-referenced Trust in 2004 and the Property
was made an asset of the Trust.
Hazel had three children, Cynthia Wilburn (“Cynthia”), William Bernard
Winchester (“Bernard”) and Shelia, each of whom was a one-third beneficiary of
the Trust. 
Hazel died on July 26, 2009. 
Cynthia became trustee of the Trust on Hazel’s passing. 
Cynthia died in August 2012.[2]

After Cynthia’s death, Bernard was not immediately able to take
over as trustee and asked Shelia to act for him. Cynthia sought to sell the Property
but when Bernard became aware of same the sale was cancelled and he took over his
position as trustee. 
In 2014, Ronald McCoy (“McCoy”), a friend of Bernard, moved into
the Property. 
Not being able to take monies out of the Property, Bernard asked
McCoy to take out a loan under his name for the Trust, to which he agreed. 
On September 15, 2014, Bernard executed a quitclaim deed to the
Property to McCoy. (Ex. D to Shelia’s Opposition) In connection therewith, McCoy
borrowed approximately $259,000 from Lantzman Lending secured by a deed of
trust against the Property. On the same date, McCoy executed a quitclaim deed
to the Property back to Bernard, as trustee of the Trust. 
On September 17, 2014, according to Fidelity, the Trust was
amended whereby McCoy became second successor trustee. (Ex. H to Shelia’s
Opposition)  
After payment of the existing loan and property taxes, the balance
of $58,404.93 from the Lantzman loan was deposited into an account of the Trust
at Wells Fargo Bank on which Shelia was signatory. 
Shelia wrote checks from that account to herself, Bernard and
others thereafter. 
McCoy made most of the payments to Lantzman through November 2016.

On January 7, 2016, Bernard died. 
On June 9, 2016, a deed was executed by McCoy, whereby the Trust
purportedly transferred the Property to McCoy. (Ex. I to Opposition). 
On June 27, 2106, McCoy, acting as purported trustee of the Trust,
executed a deed to the Property to himself, as a married man as his sole and
separate property. (Ex. J to Opposition) 
In November 2016, McCoy borrowed approximately $344,000 from
United Mortgage, secured by a deed of trust against the Property, paying off
the Lantzman loan and property taxes, and keeping the balance himself. 
The United Mortgage loan was transferred to respondent Mid-America
Mortgage, now known as Click N’ Close (“CNC”). 
McCoy made the payments on the CNC loan until he died in February
2020.[3]

Going back in time, and on a different front, on September 16,
2010, Lawyers Title Ins. Co, predecessor-in-interest to Fidelity, obtained a
default judgment against Mack McCoy, a person it contends is Ronald McCoy, in
the amount of $343,639.00.[4]
On September 2, 2011, Lawyers’ Title filed an abstract of judgment with the
County Recorder.[5]
Subsequent iterations of this abstract (including amendment of the judgment to
include the name Ronald McCoy) were filed in 2013, 2017 and 2018. 
On May 10, 2018, Shelia filed a petition for breach of trust,
fraud, conversion, cancellation of instruments, declaratory relief, recover
property and quiet title under Probate Code sec. 850 and for constructive trust.
The petition is against among others Does 6 through 10 and all persons that may
claim any right, title, lien or interest in the Property.  Shelia claims wrongful actions by William and McCoy
and seeks to undo both the deed of trust in favor of Lantzman recorded on
September 22, 2014 and the deed of trust now in favor of CNC recorded on
November 3, 2016. 
In July 2019, Fidelity filed a notice and statement of lien in
this case to recover from McCoy for any judgment in his favor.  
On November 24, 2020, Shelia named Lawyers Title, as well as Fidelity,
as Does. 
On December 8, 2020, Fidelity filed an objection to the petition,
including raising as an affirmative defense that the petition was barred by the
statute of limitation. 
On March 12, 2021, Shelia filed her verified first amended
petition (“FAP”), seeking substantially similar relief, including against Lawyers
Title and Fidelity as Does 6 and 7. Relevant here, both the seventh cause of
action for declaratory relief and eighth cause of action to quiet title seek to
set aside the various abstracts of judgment of Fidelity (in Exs. K though O to
the FAP) as liens against the Property.[6]
Paragraph 124 of the FAP alleges numerous reasons why Shelia contends the
abstracts of judgment are not a valid lien against the Property. 
On April 30, 2021, Fidelity filed its verified objection to the FAP,
again asserting that the petition was barred by the statute of limitation. 
On April 17, 2023, the Court filed an order granting a petition
for approval of a settlement agreement between Shelia, CNC and Cierra, ultimately
revised, whereby, among other terms not material here, Cierra disclaimed any
claim of ownership to the Property, Cierra would transfer ownership of the
Property to Shelia, as successor trustee of the Trust, in exchange for payment
of $32,174.50 from any excess proceeds from sale of the Property, and would
cause the Property to be listed for sale, all without prejudice to any claim of
lien by Fidelity. In granting the motion, the Court stated it was not making
any findings of fact or conclusions of law. 

On November 3, 2023, Fidelity filed this motion for summary
judgment, or in the alternative, for summary adjudication of the first and
seventh causes of action. 
Fidelity contends the first cause of action of the FAP for “breach
of trust” is barred by the three-year statute of limitation for fraud in Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) sec. 338(d).[7]
The basis of the motion is that the gravamen of the entire petition is wrongful
actions by Bernard and McCoy to take monies from the Trust but that Sheila was
aware of such alleged wrongdoing on September 24, 2014 (when money was
deposited into the Trust bank account on which she was a signatory) (to start
the statute running) – which would have required Shelia to file the petition no
later than September 24, 2017. Shelia filed the initial petition on May 10,
2018. 
Fidelity contends that the seventh cause of action in the FAP for
declaratory relief to void judgment lien fails on the basis that there is no
actual controversy as between Shelia and Fidelity. 
On November 17, 2023, the Court set the hearing on this motion for
February 20, 2024. Trial was set for April 8, 2024. By stipulation, the hearing
was continued to March 1, 2024. 
On February 16, 2024, Shelia filed opposition to the motion. 
On the merits, Shelia contends that she told Bernard in 2014 that she
did not agree to his borrowing against the Property (Decl., para. 15) but
Bernard went ahead and did so without her knowledge or consent. (Decl., para.
19) She also contends that after Bernard died, she told McCoy in 2016 that she
wanted to sell the Property but he told her he was now in charge of the
Property. (Decl., paras. 22 and 24) She disputes McCoy ever becoming a trustee
of the Trust. (Decl., para. 29) Shelia files a declaration of Brandon corroborating
his aunt’s desire to then sell the Property. In summary, Shelia contends McCoy
stole the Property from the Trust. She also filed a declaration of Cierra concluding
that her father had no right to the Property and was not trustee. (Decl., para.
6) 
Concerning the statutes
of limitation, Shelia contends that there is a four-year statute of limitation
– which would make the filing of the petition timely – or in the alternative,
that if the three-year statute applies, the petition was still filed timely
because the statute does not start running until 2016 when she was made aware
of the alleged fraud in meeting with McCoy – which was less than three years
before filing of the petition. 
 
On February 23, 2024,
Fidelity filed a Reply, together with Evidentiary Objections to the declarations
filed in support of the opposition. The Reply addresses the merits of the case
as opposed to stating anything further related to why the petition is barred by
the statute of limitation that is the basis for this motion. 
 
 DISCUSSION 
 
        The Court has ruled
on the evidentiary objections in the pleadings filed separately. 
          The first through
sixth and ninth causes of action in the FAP are against McCoy, respondents
other than Lawyers Title or Fidelity, and Doe trustees 1 through 5. The seventh
cause of action for declaratory relief to void judgment lien is against Lawyers
Title and Fidelity. The eighth cause of action to quiet title is against all
respondents.  
         Notwithstanding that
Fidelity is not named as a respondent to the first cause of action, the motion seeks
summary adjudication as to that cause of action. It does so because it contends
that the fraud alleged in that cause of action is why Shelia is contending its
abstract of judgment is not a valid lien against the Property in the
declaratory relief cause of action. Specifically, Shelia asserts that but for the
wrongful actions of Bernard and McCoy, McCoy would not have been on title and
therefore Fidelity’s judgment would not have attached to the Property by
recording of an abstract. If Shelia’s claim in this regard is time-barred, she
cannot then assert that Fidelity does not have a valid lien. 
          Assuming what
Fidelity intended was to contend that Shelia cannot seek declaratory relief
because she knew about the fraud more than three years before filing the
petition, and the three-year statute of limitation would apply to the
declaratory relief cause of action (to which Fidelity is a party),[8]
the facts are nonetheless in dispute: On the one hand, Fidelity points to Shelia
having “inquiry notice” about Bernard borrowing against the Property by reason
of the money coming into the Trust bank account on which she was a signatory. In
addition, McCoy testified to having informed Shelia about his then borrowing
against the Property. On the other hand, Shelia asserts in her declaration that
she did not know about Bernard having borrowed against the Property and that
she specifically told Bernard she did not agree to his doing so. The Court
cannot rule as a matter of law one way or another concerning what Shelia knew
at that time, constructively or otherwise. It is at least possible that a jury or
trier of fact might find even if she knew money came into the bank account that
she did not know it was because of a loan against the Property or that Bernard
would thereby try to defraud her and other beneficiaries. This is a credibility
issue that cannot be decided on a motion for summary judgment. 
          Moreover, even if
these facts concerning fraud were not reasonably in dispute, Shelia’s claim
against Bernard and McCoy is not the sole basis for why Shelia is asserting
Fidelity does not have a valid lien: Para. 124 of the FAP also asserts that it
is not clear that the person against whom Lawyers Title obtained a judgment is
the same person who held title to the Property. The motion does not address this
further point with any supporting evidence. That Lawyers Title was able to
secure amendment of the judgment to add McCoy’s name does not provide the
evidence necessary to meet their burden of proof for summary judgment purposes
that Shelia will not be able to show that they are not the same person, as she
alleges.[9]

          Furthermore, even
assuming the order amending the judgment validly added McCoy’s name, this would
still not entitle Fidelity to summary judgment: The Court disagrees with
Fidelity that Shelia has not properly asserted a valid cause of action for
declaratory relief. Fidelity argues that there is no present justiciable
controversy that can be the basis for this cause of action and instead there is
only a determination to be made of past events, i.e., the actions of Bernard
and McCoy and recording of Fidelity’s lien. However, there remains an issue of quieting
title and knowing who should receive any equity in the Property. These are not just
a matter of damages.[10]

          Though the Court
does not now reach the merits, there is an “actual and present” dispute: On the
one hand, Shelia contends that McCoy never had valid title to the Property,
that the deeds to McCoy are voidable and therefore Fidelity does not have a
valid lien attaching to the Property by reason of McCoy’s name having been as
of record.[11] Contrary
to what Fidelity argues in its Reply, the claim is not that Fidelity’s judgment
against McCoy is invalid. On the other hand, Fidelity contends Shelia was actually
and or constructively on notice of and benefitted from the actions of Bernard
and McCoy in 2014, that therefore the deeds to McCoy should not be voided and
that its lien is therefore valid. The Court will decide these issues after
hearing the competing evidence at trial.[12]

          Finally, the
motion in any event does not address the eighth cause of action to quiet title.
Though the FAP is not entirely clear whether that cause of action is directed to
Fidelity’s lien claim, the Court cannot grant summary judgment as to that cause
of action - that on its face makes claims concerning Fidelity’s claim of lien -
where the motion did not seek that relief. 
 
Separate Statement 
Consistent with the foregoing, the Court finds there are material
factual issues as to the following facts as to which Fidelity contended that they
were undisputed: 
No. 5: Shelia’s deposition does not support the contention she
admitted at her deposition that she wanted to obtain equity from the Property
in 2014.  
No. 7: Though McCoy testified that Shelia asked him to take out a
loan against the Property, her deposition does not make that admission. Her
declaration states she did not ask McCoy. 
No. 9: Shelia’s deposition does not establish that she knew the
details about the 2014 loan when the funds were deposited into the Trust
account. She denied then knowing the details. 
No. 12: As discussed above, there is a credibility issue
concerning what Shelia knew about the details of the Lantzman loan in 2014.
While she denies knowing them, the checks she wrote may indicate she did know. 
No. 13: This erroneously assumes that Shelia would have asked
where the monies were going when she had a third interest in the Property in
that it is not established, as discussed above, that she knew the proceeds came
from the Property. 
No. 15:  McCoy and Shelia
have different accounts of what was discussed at the meeting they had after
Bernard died. 
No. 17: There are several disputes as to whether the document
entitled “Amendment to Trust” designated McCoy as trustee, as outlined in the
Responsive Separate Statement. 
No. 18: Fidelity has not provided any evidence either that the Lantzman
loan was coming due or that Shelia could not find anyone to take over the
Property. 
No. 21: As discussed above, there is a factual issue as to whether
there was fraud or breach of fiduciary duty by Bernard and McCoy. 
No. 22: This is not a fact but a legal assertion and is disputed. 
No. 23: Again, there is a factual issue related to whether Shelia
was on “inquiry notice” as to any breach of trust. 
No. 35: As discussed above, this is a legal issue over how to characterize
the allegations in the FAP. 
           
 
CONCLUSION          For these reasons,
the Court denies both the motion for summary judgment and for summary
adjudication of the first and seventh causes of action. 
 
 


