


[1] For ease of reference, and without intending any
disrespect, the Court refers to family members by their first name. 


[2] Cynthia had two children, Brandon Wilburn and
Deacalion Wilburn. Deacalion predeceased Cynthia, leaving two children: Daijah
Wilburn and Faith Wilburn. Pursuant to Article 5 of the Trust, Brandon, Daijah
and Faith stand to inherit Cynthia’s one-third interest in the Property. 


[3] McCoy’s daughter, Cierra McCoy (“Cierra”), filed a
Probate case (Case No. 20STPB03017) to administer her father’s assets, which
included a claim to the Property. On August 5, 2020, the Court appointed Cierra
as special administrator of Bernard’s estate. 


[4] The motion does not attach the judgment itself nor
provide any details concerning what led to Lawyers Title bringing the action
that resulted in the judgment.  


[5] On April 13, 2020, Fidelity renewed the judgment. 


[6] However, only the prayer to the seventh cause of
action addresses specifically Fidelity and the abstracts.  


[7] Initially, it is not clear that Fidelity can move for
summary judgment of the first cause of action when it is not a party to that
cause of action. Seemingly, Fidelity is doing so to claim the three-year
statute applies to the causes of action that are against Fidelity - asserting
that courts are to look to the “gravamen” of the complaint to determine the
relevant statute of limitation. 
          However, CCP sec. 343 provides a four-year
statute of limitation for causes of action that have not otherwise been
provided for in the Code. Fidelity does not address why the four-year statute
would not apply to those causes of action, instead making a confusing argument
related to a breach of fiduciary duty cause of action – as to which no specific
statute of limitation applies. Here, the first cause of action is not one for
breach of fiduciary duty to start with but for fraud and for fraud sec. 338(d) provides
a three-year bar. 
           


[8] The motion does not indicate what statute of
limitation would apply to the declaratory relief (or quiet title) causes of
action. The motion does not provide any applicable law that these causes of
action would be governed by the three-year statute as opposed to the four-years
provided by CCP sec. 343. See Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Ass’n v. City
of La Habra (2001) 25 Cal.4th 809, 821 (“Both mandamus and declaratory judgment are
remedies available to enforce a variety of obligations; choice of the statute
of limitations applicable to these remedies depends on the right or obligation
sought to be enforced, and the statute's application generally follows its
application to actions for damages or injunction on the same rights and
obligations. (See 3 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (4th ed. 1996) Actions, §§ 624–625,
pp. 802–806.)”)  
          Here, the gravamen of the declaratory
relief cause of action – that is against Fidelity - is not that Fidelity
committed fraud but that Bernard and McCoy did so. The gravamen of the
declaratory relief cause of action is the validity of Fidelity’s claim of lien.
Hence, the Court does not find that the three year-statute applies given the nature
of the allegations in this case. (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
594, 605-606)(where fraud is not gravamen of breach of fiduciary cause of
action, four-year statute applies). Moreover, the motion is unclear as of what
date it believes Shelia should have been on notice of its claim of lien. Fidelity
did not file a Notice and Statement of Lien until July 2019; after the petition
was filed. 


[9] Shelia also raises an issue as to the validity of the
2011 and 2017 abstracts by reason of Fidelity allegedly knowing McCoy’s social
security number and driver’s license number but not including those on the
abstract, as required. (See Keele v. Reich (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d
1129) In addition, there is apparently a discrepancy in the social security
numbers on the other abstracts. 


[10] Fidelity relies on Jenkins v. JP
Morgan Chase (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 497, 513 in this regard. But
dismissal of the declaratory relief cause of action in Jenkins was
specific to foreclosure procedures not in question here. The admonition of that
court that the claim must have specific supporting facts is satisfied here as
referenced above in para. 124 of the FAP. Moreover, the Calif. Supreme Court expressly
disapproved Jenkins, supra, in Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 919. 


[11] She also asserts that Bernard could never have made
McCoy a successor trustee – if in fact Ex. H does so – because by then (after
passing of Hazel) the Trust was not subject to amendment. Further, under sec. 11.1
of the Trust, if Bernard was not the successor trustee, then Shelia became successor
trustee. (On the other hand, Fidelity argues Bernard nonetheless had the power
under sec. 11.2 of the Trust to designate a successor.)  


[12]
The Court also does not know what impact the
validity of any lien in favor of Fidelity would have on CNC.    

