  Case Number:  22STCV08856    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
CONSUMER
  ADVOCACY GROUP, 
INC.;
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
JANS
  ENTERPRISES CORPORATION, 
et
  al.,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  22STCV08856
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  03/11/22
Trial
  Date:  None Set
 
 
 
 



 
Hearing Date:             April
10, 2024
Moving Party:             Plaintiff
Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc.
Responding Party:      None
 
(1)   Motion to Compel Responses to
Requests for Production (Set One)
 
(2)   Motion to Deem Admitted Requests
for Admission (Set One)
 
(3)   Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set One)
 
(4)   Motion to Compel Responses to
Special Interrogatories (Set One)
 
The court
considered the moving papers. No opposition was received.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One).
The court orders defendant Bolsabuy, Inc. to serve verified responses, without
objections, to Special Interrogatories (Set One), within 30 days of the
date of this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Requests for Production (Set One).
The court orders defendant Bolsabuy, Inc. to serve verified responses, without
objections, to Requests for Production (Set One), within 30 days of the
date of this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted Requests for Admission (Set One). The
court deems admitted the truth of the matters set forth in Requests for
Admissions (Set One) to defendant Bolsabuy, Inc.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One). The
court orders defendant Bolsabuy, Inc. to serve verified responses, without
objections, to Form Interrogatories (Set One), within 30 days of the date
of this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of
record in the reduced amount of $940.00 in attorney’s fees and costs for all
four motions. The court orders defendant Bolsabuy, Inc. and its counsel of
record, jointly and severally, to pay $940.00 to plaintiff Consumer
Advocacy Group, Inc., through its counsel of record, within 20 days of the date of this ruling.
 
///
///
Background
            Plaintiff
Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. filed this action on March 11, 2022 against Defendants
Jans Enterprises Corporation; Amazon Technologies, Inc.; Bolsabuy, Inc.; and El
Monte Superstore, Inc., alleging six causes of action involving violations of Proposition
65, The Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986. The Complaint
alleges that Defendants violated Proposition with respect to the manufacturing,
distribution, promotion, or retailing of Cassava Celery Chips, which contain
lead. (See Compl., ¶¶ 20, 27-33.)
            On
September 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a (1) Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production (Set One); (2)
Motion to Deem Admitted Requests for
Admission (Set One); and (3) Motion to Compel Responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set One).
On December 15,
2023, Plaintiff filed the (4) Motion to
Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One). No opposition was
received. On December 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of errata regarding
the proof of service for the Motion to deem admitted Requests for Admission
(Set One), Motion for Requests for Production (Set One), and Special
Interrogatories (Set One). 
            On
February 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition. 
On March 4,
2024, the court continued the hearings from March 15, 2024 to April 10, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard
If a party to whom interrogatories were
directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (CCP §
2030.290(b)-(c); see Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 404.) CCP § 2030.290 contains no time limit for a motion to compel where
no responses have been served. All that needs to be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)
If a party to whom requests for production
of documents were directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.
(CCP § 2031.300(b)-(c).) CCP § 2031.300 contains no time limit for a motion to
compel where no responses have been served. The propounding party need not
demonstrate good cause or satisfy a meet-and-confer requirement – all that
needs to be shown in the moving papers is that a set of requests for production
of documents was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to
respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403-04.)
Where there has been no timely response to
a request for admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move
for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction. (CCP § 2033.280(b).) CCP § 2033.280(c) states, in relevant part: “The court shall
make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.
 
Discussion
Merits of the Motions
Plaintiff
Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. moves to compel responses from defendant
Bolsabuy, Inc. to (1) Special Interrogatories (Set One); (2) Requests for
Production (Set One); and (3) Form Interrogatories (Set One). Plaintiff also
moves to deem admitted Requests for Admission (Set One) to Bolsabuy, Inc.
The court finds Plaintiff
sufficiently shows these motions should be granted. Plaintiff establishes it
propounded these four sets of discovery on June 13, 2023. (Purcell Decls. re
RFPs, RFAs, FROGs, and SROGs (collectively, “Purcell Decls.”), ¶ 2, Exh. A;
Notice of Errata, Exh. A.) Defendant failed to respond by the July 18, 2023
deadline. (Id. at ¶ 3.) Plaintiff sent a meet-and-confer letter to
Defendant on August 18, 2023. (Id. at ¶ 4, Exh. B.) Defendant has not
responded to date. (Id. at ¶ 5.) 
Thus, Plaintiff
demonstrates Defendant provided no timely response to the four properly-served
sets of discovery. Defendant never responded despite Plaintiff sending a
meet-and-confer letter, which Plaintiff was not required to do. Defendant does
not oppose these motions, thus failing to show why the court should not grant
them.
Accordingly, the
court rules as follows:
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One).
The court orders defendant Bolsabuy, Inc. to serve verified responses, without
objections, to Special Interrogatories (Set One), within 30 days of the date of
this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Requests for Production (Set One).
The court orders defendant Bolsabuy, Inc. to serve verified responses, without
objections, to Requests for Production (Set One), within 30 days of the date of
this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted Requests for Admission (Set One). The
court deems admitted the truth of the matters set forth in Requests for
Admissions (Set One) to defendant Bolsabuy, Inc.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One). The
court orders defendant Bolsabuy, Inc. to serve verified responses, without
objections, to Form Interrogatories (Set One), within 30 days of the date of
this ruling.
 
 Requests for Monetary Sanctions
Plaintiff
requests per motion $760 in attorney’s fees and costs as monetary sanctions
against Defendant and its counsel of record. Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate
is $350. (Purcell Decls., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff seeks to recover per motion two hours
and the $60 filing fee. (Id.)
The court finds
Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate is reasonable, but the time requested should
be reduced because some hours do not apply. Plaintiff requests one hour for
preparing the motion and one hour for reviewing opposition/preparing reply.
(Purcell Decl., ¶ 6.) These motions are unopposed, so the one hour for
reviewing opposition/preparing reply does not apply. The court finds the one
hour for preparing the motion and the $60 filing fee are reasonable. Thus,
Plaintiff’s total reduced recoverable amount in attorney’s fees and costs for
one motion is $410 ([1 hour + $350/hour] + $60 filing fee) which would total
$1,640 for four motions. However, this amount is excessive because these
motions are simple, unopposed, and nearly identical. Therefore, the court
reduces the total amount for all four motions to $940 ($240 total filing fees+
[2 hour + $350/hour]).
Accordingly, the
court rules as follows:
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of
record in the reduced amount of $940.00 in attorney’s fees and costs for all
four motions. The court orders defendant Bolsabuy, Inc. and its counsel of
record, jointly and severally, to pay $940.00 to plaintiff Consumer
Advocacy Group, Inc., through its counsel of record, within 20 days of the date of this ruling.
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated:
April 10, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court