  Case Number:  19STCV39777    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ROCIO MACIAS, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GERONIMO
   RODRIGUEZ, M.D., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 19STCV39777
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR MENTAL EXAMINATION
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 30,
   2024



 
On September 14, 2023, defendants
Geronimo Rodriguez, M.D. and Medical Offices of Geronimo Rodriguez (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed this motion for an order compelling plaintiff Rocio Macias
(“Plaintiff”) to submit to a mental examination by Dr. April Thames. Defendants
state that Dr. Thames will conduct some or all of the following tests:
Minnesota multiphasic personality inventory, Millon clinical multiaxial
inventory, trauma symptom inventory, clinician checklist for DSM 5 PTSD,
depression inventory, Beck depression inventory, Beck anxiety inventory, and
Beck hopelessness scale.
Where any party seeks to obtain
discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Section
2032.220, or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) A mental examination shall be
performed only by a licensed physician, or by a licensed clinical psychologist
who holds a doctoral degree in psychology and has had at least five years of
postgraduate experience in the diagnosis of emotional and mental disorders.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (c)(1).) “The only statutorily authorized
justification for ordering a mental examination is that the ‘mental condition’
of the examinee is ‘in controversy.’” (Doyle
v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1886.) In the absence of an
allegation that plaintiff has any current mental injury as a result of
defendant’s alleged conduct, her present mental condition is not directly
relevant. (Ibid.) Further, “[m]ental
examinations are not authorized for the purpose of testing a person’s ‘credibility.’”
(Ibid.) A motion for an examination
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and specialty, if any, of the person or
persons who will perform the examination, and shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) The Court
shall grant the motion only for good cause shown. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310,
subd. (a).)
Plaintiff does not dispute that her mental
condition is in controversy but argues that “her injuries are of the kind that
one would normally associate with the conduct alleged” and her “emotional
distress does not rise to the level to mandate a mental examination.” (Opp., pp.
2, 4.) This argument is unpersuasive because Plaintiff has not agreed to
stipulate that: (1) no claim is being made for mental and emotional distress
over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed, and
(2) no expert testimony regarding her mental and emotional distress will be
presented at trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (c).)  
In the alternative, Plaintiff argues
that certain limitations should be imposed if the examination goes forward.
First, Plaintiff argues that the examination should not inquire about
Plaintiff’s sexual history or other incidents where she has been sexually
attacked or abused. Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.220 provides:
“In
any civil action alleging conduct that constitutes sexual harassment, sexual
assault, or sexual battery, any party seeking discovery concerning the
plaintiff’s sexual conduct with individuals other than the alleged perpetrator shall
establish specific facts showing good cause for that discovery, and that the
matter sought to be discovered is relevant to the subject matter of the action
and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. This
showing shall be made by a noticed motion, accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, and shall not be made or considered by the
court at an ex parte hearing. 
 
Defendants did not file a reply brief
responding to Plaintiff’s argument. Accordingly, Dr. Thames will be prohibited
from inquiring about Plaintiff’s sexual history. 
Second, Plaintiff requests that counsel
or someone from counsel’s office accompany her to the examination because this
case concerns allegations of abuse by a medical provider. Plaintiff argues that
it would be “extremely and unreasonably distressing” to appear with a “strange
medical expert.” However, no attorney or third parties are allowed to be
present in a mental examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.530(a)-(b).) The
exclusion of everyone, other than the examiner and plaintiff, is based upon the
need to establish rapport and to avoid interference with the psychological
process. (See Edwards v. Superior Court (1976) 16 Cal.3d 905; Toyota
v. Superior Court (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1391.) Therefore, this requested
limitation is denied. 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the number
of proposed tests “appear to be excessive.” However, Plaintiff does not explain
how any specific test is unreasonable, intrusive, or unnecessary. 
          Based on the
foregoing, the motion is GRANTED and Plaintiff is ordered to appear for her
mental examination with Dr. Thames at 760 Westwood Plaza C8-841, Los Angeles,
CA 90024, on a mutually convenient day from 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. The scope of
the exam will include some or all of the following: Minnesota multiphasic
personality inventory, Millon clinical multiaxial inventory, trauma symptom
inventory, clinician checklist for DSM 5 PTSD, depression inventory, Beck
depression inventory, Beck anxiety inventory, and Beck hopelessness scale. The
examination will not include questioning about Plaintiff’s sexual history.
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 30th
day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 