 Case Number:  22AHCV01391    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOY CA, LLC, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SOUTH
   ATLANTIC INVESTMENT, LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV01391
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PETITION TO APPOINT NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 30,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On December 23, 2022, plaintiff Joy CA,
LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants South Atlantic Investment
LLC (“South Atlantic”), Wei “Jason” Chen (“Chen”), and Cuong C. Luu aka Robert
Luu (“Luu”). Plaintiff alleges gross negligence and willful misconduct in the
maintenance of the premises located 111 N. Atlantic Blvd, Unit 228, Monterey
Park, where Plaintiff operates Pocket 8, a pool and snooker playing business. The
premises are owned by South Atlantic, whose sole managing member is Chen. Luu
is the property manager of the premises. Plaintiff alleges that beginning on
July 19, 2020, and throughout 2020 and 2021, Pocket 8 would regularly
experience water leakage and flooding, but that South Atlantic, Chen, and Luu (collectively,
“Defendants”) would not take the necessary steps to repair any damage caused by
the water or prevent the flooding from reoccurring. 
On March 20, 2023, Plaintiff and
Defendants filed a stipulation in which they agreed to attend mediation on May
2, 2023, and submit to arbitration if the mediation was unsuccessful (the
“Stipulation”). The parties agreed that the arbitration will be conducted by a
single neutral arbitrator who is a retired judge or justice, or an attorney
with at least 5 years real estate transactional law experience, unless the parties
mutually agree to a different arbitrator. If the parties cannot agree on an
arbitrator, the Court will, upon motion, appoint one pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.6. 
On August 17, 2023, Plaintiff amended
the Complaint to designate Tang Gong Restaurant Group, LLC (“Tang Gong”) as Doe
1. On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff designated Tang Gong as Doe 11, Doe 21, Doe
31, Doe 41, Doe 51, Doe 61, and Doe 71. Tang Gong filed an answer on October
20, 2023. In Plaintiff’s opposition to this motion, Plaintiff represents that
Defendants blame Tang Gong, a restaurant located a floor above Plaintiff’s bar,
for the water leaks. (Opp., p. 3.) Plaintiff also states that Chen is the sole manager
of Tang Gong, in addition to being the sole manager of South Atlantic. 
On April 3, 2024, Defendants filed this
motion requesting the Court appoint an arbitrator pursuant to the Stipulation. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief on
April 12, 2024. 
Defendants filed a reply brief on April
23, 2024. 
When a petition is made to the court to
appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court shall nominate five persons from lists
of persons supplied jointly by the parties to the arbitration or obtained from
a governmental agency concerned with arbitration or private disinterested
association concerned with arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.6.) The
parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is
sought may within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees from the court
jointly select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is among the
nominees. (Ibid.) If the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the
five-day period, the court shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees. (Ibid.)

Defendants include a list of 14
individuals described as “potential arbitrators offered in this case.” Email correspondence
between counsel for both parties shows that around June and July of 2023, there
were serious discussions to choose an arbitrator but the parties could not
agree. On November 28, 2023, defense counsel Justin Clark suggested that the
parties exchange another set of suggested arbitrators for consideration. Then,
through December of 2023 and February of 2024, the parties discussed selecting
an arbitrator. Plaintiff suggested the parties refrain from choosing an
arbitrator until Tang Gong completed initial discovery and participated in mediation
with Defendants (as required in Tang Gong’s lease with South Atlantic).
Plaintiff also suggested that Plaintiff, Defendants, and Tang Gong should
participate in a mediation session. In fact, in its opposition brief, Plaintiff
claims (and Defendants do not dispute) that all parties (Plaintiff, Defendants,
and Tang Gong) have already agreed to participate in a mediation. In light of
this agreement, the Court is sympathetic to Plaintiff’s argument that selecting
an arbitrator is premature at this time. Accordingly, the Court continues this
hearing to October 30, 2024, to allow the parties time to select a mediator, attend
mediation, and if necessary, select an arbitrator. If the Court’s assistance is
still necessary by the time of the next hearing, Defendants and Plaintiff must
submit a joint list of proposed arbitrators no later than 10 court days before
the hearing. If the Court does not receive a joint list, the Court shall
nominate 5 individuals from the list of individuals identified in paragraph 13
of Defendants’ petition. 
Dated
this 30th
day of April, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 