  Case Number:  23PSCV01436    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  K Cross-Defendants’
Shengdong Zhao, Zexing Zhao, Wanda Moving, Inc. and 2Cube Global, Inc’s Special
Motion to Strike Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16 is GRANTED.
 
Cross-Defendants’
Shengdong Zhao, Zexing Zhao, Wanda Moving, Inc. and 2Cube Global, Inc.’s Demurrer
and Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
Background     
 
Plaintiffs Wanda Moving, Inc. (“WMI”) and 2Cube Global Inc. (“2Cube”)
(together, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows: Plaintiffs are in the business of
providing logistics and warehousing services for imports of goods from China to
the United States. 2Cube acts as a “3PL” or third party logistics provider for
WMI by procuring transportation services for delivery orders received by WMI.
Xiaojun Xu (“Xu”) was hired by 2Cube as a truck driver to deliver various goods
to customers. From approximately January 2023 to present, Xu conspired with Pak
Ho Lo (“Lo”), Swap Meet Depot (“SWAP”), MMS Depot (“MMS”) by stealing a portion
of goods belonging to Plaintiffs from each delivery and delivering same to a
warehouse in El Monte where SWAP and MMS are located.
 
On May 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Xu, Lo, SWAP, MMS and Does 1-200 for:
 
1.              
Conversion
2.              
Tortious Interference with Contractual Relationship
3.              
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
4.              
Restitution—Unjust Enrichment 
5.              
Unfair Business Practices
6.              
Accounting
7.              
Injunctive Relief
 
On May 24, 2023, after hearing, the Court granted
Plaintiffs’ ex parte application for a Temporary Restraining Order and
for an Order to Show Case re: Preliminary Injunction against Lo, SWAP, and MMS.
The Court’s May 24, 2023 order provides, in part, that “Defendants are ordered
to provide Plaintiffs access to Defendants’ warehouse located at 10355 Rush St.
South El Monte, CA 91733 and allow Plaintiffs to pick up Plaintiffs’ Goods[1]
forthwith” and “pending the hearing and determination of the Order to Show
Case, Defendants . . . shall be, and are hereby enjoined and restrained during
the pendency of this action from interfering with Plaintiffs’ contractual
relations with Plaintiffs’ customers regarding Plaintiffs or Plaintiffs’ Goods,
including any monies derived therefrom.” 
 
On June 22, 2023, Lo and SWAP filed a cross-complaint,
asserting causes of action against Chaoseng Zhao, Shengdong Zhao, Liming Wang,
2Cube, Zexing Zhao, WMI and Does 1-200 for:
 
1.              
Conversion
2.              
Tortious Interference with Contractual Relationship
3.              
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
4.              
Restitution—Unjust Enrichment 
5.              
Unfair Business Practices
6.              
Accounting
7.              
Fraud
 
On June 28, 2023, MMS’ default was entered on the complaint.

 
On July 10, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court
granted Plaintiffs’ ex parte application for a Supplemental Temporary
Restraining Order and for an Order to Show Cause re: Preliminary Injunction
against Lo, SWAP, and MMS. The Court’s July 10, 2023 order provides, in part,
that “Defendants are ordered to provide Plaintiffs access to Defendants’ warehouse
located at 10355 Rush St. South El Monte, CA 91733 and allow Plaintiffs to pick
up Plaintiffs’ Goods[2]
forthwith” and “pending the hearing and determination of the Order to Show
Case, Defendants . . . shall be, and are hereby enjoined and restrained during
the pendency of this action from interfering with Plaintiffs’ contractual
relations with Plaintiffs’ customers regarding Plaintiffs or Plaintiffs’ Goods,
including any monies derived therefrom.” 
 
On August 21, 2023, Cross-Defendants Shengdong Zhao, Zexing
Zhao, WMI, and 2Cube (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) filed and served a special
motion to strike the cross-complaint filed by Lo and SWAP pursuant to Code Civ.
Proc. § 425.16. Cross-Defendants also filed and served a demurrer and motion to
strike as to the cross-complaint on August 21, 2023. The Court will address the
special motion to strike, demurrer, and motion to strike in this one ruling. No
opposition to the motions was filed. Any opposition to the motions filed by
Cross-Defendants was required to have been filed and served at least nine court
days prior to the hearing pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 1005(b). 
 
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First
Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against Xu, Lo, SWAP, MMS, and
Does 1-200 for:
 
1.              
Conversion
2.              
Tortious Interference with Contractual Relationship
3.              
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
4.              
Restitution—Unjust Enrichment
5.              
Unfair Business Practices
6.              
Accounting
7.              
Injunctive Relief 
 
On September 28, 2023, the Court held a hearing on
Cross-Defendants’ special motion to strike, demurrer, and motion to strike. The
Court, on its own motion, continued the hearing on the motions to November 30,
2023. 
 
On September 28, 2023, Cross-Defendants filed and served
Notice of Ruling as to the Court’s September 28, 2023 order. 
 
A Case Management Conference is set for November 30, 2023. 
 
A.   
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Judicial Notice 
 
The Court GRANTS Cross-Defendants’ request for judicial
notice in support of the special motion to strike. (Evid. Code §§ 452(d), 453.)

 
Legal Standard 
 
“A special motion to strike under section 425.16—the
so-called anti-SLAPP statute—allows a defendant to seek early dismissal of a
lawsuit that qualifies as a SLAPP.” (Nygard,
Inc. v. Uusi-Kerttula (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1027, 1035.)
 
“A cause of action against a person arising from any act of
that person in furtherance of the person's right of petition or free speech
under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in
connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike,
unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a
probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
In analyzing an anti-SLAPP motion, a court engages in a
two-step process. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29
Cal.4th 53, 67.) “First, the court decides whether the defendant has made a
threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from
protected activity. (Ibid.) “In making its determination of whether a
cause of action arises from protected activity, a court considers “the
pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which
the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (b)(2).”
If the court finds such a showing has been made, it then must consider whether
the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Kronemyer v. Internet Movie Database Inc.
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 941, 946 [internal quotation marks and
citation omitted].) 
 
Discussion 
 
Cross-Defendants move the court, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16, for an order striking the cross-complaint filed by
Xu, Lo, SWAP, and MMS, on the grounds that the allegations and causes of action
against Cross-Defendants arise from their conduct in furtherance of the
exercise of the constitutional right of petition. Cross-Defendants also seek attorneys’
fees pursuant to subsection (c) of Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16.
 
Step 1: Whether the Cross-Complaint Arises from Protected
Activity 
 
The anti-SLAPP statute is designed to protect “(1) any
written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public
forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct
in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e) [emphasis
added].) A “public interest” must be demonstrated only with respect to the
activities described in subdivisions (e)(3) and (4). (Briggs v. Eden Council
for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1117-1121.) Speech
or conduct is in the public interest when it involves an entity or person in
the public eye or could affect large numbers of people beyond the direct
participants. (FilmOn.com Inc. v. DoubleVerify Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th
133, 145.) A court also looks at whether the activity occurred in the context
of an ongoing controversy, dispute or discussion. (Ibid.) 
 
“The anti-SLAPP protection for petitioning activities
applies not only to the filing of lawsuits, but extends to conduct that relates
to such litigation, including statements made in connection with or in
preparation of litigation.” (Kolar v. Donahue, McIntosh & Hammerton
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 1532, 1532.) “The constitutional right of
petition encompasses the basic act of filing litigation.” (Navellier v.
Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 90.) In assessing whether a cross-complaint
arises from protected activity, a court disregards the labeling of the claim. (Hylton
v. Frank E. Rogozienski, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1264, 1272.) A court
instead “examine[s] the principal thrust or gravamen of a
[cross-complainant’s] cause of action to determine whether the anti-SLAPP
statute applies.” (Ibid., emphasis in original.) “If the core
injury-producing conduct upon which the [cross-complainant’s] claim is premised
does not rest on protected speech or petitioning activity, collateral or
incidental allusions to protected activity will not trigger application of the
anti-SLAPP statute.” (Ibid.) “[T]he critical point is whether the [cross-complainant’s]
cause of action itself was based on an act in furtherance of the [cross-defendant’s]
right of petition or free speech.” (City of Santa Monica v. Stewart (2005)
126 Cal.App.4th 43, 75.) 
 
The cross-complaint is premised on Cross-Defendants
allegedly stealing goods owned by Cross-Complainants. The operative First
Amended Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendants’ goods were stolen by
Cross-Complainants and that the local police allowed Plaintiffs to recover some
of the goods. (FAC, ¶¶ 16-18.) To the contrary, the cross-complaint alleges
that Cross-Defendants have asserted a wrongful claim to the goods at the SWAP
warehouse and the police have acknowledged that Lo and SWAP lawfully acquired
the goods to which Cross-Defendants state a claim. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 25,
28-30.) The cross-complaint references a March 14, 2023, incident where
Cross-Defendants allegedly claimed ownership of 39 pallets of goods in SWAP’s
facility pursuant to a search warrant. (Id., ¶¶ 25-26.)
Cross-Complainants allege that Cross-Defendants deliberately photographed goods
belonging to Lo, SWAP, and other customers of SWAP with the intention of
creating fraudulent documents and invoices to falsely assert ownership over
SWAP’s goods. (Id., ¶ 28.) 
 
Cross-Defendants contend that the only activity alleged
against them is that they purportedly made false statements that the goods
stored in SWAP’s warehouse belonged to them and that they unlawfully removed
goods from Cross-Complainants’ warehouse. (Motion, 7:3-6.) Cross-Defendants
further contend that the removal of their own goods was specifically authorized
by the Court’s May 24, 2023 and July 10, 2023 orders. (Id., 7:13-17.) 
 
The court finds that Cross-Defendants have made a threshold
showing that the challenged causes of action arise from protected activity
pursuant to subdivision (e) of Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16. Based on
the allegations of the cross-complaint, the principal thrust of the
cross-complaint is filing of this lawsuit, the issuance of this Court’s May 24,
2023 order, and the conduct arising from such order. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶
31-61.) The crux of the cross-complaint is that Cross-Defendants exceeded the
scope of this Court’s May 24, 2023 order and wrongfully took goods belonging to
Cross-Complainants. The cross-complaint alleges that Cross-Defendants took
goods that were not outlined in this Court’s order. (Id., ¶ 41.) The
cross-complaint also alleges that Cross-Defendants have failed to substantiate
their claims and that they failed to present any evidence to support their ex
parte application. (Id., ¶ 60.) The causes of action in the
cross-complaint are premised on Cross-Defendants removing 11 large-cargo sized
truckloads of goods from a warehouse when effectuating the Court’s May 24, 2023
order. The cross-complaint is therefore premised on Cross-Defendants’ conduct
in relation to Court’s May 24, 2023 order and therefore arises from protected
activity. The Court also finds that the alleged conduct of Cross-Defendants
could affect a large number of people beyond the parties, and therefore the
complained of conduct in the public interest. The cross-complaint alleges that
SWAP operates a swap meet type warehouse/store that is open to the public for
retail and wholesale transactions. (Id., ¶ 15.) In fact, SWAP provides
supplies for retailers such as Ross and Burlington Factory. (Id., ¶ 18.)
Moreover, the crux of the cross-complaint concerns actions that arose during
litigation between the parties. 
 
The cross-complaint alleges that Cross-Defendants, both
before and after the filing of the complaint: (1) photographed goods to
fraudulently create documents and invoices to assert ownership over such goods;
and (2) perpetrated physical violence, illicitly took goods, and orchestrated
of false allegations against Cross-Complainants to implicate them. (Id.,
¶ 59.) Such allegations, however, are not the core injury-producing conduct
alleged in the cross-complaint. The core injury-producing conduct in the
cross-complaint is the filing of this action and Cross-Defendants’ alleged
wrongful actions pursuant to the Court’s May 24, 2023 order. 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Cross-Defendants have made a
threshold showing that the cross-complaint arises from protected activity. The
Court will now proceed with the second step of the anti-SLAPP analysis (i.e.,
whether plaintiffs have established a probability of prevailing). 
 
Step Two: Whether Cross-Complainants Have Established a
Probability of Prevailing
 
Cross-Complainants have failed to oppose Cross-Defendants’
special motion to strike. As such, Cross-Complainants have not shown a
probability of prevailing on the merits. 
 
Also, given that Cross-Complainants have failed to oppose
the motion, there is an inference that the motion has merit. (Sexton v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
Attorneys’ Fees
 
“[A] prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike
shall be entitled to recover his or her attorney’s fees and costs.” (City of
Los Angeles v. Animal Defense League (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 606, 627.) “The
award of attorney fees to the party bringing a successful special motion to
strike under section 425.16 is mandatory.” (Ibid.) “A notice of motion
must state in the opening paragraph the nature of the order being sought and
the grounds for issuance of the order.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1110, subd.
(a).) “[D]ue process requires a party to be fully advised of the issues to be
addressed and be given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to
prevail.” (Fenn v. Sherriff (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1466, 1481.) 
 
Cross-Defendants request attorneys’ fees and costs in the
amount of $6,500.00. Cross-Defendants, however, did not request such attorneys’
fees in their notice of motion. A notice of motion must set forth all relief
sought. While Cross-Defendants are the prevailing party on the special motion
to strike, Cross-Defendants’ notice of motion did not request attorneys’ fees. 
 
The Court therefore DENIES Cross-Defendants’ request for
attorneys’ fees. Cross-Defendants may file and serve a separate noticed motion
for attorneys’ fees and costs. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court therefore GRANTS Cross-Defendants’ special motion
to strike. As stated above, however, the Court will not award attorneys’ fees
and costs to Cross-Defendants due to the notice of motion not requesting such
relief. Cross-Defendants may file and serve properly noticed motion for
attorneys’ fees and costs. 
 
 
B.   
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Cross-Defendants filed a demurrer to the first, second,
third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action in the
cross-complaint. Cross-Defendants also filed a motion to strike punitive
damages allegations and references to attorneys’ fees from the cross-complaint.

 
Due to the Court’s granting of the special motion to strike
pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16 as explained above, Cross-Defendants’
demurrer and motion to strike are both MOOT. 


