 Case Number:  22STCV16462    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


April
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV16462




MOTIONS


Motion
  to Appoint Successor in Interest




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff
  Erika Dominguez




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff Erika Dominguez (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure Section 377.31, appointing Teresa Galdamez-Dominguez,
Plaintiff’s mother, as successor in interest to the deceased Plaintiff. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.31 provides that the decedent’s personal representative or, if
none, the decedent’s successor in interest may continue a decedent’s pending
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior Court (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.) A successor in interest is the beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of
action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of the cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33 provides that the court
in which an action is continued may make any order concerning parties that is
appropriate to ensure proper administration of justice, including the
appointment of the decedent’s successor in interest as a special administrator
or guardian ad litem.  
 
Section 377.32 provides that a
person who seeks to commence such an action as the decedent’s successor in
interest must file an affidavit or declaration providing certain information,
including the decedent’s name, date and place of decedent’s death, and
statements regarding whether the estate has been administered and that the
affiant or declarant is the successor in interest on decedent’s claim. (Id.,
§ 377.32(a).) A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate must also be
attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id., § 377.32(c).)
 
            Plaintiff passed away on September
14, 2020, prior to the filing of the complaint. A certified copy of Plaintiff’s
death certificate has been attached. (Panah Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) The Court finds
that Teresa Galdamez-Dominguez has filed a declaration, under penalty of
perjury, that she is Plaintiff’s successor in interest to Plaintiff’s interest
in this action. She also declares that no one has a superior right to be
substituted in the pending action and Plaintiff’s estate was never
administered. (Galdamez-Dominguez Decl. ¶ 4–5.) 
 
While the requirements under section 377.32 appear to have been met, Plaintiff
does not explain why this motion is procedurally proper under section 377.31
since Plaintiff was deceased before this action was filed. At the hearing on
the motion for judgment on the pleadings on February 21, 2024, it had appeared
that Plaintiff and Defendant agreed that Plaintiff’s successor in interest
would file an amended complaint. No amended complaint has been filed. To the
extent that Plaintiff’s successor in interest seeks to amend the complaint, the
parties may either file a stipulation or Plaintiff may file a noticed motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion to appoint Teresa
Galdamez-Dominguez as successor in interest. 
 
Moving Party shall give notice of the Court’s orders, and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 