  Case Number:  18STCV04392    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


18STCV04392




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Aida Sedano-Herrera




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on March 22, 2024 by Petitioner Aida Sedano-Herrera (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Ayhden Elijah Herrera, age 9. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
Petitioner must complete item 3. 
 
In attachment 8, the August 29, 2019 medical report from
Mind Therapy Center indicates Claimant was still experiencing PTSD after he consumed
a foreign object in a meal on March 26, 2018. Therefore, the medical records
and reports do not show that Claimant is fully recovered. Petitioner must
provide a more recent medical report or other evidence confirming Claimant’s
current condition. 
 
Petitioner requests $25,000 in attorney fees which represents
25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this to be reasonable. 
 
Since Petitioner indicates that the $10,398.07 in
expenses were advanced by Petitioner’s attorney, this amount should appear in
item 8a(2) of the proposed order (MC-351), instead of item 8a(4). If, on the
other hand, the attorney expect the expenses to be payable directly to the
third-parties, Petitioner must provide the address of each payee in item 8a(4).

 
Since Petitioner seeks the funds to be deposited into a
blocked account, Petitioner must also complete and file form MC-355.
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 