 Case Number:  23STCV07773    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV07773




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Protective Order




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Chaiwat Namsangpa 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 7, 2023, Plaintiffs Angela Munoz Marquez, Aroldo Marquez,
Aroldo Marquez, Jr., and Angela Munoz Marquez (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint
against Defendants Chaiwat Namsangpa and Does 1 to 50 for alleged injuries
sustained in a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs allege they were passengers
in an Uber/Lyft vehicle being operated by Chaiwat Namsangpa. (Complaint ¶ 4.) 
 
On July 24, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a proof of service of the summons
and complaint on Defendant Chaiwat Namsangpa (“Defendant”) via substitute
service. On August 28, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
 
Defendant now moves for a protective order under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.420 asking that Plaintiffs be precluded from seeking
discovery responses until Defendant can be located. Defendant’s counsel argues
Defendant’s whereabouts are unknown and reasonable efforts have been made to
contact him. No opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Before,
during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected
natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025. 420(a).) 
 
The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(b).) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
2017.020, a court shall limit the scope of discovery if the court “determines
that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs
the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” A “court may make this determination pursuant to a motion
for protective order by a party or other affected person.” (Id.)¿The
“motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.” (Id.) 
 
MEET AND CONFER
 
The declaration of Kendall
Craver shows that she communicated with Plaintiffs’ counsel prior to bringing
this motion. (Craver Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. E.) Therefore, the requirement has been
met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant’s counsel (“Counsel”) argues that Plaintiffs
served written discovery requests in October 2023 and multiple extensions have
been granted. Counsel contends it is not certain whether Defendant is aware of
this discovery and has not spoken to Defendant. (Craver Decl. ¶ 13.)  
 
Defendant relies on Brigante v. Huang (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 1569 (disapproved of on other grounds by Wilcox v. Birtwhistle
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 973), for granting relief from discovery responses where a
responding party cannot be located. There, the court determined the trial court
had discretion to grant appropriate relief for a defendant who was served
request for admissions if: “(1) the court is satisfied that the defendant is
not evading the lawsuit or the discovery demand; and is unaware of their
pendency and (2) that reasonable efforts have been made and are ongoing to find
her and apprise her of the litigation and the discovery obligations it entails.”
(Brigante, supra, 20 Cal.App.4th at 1583.)
 
The Court in Brigante continued:
 
“It should be recognized that the
trial court's discretion is not limited to ordering that the entire set of RFAs
be deemed admitted or relieving the responding party from answering at all. The
court is empowered to fashion a remedy that will do justice in the situation
with which it is confronted. It may, for example, order that only some matters
be deemed admitted. Or it may relieve the defense from admitting or denying the
RFAs on condition that it demonstrate a continuing and vigorous effort to
locate the defendant. Or it may grant a specific extension of time within which
to find the defendant. And, if the court is not satisfied that the defense has
made sufficient efforts to locate the defendant, and certainly if there is a
basis to reasonably suspect that the defendant is aware of the litigation and
obligations for discovery but is attempting to evade those obligations, the
court would be well justified in denying relief.”
            (Id.) 
 
Here, Defendant’s counsel (“Counsel”) declares that
counsel was retained in May 2023 by Defendant’s insurance carrier to represent
Defendant’s interests in this case. (Craver Decl. ¶ 4.) Once Defendant was
served in July 2023, Counsel sent letters, made telephone calls, and retained a
private investigator to locate Defendant. (Id. ¶ 6.) In August 2023,
after believing counsel would connect with Defendant, the answer was filed. (Id.
¶ 7.) On October 6, 2023, Plaintiff propounded discovery on Defendant. (Id.
¶ 8.) In December 2023, Counsel was informed that the retained investigator was
unsuccessful in locating Defendant. (Id. ¶ 10, Exh. D.) 
 
Here, the facts described by Counsel and the declaration
of Chris Haggard, the investigator retained to find Defendant, do not refute
the possibility that Defendant could be avoiding this lawsuit. Moreover, there
is no indication that reasonable efforts are ongoing to locate Defendant. 
 
Accordingly, the Court does not find good cause to issue
a blanket protective order shielding Defendant from all discovery responses.
Having now appeared in the case, Defendant does not provide a basis to stop the
litigation for an unspecified amount of time. Accordingly, the motion for a
protective order is denied.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for a protective order is
DENIED.
 
Counsel for Defendant shall give notice and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 
 