  Case Number:  23SMCV02556    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


August
  27, 2024, continued to September 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02556




MOTIONS


Motions
  to Deem Admitted – Requests For Admission – Sets One;
  One/Two; Three; Four




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Sonya Daniels




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants
  Obaida Batal, M.D.; Body By Batal Cosmetic Surgery Center



 
MOTIONS
 
            Plaintiff Sonya Daniels
(“Plaintiff”) moves to deem admitted the matters specified in Requests for
Admission, Sets One; One/Two; Three; and Four (RFA) propounded on Defendant Obaida
Batal MD (“Defendant”) and for monetary sanctions.   
 
Defendants Obaida Batal MD and Body By Batal Cosmetic Surgery Center
oppose the motion.[1] 
 
ANALYSIS
 
           
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (a), “[i]f a party to whom requests
or admission are directed fails to serve a timely response . . .  [t]he party to whom the requests for
admission are directed waives any objection to the requests, including one
based on privilege or on the protection for work product[.]”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)  
 
Where
a party fails to respond to requests for admissions, the propounding party may
move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any
matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)
 
The court shall make this order, unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)

 
1.    
Motion to Deem Admitted
 
Plaintiff has provided declarations indicating that on June 18, 2024, RFA
sets one, one/two, and three were electronically served on Defendant via eServe,
and on June 30, 2024, RFA set four was electronically served on Defendant via
eServe.  (See Declarations of Sonya
Daniels at ¶ 2.)
 
For RFA sets one through three, electronically served on June 18,
Defendant’s deadline to respond was July 22 (30 days + 2 court days per Code
Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (a)(3)(B)).  Similarly, for RFA set four, electronically
served on June 30, Defendant’s deadline to respond was August 1.
 
Plaintiff’s declarations further provide that as of August 8, 2024,
when the declarations were signed and motions were filed, Plaintiff had not
received responses to any of the RFAs. 
(See Declarations of Sonya Daniels at ¶ 4.)  Therefore, Defendant failed to timely respond
to RFA sets one, one/two, three, and four. 

 
Subsequently, on August 12, Defendant (erroneously) filed responses to
all of the RFAs.
 
At the original August 27 hearing, Plaintiff indicated to the Court
that Defendant had not actually served Plaintiff with the RFA responses
Defendant filed, and the Court noted that the RFAs that were erroneously filed
did not contain proofs of service. 
Defendant represented to the Court that he had electronically served the
responses on Plaintiff approximately two weeks before the hearing.  The Court continued the hearing to permit
Defendant to file a supplemental declaration with attached proofs of service.
 
Defendant subsequently filed “Defendants’ Separate Statement about
Electronic proof of service” which is not signed under penalty of perjury.  Attached to the “Separate Statement” is a
proof of service, indicating Defendant electronically served Plaintiff with the
following documents on August 10, 2024:
 
Proof of Electronic Service
Response (name extension)
Reply (name extension)
Reply (name extension)
 
            The Court finds this filing
insufficient to demonstrate that Defendant served Plaintiff with responses to
the RFA sets one, one/two, three, and/or four.
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motions to deem the RFA sets
one, one/two, three, and four admitted.  
 
2.    
Monetary Sanctions
“It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or
both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission
necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
Having
found Defendant failed to timely respond to the RFA, it is mandatory that the
court impose a monetary sanction. 
Plaintiff requests $250 in connection with the first motion for RFA set
one, $200 in connection with RFA set one/two, $200 in connection with RFA set
three, and $200 in connection with RFA set four, representing 15, 10, 10, and
10 hours of Plaintiff’s time, respectively, at the “minimum wage” of $20 per
hour.  The Court notes that Plaintiff did
not incur any attorneys’ fees, as Plaintiff is self-represented, and that
Plaintiff’s filing fees have been waived, minimizing Plaintiff’s costs and
expenses in bringing the instant motions. 
Further, the motions and declarations are substantially identical to one
another, further reducing the reasonable amount of time Plaintiff spent
preparing them.  
 
Therefore,
the Court awards mandatory monetary sanctions against Defendant Obaida Batal MD
in the total amount of $250 for the four motions.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s motions to deem admitted the matters specified in the
RFA sets one, one/two, three, and four, and orders that the matters specified in
the RFA sets one, one/two, three and four are deemed admitted.  
 
The Court further grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions,
and orders Defendant Obaida Batal MD to pay Plaintiff monetary sanctions in the
amount of $250 within thirty days of notice of the Court’s orders.
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the notice with a proof
of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED:  September 18, 2024                                   ___________________________
                                                                              Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge of the Superior Court


