 Case Number:  22SMCV01124    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           WW Westwood
LP, v. Zakhour, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV01124
MOTION:                  Motion
to be Relieved from Deemed Admissions
HEARING DATE:   2/15/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
If a party is served with requests for admission, and then
fails to serve timely responses, that party waives any objections to the
discovery requests.  CCP §2033.280(a).  The court, however, may grant
relief from this waiver if it determines that these two conditions are met: 
 
“(1) The
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with
Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, and 2030.230. 
 
(2) The
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) §2033.280(c), “The
court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the
requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the
motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section §2033.220 . . ..” 
 
CCP §2033.300(a) permits amendment or withdrawal of ‘deemed
admissions’ ordered by the court. CCP §
2033.300 states that, “(a) a party may withdraw or amend an admission made in
response to a request for admission only on leave of court granted after notice
to all parties.  (b) The court may permit withdrawal or amendment of an
admission only if it determines that the admission was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that the party who obtained the
admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party's
action or defense on the merits.  (c) The court may impose conditions on
the granting of the motion that are just, including, but not limited to, the
following:  (1) An order that the party who obtained the admission be
permitted to pursue additional discovery related to the matter involved in the
withdrawn or amended admission.  (2) An order that the costs of any
additional discovery be borne in whole or in part by the party withdrawing or
amending the admission.” 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Mansour Zakhor, D.D.S., moves for relief from
admissions, and permission to serve responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Admissions Set No. 1.  Here, Plaintiff
served the Defendant with the first set of requests for admission on March 23,
2023. Defendant’s prior
counsel failed to respond at all to this discovery or any prior discovery.
(Shackelford Decl., ¶ 2.) On
July 12, 2023, this court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel and deemed all
admissions as admitted. (Id. at ¶ 5, Ex. B.)
 
Defendant has not demonstrated that the subject admissions were the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. Counsel
claims that due to the prior counsel’s lack of any response, Defendant’s relationship with his prior
counsel soured and he quickly endeavored to find new counsel. (Id., ¶ 3.) Indeed, the record shows
that prior counsel filed a motion to be relieved as counsel due to
irreconcilable breakdown of communication between counsel and Defendant. (Id. ¶
4.) However, Defendant does not provide any competent evidence regarding prior
counsel’s failure to respond. Notably, Defendant does not provide any statement
on the matter, including what efforts he reasonably undertook to correct
counsel’s inaction. Thus, there is insufficient evidence demonstrating that the
admissions were taken as a result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  
 
In
addition, current counsel represented Defendant as of June 5, 2023, and was
served with the motions to deem admissions admitted.  Despite this representation, current counsel
did not file admission responses prior to the July 12, 2023, hearing and order
deeming admissions admitted.  This issue
must be addressed by Defendant.  Moreover, the Court would require that
Defendant answer the RFAs at issue, without objection, prior to potentially granting
any such motion. Counsel claims to have worked diligently to respond to all
outstanding discovery,
but does not provide proof of service of the responses at issue. (Shackleford
Decl., ¶ 6.) The Court would not be inclined to grant relief until Defendant
presents his proposed responses.
 
Otherwise, the Court would find no prejudice in granting
relief. Plaintiff claims prejudice in relying on the admissions, but does not
explain how they were substantively. Thus, the Court would find that Plaintiff will not be substantially prejudiced.  To the extent that additional discovery must
be conducted as a result of Defendant’s failure to respond, the Court would fashion
an appropriate remedy.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED without
prejudice. 