  Case Number:  20SMCV01190    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           City of Culver
City, et al., v. Los Angeles School of Gymnastics, et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV01190
MOTION:                  Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees 
HEARING DATE:   2/15/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
With respect to attorney fees and costs,
unless they are specifically provided for by statute (e.g., CCP §§ 1032, et
seq.), the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law
is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties.¿(CCP § 1021.) The
prevailing party on a contract, which specifically provides for attorney fees
and costs incurred to enforce the agreement, is entitled to reasonable attorney
fees in addition to other costs.¿(Civ. Code § 1717(a); CCP §§ 1032, 1033.5(a)(10)(A).)¿The
court, upon notice and motion by a party, shall determine the prevailing party
and shall fix, as an element of the costs of suit, the reasonable attorney
fees.¿(Civ. Code § 1717(a), (b).)¿Any notice of motion to claim attorney fees
as an element of costs under shall be served and filed before or at the same
time the memorandum of costs is served and filed; if only attorney fees are
claimed as costs, the notice of motion shall be served and filed within the
time specified in CRC 3.1700 for filing a memorandum of costs.¿(CRC 3.1702; Gunlock
Corp. v. Walk on Water, Inc. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1303, fn. 1.) 
 
“It is well established that the
determination of what constitutes reasonable attorney fees is committed to the
discretion of the trial court, whose decision cannot be reversed in the absence
of an abuse of discretion. [Citation.]” (Melnyk v. Robledo (1976) 64
Cal.App.3d 618, 623 624.) The fee setting inquiry in California ordinarily
“begins with the ‘lodestar’ [method], i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.” (Graciano v. Robinson
Ford Sales, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 140, 154.) “[A] computation of time
spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a
determination of an appropriate attorneys’ fee award.” (Margolin v. Reg’l
Planning Comm’n (1982) 134 Cal.App.3d 999, 1004.) The lodestar
figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the
case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided. (See Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49 [discussing
factors relevant to proper attorneys’ fees award].) Such an approach anchors
the trial court’s analysis to an objective determination of the value of the
attorney’s services, ensuring that the amount awarded is not arbitrary. (Id.
at 48, fn. 23.) The factors considered in determining the modification of the
lodestar include “(1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2)
the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of
the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, (4) the contingent
nature of the fee award.” (Mountjoy v. Bank of Am. (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 266, 271.) 
 
In challenging attorney fees as excessive
because too many hours of work are claimed, it is the burden of the challenging
party to point to the specific items challenged, with a sufficient argument and
citations to the evidence.¿(Premier Medical Management Systems, Inc. v.
California Ins. Guaranty Assoc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 550, 564.)¿General
arguments that fees claimed are
excessive, duplicative, or unrelated do not suffice. (Ibid.) 
 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(c).)
 

Plaintiff City of Culver City moves
for an order awarding the City’s reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs against Defendants
Los Angeles School of Gymnastics and Tanya Berenson. Plaintiff seeks reasonable
attorney fees and costs incurred in connection with this action in the amount
of $69,495.78. Plaintiff notes that this action is moot because the City has
obtained the relief requested in its complaint and abated the nuisance
conditions at Defendants’ property located at 8450 Higuera Street, Culver City.
On that basis, the City requests that the Court dismiss this action.
 
Plaintiff claims that they are
entitled to fees under the Culver City Municipal Code (CCMC). CCMC section
9.04.145 provides as follows:
 
A. The prevailing party of any
action, administrative proceeding, or special proceeding to abate a nuisance or
to cause the abatement of a public nuisance or other violation of this Code, or
in any appeal or other judicial action arising therefrom, shall be entitled to
recover reasonable attorney’s fees. Attorneys’ fees shall not be recoverable
unless the City Manager (or a designee thereof) or an attorney for and on
behalf of the City elects in writing at the initiation of that individual
action or proceeding to seek recovery of its own attorneys’ fees.
 
B. Provided that the City has made
an election to seek attorney’s fees, an award of attorney’s fees to a person
shall not exceed the amount of reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the City
in that action or proceeding.
 
C. Unpaid attorneys’ fees shall be
collectible in any manner allowed by law.
 
Plaintiff also claims fees as an
item of cost under Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) sections 1032 and 1033.5, as
well as under Civil Code section 3496(c). CCP section 1032(b) entitles a
“prevailing party” to recover costs in any action or proceeding. CCP section
1032(a)(4) defines a “prevailing party” as
including:
 
[a] the party with a net monetary
recovery, [b] a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, [c] a
defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and [d] a
defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against
that defendant. If any party
recovers other than monetary relief and in situations other than as specified,
the “prevailing party” shall be as determined by the court, and under those
circumstances, the court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if
allowed, may apportion costs between the
parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under Section
1034. 
 
(Emphasis added.)  Civil
Code section 3496(c) provides the court with the discretion to award costs,
including the costs of investigation and discovery, and reasonable attorney's fees… to the prevailing party… [i]n any
case in which a governmental agency seeks to enjoin the use of a building or
place, or seeks to enjoin in or upon any building or place the unlawful sale,
manufacture, service, storage, or keeping or giving away of any controlled
substance[.]”
 
Considering these statutes, the
Court must determine whether Plaintiff is a prevailing party. There is no
judgment in this action, and costs are generally incident to judgment. (Folsom
v. Butte Cnty. Assn. of Governments (1982) 32 Cal. 3d 668, 677.)  Plaintiff has not “recovered” any non-monetary
relief, aside from a preliminary injunction. (See Cohen v. Board of
Supervisors (1985) 40 Cal.3d 277, 286 [a preliminary injunction is not a
determination on the merits of the action, and only represents the trial
court's discretionary decision whether defendant should be restrained from
exercising a claimed right pending trial].) Plaintiff does not contend that it
settled this action with Defendant. Thus, at first blush, Plaintiff has not
recovered anything, and therefore could not be considered a prevailing party,
even under the discretionary standard of section 1032. 
 
Plaintiff cites a line of cases
that discuss whether there is prevailing party even if there is no favorable
judgment. Indeed, a plaintiff may be entitled to attorneys’ fees under a “catalyst
theory” (in the context of a private attorney general statute, CCP section
1021.5). (See Graham v. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004) 34 Cal. 4th 553.) The
theory provides that attorney fees may be awarded
even when litigation does not result in a judicial resolution if the defendant
changes its behavior substantially because of, and in the manner sought by, the
litigation. (Id. at 560.) Plaintiff reasons that under such
rules, the court takes a “broad, pragmatic view of what constitutes a
‘successful party’ ” and that a fee award “may be justified even when
plaintiff's legal action does not result in a favorable final judgment.” (Id.
at 565-566.) Under this pragmatic view, plaintiffs may be considered the prevailing
parties for attorneys' fees purposes if they succeed on any significant issue
in litigation which achieves some of the benefit the parties sought in bringing
suit. (Id. at 571 [noting that successful and prevailing parties are
synonymous]; see Westside Community for Independent Living, Inc. v. Obledo
(1983) 33 Cal.3d 348 [recognizing the catalyst theory, where attorney fees may
be awarded even when litigation does not result in a judicial resolution if the
defendant changes its behavior substantially because of, and in the manner
sought by, the litigation]; see also Press v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1983)
34 Cal.3d 311 [although their action had become moot, plaintiffs were awarded
fees under section 1021.5 because they had achieved the relief they sought
through preliminary injunction].)
 
In Graham, truck buyers brought an action for breach of warranty
against a manufacturer, alleging that marketing materials misrepresented the
towing capacity of the subject trucks. (Graham, supra, 34 Cal.4th at
560.) The manufacturer offered to repurchase the trucks after the lawsuit was
filed seeking a repurchase remedy, but before judgment was rendered. (Id.)
Despite the fact that the lawsuit was now “moot,” plaintiffs were still awarded
substantial attorney fees under the catalyst theory. (Id.) Graham
found that the trial court could award fees under the catalyst theory,
but required the plaintiff make additional showings that the lawsuit has “some
merit” (i.e., that it was not “frivolous, unreasonable or groundless”) and
plaintiff “engaged in a reasonable attempt to settle its dispute with the
defendant prior to litigation.” (Id. at 575-577 [remanding with
instructions to consider these two additional elements].) Graham
recognized:
 
some
development of the factual record is required in order to prevail on a catalyst
theory. At the very least, a plaintiff must establish ‘the precise
factual/legal condition that [it] sought to change or affect’ as a prerequisite
for establishing the catalytic effect of its lawsuit… When the suit is mooted
early in its prosecution (as occurred in the [Graham]), it may generally
be established during the attorney fee proceeding by declarations, or, at the
discretion of the trial court, by an abbreviated evidentiary hearing. The trial
court may review this factual background not only to determine the lawsuit's
catalytic effect but also its merits. Attorney fees should not be awarded for a
lawsuit that lacks merit, even if its pleadings would survive a demurrer. We
believe that trial courts will be able to conduct an abbreviated but meaningful
review of the merits of the litigation designed to screen out nuisance suits
without significantly increasing attorney fee litigation costs.
 
(Citations omitted.) 
 
Following
the rules set forth in Graham, Plaintiff must provide more evidence than
what was presented here. Simply put, Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that the
action is truly moot, and that Defendants ceased their activities because of
this lawsuit. Plaintiff cites no competent evidence that demonstrates that Defendants
ceased their indoor activities in violation of the COVID-19 stay-at-home orders
because of this lawsuit. Plaintiff relies on the declaration of counsel
and the prior evidence submitted in support of the other motions in this
action, such as the documents in support of Plaintiff’s Application for a
Temporary Restraining Order and Order to Show Cause Re: Preliminary Injunction.
Counsel only states (without much foundation) that Defendants have relinquished
possession and occupancy of the Subject Property altogether. (Sanchez Decl., ¶
16.) Even if true, this bare statement does not show a causal connection between
this action and cessation. While the evidence regarding the preliminary
injunction could show the minimal merits of this lawsuit, Counsel makes no
statement on whether Defendants actually ceased indoor activities, why they
ceased such activities, or when they ceased such activities. Without such facts,
the Court cannot find that a causal connection exists.
 
The Court further notes that some
facts weigh against a finding that Defendants ceased operation because of this
lawsuit. For instance, it is undisputed that Defendants filed for chapter 11
bankruptcy. Thus, it is reasonably possible that Defendants ceased operation
because of bankruptcy, rather than to comply with this lawsuit. The fact that
Defendants have abandoned the property also suggests issues other than
Defendants’ alleged violation of the COVID-19 indoor gathering bans from three
years ago. In fact, the complaint did not seek to have Defendants relinquish
possession and occupancy of the property altogether. For these reasons, it is
questionable whether Defendants changed their
behavior in the manner sought by the litigation. Plaintiff also proffers
no settlement agreement, further distinguishing this
case from the cited caselaw. 
 
For these
reasons, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has not demonstrated the
catalytic effect to be the “successful” party entitled to fees without a favorable
judgment.  Accordingly, the motion is
DENIED without prejudice.