 Case Number:  23SMCV00594    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Hermosa
Capital Management Inc., v. Marina Caregivers Cooperative
CASE NO.:                23SMCV00594
MOTION:                  Motion
for Stipulated Judgment
HEARING DATE:   2/15/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 664.6:¿ 
 
(a)¿If parties
to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside¿of¿the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement
of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment
pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court
may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.¿ 
 
(b) For
purposes of this section, a writing is signed by a party if it is signed by any
of the following:¿¿ 
(1) The
party.¿¿ 
(2) An attorney who represents the party.¿¿ 
(3) If the
party is an insurer, an agent who is authorized in writing by the insurer to
sign on the insurer’s behalf.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Hermosa Capital
Management and Defendant Marina Caregivers
Cooperative move for entry of a Stipulated Judgment. The
parties seek an order dismissing this action without prejudice, to be converted
to a dismissal with prejudice on May 21, 2025, after Defendant has made its final
payment to satisfy the Stipulated Judgment. 
 
The parties demonstrate that they
entered into a settlement agreement on September 24, 2023. (See Ex. 2.) Under
the agreement, Defendant agreed to a $500,000.00 judgment, subject to certain set-offs.
The parties’ representatives signed the settlement documents. The parties also
request that the court retain jurisdiction to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement. Thus, the parties
demonstrate compliance with section 664.6. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
 The matter is dismissed without prejudice
with the Court retaining jurisdiction to enforce the terms of the settlement.  The dismissal without prejudice will be automatically
converted to a dismissal with prejudice as of May 21, 2025, unless a motion is
filed prior to that date requesting the dismissal vacated.
 
(1) enter judgment in favor of the
Plaintiff Hermosa and against the Defendant Marina Caregivers, in the amount of
$500,000 subject to any set off in for any amounts paid to Hermosa under the
terms of the Settlement Agreement; (2) dismiss the case without prejudice to
convert to prejudice on May 21 2025, unless a motion is filed before such date
to vacate the dismissal; and (3) retain jurisdiction to enforce the Stipulated
Judgment.  The parties shall separately
file the proposed judgment, which the Court shall sign.  