  Case Number:  20STCV10953    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants CV Communities, LLC and City
Ventures LLC’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED. Defendant and
Cross-Complainant City of Palmdale is granted leave to amend the first cause of
action in its first amended cross-complaint to state a claim based on paragraph
12.1 of the Final Conditions of Approval.
 
Plaintiffs CV Communities, LLC and City Ventures LLC’s
Motions to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission and Form
Interrogatories from Defendant and Cross-Complainant City of Palmdale are GRANTED
as to Requests for Admission No. 18–26, DENIED as to Requests for Admission No.
27–29, and GRANTED as to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1. Sanctions are awarded
against Palmdale and its counsel in the amount of $2,300.
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice.
 
I.                  
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving
party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for
summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for
summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for
summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants
CV Communities, LLC and City Ventures LLC (Plaintiffs) move for summary
adjudication on Defendant and Cross-Complainant City of Palmdale’s (Palmdale)
first cause of action for contractual indemnity contained in their First
Amended Cross-Complaint (FAXC). Plaintiffs argue that paragraph 12 of the 2015
Final Conditions of Approval, which forms the basis for Palmdale’s indemnity
claim, allows indemnity to Palmdale only for actions to contest conditions and
approvals brought under the Subdivision Map Act, brought within 90 days of the
condition or approval under Government Code § 66499.37, while the present
action was not brought within the prescribed period. (Motion at pp. 16–20.)
Plaintiffs also argue that paragraph 12 makes no provision for first-party
applications to claims by Plaintiffs, and by ordinary rules of interpretation
can only be construed to apply to third-party claims. (Motion at pp. 21–24.)
Plaintiffs finally argue that paragraph 12 only applies to actions attacking an
“approval” or a “condition of approval,” while Plaintiffs’ claims target the
Joint Community Facilities District Agreement (JCFA), which is not an approval
or a condition of approval. (Motion at pp. 24–25.) 
 
Palmdale in
opposition contends that its claims are not based merely on paragraph 12 of the
Final Conditions of Approval, but also paragraph 12.1, which Plaintiffs do not
target in this motion. (Motion at p. 5.) Palmdale relies on arguments embraced
by this court in ruling on Plaintiffs’ two prior demurrers to the same claim to
argue that paragraph 12’s 90-day limitations period apples only to actions
against approvals or conditions of approval brought through the Subdivision Map
Act, not to claims like those brought by Plaintiffs here. (Opposition at pp.
7–10.) Palmdale also argues that paragraph 12 applies to first-party claims
brought by Plaintiffs, based on its custom and practice, attested to by former
employee Chuck Hefferman. (Opposition at pp. 10–12.) Palmdale finally argues
that Plaintiffs’ challenge to the JCFA constitutes an action on an approval or
condition of approval, based on the numerous municipal actions and approvals
that were necessary to effectuate the JCFA. (Opposition at pp. 12–18.)
 
Here, it is
unnecessary to revisit paragraph 12’s relationship to the Subdivision Map Act,
as Plaintiffs have shown that paragraph 12 applies only to third party claims,
not claims by the “applicant” referred to in the Final Conditions of Approval. 
 
Generally, an indemnification provision
allows one party to recover costs incurred defending actions by third parties,
not attorney fees incurred in an action between the parties to the contract.
Courts look to several indicators to distinguish third party indemnification
provisions from provisions for the award of attorney fees incurred in
litigation between the parties to the contract. The key indicator is an express
reference to indemnification. A clause that contains the words “indemnify” and
“hold harmless” generally obligates the indemnitor to reimburse the indemnitee
for any damages the indemnitee becomes obligated to pay third persons—that is,
it relates to third party claims, not attorney fees incurred in a breach of
contract action between the parties to the indemnity agreement itself.
 
(Alki Partners,
LP v. DB Fund Services, LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 574, 600.)
 
Paragraph 12 of the
Final Conditions of Approval states: 
 
The applicant shall defend, indemnify, and
hold harmless the City of Palmdale its elected and appointed officials,
officers, employees, and agents from and against any claim, action, or
proceeding against the City of Palmdale, its elected and appointed officials,
officers, employees, or agents to attack, set aside, void, or annul any
approval or condition of approval of the City of Palmdale concerning this
subdivision, including but not limited to any approval or condition of approval
of the City Council, Planning Commission, or Planning Director, which action is
brought within the time period provided for in Government Code Section 66499.37.
The City shall promptly notify the applicant of any claim, action, or proceeding
concerning the subdivision and the City shall cooperate fully in the defense of
the matter. The City reserves the right, at its own option, to choose its own
attorney to represent the City, its elected and appointed officials, officers, employees,
and agents in the defense of the matter.
 
(FAXC Exh. C, ¶ 12.)
This provision’s use of terms such as “indemnify” and “hold harmless,” and the
absence of any express reference to first-party indemnification for claims by
Plaintiffs, indicates that it is intended to reach only third-party claims. This
inference is further bolstered by the requirement that Palmdale “promptly nonify
the applicant [i.e. Plaintiffs] of any claim, action, or proceeding concerning
the subdivision, and the City shall cooperate fully in the defense of the
matter.” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs would have no need of notice of a claim
brought by themselves, and if they brought such a claim, it would not behoove
Palmdale to “cooperate fully” with them in preparing its defense. Such
provisions only make sense in the third-party context.
 
Palmdale
argues that similar provisions have been held to apply to first-party claims,
but its authority is inapposite. It cites Wilshire-Doheny
Associates Ltd. v. Shapiro (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 1380, 1387, which held that corporate officers could seek attorney
fees in an action brought against them by the corporation, based upon many
indemnity provisions contained in an agreement to which the corporation was a
party, including one broadly worded 
requirement that the company ”hold . . . [the officers] harmless against
any and all claims . . . or other liabilities of whatsoever kind or nature
arising out of or related to actions taken by the Indemnitees on behalf of” the
corporation. (Id. at p. 1387.) Palmdale neglects, however, that another
indemnity clause in that case specifically applied to an “action or suit by or
in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor.” (Id.
at p. 1395, 1396 [“In fact, paragraph (2) of article IX of the articles of
incorporation specifically applies to an ‘action or suit by or in the right of
the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor.’”].) This authority is
therefore of no help to Palmdale, because it specifically provided for
indemnity for first-party claims.
 
Palmdale presents the declaration of Chuck Hefferman, who
testifies as follows. Based on his years of experience as an engineer employed
in various municipal capacities, including as Palmdale’s Assistant Director of
Public Works from 2009 to 2013 and Director of Development Services from 2013
to 2014 (Hefferman Decl. ¶¶ 13–14), that “Palmdale customarily secure broad
indemnity agreements from real estate developers covering all claims brought
against Palmdale with regard to real estate developments, by third parties and
by the developer itself. (Hefferman Decl. ¶ 16.) Hefferman claims that Palmdale
“knows how” to limit indemnification to third-party claims, referring to a 2014
Indemnity Agreement executed by Plaintiffs and Palmdale on another issue.
(Hefferman Decl. ¶ 16, Exh. 1.) This agreement contains a recital stating that
“Indemnitee has requested that Indemnitor provide an indemnity to the City
against any third party claims” relating to tract maps controlled by Palmdale.
(Hefferman Decl. Exh. 1.) Thus Palmdale claims that the absence of express
third-party language in paragraph 12 indicates the potential for first-party
liability.
 
This evidence does not suggest what Palmdale claims. The “third
party claims” language that Hefferman cites is not found in the provisions of
the contract outlining Plaintiffs’ indemnity obligations, but in a recital
identifying what Palmdale “has requested.” (Hefferman Decl. Exh. 1.) The
provision of the contract that actually outlines Plaintiffs’ indemnity
obligations contains no express mention of third parties, and in its guarantee
to “protect, indemnify, defend and hold harmless Indemnitee from and against
any and all liability, costs, damages and expenses suffered by such
Indemnitee,”  only confirms the general
rule that such language implicitly applies to third parties only. Moreover, paragraph
12.1 of the Final Conditions of Approval —which Palmdale belatedly advances as
an alternative basis for indemnity in this case —  also cuts against its interpretation of
paragraph 12. If it was indeed Palmdale’s practice, against the general rules
of contract interpretation, to use “indemnification” as a shorthand for both
third- and first-party claims, then there would be no need for the language in
paragraph 12.1 specifying that indemnification under that provision “includ[es]
claims or actions by the Applicant.” (FAXC Exh. C, ¶ 12.1.) That such language
is included in the same document as paragraph 12 is testament to the limitation
of paragraph 12 to third-party claims. Thus the evidence that Palmdale submits
to contradict Plaintiffs’ interpretation only lends it further support.
 
Palmdale argues that, even if paragraph 12 does not furnish
a basis for express indemnity, an alternative basis for indemnity may be found
in paragraph 12.1. (Opposition at p. 2.) This provision states:
 
In addition to the indemnification set
forth in Condition #12, prior to the effective date of this Modification,
Applicant shall sign an indemnification agreement, in form and content as
approved by the City attorney, indemnifying the City from all claims and
actions regarding this subdivision, regarding the procedures, approvals and
extensions approved by the City, regarding prescriptive or other easements
across the property, regarding the design and construction of the
infrastructure, and including claims or actions by the Applicant, by its
assignees, and successors in interest and by adjacent property owners or
members of the public.
 
(FAXC Exh. C, ¶ 12.1.) Palmdale argues that this provision
is included in the Final Conditions of Approval and incorporated by reference
into its operative complaint, and that Plaintiffs have made no arguments
against its applicability. (Opposition at p. 6.)
 
It is no surprise that Plaintiffs’
motion does not take paragraph 12.1 as one of its targets, because until
Palmdale filed its opposition, none of its papers filed before the court had
sought any relief based on that provision. “The pleadings define the issues to be considered on a
motion for summary
judgment.”
(Allyson v. Department of Transportation (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1304,
1316.) Neither Palmdale’s original complaint or its operative FAXC make any
mention of that provision. Although it is true that the provision is included in
the Final Conditions of Approval attached and incorporated into the FAXC, the
body of Palmdale’s pleadings contain no claim for relief based on paragraph
12.1. The incorporation of the conditions is insufficient. Palmdale’s
incorporated conditions include not just paragraph 12.1 but more than 150 other
paragraphs (not including those listed under sub-decimals) across 38 pages (FAXC
Exh. C), and this is in addition to the hundreds of pages of other exhibits also
attached and incorporated into the pleadings. The pleadings offer no more basis
to believe paragraph 12.1 is at issue in this case than any other provision
contained in any of the other documents attached to Palmdale’s complaints. None
of Palmdale’s theories based on paragraph 12.1 are included in its FAXC, and
Plaintiffs were not obliged to rebut them in moving for summary judgment. (Bostrom
v. County of San Bernardino (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1654, 1663 [“[S]ummary
judgment cannot be denied on a ground not raised by the pleadings.”].)

The motion is therefore properly GRANTED as to the first
cause of action for express indemnity.
Palmdale asks leave to amend. (Opposition at p. 3.) It may
seek such leave, and indeed must seek it, if it is to possess any claim for
express indemnity after the hearing on this motion:
If either party wishes the trial court to
consider a previously unpleaded issue in connection with a motion for summary
judgment, it may request leave to amend.  Such requests are routinely and liberally
granted. However, [I]n the absence of some request for amendment there is no
occasion to inquire about possible issues not raised by the pleadings. Declarations
in opposition to a motion for summary judgment are no substitute for amended
pleadings. If the motion for summary judgment presents evidence sufficient to
disprove the plaintiff's claims, as opposed to merely attacking the sufficiency
of the complaint, the plaintiff forfeits an opportunity to amend to state new
claims by failing to request it.
(Bostrom v. County of San Bernardino (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1654, 1663–1664, internal citations and quotation marks omitted.)
Plaintiffs in reply argue that paragraph 12.1 furnishes no
basis for an indemnity claim, because by its terms it is not a claim for an
indemnity, but an expression of the parties intent to later form an indemnity
agreement. (Reply at pp. 9–10.) However, the fact that paragraph 12.1
contemplates a further writing memorializing the parties’ indemnity agreement
is not necessarily a barrier to its enforcement. “[W]hen parties agree on the
material terms of a contract with the intention to later reduce it to a formal
writing, failure to complete the formal writing does not negate the existence
of the initial contract.” (CSAA Ins. Exchange v. Hodroj (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 272, 276.)
Leave to amend is therefore GRANTED. 
II.               
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
“Any party may obtain discovery
. . . by propounding to any other party to the action written interrogatories
to be answered under oath.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.010, subd. (a).) A
propounding party may move for an order compelling further responses if the
party believes the answers are incomplete, evasive, or the objections are
without merit. (See Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On
receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response,” if they
contend the response is incomplete or that an objection is without merit. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.290, subd. (a).)
The party filing a
motion must submit a meet-and-confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300,
subd. (b).).
 
Plaintiffs move to
compel further responses to Requests for Admission No. 18–29, and to Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1 as it relates to those requests for admission. These
requests sought the following admissions:
 
18.  That
there was no claim or action against Palmdale against any approval related to
the Joshua Ranch subdivision brought within 90 days of that approval;
19.  The
same, but as to actions against conditions of approval;
20.  That
Palmdale’s FAXC does not allege any such action as to any approval within 90
days;
21.  The
same, but that the FAXC does not allege any action against conditions of
approval;
22.  That
Palmdale seeks no indemnity based on any such action against an approval filed
within 90 days;
23.  The
same, as to conditions of approval;
24.  That
the 2015 Final Conditions of Approval do not require Plaintiffs to obtain water
rights for the Joshua Ranch Development;
25.  That
the 2015 Conditions do not require Plaintiffs to obtain a contracted water
supply for the same development;
26.  That
the 2015 Conditions do not require Plaintiffs to establish a financial
mechanism to pay for the water supply to the development;
27.  That
Palmdale never prepared an indemnity agreement under paragraph 12.1 of the
conditions;
28.  That
Palmdale never provided such an agreement to Plaintiffs;
29.  That
Palmdale never asked Plaintiffs to sign such an agreement.
Palmdale offered
different kinds of responses to Requests No. 18–23, Requests No. 24–26, and
Requests No. 27–29. To requests asking into the existence of an action on an
approval or condition of approval brought within 90 days of that approval or
condition (Requests No. 18–23), Palmdale offered objections and a lengthy
denial, arguing that the request “misstate[s] the relevant time frames and
condition,” arguing that the 90-day time-limitation of Government Code §
66499.37 did not apply, and that Palmdale could bring no action for indemnity
until an action was filed against it, meaning that its own present action was
timely. (Separate Statement.)
 
As to those
requests asking into the Conditions’ prescriptions for water rights (Requests
No. 24–26), Palmdale responded with a denial stating that paragraph 12 of the
Conditions required Plaintiffs to indemnify them for this action brought on the
JCFA. (Separate Statement at pp. 18–21.) And as to those requests regarding the
preparation or propounding of an indemnity agreement under paragraph 12.1 (Requests
No. 27–29), Palmdale responded, “After diligent search and reasonable inquiry,
Responding Party lacks sufficient information to admit or deny this Request and
on that basis denies it.” (Separate Statement at pp. 23–25.)
 
Palmdale’s
responses are insufficient. Its denials to Requests No. 18–23 were denials in
name only, operating effectively as objections based solely on its legal
position that paragraph 12 does not limit the indemnification obligations of
Plaintiffs to challenges to conditions of approval or approvals subject to
Government Code § 66499.37. These requests did not ask for Palmdale’s legal
position, but rather for its admission or denial as to the existence of actions
against approvals brought within the given time period. Palmdale’s responses
were non-responsive.
 
The same is true as
to Requests No. 24–26. Asked about the 2015 Conditions’ requirements as to
water rights, Palmdale responded only by reference to the paragraph 12
indemnification provision. Again, though framed as a denial, this response was
non-responsive, and operated solely as a defective objection to the requests. 
 
Palmdale in opposition argues that
it is statutorily entitled to qualify its responses to requests for admission.
(Opposition at p. 7.) But Palmdale is not entitled to qualify its responses as
it pleases. An answer to a request for admission may admit responses “as reasonably
and clearly qualified by the responding party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.220,
subd. (b)(1).) Palmdale’s responses to these requests are neither reasonable
nor clear. 
But Palmdale’s responses to
Requests No. 27–29 are code-compliant as written. Asked concerning the
preparation and offering of an indemnity agreement under paragraph 12.1,
Palmdale responded that after a diligent inquiry it lacked information
sufficient to admit or deny the truth of the request. A responding party may
“[s]pecify so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of
which the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.220, subd. (b)(3).) If this option is elected, “that party
shall state in the answer that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in
the particular request has been made, and that the information known or readily
obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.220, subd. (c).) Palmdale’s responses to these requests
comply with the code.
Plaintiffs argue that the answers are implausible, as no
one would know better than Palmdale concerning the indemnity agreement that its
own conditions call for. (Separate Statement at p. 23.) Plaintiffs also note
that in response to a request for production concerning such an agreement,
Palmdale responded by stating that it would “produce all additional documents
not already produced in this action.” (Mircheff Decl. Exh. D, Request No. 70.)
Yet this vague response[1]
does not indicate what information it possesses, or if the information to be
produced would allow a positive or negative answer to the question. No further
request for admission need be provided as to Requests for Admission No. 27–29.
However, Palmdale cannot avoid providing an explanation for
its lack of knowledge in response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1. Asked to
state the facts and evidence in support of its responses to Requests No. 27–29,
Palmdale responded only, “Responding Party’s denial is based on lack of
information,” offering only the words “Not Applicable” to those spaces allotted
to documents and witnesses supporting its contention. (Separate Statement at
pp. 11–12.) These responses are not sufficient. Palmdale may indeed lack
information sufficient to respond to Requests No. 27–29. But “[i]f only partial
answers [to an interrogatory] can be supplied, the answers should reveal all
information then available to the party. If a person cannot furnish details, he
should set forth the efforts made to secure the information.” (Deyo v.
Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782.) Palmdale owes Plaintiffs such
efforts here.[2]
Palmdale’s other responses to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1
are deficient as well. Its responses to the interrogatory as it relates to
Requests No. 18–26 mimic the deficiencies of its answers to the requests
themselves, outlined above, with the addition of the phrase “Not Applicable” to
the subpart of the response reserved for the identification of witnesses.
(Separate Statement at pp. 2–10.)
Finally, Palmdale’s response as to Request for Admission
No. 30 is also deficient. This request asked Palmdale to admit that paragraph
12.1 from the conditions of approval was not ambiguous, which Palmdale denied.
In response to Interrogatory No. 17.1, Palmdale stated that the only facts
supporting its contention were “the language of Paragraph 12.1.” (Separate
Statement at p. 12.) This conclusory response is insufficient.
Palmdale argues that Plaintiffs’ separate statement does
not contain the text of the requests for admission at issue. (Opposition at pp.
6–8.) The text of these admissions are the subject of another motion set
for  hearing on the same day and are
discussed above. There being no prejudice resulting from this violation, it
furnishes no basis to deny the motion. 
The motions are therefore GRANTED as to Requests for
Admission No. 18–26, DENIED as to Requests for Admission No. 27–29, and GRANTED
as to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1.
III. SANCTIONS
Statute provides that the court shall impose sanctions upon
a party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response
to interrogatories, requests for production of documents, or requests for
admission, absent substantial justification otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310, subd. (h); 2033.290, subd. (d).)
 
Plaintiffs ask for $3,950.00 in connection with the
admissions motion, representing two hours of attorney work at $600 per hour
plus five hours at $550 per hour. (Mircheff Decl. ¶¶ 13–15.) Plaintiffs seek
$3,400.00 in connection with the interrogatories motion, representing two hours
at $600 and four hours at $550 per hour. (Mircheff Decl. ¶¶ 10–12.) Plaintiffs
thus request a total sanctions award of $$7,300.00, against Palmdale and its
counsel of record.
 
Sanctions are awarded against Palmdale and its counsel in
the amount of $2,300.
 
 


