  Case Number:  23PSCV03999    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Yuanyuan  Gao v. Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center, et al.  1  – Defendant Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First  Amended Complaint; and 2  - Defendant Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center’s Motion to Strike Portions  of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First Cause of Action  without leave to amend. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third and Fourth  Cause of Action, and will hear from Plaintiff at the hearing whether Plaintiff  can amend these causes of action. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Second, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action of the First Amended Complaint with  20 days’ leave to amend.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike as to the First through  Sixth Causes of Action, and DENIES the motion to strike as moot with respect to  the punitive damages allegations in paragraphs 51 and 57 of the FAC, and  paragraph 3 of the Prayer for Relief.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike with respect to the punitive  damage allegations in paragraphs 63 and 64 of the FAC since the Seventh Cause  of Action containing such paragraphs is not asserted against Pomona Valley.               Pomona Valley is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is an action based on an admission to a mental institution. On  December 28, 2023, plaintiff Yuanyuan Gao (Plaintiff) filed this action against  defendants Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center (Pomona Valley), College  Hospital, Inc. (College Hospital), College Hospital – Cerritos (Cerritos) (collectively,  Defendants), and Does 1 to 25, alleging causes of action for false  imprisonment, violation of patient rights, assault, battery, invasion of  privacy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and discrimination. On June  25, 2024, after the Court sustained Pomona Valley’s demurrer to the original  complaint, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC),  alleging the same causes of action against the same Defendants, except Pomona  Valley was removed from the Seventh Cause of Action.  On August 1, 2024, Pomona Valley demurred to and moved to strike  portions of the FAC. On August 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed responses to both  motions. On September 3, 2024, Pomona Valley replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer               A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., §  422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,  994.) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of  the complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in  the complaint are assumed to be true. (Id.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)   DISCUSSION –  Demurrer  Meet and Confer  Per  Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Pomona Valley was  required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference  before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  While the Court finds Pomona Valley’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient, as  there is at least evidence of an attempted phone call, the Court also notes the  bulk of the efforts to meet and confer were conducted by letter. (Tjoeng Decl.,  ¶¶ 3-6.) As a reminder, meeting and conferring needs to be conducted by  telephone, video conference, or in person. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a); Dept. 6 Courtroom Information [“Parties are required to meet and confer in  person, by telephone, or by video conference before filing any motion.”])  First Cause of Action – False  Imprisonment  To state a cause of action for false imprisonment, the  plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) the nonconsensual, intentional  confinement of a person, (2) without lawful privilege, and (3) for an  appreciable period of time, however brief. [Citation.]” (Easton v. Sutter Coast Hosp. (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 485,  496 (Easton).)  Pomona Valley demurs to the First Cause of Action for  false imprisonment for failure to state a cause of action and for uncertainty.  Pomona Valley contends the allegations of the FAC still fail to allege facts  demonstrating that Plaintiff’s alleged restraint was without lawful privilege. Pomona  Valley contends the allegations demonstrate that this was a hold performed under  Welfare & Institutions Code section 5150, which means the alleged hold was  lawful, and that Plaintiff fails to allege facts establishing the hold was not  lawful.  In opposition, Plaintiff concedes that the FAC fails to  state a cause of action due to records recently received indicating that this  was a hold performed under Welfare & Institutions Code section 5150, which  enjoys limited immunity from civil liability. Plaintiff concedes she is not  aware of any facts indicating that the hold was unlawful, and will eliminate it  from this case unless she discovers facts showing it was unlawful, at which  point she would seek leave to amend to reassert the cause of action.  The Court finds the FAC fails to state a cause of action  for false imprisonment. Plaintiff concedes the FAC does not allege facts  showing this detainment was unlawful and that this cause of action is defective  as presently pleaded. (Opp., 2:15-3:1.) Moreover, the FAC still largely lumps  the actions of Pomona Valley and Cerritos together regarding conduct that  allegedly occurred within the premises of Defendant Cerritos. (FAC, ¶¶ 27-28.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  to the First Cause of Action without leave to amend.  Second Cause of Action – Violation of Patient Rights  A current or former resident or patient, or the legal representative, personal representative,  or successor in interest of a current or former resident or patient, of  a skilled nursing facility, as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 1250, or  intermediate care facility, as defined in subdivision (d) of Section 1250, may  bring a civil action against the licensee of a facility who violates any rights  of the resident or patient as set forth in Section 72527 or 73523 of Title 22 of the California  Code of Regulations, or any other right provided for by federal or state law or  regulation.  (Health & Saf. Code, § 1430,  subd. (b)(1).)  Pomona Valley demurs to the Second Cause of Action for violation  of patient rights for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action and for uncertainty. Pomona Valley contends the FAC fails to remedy  the defects of the original complaint with respect to this cause of action.  Pomona Valley contends Plaintiff fails to allege a basis for Plaintiff’s  alleged patient rights, and contends that the patient’s private right of action  is available only to current or former residents and patients of skilled  nursing facilities. Pomona Valley contends the complaint fails to allege facts  demonstrating that Plaintiff received medical care and then notes inconsistent  allegations between being voluntarily committed and involuntarily admitted. Pomona  Valley also contends that the FAC lumps the Defendants together without  specifying who committed the actions of which Plaintiff claims she is entitled  to punitive damages, and that Plaintiff fails to allege any facts showing  Pomona Valley is responsible for the actions of Defendant College Hospital.  Pomona Valley further contends the FAC adds irrelevant facts regarding Pomona  Valley’s alleged failure to provide patient information and an interpreter.  In opposition, Plaintiff concedes this cause  of action as presently pleaded is insufficient to state a cause of action.  Plaintiff contends though that recently received documents should enable her to  properly allege her claims.  The Court finds the Second Cause of Action fails to allege sufficient  facts to support a cause of action for violation of patient rights. Plaintiff  concedes that this cause of action as presently pleaded is insufficient. (Opp.,  3:2-18.) Moreover, as with the original complaint, the FAC does not specify the  basis for Plaintiff’s alleged patient rights. (See FAC, ¶¶ 31-36.) Health and  Safety Code section 1430, subdivision (b)(1), provides that it applies only to  skilled nursing facilities and intermediate care facilities. (Health & Saf.  Code, § 1430, subd. (b)(1); see also Id., § 1250, subd. (d) [definition  of intermediate care facility]; Id., § 1250, subd. (c) [definition of  skilled nursing facility].) The FAC does not allege that Pomona Valley is a  skilled nursing facility or intermediate care facility. The FAC also still  lumps Pomona Valley and Cerritos together and does not identify the actions of  Pomona Valley alleged to be in violation of Plaintiff’s rights, which are also  not identified. (See FAC, ¶¶ 31-36.) But, Plaintiff contends she has recently  received evidence which would support this cause of action in a Second Amended  Complaint. (Opp., 3:2-18.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Second Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Third and Fourth Causes of Action  – Assault and Battery  To state a cause of action for assault, the plaintiff  must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) the defendant acted  with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened  to touch the plaintiff  in a harmful  or offensive manner;  (2) the plaintiff reasonably believed he was  about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared  to the plaintiff that the defendant was  about to carry out the threat;  (3) the plaintiff did not consent to the defendant's conduct; (4) the plaintiff was harmed;  and (5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing the  plaintiff's harm. [Citation.]” (Carlsen v. Koivumaki  (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890.)  To state a cause of action for battery, the plaintiff  must allege facts demonstrating: (1) the defendant intentionally did an act  which resulted in a harmful or offensive contact with the plaintiff's person; (2)  the plaintiff did not consent to the contact; and (3) the harmful or offensive  contact caused injury, damage, loss or harm to the plaintiff. (Piedra v. Dugan (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1483, 1495.)  Pomona Valley demurs to the Third and Fourth Causes of  Action for assault and battery, respectively, for failure to state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for uncertainty. Pomona Valley  contends the FAC makes no meaningful effort to address the deficient  allegations of the original complaint, as it still lumps the Defendants  together. Pomona Valley contends that the only allegations against it relating  to a possible assault and battery are in paragraph 13 of the FAC, but contends  that these are still insufficient. Pomona Valley contends there is no  allegation against Pomona Valley here other than she was restrained. Pomona  Valley also contends Plaintiff’s claims here are governed by the Lanterman-Petris-Short  Act, and that in the absence of facts demonstrating Defendants lacked probable  cause to detain Plaintiff for psychiatric evaluation, Plaintiff must allege  facts which demonstrate that Defendants’ actions were without probable cause.  In opposition, Plaintiff concedes this cause  of action as presently pleaded is insufficient to state a cause of action.  Plaintiff contends though that recently received documents should enable her to  properly allege her claims.  The Court finds the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts  to state causes of action for both assault and battery. Plaintiff concedes this  cause of action is insufficient as presently pleaded. (Opp., 3:2-18.) Moreover,  the Third and Fourth Causes of Action allege that the Doe Defendants engaged in  harmful conduct, and that Pomona Valley and Cerritos are vicariously liable for  the actions of the Doe Defendants. (FAC, ¶¶ 38-40, 43-44.) While these causes  of action incorporate prior allegations by reference, this is not sufficient to  give Pomona Valley notice of the basis for its potential liability. Different  events occurred at different facilities by different individuals. The Court is  left to speculate as to the exact conduct of Pomona Valley for which Plaintiff  seeks to hold it liable for assault or battery or the basis for holding it  vicariously liable for those claims. Again, Plaintiff lumps together the  conduct of the Doe Defendants, and does not specify the exact conduct for which  Pomona Valley is allegedly liable. But, Plaintiff contends she  has recently received evidence which would support this cause of action in a  Second Amended Complaint. (Opp., 3:2-18.)  The Court also notes the potential problems for these  claims in light of Plaintiff’s concession that her detention at Pomona Valley  was the result of a 5150 hold. (Opp., 2:15-3:1.) Pomona Valley contends in its  reply that Welfare & Institutions Code section 5278 exempts individuals from  liability who were acting under authority of a 5150 hold. (Welf. & Inst.  Code, § 5278. [“Individuals authorized under this part to detain a person for  72-hour treatment and evaluation … or to  certify a person for intensive treatment… or to  file a petition for post-certification  treatment for a person… shall not be held either criminally or civilly liable  for exercising this authority in accordance with the  law.”]) Pomona Valley in its reply also cited Heater v. Southwood  Psychiatric Center (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1068, wherein the Court of Appeal  held that the immunity under Welfare & Institutions Code section 5278 extends  to claims for false imprisonment, assault, battery, and medical malpractice in  connection with a lawful 5150 hold. (Id., at p. 1083.) It appears then  that Pomona Valley may also be immune from Plaintiff’s claims for assault and  battery.[1]  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action. The Court will hear from Plaintiff at  the hearing on the demurrer whether Plaintiff can amend this cause of action.  Fifth Cause of Action – Invasion of Privacy  Case law recognizes four different types of invasion of  privacy: (1) intrusion into the plaintiff's privacy or solitude, Shulman v.  Group W Productions, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 200, 231; (2) public disclosure  of private facts, (Id., at p. 478); (3) publicity placing the plaintiff  in a false light, (Forsher v. Bugliosi (1980) 26 Cal.3d 792, 808; and  (4)  use or appropriation of the  plaintiff's name or likeness, (Id.).  (a) A person is liable for physical invasion of privacy  when the person knowingly enters onto the land or into the airspace above the land of  another person without permission or otherwise commits  a trespass in order to capture any type of visual image, sound recording, or  other physical impression of the plaintiff engaging in a private, personal, or  familial activity and the invasion occurs in a manner that is offensive to a  reasonable person.  (b) A person is liable for constructive invasion of  privacy when the person attempts to capture, in a manner  that is offensive to a reasonable person, any type of visual image, sound  recording, or other physical impression of the plaintiff engaging in a private,  personal, or familial activity, through the use of any device, regardless of  whether there is a physical trespass, if this image, sound recording, or other  physical impression could not have been achieved without a trespass unless the  device was used.  (Civ. Code, § 1708.8, subds. (a),  (b).)  There is also a constitutional right to privacy under the  California Constitution, which requires the plaintiff to allege facts  demonstrating, “(1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable  expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant  constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (All of US or None - Riverside  Chapter v. Hamrick (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 751, 798.)  Pomona Valley demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action for  invasion of privacy for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action and for uncertainty. Pomona Valley contends the only allegation with  respect to an unwanted entry onto Plaintiff’s property was by four police  officers, and there is no allegation that Pomona Valley or its agents engaged  police officers to go to Plaintiff’s home. Pomona Valley contends the  allegations about Plaintiff’s clothing being forcibly removed by male staff, seizure  of her mobile phone, and unjustifiably restricting her freedom to practice  religion, did not occur at Pomona Valley. Pomona Valley contends the FAC only  adds a claim that Plaintiff was subject to forced medical examination, but  fails to specify which Defendant did so.  In opposition, Plaintiff concedes this cause  of action as presently pleaded is insufficient to state a cause of action.  Plaintiff contends though that recently received documents should enable her to  properly allege her claims.  The Court finds the FAC fails to allege facts sufficient  to state a cause of action for invasion of privacy. Plaintiff concedes the FAC  is insufficient as presently pleaded. (Opp., 3:2-18.) Moreover, the Court  agrees with Pomona Valley that the FAC does not allege Pomona Valley caused the  police officers to enter onto Plaintiff’s property. Furthermore, the FAC alleges  that Plaintiff was forced to undress and undergo a medical examination at Cerritos,  not Pomona Valley. (FAC, ¶ 14.) It is unclear how the alleged seizure of  Plaintiff’s mobile phone constitutes a violation of privacy as well, as there  are no allegations that Pomona Valley or its agents opened Plaintiff’s phone  and looked through it. (See FAC, ¶ 47.) There is no other allegation in the FAC  that demonstrates Pomona Valley engaged in any conduct that would constitute an  invasion of Plaintiff’s privacy.  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Sixth Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional  Distress  To state a cause of action for intentional infliction  of emotional distress, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1)  defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct (conduct so extreme as to  exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized community) with the intent to  cause, or with reckless disregard to the probability of causing, emotional  distress; and (2) as a result, plaintiff suffered extreme or severe emotional  distress.” (Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273 (Berry).)  “Whether a defendant's conduct can reasonably be found to be outrageous is a  question of law that must initially be determined by the court; if reasonable  persons may differ, it is for the jury to determine whether the conduct was, in  fact, outrageous. [Citation.]” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th  518, 534; but see Berry, supra, 90 Cal.App.5th at p. 1273 [“’[W]hether  conduct is ‘outrageous’ is usually a question of fact.’ [Citation.]”)  Pomona Valley demurs to the Sixth Cause of Action for  intentional infliction of emotional distress for failure to state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for uncertainty. Pomona Valley  contends the FAC makes no material substantive changes to remedy the defects  from the original complaint. Pomona Valley contends the FAC is silent as to any  allegations, other than the alleged deception of having her sign the voluntary  admission document, and contends that the complaint contains contradictory  allegations that she was involuntarily admitted and treated. Pomona Valley  further contends that the allegations of Pomona Valley forcibly restraining her  are insufficient to constitute outrageous conduct, especially if the restraint  was privileged, as well as no facts demonstrating an intent to inflict injury  or with reckless disregard that injury would result to Plaintiff.  In opposition, Plaintiff concedes this cause  of action as presently pleaded is insufficient to state a cause of action.  Plaintiff contends though that recently received documents should enable her to  properly allege her claims.  The Court finds the FAC fails to allege sufficient  facts to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional  distress. Plaintiff concedes this cause of action is insufficient as presently  pleaded. (Opp., 3:2-18.)  Based on  the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action  with leave to amend.  LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike  Meet and Confer  Per  Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), Pomona Valley was required  to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference before  bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) While the  Court finds Pomona Valley’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient, as there is  at least evidence of an attempted phone call, the Court also notes the bulk of  the efforts to meet and confer were conducted by letter. (Tjoeng Decl., ¶¶  3-6.) As a reminder, meeting and conferring needs to be conducted by telephone,  video conference, or in person. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a); Dept. 6  Courtroom Information [“Parties are required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before filing any motion.”])  Analysis – First Through Sixth Causes of Action  As the Court previously stated, failure to state facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action is grounds for a general demurrer, not a motion  to strike. (Order re Tentative Ruling (6/5/24); Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008)  161 Cal.App.4th 509, 529.) The Court therefore declines again to consider  Pomona Valley’s motion to strike with respect to the First through Sixth Causes  of Action already addressed in the demurrer.  Analysis – Punitive Damages  A claim for punitive damages is subject to a motion to strike when  the allegations fail to rise to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud  necessary under Civil Code section 3294. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central  California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Given that the Court sustained the demurrer as to relevant causes  of action in the FAC with leave to amend, the Court DENIES the motion to strike  as moot with respect to the punitive damages allegations in paragraphs 51 and  57 of the FAC, and paragraph 3 of the Prayer for Relief.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike with respect to the punitive  damage allegations in paragraphs 63 and 64 of the FAC since the Seventh Cause  of Action containing such paragraphs is not asserted against Pomona Valley.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First Cause of Action  without leave to amend. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third and Fourth  Cause of Action, and will hear from Plaintiff at the hearing whether Plaintiff  can amend these causes of action. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Second, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action of the First Amended Complaint with  20 days’ leave to amend.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike as to the First through  Sixth Causes of Action, and DENIES the motion to strike as moot with respect to  the punitive damages allegations in paragraphs 51 and 57 of the FAC, and  paragraph 3 of the Prayer for Relief.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike with respect to the punitive  damage allegations in paragraphs 63 and 64 of the FAC since the Seventh Cause  of Action containing such paragraphs is not asserted against Pomona Valley.               Pomona Valley is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     