  Case Number:  23CHCV02223    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49     Date:    3/1/24     Case    Name: Joy Rhoda Abad, et al. v. Canyon Country Mobile Home Estates, LLC;    J&H Asset Property MGT., Inc.; and Does 1 to 50,     Case    # 23CHCV02223      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MARCH 1, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV02223    Motion  filed: 10/4/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Canyon Country Mobile Home  Estates, LLC and J&H Asset Property MGT., Inc. Claudia Aceves (collectively,“Defendants”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Joy Rhoda Abad, et al.  (“Plaintiffs”) NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court (1) compelling the signatory Plaintiffs to submit to  binding arbitration, and (2) staying proceedings for the remaining Plaintiffs  pending the resolution of the arbitration.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   On July 26, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint, alleging  against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) nuisance; (2) breach of  contract; (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (4)  negligence; (5) breach of statutes; (6) breach of warranty of habitability; (7)  breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (8) breach of unfair competition law;  and (9) declaratory and injunctive relief. The Complaint alleges that  Plaintiffs, who are current and former residents and/or owners of mobilehomes  located in Canyon County Mobile Home Estates, a mobile home park situated at  16274 Vasquez Canyon Rd. Canyon Country, CA 91351 (the “Park”), have suffered  damages due to Defendants’ alleged failure to properly manage and maintain the  Park.    On October 4, 2023, Defendants filed the instant Motion to  Compel Arbitration (the “Motion”).    On November 9, 2023, Plaintiffs opposed the Motion.  Subsequently, on February 26, Defendants filed their Reply.    ANALYSIS   Under Code of Civil Procedure  section 1281.2, “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging  the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy ... the court  shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if  it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists,” unless  the court finds that the right to compel arbitration has been “waived by the  petitioner,” or that “grounds exist for rescission” of the arbitration  agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a) & (b).)   “The petitioner bears the burden  of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance  of the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving  by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Engalla  v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) A.     Applicability  of Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) The FAA applies to agreements to  arbitrate disputes arising from a contract involving interstate commerce and it preempts all state laws  and rules that conflict with its provisions or its objective of enforcing  arbitration agreements.” (Acquire II, supra,  213 Cal.App.4th at p. 968; see 9 U.S.C. § 2 [FAA applies to a “contract  evidencing a transaction involving commerce”].)   The United States Supreme Court has  interpreted “involving commerce” as the functional equivalent of “affecting commerce,” even where the parties did not  contemplate an interstate commerce  connection. (Allied-Bruce Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995)  513 U.S. 265, 281.) The commerce clause power  could be exercised to preempt state law without showing any effect upon  interstate commerce if, in the aggregate, the economic activity represents “‘a  general practice ... subject to federal control.’” (Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S. 52,  56-57.) “Only that general practice need bear on interstate commerce in a substantial way.” (Ibid.)   The party asserting  FAA preemption has the burden of demonstrating that the subject matter of the  agreement involves interstate commerce. (Lane v. Francis Capital  Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 687.) Here, the arbitration clause in question explicitly provides  that it is governed by the California Arbitration Act, Civ. Code, §§ 1280, et  seq. (Mot., at 11, [“ARBITRATION SHALL BE CONDUCTED PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA CODE  OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 638, ET SEQ., AND CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION  1280, ET SEQ....”])   Despite this, Defendants in their Motion argue that FAA  should govern instead, asserting that the Park’s agreements with its residents  affected interstate commerce since “mobile homes are often manufactured,  shipped, financed and leased in interstate commerce.” (Mot., at 13.) Additionally,  Defendants argue in their Reply that “each lease constitutes, in part, a  transaction involving services provided, directly or indirectly, by a  public/private utility provider ... These vendors include Southern California  Edison ... governed by the Public Utilities Commission and its services touch  and concern interstate commerce.” (Reply, at 11-12.) Defendants cite Kassan  v. Stout (1973) 9Cal.3d 39,43 (Kassan) to support their argument that  “the leases forming the subject of this Motion constitute transactions that  reach well beyond a transfer of a real estate leasehold.” (Id., at 11.)   Nevertheless, the Kassan ruling, which considers an  issue of leasehold interest negotiations not constituting an abandonment of the  property (Kassan, supra, 9 Cal.3d 39 at 43), is deemed by the  Court as not instructive for determining the residential lease’s implication in  interstate commerce.    Furthermore, the “Long Term Lease Agreement” presented by  Defendants has nothing to do with the manufacture, sale, or finance of mobilehomes  or involves transactions with utility providers. Thus, it cannot be said that  the lease agreement’s general practice is subject to federal control. (See Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc., supra, 539 U.S. at  56-57; SI V, LLC v. FMC Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2002)  223 F.Supp.2d 1059 [FAA inapplicable to the purchase of real property even  though the seller was an out-of-state entity]; Garrison v. Palmas del Mar  Homeowners Assn., Inc. (D.P.R. 2008) 538 F. Supp. 2d 468, 473.[“t”he FAA  generally does not apply to residential real estate transactions that have no  substantial or direct connection to interstate commerce, regardless of whether  said transactions involve out-of-state purchasers.”])   Given the subject matter and the specific nature of the agreement,  pertaining to the leasing of immovable mobilehome spaces, a matter of real  property, in the Park, the Court finds the argument against the FAA’s  applicability compelling. Defendants have not adequately demonstrated that the  agreement involves interstate commerce.    Consequently, the Court concludes that the FAA does not  apply in this context, as Defendants have failed to satisfy their burden of  demonstrating that the “Long Term Lease Agreement” in question involves  interstate commerce.   B.      Enforceability  of Arbitration Agreements Under California Law   Defendants  further contend that even if the FAA does not apply, the Court must enforce a  valid arbitration agreement, arguing that the arbitration clauses fulfill the  minimum requirements established in Armendariz v. Foundation Health  Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83 (Armendariz),  including (1) a neutral arbitrator, (2) the provision of adequate discovery,  (3) it allows the claimant to recover as much as would be available in a civil  trial, (4) it calls for a written decision sufficient to permit a limited form  of judicial review, and (5) it limits the share of arbitration costs borne by  the claimant. (Mot. at 14.)    The Court acknowledges  that the Armendariz court specifically addresses arbitration provisions  in employment application forms and separate employment arbitration agreements  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 83), rather than those found in  residential lease agreements or specifically in mobilehome lease agreements. In  conjunction with the Mobilehome Residency Law (“MRL”), codified in Civil Code  sections 798-799.11, the Court agrees with multiple authorities that a stricter  standard is applicable. (See Civ. Code, § 798.19; Jaramillo v. JH Real  Estate Partners, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 394(Jaramillo); Henrioulle  v. Marin Ventures, Inc. (1978) 20 Cal.3d 512, 518.)   Plaintiffs,  in their Opposition, argue that Defendants fail to demonstrate the existence of  binding arbitration agreements for nearly 25% of Plaintiffs. They contend that the  arbitration agreements are unenforceable on several grounds: (1) The signatory  Plaintiffs could not have validly consented to arbitrate within a residential lease  agreement, as it is against public policies under Code of Civil Procedure  section 1953, subdivision (a)(4), Civil Code sections 798.19, 798.77, and further  supported in Galland v. City of Clovis (2001) 24 Ca1.4th 1003, 1009-10;  (2) The arbitration provisions are both procedurally and substantively  unconscionable; and (3) Arbitrating only a subset of Plaintiffs’ claims could  lead to conflicting rulings on common legal or factual issues. (Opp’n., at 6.)  The Court addresses Plaintiffs’ arguments in turn.   1.       Arbitration agreement violates state public  policy   Civil Code  section 798.19 provides that “No rental agreement for a mobilehome shall contain a provision  by which the homeowner waives his or her rights under the provisions of  Articles 1 to 8, inclusive, of this chapter. Any such waiver shall be  deemed contrary to public policy and void.” (Underlines added.)               Similarly,  Civil Code section 798.77 states, “No rental or sale agreement shall contain a  provision by which the purchaser or homeowner waives his or her rights under  this chapter. Any such waiver shall be deemed contrary to public policy and  shall be void and unenforceable.” (Underlines added.)                          Here,  Plaintiffs argue that the MRL explicitly states that a park resident has a  right to pursue a civil action against a “substantial failure of the management  to provide and maintain physical improvements in the common facilities in good  working order and condition.” (Civ. Code, §§ 798.87(a),(c).) The Court agrees  with Plaintiff’s argument, determining that an arbitration clause is invalid as  it effectively waives the resident’s right to maintain a “civil action” under  Civil Code section 798.87 subdivision (c).    Moreover,  Plaintiffs contend that the arbitration agreement violates another public  policy aimed at safeguarding residential tenants’ rights, as set forth in Civil  Code section 1953 subdivision (a). Plaintiffs maintain that this protection  should equally apply to mobilehome park tenants, citing Rich v. Schwab  (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 803, 808 (Rich).   Civil Code  section 1953 subdivision (a) provides, in part, that “[a]ny provision of a lease or rental  agreement of a dwelling by which the lessee agrees to modify or waive any of  the following rights shall be void as contrary to public policy: ... (4) His  procedural rights in litigation in any action involving his rights and  obligations as a tenant.”                          Despite  Defendants’ failure to address the relevance of Civil Code section 1953 in  their Reply, the Court notes that jurisprudence has broadly interpreted the  chapter containing section 1953 to safeguard mobilehome tenants and owners’  rights (See, e.g., Rich, supra, 63 Cal.App.4th at 814 [as the  vulnerability of mobilehome owners entitled them to “more, rather than less,  protection than other lessees.”] However, this statutory framework does not  impose as strict a standard as the MRL with regard to arbitration. Still, Civil  Code section 1942.1 underscores that any agreement waiving or modifying his rights  under section 1941 or 1942 concerning a lease of a dwelling is void against  public policy.                Given  that the contested arbitration provision encompasses “ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN  RESIDENT AND OWNER RELATING, IN ANY WAY, TO THIS AGREEMENT, RESIDENCY  DOCUMENTS, THE INTERPRETATION OR ENFORCEMENT THEREOF, THE LEASEHOLD ...” (Mot.,  at 10), it exceeds the bounds of mere “tenantability” dispute under Civil Code  section 1942.1.                Therefore, the arbitration provision is deemed void as it  contravenes state public policies outlined in both the MRL (Civ. Code, §§  798.19, 798.77) and Civil Code section 1953 subdivision (a)(4).   2.       Unconscionability For a contract to be  unenforceable due to unconscionability:   Both procedural and  substantive unconscionability must be shown for the defense to be established,  but “they need not be present in the same degree.” [Citation.] Instead, they  are evaluated on “‘a sliding scale.’” [Citation.] “[T]he more substantively oppressive  the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is  required to” conclude that the term is unenforceable. [Citation.] Conversely,  the more deceptive or coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the less  substantive unfairness is required. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th  111, 125–126, quoting Armendariz sliding scale, an arbitration agreement  might not be unconscionable, even if it contains one procedurally  unconscionable provision, or if it completely “fails the substantive  unconscionability test.” (Mission Viejo Emergency Medical Associates v. Beta  Healthcare Group (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1146, 1159.) It follows that,  despite the case law holding that certain factors may indicate procedural or  substantive unconscionability, the court must evaluate the agreement as a  whole, rather than each factor in isolation.             Here, in declarations from approximately 50 Plaintiffs, a  consistent narrative emerges that the Park manager or employee presented them  with a new lease agreement and an accompanying arbitration addendum,  instructing them to sign or initial at various places without proper  explanation. Specifically, Plaintiffs assert that (1) they were not informed  that they had 30 days to review the lease agreement and arbitration addendum  prior to signing these documents, nor were they told they could consult an  attorney; and (2) they did not understand that by signing, they were giving up their  rights to a jury trial, indicating a lack of comprehension of the arbitration  provisions’ subject matter. (Taylor Decl., Ex. 2-51.)               Here, the arbitration agreement at issue was drafted by  Defendants, who held superior bargaining power, and was offered to Plaintiffs  on essentially a “take it or leave it” basis, with no real opportunity for  negotiation, as the mobilehomes were already on the spaces when the signatory  Plaintiffs signed the agreement. Consequently, the Court finds the agreement to  exhibit a mild degree of procedural unconscionability.                Moreover, the Court considers the agreement substantively  unconscionable, particularly given its previous determination that the  agreement violates state public policy by stripping signatory Plaintiffs of  statutory rights. The conclusion is furthermore supported by the provision, paragraph  1.4 A capping arbitration costs at $500.00 only “IF THE RESIDENT IS THE PARTY  REQUESTING ARBITRATION.” (Mot., at 11.) By showing a lack of mutuality, this  provision contributes to the agreements’ substantive unconscionability when  viewed in its entirety.                Accordingly, the arbitration provision is unenforceable  on grounds of unconscionability.   3.       Potential for Inconsistent Rulings    Code of  Civil Procedure section 1281.2 provides, in part, that “[o]n petition of a  party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement  to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to  arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the  respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to  arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: ... (c) A party to  the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special  proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of  related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting  rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (Underlines added.)   In Abaya  v. Spanish Ranch I, L.P. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1490 (Abaya),  approximately 120 mobilehome park  residents sued the park's owners for failing to maintain the park's common  facilities. The complexity arose from the fact that many of the plaintiffs’  leases included an arbitration provision, but several did not. Drawing on Code  of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c), the trial court in Abaya  denied the owners’ motion to compel the plaintiffs with arbitration agreements  to arbitrate their claims. (Id., at 1493-1496.) The Court of Appeal  affirmed the trial court’s ruling, declaring that “[t]he existence of this  possibility of conflicting ruling on a common issue of facts is sufficient  grounds to deny a motion to compel pursuant to section 1281.2, subdivision (c).  (Id., at 1499, citing Henry v. Alcover Investment, Inc., (1991)  223 Cal.App.3d 94, 101.)   Here, Defendants  admit that “[t]he dispute arises from a series of related transactions and  there are common issues of law and facts as the Complaint generally pleads  claims and damages common to all Plaintiffs.” (Mot., at 16.) Despite this, they  argue that all 54 signatory Plaintiffs must submit to arbitration whereas the  remaining five Plaintiff’s proceedings must be stayed until the arbitration has  been held. (Ibid.) However, Plaintiffs have identified at least 15 individuals,  representing approximately 25% of the total number of Plaintiffs, for whom the  Defendants have not established the existence of enforceable arbitration  agreements. (Opp’n., at 7.) It is worth noting, and uncontested by either party,  that five Plaintiffs did not sign any arbitration agreement. (Ibid.)  This acknowledgment plays a key role in the deliberations concerning the  enforceability of arbitration provisions for the group of Plaintiffs as a  whole.    Given the potential for  inconsistent outcomes when addressing these common questions of law and fact in  separate forums, the Court, guided by the precedent established in Abaya,  exercises its discretion to deny the Motion to Compel Arbitration.   In sum, the Motion to Compel  Arbitration is DENIED on multiple grounds as discussed above.   CONCLUSION   Defendants’  Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.   Moving  party is ordered to provide notice of this order.  