  Case Number:  22BBCV00813    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 2,
2024

MOTION
TO BIFURCATE TRIAL

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00813

 



MP:  


Kelly
  Walsh Sweeney (Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant) 




RP:  


Richard M.
  Foster dba Law Offices of Richard M. Foster (Defendant and Cross-Complainant)
  



NOTICE:

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is
requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
Background
Plaintiff brings a motion to bifurcate trial and Defense
filed an opposition.
Plaintiff filed suit against
Defendant asserting that in 1999, Robert Walsh retained Defendant for attorney
services in the matter of Robert Walsh v. Galen Walker. (Compl. ¶2).  On April 12, 2022 Robert Walsh obtained a
judgment against Walker for $1,950,000 plus costs. (Compl. ¶3).  Defendant made no effort to recover the
judgment. (Compl. ¶5).  Two years after
the judgment, Kelly and Robert Walsh entered into a dissolution of marriage.  The settlement resulted in Robert Walsh
assigning one-half of the judgment to Kelly Walsh.
In 2012, Kelly Walsh was advised
by Defendant that the judgment had been renewed on September 23, 2011. (Compl.
¶12).  However, Ms. Walsh subsequently
learned that the judgment renewal had not been perfected.  Ms. Walsh then sought to perfect the judgment
on April 8, 2021. (Compl. ¶15). 
Plaintiff received $450,000 to satisfy the judgment of which 50% was
given to the heirs of Robert Walsh.
The heirs of Robert Walsh filed a
petition in the Probate Division of the Los Angeles Superior Court
(19STPB00299), in which the probate judge determined that Richard Foster’s lien
was barred under CCP §366.2 (action to enforce liability of a decedent must be
brought within one-year). (Compl. ¶24)
Plaintiff filed suit to determine the respective rights of
the parties and whether the lien of Richard Foster remains enforceable against
Kelly Walsh’s settlement proceeds or in the alternative to make a determination
of the reasonable value of Defendant’s services.
I.                   
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS
Plaintiff asserts that the matter should be bifurcated such
that the Court determines the validity of a lien asserted by Defendant upon a judgment.  
II.                
LEGAL STANDARD
The Court may
bifurcate a case, “when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or
the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby.”
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 598.  Similarly,
“[t]he court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when
separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a
separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in
a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of
action or issues.” Cal. Code Civ. Proc.§ 1048(b).  Nonetheless, the Court has the inherent
authority to regulate the order of trial and can entertain a motion to
bifurcate at any time, even during trial. 
(McLellan v. McLellan (1972) 23 Cal. App 3d 343, 353).
 
III.             
 MERITS
Defense argues that Plaintiff’s request is time barred
because it was not brought 30 days before trial citing CCP §598.  The Court finds this argument without
merit.  Initially, the matter was to be
discussed at the August 29, 2024 court hearing which defense counsel failed to
appear.  As of July 30th,
defense has filed no declaration to explain the missed court date.  The trial is scheduled for September 3, 2024,
which is more than 30 days from today’s hearing.
In this instance, the threshold
issue for the case is whether the lien exists. 
Without a determination of this issue, the second inquiry as to the
amount due for legal services is irrelevant. 
Any trial on the second issue prior to the initial determination would
not efficiently handle the litigation, particularly with a jury.
 
IV.             
 CONCLUSION
The Court exercises its inherent discretion over
matters of court resources and judicial efficiency, GRANTS Sweeney’s motion to
bifurcate.
  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a
party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a
formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or signed
in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Kelly Walsh Sweeney’s Motion to Bifurcate Trial came on
regularly for hearing on August 2, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO BIFURCATE
TRIAL IS GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO
PROVIDE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
DATE: August 2, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN,
Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
 
 
 