 Case Number:  23BBCV02005    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  A LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH CENTRAL DISTRICT -
BURBANK
DEPARTMENT A
 

TENTATIVE RULING
AUGUST 2, 2024

MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02005

 
MP:     Crossroads Equipment Lease and
Finance, LLC (Plaintiffs) 
RP:     Shane Weber dba Weber Enterprise (Defendant) [No Opposition Rendered]

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not requesting oral
argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested. 
Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument is
requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other parties and
the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s
intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the
ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Crossroads
Equipment Lease and Finance, LLC (Plaintiff) brings this action against Shane Weber dba Weber
Enterprise (Defendant), alleging that Defendants breached a finance
agreement.  Plaintiff’s complaint states a
cause of action for: (1) Breach of Written Agreement, (2) Account Stated, (3)
Unjust Enrichment, (4) Open Book Account, (5) Claim and Delivery and (6)
Conversion.  
 
Plaintiff’s complaint
asserts that on October 7, 2022, Defendant entered into a Master Equipment
Finance Agreement (the "Agreement") with Plaintiff to finance the
purchase of a 2021 Peterbilt 389 tractor truck (the "Truck"). Plaintiff
perfected its interest in the Truck by obtaining a Certificate of Title from
the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles.   Subsequently 
Defendant breached the
Agreement by failing to make the monthly payments due. 
 
Pursuant to the terms of the
Agreement, upon Defendant’s default, Plaintiff elected to accelerate the
balance due thereunder, the principal balance of which was $249,272.35 as of August
14, 2023. This consisted of the principal sum of $249,272.35, together with
unpaid interest in the amount of $20,652.04, late fees in the amount of
$1,178.34 and expenses in the amount of $4,722.63, for a total owing in the
amount of $275,825.36. In addition, the Defendant is liable for interest at the
contract default rate of 18% per annum thereafter and reasonable attorney’s
fees.
 
Plaintiff recovered the
Truck on December 13, 2023. Upon recovery, the exterior of the Truck  and the tires were only in fair condition, and
the interior was dirty throughout. Following the Truck's recovery, on December
15, 2023, Plaintiff prepared and mailed a Notice of Intent to Dispose of
Collateral. Plaintiff did not receive any response or inquiry from Defendant in
response to the notice. Plaintiff subsequently sold the Truck to a third-party
for the sum of $114,500.00, which has been credited to the amounts owing
pursuant to the Agreement. In preparation for selling the Truck, Plaintiff
incurred reconditioning fees in the amount of $4,696.54. At the time of the
sale, the Truck's wholesale value was $115,500.00. 
 
Before the Court is Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication
as to the first cause of action, Breach of Written Agreement. Plaintiffs
contend that no triable issue of facts exists as to this cause of action. 
 
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff served the motion on
Defendant, who is pro per.  As of July 29,
2024, Defendant has not filed any response to this motion. 
XXXXXXXXXXXXX
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
As to each claim framed by his complaint, a plaintiff moving for
summary adjudication satisfies his burden by submitting proof showing a prima
facie case for each element of a cause of action. (C.C.P. § 437c(p)(1).) Once a
moving plaintiff has satisfied this burden, a defendant opposing the motion has
the responsive burden of showing that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Id.) 
 
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary [adjudication] and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th
384, 389.) However, if all the evidence submitted and all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact, then the moving party
is entitled to summary adjudication as a matter of law. (C.C.P. § 437c(c); Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
Failure to file an opposition to the motion indicates the other
parties' acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c).
 
II.                
MERITS
 
Pursuant to CACI 303, to recover damages for breach of contract,
Plaintiff must prove the following:
 
1.      That Plaintiff
and Defendant entered into a contract;
 
2.      That Defendant
failed to do something that the contract required it to do;
 
3.      That Plaintiffs
was harmed; and
 
4.      That Defendant’s
breach of contract was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.
 
Since the motion was unopposed, the Court need not extensively set
forth an analysis of the motion.  The
evidence presented to the Court was the existence of an agreement between the
parties. (Elli Decl. ¶4 and Exh 1). 
Plaintiff met its obligations pursuant to the Agreement by providing financing
for the Truck. (Elli Decl. ¶ 6). 
Defendant breached the Agreement and Plaintiff, through its counsel sent
a default letter to Defendant.  (Khatchadourian
Decl. ¶2 and Exh. A).  Defendant failed
to make payments or cure the default which resulted in damages to Plaintiff.
(Elli Decl. ¶¶7-9, 17 and Exh. 7).
 
The defense has filed no response refuting the Motion for Summary
Adjudication.   As noted above, the failure
to file an opposition to the motion indicates the other parties' acquiescence
that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c).
 
III.             
CONCLUSION
 
The Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the first
cause of action is GRANTED.
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties
submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the
Court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will
be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the
Court’s records.
 
ORDER
 
Crossroads
Equipment Lease and Finance, LLC’s Motion for Summary Adjudication came on regularly for hearing on August 2, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
IS GRANTED. 
 
DEFENDANT CROSSROADS
EQUIPMENT LEASE AND FINANCE, LLC TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
DATE:  AUGUST 2, 2024                             _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 