  Case Number:  20STCV43678    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  55 RE: Defendant’s Motion for New Trial
Background
Plaintiff Rebecca Griley (“Plaintiff”) filed this case
seeking declaratory relief and injunctive relief based on a property dispute
with her next-door neighbor in Hermosa Beach, California. In 2022, Plaintiff
dismissed Greg William Morgan from the case and substituted Jeanne Louis
Flynn-Morgan as defendant (“Defendant”) in the lawsuit. The Court held a bench
trial on Plaintiff’s claims and issued a final ruling in favor of Plaintiff. Plaintiff
gave notice of the Court’s judgment in favor of Plaintiff on 3/7/24.
Defendant now moves for a
new trial under Code of Civil Procedure § 657(1), (3), (6), and (7). Plaintiff
opposes the motion. 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure § 657 governs motions for new
trial and, relevant here, provides that a new trial may be granted for: (1)
“[i]rregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any
order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented
from having a fair trial”; (3) “[a]ccident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against”; (6) “[i]nsufficiency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is
against law”; and (7) “[e]rror in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to
by the party making the application.” 
A new trial cannot be granted “unless, after an
examination of the entire cause, including the evidence, the court shall be of
the opinion that the error complained of has resulted in a miscarriage of
justice.” (Cal. Const., art. VI, § 13) The court must determine that, “after
examination of the entire cause,” it is “reasonably probable that a result more
favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the absence of the
error.” People v. Watson (1956) 46 Cal.2d 818, 836. 
Evidentiary Ruling/Request for Judicial Notice

The Court sustains portions of Plaintiff’s objections
numbers 4 and 5, specifically as to the following statements in Defendant’s
declaration: “…but he appeared to me to be in a state of low blood sugar that
resembled intoxication” and “I believe this was due to the health issue he was
suffering from.” The Court overrules the remaining objections. The Court grants
Defendant’s amended request for judicial notice of certain of the Hermosa Beach
Municipal Code sections. 
Analysis
Irregularity in the Proceedings (Code Civ.
Proc., §657(1)) and Accident or Surprise (Code Civ. Proc., §657(3))
Defendant seeks a new trial under Code of Civil Procedure
Sections 657(1) and (3) because she believes her former attorney had a medical
problem at trial that affected his performance and that this was a surprise to
Defendant. While it is correct that Defendant’s attorney told the Court at the start
of the trial that he had overdosed on his insulin and was drinking a soda to “balance,”
he also told the Court he was “okay” in response to the Court telling him to inform
the Court if he needed to take breaks. Feinberg Decl., Ex. 1, 7:16-28. 
Defendant claims her attorney was impaired and spoke “gibberish”
during the trial but that is not reflected in the court transcript and the
Court has no recollection of such an occurrence. The transcript reflects that defense
counsel actively participated in the trial, including cross examination and
closing argument. Notably, Defendant’s attorney turned down the Court’s offer to
take a break prior to closing argument. Id., 78:19-24. Furthermore, Defendant’s
prior counsel did not provide a declaration supporting Defendant’s assertion
that he was impaired at trial. Under these circumstances, the Court does not
find that any irregularity or surprise occurred or that even if it had occurred,
it was so prejudicial that it deprived Defendant of a fair trial. See Christie
v. City of El Centro (2006) 135 Cal. App. 4th 767, 780 (moving party must
show the irregularity prevented a fair trial); In re Nash (1951) 102
Cal. App. 2d 220, 222 (an attorney’s reference to immaterial facts did not warrant
a new trial based on surprise). 
Insufficient Evidence (Code Civ. Proc., §657(6))
Defendant contends that there is not sufficient
evidence to support the Court’s verdict in favor of Plaintiff on the claims for
declaratory relief and an injunction. Specifically, Defendant contends that there
was insufficient evidence that the wall encroached 6-12 inches onto Plaintiff’s
property, that replacing the wall with a fence would achieve a 36-inch setback
and that such a setback is necessary under the Hermosa Beach Municipal Code. 
The Court disagrees. As reflected in the Court’s
written ruling, the Court credited the testimony of Plaintiff and her
contractor James Arriola regarding that the wall protrudes onto Plaintiff’s
property approximately 6-12 inches through most of its length. The Court also
credited Arriola’s testimony that if the existing wall was removed and a fence
installed, Plaintiff will be in compliance with the setback ordinance. And
Defendant did not offer testimony contrary to that of Plaintiff and Arriola
with respect to the existing wall encroaching on Plaintiff’s property or that a
fence would comply with the setback. While Defendant may disagree with the
Court’s conclusions based on the evidence, that does not mean the evidence was
insufficient to support the Court’s conclusions. 
Error in Law (CCP §657(7))
Defendant argues that the Court erred by not finding
that Defendant had an implied easement. Defendant did not plead this defense in
her answer and she did not argue it in her trial brief. Defendant’s closing
argument, trial brief, and cases cited in the trial brief all centered on the argument
that the wall is a party wall. Given that Defendant repeatedly focused her
defense on the party wall argument, the Court does not find that defense
counsel’s offhand comment during closing argument that the wall is “[i]f
anything, [ ] an easement by implication,” Feinberg Decl., Ex. 1, 81:12-13, demonstrates
that she sought relief based on an implied easement. Nothing in the record
supports such a conclusion. The Court made its ruling based on the evidence and
Defendant’s articulated defenses at trial. This does not constitute legal error
necessitating a new trial.
Conclusion
The motion for new trial is DENIED. 
 