 Case Number:  23VECV01067    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV01067 FUHR V GM [TENTATIVE] ORDER: The  Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint (SAC) is OVERULED in its entirety or  the Court may elect to sustain because the filing of the SAC was LATE without a  showing of good cause. The Motion to Strike is DENIED.  If overruled, answer to the SAC due within 20  days. Introduction Plaintiff Ngoc Fuhr  ("Plaintiff") brings this lemon law action against Defendant General  Motors LLC ("GM" or "Defendant") based on substantial  defects and non-conformities to warranty, including but not limited to serious  battery defects, in her new leased 2021 Chevrolet Bolt.  The operative Second Amended  Complaint ("SAC") alleges causes of action for fraud concealment,  violations of Business & Professions Code §17200, and three causes of  action for violations of the Song-Beverly Act.  Discussion GM demurs to first and second  causes of action in the SAC on the basis that (1) Plaintiff's SAC is untimely  per the January 4, 2024 order; (2) the first cause of action fails to state  facts sufficient to establish fraud; and (3) the second cause of action fails  to state sufficient facts to establish fraud. GM also moves to strike punitive  damages from the SAC. Untimely SAC GM correctly points out that  Plaintiff's SAC was untimely based on the January 4, 2024 order allowing 20  days leave to amend. The SAC was filed on February 2, 2024.  When a demurrer to a complaint is  sustained, the sustaining court has the authority to grant leave to amend the  defective pleading, and set a time within which an amended complaint must be  filed. (CCP §473(a)(1).) If the amended complaint is untimely filed according  to the deadline set by the court, it is vulnerable to a demurrer or a motion to  strike and may be properly dismissed without leave to amend. (CCP §§430.10,  436, 581(f)(2).) Such a dismissal, however, is discretionary on the part of the  court. (Harlan v. Department of Transportation (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 868,  873-874.) A court may, if it determines that the facts warrant, waive the  untimeliness of the amended complaint. The amount of time action has been  pending and amount of time by which amendment was late are both relevant in  court's determination of whether to overlook lateness of pleading. (See Leader  v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 613-616.) Here, neither party makes any  substantive argument as to this basis in their memorandum of points and  authorities. As both parties have briefed the demurrer on the merits of the  causes of action; the SAC was filed nine days late.  The Court notes that plaintiff flippantly  refers to the lateness as “excusable neglect” without a declaration showing  that it was “excusable neglect.”    While still considering  whether the Court will sustain the demurrer for violating the court’s order,  and the case is only about a year old, the Court will review the matter on the  merits and will expect an explanation from plaintiff’s counsel. Maybe it was  not “excusable.”  Isn’t that what  everyone would say to explain a late filing and getting extra time without a  court order? Fraud - Concealment Defendant argues that Plaintiff  fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action for fraud  concealment and misrepresentation. The Court notes that there is no fraudulent  misrepresentation claim in the SAC, and thus does not address Defendant's  arguments thereto.  As to concealment, Defendant  argues that it fails as a matter of law because Plaintiff did not identify a  material fact regarding the subject vehicle that GM concealed or suppressed.  Further, Plaintiff failed to allege (i) the identity of the individuals at GM  who purportedly concealed material facts or made untrue representations about  his Bolt, (ii) their authority to speak and act on behalf of GM, (iii) GM's  knowledge about alleged defects in Plaintiff's Bolt at the time of lease, (iv)  any interactions with GM before or during the lease of Plaintiff's Bolt, or (v)  GM's intent to induce reliance by Plaintiff to lease the specific Bolt at  issue. Lastly, Defendant argues that the allegations of the SAC do not  establish GM's intent to defraud Plaintiff or demonstrate that Plaintiff's Bolt  was unsuitable for its intended use at the time of lease.  Plaintiff argues that the cause  of action was sufficiently pled with specificity because no heightened pleading  standard exists for concealment.  "[T]he elements of a cause  of action for fraud based on concealment are: '"(1) the defendant must  have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been  under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have  intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the  plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not  have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and  (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff  must have sustained damage."'" (Jones v. Conoco Phillips Co. (2011)  198 Cal. App. 4th 1187, 1198, quoting Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins.  Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850.)  A duty to disclose arises in only  four circumstances: "(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship  with the Plaintiff, (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material  facts not known to the Plaintiff, (3) when the defendant actively conceals a  material fact from the Plaintiff; [or] (4) when the defendant makes partial  representations but also suppresses some material facts." (Heliotis v.  Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.) Defendant contends that Plaintiff  fails to acknowledge the heightened pleading standards for fraud claims under  California law, especially against a corporate defendant. (Tarmann v. State  Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158 [2 Cal.Rptr.2d 861].)  Although the general rule states that a fraud claim must be specifically  pleaded, less specificity as to fraud claims is required if it appears from the  nature of allegations that defendant must necessarily possess full information,  or if the facts lie more in the knowledge of opposing parties. (Alfaro v.  Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171  Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384-1385 ["it does not appear necessary to require each  of the 38 plaintiffs to allege each occasion on which an agent of either  defendant could have disclosed …. Surely defendants have records of their  dealings with the plaintiffs"] accord Bushell v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 915, 931 ["plaintiffs did not have to specify the …  personnel who prepared these documents because that information is uniquely  within … [defendant's] knowledge"].) "'[T]he courts should not ...  seek to absolve the defendant from liability on highly technical requirements  of form in pleading. Pleading facts in ordinary and concise language is as  permissible in fraud cases as in any others, and liberal construction of the  pleading is as much a duty of the court in these as in other cases.'"  (Appollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th  226, 242.) Furthermore, the rule of  specificity of pleading is intended to apply only to affirmative  representations and not to fraud by concealment. (See Alfaro, supra, 171  Cal.App.4th at 1384.) As the Alfaro court observed: "it is harder to apply  [the requirement of specificity] to a case of simple nondisclosure. 'How does  one show "how" and "by what means" something didn't happen,  or "when" it never happened, or "where" it never  happened?'" (Ibid.; see Jones v. ConocoPhillips (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th  1187, 1200 [concealment is sufficiently pled when the complaint as a whole  provides sufficient notice of the claims against defendants].)  Plaintiff alleges that GM  concealed or suppressed the material fact that the Vehicle was equipped with a  defective battery that had shorter range and can cause fire. (SAC, 11-25.) GM  was aware of the problems with the vehicle prior to Plaintiff's lease of the  Subject Vehicle on June 24, 2021 and did not disclose this fact to Plaintiff in  person or in their publications. (SAC, 13-20.) Based on the allegations in the  SAC, Defendant had knowledge of the battery defect that is present in these  vehicles, including Plaintiff's, since at least 2017 and chose to conceal the  defect for years to the detriment of its consumers. Despite GM's access to  years of analysis and feedback via complaints and claims concerning the  defective battery, GM continued to conceal and suppress the information  regarding the defect. The existence of the battery defect is a material fact  that a reasonable consumer would consider in determining whether to purchase or  lease a vehicle. Had GM disclosed the nature of the defect to Plaintiff at the  time of lease, Plaintiff would not have leased the Subject Vehicle. (SAC, 28.)  The Court finds the facts alleged sufficient at this pleading stage. Therefore, the Court OVERRULES  the demurrer to the first cause of action. Violations of Business &  Professions Code § 17200 A UCL claim "must state with  reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the  violation." (Khoury v. Maly's of Calif., Inc. (1994) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,  619.) A UCL violation requires that Plaintiff plead a fraudulent business act  that causes Plaintiff damages. (See Bus. & Prof. Code §17200.) As the Court  overrules the demurrer to the fraudulent concealment cause of action, Plaintiff  has alleged a fraudulent business act and resulting damages. The Court should  thus overrule the demurrer to the second cause of action. Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES  the demurrer to the second cause of action.    Motion to Strike Defendant moves to strike  punitive damages from the SAC on the basis that the fraud claim fails. As  discussed above, the Court finds that the fraud cause of action is sufficiently  pled. As Plaintiff has pled fraud and this is the only basis for the motion,  the Court DENIES the motion to strike. IT IS SO ORDERED,  CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.  