  Case Number:  23STCV08396    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES 
            Plaintiffs
Kathleen Hiland and John Hiland filed a motion to compel further responses to
special interrogatories served on Defendant PPG Architectural Finishes.  Plaintiffs also filed a motion to compel
further responses to standard interrogatories served on The Boeing
Company.  The court rules as follows:
PPG Architectural Finishes
Special Interrogatory
Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8: 
Denied.  These requests are
overbroad as they are not limited to the products and time period at
issue.  In addition, the definition of YOU
is extremely broad and vague, encompassing many companies, entities, and
products not involved in this litigation. 
The entity at issue was The Glidden Company, for which PPG Architectural
Finishes is the successor in interest. 
By defining YOU as including all of PPG Architectural Finishes’
predecessors, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, affiliates, and
representatives, Plaintiffs have included many unspecified entities not at
issue.  For example, if PPG Architectural
Finishes has representatives selling a variety of different paints brands or if
PPG Architectural Finishes or one of its affiliates sells different paint
brands and types of paint, Defendant would need to respond to these
interrogatories regarding all of those other paints, even though those brands or
types of paint are not at issue in this case.
The motion is denied.
The Boeing Company
Plaintiffs move to compel
verifications for the responses to the standard interrogatories.  Interrogatories responses that contain more
than just objections must be verified.  Defendant
does not show that it served a verification. 
The motion is granted on this point. 
Defendant is to serve a verification by December 15, 2023.
Standard Interrogatory
No. 13:  Denied.  Defendant answered the question.
Standard Interrogatory Nos.
14, 15:  Denied.  Because Defendant answered no to No. 13, these
interrogatories are not applicable.
Standard Interrogatory
Nos. 16, 17, 18, 19, 35: 
Denied.  Defendant answered the
questions.
Standard Interrogatory Nos.
20, 21:  Denied.  Because Defendant stated that it did not deal
in asbestos-containing products in response to Nos. 13-19, these
interrogatories are asking Defendant to prove a negative.
Standard Interrogatory Nos.
27, 30:  Granted.  These interrogatories ask if Defendant ever
warned about the health hazards of asbestos and conducted studies about
exposure to asbestos.  Defendant did not
answer the questions.  Defendant’s
answers are non-responsive.
Standard Interrogatory
No. 34:  Granted.  This question asks if Defendant warned its
employees about exposure to asbestos and the dates and contents of the
warnings.  Defendant answered yes, but
did not give the dates of the warnings or describe the contents of the
warnings.
The motion is granted in
part and denied in part.  Defendant is to
serve a verification to the original responses and is to serve verified
supplemental responses to Nos. 27, 30, and 34 by December 15, 2023.
The moving party is to
give notice.