  Case Number:  23STCV07405    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  74 Santee Fashion Mart, LLC v. Anders
Wahlquist dba B-Reel Creative Agency, Inc.
 
Defendant Anders Wahlquist’s Motion
to Quash Service of Summons
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a dispute
between a landlord and tenant.
            On
April 4, 2023, Plaintiff Santee Fashion Mart, LLC (Plaintiff) filed a complaint
against Defendant Anders Wahlquist, doing business as B-Reel Creative Agency,
Inc. (Defendant). The complaint alleges one cause of action for breach of
lease.
            On
July 10, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to quash service of summons.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, sudd. (a).)
DISCUSSION
            Defendant aims to quash service of
summons because Plaintiff did not comply with the prerequisites and procedural
requirements for substituted service. If a plaintiff cannot with reasonable
diligence personally serve a non-entity defendant with the summons and
complaint, the plaintiff may leave a copy of the summons and complaint at the
plaintiff’s home, usual place of business, or usual mailing address with a
competent member of household or an individual apparently in charge of the
office. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).) The plaintiff must then mail a
copy of the summons and complaint to the place where he or she left the summons
and complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).) Two or three attempts to
personally serve the defendant at a proper place qualifies as ‘reasonable
diligence.’ (Rodriguez v. Cho (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.) Here,
Plaintiff has not demonstrated reasonable diligence. The proof of service
indicates Plaintiff attempted to personally serve Defendant on April 20, 2023,
and May 10, 2023, at the following address: 1212 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite
1120, Los Angeles, CA 90025. (Hashemi Decl., ¶ 3; Ex 1.) But Defendant has
never visited or conducted business at that location. (Wahlquist Decl., ¶ 9.)
Nor has Defendant ever used the location as a mailing address. (Wahlquist
Decl., ¶ 9.) Moreover, on May 16, 2023, Plaintiff ultimately left the summons
and complaint at the address with which Defendant is unaffiliated. (Hashemi
Decl., ¶ 3; Ex 1.)
            However,
Defendant acknowledges Code of Civil Procedure section 416.90: “A summons may
be served on a person […] by delivering a copy of the summons and the complaint
to […] a person authorized by him to receive service of process.” When
Plaintiff attempted service on May 16, 2023, it delivered the summons and
complaint to Katie Goldin of eResidentAgent, Inc (eResidentAgent), which is
authorized to accept service on behalf of B-Reel Creative Agency, Inc.
(B-Reel). (Unger Decl., ¶¶ 2-7.) Even so, Defendant contends eResidentAgent is
not the agent for service of process on B-Reel’s employees or officers,
including Defendant. (Unger Decl., ¶ 5.) 
            In
its opposition, Plaintiff points out that Defendant signed one of the parties’
leases and an addendum as Anders Wahlquist doing business as B-Reel Creative
Agency, Inc. (Shogi Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. 2; Ex. 3.) According to Plaintiff,
Defendant thereby created the impression that he was one and the same as
B-Reel. As a further consequence, Defendant ostensibly authorized service on
himself through B-Reel’s agent for service of process. (See Warner Bros.
Records, Inc. v. Golden West Music Sales (1974) 36 Cal.App.3d 1012, 1018.)
The court disagrees.
            As
Defendant notes, he signed the leases merely as a representative of B-Reel.
(Rossman Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. 4, p. 20:11-18.) To that end, Defendant rejected prior
drafts of the lease that would have made him a personal guarantor in case of
default. (Wahlquist Decl., ¶ 4; Hashemi Supp. Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. 2, § 1.11.)
Defendant also never submitted a fictious business name statement for B-Reel.
(Rossman Decl., ¶ 7; Ex.7, p. 27:1-14.) Moreover, Defendant did not draft the
d.b.a. language. Rather, Plaintiff added the language so that the owner of
B-Reel, in addition to B-Reel itself, would be liable for any breach of the
leases without a personal guaranty. (Shogi Decl., ¶ 4.) But a corporation is a
legal entity that is separate and distinct from its officers and directors,
with separate and distinct liabilities and obligations. (Sonora Diamond
Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) Thus, Defendant
did not identify himself as one and same as B-Reel. Nor did Defendant agree in the
leases and addendum that service on B-Reel’s agent would constitute service on
himself. (Rossman Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 1; Ex. 2; Ex. 3.) Last, Plaintiff has not
shown that, outside the leases and addendum, Defendant ever represented that he
was amenable to such method of service.
CONCLUSION
                Based on the foregoing, the court grants
Defendant’s motion to quash.
            Plaintiff
shall give notice.