Here is the summary of the legal document in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV25326
Plaintiff's Name: Houssem Zidi
Defendant's Name: Sanford Sigal and Allison Binder
People-Names: Houssem Zidi, Sanford Sigal, Allison Binder
Company-Names: Diamante Electric & Construction
Places: Front of the property
Dates: August 5, 2022, March 11, 2024
Events: Construction at the front of the property, Plaintiff's injury
Money: Punitive damages
Intentions: Willful and despicable conduct
Facts: Construction area without protective coverings, Plaintiff's injury
Disputes: Motion to strike allegations relating to punitive damages
Acts: Failure to ensure safety of construction area, instruction to Plaintiff to deliver food to front door
Agreements: None
Laws: California Civil Code section 3294
Case Citations: Nolin v. National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979), Donnelly v. Southern Pacific Co. (1941), Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013), College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994), Smith v. Superior Court (1992), Dawes v. Superior Court (1980)
Statutes: California Civil Code section 3294
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Judge
Significant Statements: "Willful and despicable conduct", "Conscious disregard for the safety of others", "Despicable conduct", "Risk must be necessarily probable"
```

Here is the English-text summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge grants the defendants' motion to strike the allegations relating to punitive damages in the second amended complaint. The complaint primarily consists of legal conclusions rather than specific facts to substantiate claims for punitive damages. The allegations do not rise to the level of willful and despicable conduct necessary for punitive damages. The risk associated with an open trench is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable that an open trench with lightbulbs and equipment inside located along the property's entrance would pose a risk of harm. The court denies leave to amend because this is the plaintiff's second amended complaint. If the plaintiff acquires sufficient information to substantiate a claim for punitive damages during the discovery process, the court will consider the plaintiff's motion to amend the complaint.