  Case Number:  20STCV03857    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           5/7/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:      20STCV03857 KAREN WEBB vs CITY OF PASADENA
Motion Name:           MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Moving Party:           Defendant City of Pasadena
Responding Party:    Plaintiff
Notice:                     Sufficient
 
Ruling:                     MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED.
 
Background
 
On January 30, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the present dangerous condition of public property case against
the City of Pasadena. Plaintiff alleges that while walking along S. Raymond
Avenue in Pasadena, she encountered a sidewalk uplift that caused her to trip.
As she stumbled forward, Plaintiff stepped into the adjacent planter and
tripped again due to the height differential between the planter and the sidewalk,
resulting in her falling and sustaining injuries. Defendant now moves the Court
for summary judgment, asserting that the sidewalk uplift that caused the
initial trip is trivial. Additionally, the height differential of the planter
that caused her to trip a second time adheres to approved design standards,
thereby granting design immunity. Furthermore, Defendant has inspected the
location previously and found no defects; thus, Plaintiff cannot prove that the
city had notice of the uplifts.
 
Evidentiary Ruling
 
Defendant’s
Objections No. 9 and 10 are sustained on the grounds of lack of foundation and
speculation. The Parties did not make any other objections to evidence that was
material to the Court’s ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).)
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through
the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite its allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve its dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
A “defendant moving for summary judgment must
show the plaintiff’s causes of action have¿no merit.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849, emphasis added.)
In other words, summary judgment is not to be granted simply because a case is
“weak” or because a “weak” showing was made in opposition. (Hagen v.
Hickenbottom¿(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168, 187-188, superseded by statute on
another point as recognized in¿Rice v. Clark¿(2002) 28
Cal.4th 89, 96;¿Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 589, 722. [“to avoid summary judgment a
showing need not be strong; it need only be sufficient to raise a triable issue
of fact.”].)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial
burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there
are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).
 
Government Code Section 835

            Government Code section 835 sets out the exclusive conditions under
which a public entity is liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of
public property. (Metcalf v. County of San Joaquin
(2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v. Poway Unified Sch. Dist.
(1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829; see also Zelig v. County of Los Angeles
(2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.) Per Government Code section 835, “a public entity is liable for injury caused by
a dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the
property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the
injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, and that the
dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury
which was incurred.
 
Plaintiff also has to establish the element of
notice where the public entity had actual or constructive notice of the
dangerous condition . . . a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” (Gov. Code, § 835.)
 
A “dangerous condition” is a condition of
public property that “create[s] a substantial (as distinguished from a minor,
trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent
property is used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably
foreseeable that it would be used.” (Gov. Code, § 830.2.)
 
The
government entity has actual notice of a dangerous condition “if it had actual
knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of
its dangerous character.” (Govt. Code § 835.2(a).)
 
The
entity has constructive notice “if the plaintiff establishes that the condition
had existed for such a period of time and was of such an obvious nature
that the public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have discovered the
condition and its dangerous character.” (Govt. Code § 835.2(b).) Regarding due
care, “admissible evidence includes but is not limited to: (1) Whether the
existence of the condition and its dangerous character would have been
discovered by an inspection system that was reasonably adequate (considering
the practicability and cost of inspection weighed against the likelihood and
magnitude of the potential danger to which failure to inspect would give rise)
to inform the public entity whether the property was safe for the use or uses
for which the public entity used or intended others to use the public property
and for uses that the public entity actually knew others were making of the
public property or adjacent property. (2) Whether the public entity maintained
and operated such an inspection system with due care and did not discover the
condition.” (Id.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot fulfill the notice requirement because when it
conducted a citywide survey, including the location in question, it did not
identify any dangerous conditions. In response, Plaintiff points to its expert
declaration, arguing that Defendant observed the displacement during the survey
but failed to report it.
 
1.  Defendant’s
Initial Burden
 
In meeting Defendant's initial burden,
Defendant introduces a declaration from Lydia Diaz, a Customer Service
Specialist with the Public Works Department. She states that the City maintains
a centralized service center called Citizen Service Center (CSC), which assists
the public in submitting service requests and reporting injuries and incidents,
including uneven sidewalks. (Diaz Decl., ¶¶ 1-2.) Ms. Diaz conducted a search
for requests and incidents relating to 700 S. Raymond Avenue, the location
where Plaintiff alleges she tripped and fell, and found no prior CSC requests.
(Diaz Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Additionally, Ms. Diaz searched for any prior trips,
injuries, or incidents at 700 S. Raymond Avenue, other than Plaintiff’s
incident, and found no reported incidents prior to Plaintiff’s incident on July
27, 2019, up to the present date. (Diaz Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)
 
Furthermore, Defendant introduces the
deposition of Brent Mau, PMQ for the City of Pasadena, who testified that from
2014 to 2015, the City undertook a citywide sidewalk survey, which covered the
location of Plaintiff’s fall. The purpose of the survey was to identify damaged
sidewalk locations. (Deposition of Brent Mau, 31:9-25; 33:2-20 (Exhibit H to
Retchless Declaration).) The location where Plaintiff allegedly fell, 700 S.
Raymond Avenue, was not marked as damaged in the 2014/2015 citywide sidewalk
survey. (Deposition of Brent Mau, 31:9-25; 33:2-20 (Exhibit H to Retchless
Declaration).) Defendant
has met its initial burden of demonstrating that the city did not receive
notice of the alleged dangerous conditions, including both the uplifts in the
planter box and the sidewalk uplift.
 
2.  Plaintiff’s
Burden to Raise Triable Issue of Fact
 
In raising a triable
issue of fact, Plaintiff argues that when Defendant conducted a citywide survey
in 2014/2015, the city should have observed the displacement that was over ¾
inches but failed to report it. (Declaration of Mark Burns ¶ 15.) The sole
piece of evidence provided to support Plaintiff’s expert’s claim is a Google Map
image of the location at issue from 2016. (Burns Decl. ¶16 and Exhibit 13).
Plaintiff alleges the photo shows an uplift/dangerous condition at the location
in question in 2016. (Exhibit 13.) The Court examined the photo and found the
image quality to be poor, noting that it is a zoomed-in image from Google Maps.
The photo, presumably taken from the Google Maps car, is captured from a
distance and does not provide a close-up shot of the displacement. It lacks any
tape measure or object next to the displacement for scale. A significant
portion of the alleged displacement is obscured by a red van, and the most
crucial part of the alleged displacement appears even more blurred in
comparison to the rest of the photograph. From the photo, it is impossible to
discern whether an uplift exists, let alone if the size of the displacement
exceeds 1 inch, a threshold where courts have typically found displacements to
be non-trivial.
Plaintiff’s expert
asserts that because the tree in the 2016 photo is similar in size to the tree
in the 2014 and 2015 Google Maps photos, the size of the uplift when Defendant
conducted the survey in 2014 and 2015 must have been the same as in 2016, thereby
giving the city actual notice of the uplift. However, the Google images are not
properly authenticated and are therefore inadmissible. In any event, Plaintiff’s
expert testimony is based on a series of conjectures and speculations. First,
the 2016 photo does not show an uplift exceeding 1 inch or an uplift at all. Second,
the claim that the size of the uplift in 2016 is the same as in 2014 is
speculation based solely on the size of the tree from Google Map Images. When
an expert bases a conclusion on assumptions not supported by the record,
matters not reasonably relied upon, or factors which are speculative, remote or
conjectural, then the conclusion has no evidentiary value for purposes of a
summary judgment motion or opposition. (Lockheed Litigation Cases (2004)
115 Cal.App.4th 558, 563.) This is certainly the case here.
The 2016 image is said
to show displacement of the planter box where Plaintiff fell. Plaintiff alleges
she tripped on the sidewalk displacement and then stumbled forward
approximately 8-11 feet before tripping and falling over another displacement
at the other end of the planter box. However, that location where Plaintiff
tripped and fell is obscured by a RV and is not visible from the photograph
provided. Further, Plaintiff’s expert testimony is limited only to Defendant's
actual notice of the sidewalk displacement, not the planter box displacement.
Based on the evidence
provided by Plaintiff, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has raised a
triable issue of fact that Defendant had actual notice of the displacements at
issue.
As for constructive notice, Plaintiff must demonstrate the
long-continued existence of the dangerous condition. Plaintiff cites to the
same expert witness testimony and Google Map images (Burns Decl. and Exhibit
13), claiming they show evidence of uplift since 2015. However, as previously
stated, the Google Map Images lack foundation. 
Further, the Google Map image does not show an uplift exceeding 1 inch
or an uplift at all; the area of the planter box where Plaintiff allegedly fell
is obscured by a truck.
For both constructive and actual notice, Plaintiff needs to raise a
triable issue of fact that the displacements had been in existence long before
the incident or in 2014/2015 when the survey was conducted. Plaintiff attempted
to do so with the 2016 image and the expert witness testimony based on that
image; however, for reasons noted above, Plaintiff’s efforts are insufficient.
Plaintiff
failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to the element of notice. Thus,
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 