 Case Number:  22STCV24185    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           5/7/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       23STCV24185 ERNESTO LOPEZ, et al. vs WILLIAM
SLADE BACKER
Motion:                    MOTION TO QUASH AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Defendant William Slade Backer
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION TO QUASH AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE
DENIED.
 
 
Background
 
On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the present motorcycle accident case. On March 7, 2024, Defendant William
Slade Backer issued 17 subpoenas for medical records to various facilities
seeking “any and all” records pertaining to Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that
efforts were made to meet and confer with Defendant to limit the scope of the
subpoenas to 10 years prior to the incident and to the body parts Plaintiff
claims were injured in the incident. Defendant allegedly refused to limit the
scope of the subpoenas. Plaintiff now moves the court to quash Defendant’s 17
subpoenas.
Defendant filed an opposition
claiming that (1) the original subpoenas were retracted and (2) new subpoenas
were issued conforming to the language suggested by Plaintiff's counsel,
thereby rendering the present motion moot. Plaintiff did not file a reply or
any other document contesting Defendant’s argument that new subpoenas with the
limitation requested by Plaintiff were re-issued. Thus, the present motion is
moot and therefore denied.
 
Both Parties' requests for
sanctions are denied. Plaintiff did not complete the meet and confer process
before filing the motion; however, the court acknowledges that Plaintiff had to
act with urgency as there was a deadline to file the motion as Defendant
pointed out in the opposition. Furthermore, based on the email correspondence
between the parties, it appears that Defendant was not receptive to limiting
the scope of the subpoena until Plaintiff filed the motion. 
 
Thus, the present motion is DENIED and Requests
for Sanctions are DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 