 Case Number:  23STCV08263    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           5/7/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       23STCV08263 TERESA GUZZARDO, et al. vs JIFFY
LUBE INTERNATIONA
Motion:                    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO TAKE DEPOSITION OF
PRISONER SYMONE GALLEGOS
Moving Party:           Defendants
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO TAKE DEPOSITION OF
PRISONER SYMONE GALLEGOS IS GRANTED
Background
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed the current case against Defendants Jiffy Lube International, Inc. and
Alamitos Enterprises, LLC alleging that Symone Gallegos, an employee of Defendant
XXX, was drinking and driving within the scope of her employment when she
crashed into the plaintiffs, resulting in the death of one passenger. Defendants
now moves the court for leave to depose Symone Gallegos to prepare their
defense that she was not acting within the scope of her employment at the time
of the incident. No opposition to this motion has been filed.
 
Legal Standard and
Analysis
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1995, “[i]f the witness be a prisoner,
confined in a jail within this state, an order for his examination in the jail upon
deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before a court or
officer may be made as follows:
 
1.  By
the court itself in which the action or special proceeding is pending, unless
it be a small claims court.
2.  By
a justice of the Supreme Court, or a judge of the superior court of the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, if pending before a small claims
court, or before a judge or other person out of court.” (CCP § 1995.)
 
“Code
of Civil Procedure section 1996 provides that a court may order the deposition
of a prisoner upon a motion supported by an ‘affidavit showing ... the
testimony expected from the witness, and its materiality.’ (Code Civ. Proc., §
1996.)” (Cadiz Land Co., Inc. v. Rail Cycle, L.P. (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 74, 121.)
 
Defendants have filed
an affidavit indicating their intention to elicit testimony regarding Prisoner Symone
Gallegos' alcohol consumption and whether she was acting within the scope of
employment at the time of the accident to prepare their defense. This
information is material and Defendants have met all statutory requirements to
compel a deposition. Consequently, the present motion is GRANTED and Symone
Gallegos is ordered to sit for Defendants’ deposition within 30 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.