 Case Number:  22STCV25326    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           5/7/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       22STCV25326 HOUSSEM ZIDI vs SANFORD SIGAL et
al.
Motion:                    MOTION TO STRIKE
Moving Party:           Defendants Sigal Family
Trust and Allison Binder
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED
 
Background
 
On August 5,
2022, Plaintiff filed a premises liability case against Defendants Sigal Family
Trust, Allison Binder, and Diamante Electric & Construction, alleging that
Defendants were performing construction at the front of the property which was
left open with large trenches without any protective coverings. Plaintiff fell
into the construction area while delivering food to the Defendants. On March
11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the second amended complaint seeking punitive
damages. Defendants Sigal Family Trust and Allison Binder now move the court to
strike the allegations relating to punitive damages in the SAC, specifically the
following allegations:
 
1. Page 3, Line
16-17: “willfully, maliciously, or with conscious disregard” 
2. Page 3, Lines
18-20: “In a premises liability case like this one, the standard for punitive
damages is ‘with conscious disregard of the safety of others,’ which is a
subcategory of malice.” 
3. Page 4, Line
6: “intentionally” 
4. Page 4, Lines
21 – 22: “demonstrated malice, conscious disregard, and extreme recklessness
for the safety of all residents and visitors to the premises” 
5. Page 4, Line
24 - 25: “demonstrated malice, conscious disregard, and extreme recklessness.” 
6. Page 5, Line
11: “recklessly” 
7. Page 5, Lines
17 – 21 “Defendants acted with extreme recklessness, and with ‘evil motive’
sufficient for malice, found here in ‘an intention to perform an act that the
actor knows, or should know, will very probably cause harm.’ See Nolin v.
National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 286 [internal
citations to Donnelly v. Southern Pacific Co. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 863, 869, 118
P.2d 465, 468].” 
8. Page 5, Line
21 “and intentionally” 
9. Page 5, Line
24 – Page 6, Line 2: “This extreme recklessness and conscious disregard for
Plaintiff and his safety, and where they knew, or should have known would
probably cause him harm, demonstrates malice. This also constitutes as fraut
for punitive damages purposes as Defendants acted with intentional
misrepresentation, deceit and or concealment of a material fact known to the
Defendants with the intention on the part of the Defendant of thereby depriving
Plaintiff of his rights or otherwise causing injury.” 
10. Page 6, Line
6: “shows wanton and reckless misconduct.” 
11. Page 6,
Lines 8 – 9 “displays malice and despicable conduct which was carried on by the
Defendants with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights and safety of
Plaintiff.” 
12. Page 6, Line
12: “willfully or maliciously” 1
3. Page 6, Lines
13 - 14: “demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety of individuals on
the premises and others.” 
14. Page 6, Line
14: “wrongful” 
15. Page 6, Line
16: “wrongful” 
16. Page 6, Line
20: “willfully or maliciously”
17. Page 6, Line
25: “recklessly and unlawfully” 
18. Page 7,
Lines 2 - 3: “recklessness, and unlawfulness” 
19. Page 7, Line
7: “willfully or maliciously” 
20. Page 7,
Lines 9 – 10: “recklessness, wantonness and unlawfulness” 
21. Page 7,
Lines 15 – 16: “and acted with a conscious disregard for the safety of others” 
22. Page 7, Line
17: “highly likely” 
23. Page 7, Line
18: “deliberately” 
24. Page 7, Line
19: “As a result, Plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages” 
25. Page 9, Line
11: “recklessness, wantonness and unlawfulness” As to the prayer for relief: 
26. Page 10,
Line 2-3: “For punitive and exemplary damages as provided for by Cal. Civil
Code § 3294 against Defendants”
 
Plaintiff did not file
an opposition.
Legal Standard
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civil Code section
3294 (c)(1).) Under the statute, malice does not require actual intent to harm.
Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences. (Pfeifer v. John
Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) ‘Despicable’ is a powerful
term that refers to circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)
A plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to
support a conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice.¿ To wit, there is a
heightened pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.¿(Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)
Analysis
In this premises liability/negligence case,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to ensure the safety of the
construction area in front of their property, resulting in Plaintiff sustaining
injuries while delivering food to Defendants. As for punitive damages, the
complaint primarily consists of legal conclusions rather than the specific
facts required to substantiate claims for punitive damages.
While portions of the complaint do allege facts
with specificity, they do not rise to the level of willful and despicable
conduct necessary for punitive damages. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
warned their family members of the danger but failed to warn Plaintiff.
Defendant Binder instructed Plaintiff to deliver food to the front door via a
walkway where open and hazardous trenches were located. It is further alleged
that Defendant Binder directed Plaintiff to approach closer to the house to
deliver the food, specifically to the front door area where the dangerous
trench was located. This required Plaintiff to navigate over and between the
open trenches to deliver the food. Defendant Binder
directed Plaintiff to walk into an area without warning of the dangerous open
trench containing  lightbulbs and
equipment inside, whereas she had instructed friends and family members to
avoid that area because it was so dangerous. (SAC at pg. 5)
In Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the court differentiates between risks that are foreseeable
and those that are necessarily probable, holding that the risk must be
necessarily probable for the court to find the conduct or the lack thereof to
be willful. In this case, the allegations need to establish that the risk was
not merely foreseeable but necessarily probable to support claims for punitive
damages. Based on specific facts alleged, the risk associated with an open
trench is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable that an
open trench with lightbulb and equipment inside located along the property’s entrance
would pose a risk of harm. 
Moreover, the facts alleged simply do not rise to
the level of “despicable conduct.”  The Court
can fairly presume that Plaintiff had no meritorious argument to the contrary
given Plaintiff’s failure to oppose the Motion. 

Thus, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED. Leave
to amend is denied because this is Plaintiff’s second amended complaint. Based
on the allegations as stated in the SAC, it does not appear that Plaintiff,
with reasonable probability, can allege facts sufficient to support a claim for
punitive damages. However, if during the discovery process, Plaintiff acquires
sufficient information to substantiate a claim for punitive damages, the Court
will consider Plaintiff’s motion to amend the complaint.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 