 Case Number:  20STCV30097    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:                5/7/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:         20STCV30097 JESUS SORIANO vs CITY OF LOS
ANGELES
Motion Name:                MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS
FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff
Responding Party:      Defendant City of Los Angeles
Notice:                                Sufficient
 
Tentative Ruling:         MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED.
 
On August 10, 2020, Plaintiff filed the
present case. On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff served Special Interrogatories,
Set Two, on Defendant City of Los Angeles. The discovery responses were due by
February 27, 2024; however, Defendant neither responded nor requested
extensions. Plaintiff now moves the Court to compel discovery
responses. Plaintiff also requested sanctions. No opposition has been
filed.
 
Defendant did not serve the discovery
responses by the statutory deadline, and Defendant did not file an opposition
or any other filing indicating that discovery responses at issue have been
provided prior to the hearing. Thus, the present motion is granted, and
Defendant is hereby ordered to provide complete responses to Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories, Set Two, without objections within 20 days of today.
 
Defendant’s failure to respond forced Plaintiff
to incur attorney’s fees by filing the present motion. Plaintiff requests
attorney’s fees in the amount of $960, which the Court finds reasonable.
Consequently, the Court sanctions Defendant and its counsel in the amount of $960.
Defendant and its counsel are ORDERED, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions
of $960 to Plaintiff within 20 days of today’s date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 