 Case Number:  21STCV08804    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           5/7/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       21STCV08804 YADIRA MORENO vs SALVADOR TAPIA,
et al.
Motion:                    MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSTION AND
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:           Defendant Salvador
Tapia
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                              MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSTION AND
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
Background
 
On March 5, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present
motor accident case. Defendant Salvador Tapia has noticed Plaintiff's
deposition on numerous occasions, most recently scheduling it for February 8,
2024. Plaintiff did not serve a formal objection to the deposition but
communicated to Defendant that she was unavailable on February 8, 2024. After
meeting and conferring, Plaintiff did not propose an alternative date for the
deposition before the previous discovery cut-off date. Consequently, Defendant
proceeded with the scheduled deposition and obtained a certificate of
non-appearance. Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff’s deposition. Plaintiff
did not file an opposition.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff failed to serve a written objection
and failed to appear for deposition on the noticed date. CCP §2025.450(a). Defendant
has also fulfilled the met and confer requirement under CCP §2025.450(b)(2).
Thus, all the requirements to compel Plaintiff’s deposition have been met and
the present motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for deposition within
20 days of today.
 
The Court notes that the notice of deposition
includes a demand for production of documents, and Defendant seeks an order
compelling Plaintiff to produce all identified documents at her deposition. The
moving papers fail to show good cause for production of the documents sought,
as required by §2025.450(b)(1). There is no discussion of good cause, and
therefore the Court declines to enter an order compelling Plaintiff to produce
documents, but urges the parties to work together to resolve any issues concerning
documents without court intervention.
 
Plaintiff’s nonappearance forced Defendant to
file the present motion and incur attorney’s fees. Defendant seeks sanctions in
the amount of $1060 which the court finds reasonable. The Court ORDERS
Plaintiff and her counsel, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions of $1,000 to
Defendant within 20 days of today’s date.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.