 Case Number:  22STCV36305    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Jacobo Davalos, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV36305




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Fox Corporation, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 4, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Discovery
Moving Party: Plaintiff Jacobo Davalos 
Responding Party: Defendants Disney Networks Group,
LLC, The Walt Disney Company, Fox Corporations and Fox Cable Network Services,
LLC
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY IS DENIED.
THE PARTIES’ REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE
DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative third amended complaint against Defendants, asserting causes of
action for (1) sexual battery; (2) battery; (3) hostile work environment sexual
harassment; (4) quid pro quo sexual harassment; (5) wrongful termination; (6)
constructive termination; (7) negligent hiring, supervision and retention; (8)
failure to prevent discrimination and harassment; (9) IIED; (10) gender
discrimination; and (11) retaliation.
 
Plaintiff was employed by Defendants
The Walt Disney Company; Disney Networks Group, LLC fka Fox Networks Group,
Inc.; and TFCF Payroll Services, Inc. fka Fox Payroll Services Inc. from
January 2017 to December 2019. During Plaintiff’s employment with Defendants,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Cesar Fabricio Sedano, who was employed as a
Vice President of Finance for Defendants, sexually harassed and battered
Plaintiff on numerous occasions.
 
ANALYSIS
 
On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may
move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems
that an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (CCP
2030.300(a)(3).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections to the form interrogatories (“FIs”) and special interrogatories
(“SIs”).  (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962)
58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
The moving party on a motion to compel
further responses to requests for production of documents (“RPDs”) must submit
“specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.”  (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).)  If the moving party has
shown good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections.  (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.)
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses
to six sets of discovery from Defendants Fox Corporation and Fox Cable Network
Services, LLC, the Walt Disney Company, and Disney Networks Group. As an
initial matter, this motion should have at minimum been filed as two separate
motions, one to the Disney Defendants and one to the Fox Defendants. Combining
six sets of discovery as to four Defendants into one motion significantly
impedes the Court’s and the opposing parties’ ability to decipher and respond
to this motion.
Plaintiff also failed to properly meet and
confer before filing this motion. Defendants represent that Plaintiff cancelled
the parties’ telephonic meet and confer, scheduled 10 days after the parties’
IDC, 30 minutes prior to its start and then filed this motion on the same day. 
As for the content of the motion, it is
almost entirely moot. All Defendants have provided supplemental responses to
requests at issue since the filing of the motion. The parties must meet and
confer on these responses before the Court can address whether further responses
are needed. Defendants represent that they have provided all responsive, non-privileged
information in their possession. 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to discovery is DENIED. The Court declines to award sanctions against
Plaintiff. Defendants seek over $50,000.00 in combined sanctions against
Plaintiff; this is unreasonably high for filing a discovery motion. 
 
 