  Case Number:  20STCV18027    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Bree Valbuena,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV18027




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Birdwell California! LLC, et al.,   
  


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 4, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Sanctions
Moving Party: Plaintiff Bree Valbuena 
Responding Party: Defendants Birdwell California! LLC,
Birdwell Retail, LLC, Mike D’Altorio, Geoff Clawson, Matt Jacobson and Charlie
Willhoit
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $37,212.50.
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition
and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 12, 2020, Plaintiff Bree
Valbuena filed a complaint against Defendants Birdwell California! LLC,
Birdwell Retail, LLC, Mike D’Altorio, Geoff Clawson, Matt Jacobson, and Charlie
Willhoit, asserting causes of action for discrimination, retaliation, wrongful
discharge, breach of contract and fraudulent inducement of arbitration
agreement. Plaintiff alleges that she was previously discriminated against by
Defendants based on her pregnancy. The parties settled that dispute and agreed
that Plaintiff would be re-hired and only could be terminated for cause for the
first six months of Plaintiff’s new employment. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
wrongfully terminated her within the first 6 months in violation of FEHA and
CFRA and in breach of the settlement agreement.
 
On November 17, 2021, the Court granted
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. On June 7, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion vacating arbitration for Defendants’ failure to timely pay
arbitration fees.
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP § 1281.98(c) allows the non-drafting
party of an arbitration agreement to recover “all attorney's fees and all costs
associated with the abandoned arbitration proceeding” in the event of material
breach by the drafting party. CCP § 1281.99(a) provides, “The court shall
impose a monetary sanction against a drafting party that materially breaches an
arbitration agreement pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 1281.97 or
subdivision (a) of Section 1281.98, by ordering the drafting party to pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees and costs, incurred by the
employee or consumer as a result of the material breach.”
The Court previously awarded Plaintiff
attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $118,000.21 under these provisions. Here,
Plaintiff asserts Defendants have failed to pay the award. Plaintiff also
requests the Court compel compliance with its previous order and award $37,212.50 in additional sanctions associated with Plaintiffs’ defense
of the appeal of the previous order made and abandoned by Defendants.
In opposition, Defendants assert the Court
need not make an additional order relating to the previous sanctions order as
it is already enforceable and interest-collecting. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s fees associated with the appeal should not be recovered because
they were not incurred due to the abandoned arbitration proceeding and because
they are excessive. 
The Court need not make a second order
regarding the first award of sanctions against Defendants. As stated in reply,
the previous order is enforceable as a money judgement and Plaintiff may use
judgment-enforcement measures to collect. The Court will allow Plaintiff to
recover fees associated with the appeal of this award. These fees were incurred
in due to the abandoned arbitration proceeding. 
Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions is GRANTED
in the amount of $37,212.50.


 