 Case Number:  24VECV01222    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  W LUXURY LEASE PARTNERS, AS SERVICER FOR LUXURY LEASE
COMPANY v. TAX LEADERS OF AMERICA, LLC, et al.
 
plaintiff’s
application for writ of possession
 
Date
of Hearing:        April 12, 2024                                    Trial
Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        24VECV01222
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Luxury Lease Partners, as Servicer
for Luxury Lease Company, a Delaware Statutory Trust
Responding Party:     No opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
March 19, 2023, Plaintiff Luxury Lease Partners, as Servicer for Luxury Lease Company,
a Delaware Statutory Trust filed a complaint against Tax Leaders of America,
LLC and Mario Sanchez for 1. Recovery and Possession of Personal Property
(Claim and Delivery); 2. Breach of Contract; 3. Fraud; 4. Conversion; and 5. Declaratory
Relief. Plaintiff entered into a lease agreement with Defendant Sanchez whereby
Sanchez leased a used 2012 Ferrari 458 Coupe on behalf of Tax Leaders of
America, LLC. Plaintiff alleges since the date of lease of the Ferrari, Luxury
Lease has received the monthly payments due up through January 2024; however,
Sanchez and Tax Leaders’ February 2024 and March 2024 payments bounced and
Luxury Lease has not received the agreed upon monthly payments since. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Application for Writ of
Possession is CONTINUED
 
DISCUSSION
 
Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession,
the Defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2)
a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any
affidavit in support thereof. (CCP §512.030.) 

 
There
is no proof of service in the court’s record. Plaintiff must provide proof of
service. In the event Plaintiff can show Defendant was properly served the copy
of the summons and complaint; notice of the application; and copy of the
application, the court rules as the following. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and include: 1)
Plaintiff’s basis for the claim and entitlement to possession; 2) Defendant’s
wrongful detention; 3) description of the property; 4) location of the property
and  probable cause to believe that such
property is located there; and 5) the property has not been taken for a tax,
assessment or fine or seized under an execution against the property.  
 
Plaintiff provides the declaration of Jim
Moscatello, an authorized signatory of Plaintiff, to establish the facts
relevant to the writ application. Plaintiff has demonstrated an entitlement to
possession of the property due to Defendant’s default under the lease and the
probable validity of Plaintiff’s claims for claim and delivery and breach of
contract. (Moscatello Decl. ¶¶4-8.) The evidence demonstrates the existence of
the Lease Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant, commencing August 2020. (Moscatello
Decl. ¶4.) Plaintiff attests under the Lease Agreement, Defendants were
required to make monthly payments. (Moscatello Decl. ¶5.) Since December 2023,
however, Plaintiff has not received the agreed upon monthly payments.
(Moscatello Decl. ¶5.) Accordingly, the court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated
it has been damaged by being deprived of possession of the vehicle. Although the
declaration says the agreement is attached but it is not there.  A copy of the agreement must be submitted. 
 
Plaintiff has also provided a particular
description of the property and the value of the property. (Application ¶4.)
Moreover, Plaintiff has provided that the vehicle has not been taken for a tax,
assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution
against the property of the plaintiff. (Application ¶8.) Plaintiff further
claims the vehicle is in possession either at the following addresses:
 
31293 Via Colinas,
Westlake Village, California - Premier Auto Storage
            5525
Oakdale Ave., Woodland Hills, CA 91364 - Tax Leaders of America
            19616
Kilfinan Street, Porter Ranch, CA 91326 - residence for Mario Sanchez
 
Plaintiff has met its burden in demonstrating
their entitlement to a writ of possession. As a result, Plaintiff must file an
undertaking “in an amount not less than twice the value of the defendant's
interest in the property or in a greater amount” unless the court finds the
defendant has no interest in the property. (CCP §515.010(a), (b).) “The value
of the defendant's interest in the property is determined by the market value
of the property less the amount due and owing on any conditional sales contract
or security agreement and all liens and encumbrances on the property, and any
other factors necessary to determine the defendant's interest in the property.”
(Id.) 
 
Plaintiff does not provide the approximate
value of the vehicle.  Plaintiff must
provide an approximate valuation of the vehicle.  
 
The application for writ of possession is CONTINUED
for plaintiff to provide these additional documents and proof of service.  