 Case Number:  21VECP00229    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  W SPENCER
WEINERMAN, ET AL. V. RON GROSSBLATT, ET AL. 
 
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR ALTERNATIVELY SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF THE FIRST
THROUGH FOURTH CAUSES OF ACTION
 
Date
of Hearing:        April 12, 2024                                    Trial Date:       May 13, 2024   
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        21VECP00229
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants David
Weinerman, Jimi Bingham, and Ron Grossblatt, an individual and Trustee of the
Grossblatt Family Trust, Grant & Weber, a California corporation
(erroneously sued as Grant & Weber, Inc.) and Grant & Weber Arizona,
Inc., an Arizona corporation
Responding
Party:     Plaintiffs Spencer Weinerman,
individually and trustee of the Weinerman Family Trust 
                                                                                          
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff
is a shareholder and former employee of G&W CA, a debt collection, revenue
cycle management, and receivables management company, whose employment
terminated on December 14, 2014. Plaintiff owns 25% of the outstanding shares
of G&W CA and controls another 15% of the corporation’s shares, which are
held by the Weinerman Family Trust, of which Plaintiff is a Trustee and named
beneficiary. Plaintiff alleges Defendants and Doe Defendants, as shareholders
and/or directors on the Board of Directors have excluded, prohibited, and
prevented, and continue to exclude, prohibit, and prevent Plaintiff from being
present at all BOD meetings and/or participating in resolutions and actions. 
 
G&W
NV and G&W AZ likewise specialize in debt collection, revenue cycle
management, and receivables management and maintain common ownership,
management and operation as G&W CA and act as the alter egos of one another
as well as G&W CA.
 
Plaintiff
alleges they formally requested access to “inspect and copy all corporate
records so permitted” in accordance with the state laws. Despite Plaintiff’s
requests, Defendants and Doe Defendants have not provided and continue to deny
Plaintiff access to inspect and copy all corporate records.
 
Plaintiff
filed a third amended complaint on February 3, 2022, asserting causes of action
for 1) Failure to Allow Inspection of Corporate Records – Demand for Right to
Inspect Corporation Code §1601 et. al.; 2) Failure to Allow Inspection of
Corporate Records – Demand for Right to Inspect – ARS 10-1602 et. al.; 3)
Breach of Contract – G&W California Bylaws; 4)  Breach of Contract – G&W Arizona Bylaws. 
 
This
action was related to Grant & Weber v. Weber & Associates, et. al. (LC107630)
and Spencer Weinennan, et al. v. Ron Grossblatt, et. al. (19VECV00088). Case
No. 22VECV00982 was voluntarily dismissed. A Writ of Mandate was filed May 16,
2023 (23STCP01674). 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment or
Alternatively Summary Adjudication of the First through Fourth Causes of Action
is GRANTED IN PART.  Summary Adjudication
is granted as to the Second and Fourth Causes of Action only.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff makes evidentiary objections to the
declaration of Eric A. Puritsky in its entirety on the grounds of incompetency.
Plaintiff argues Mr. Puritsky does not recall his declaration; drafting or
editing it; and all other pertinent facts surrounding it. (Puritsky Depo. pp.
17:2-18:20.) Plaintiff’s objection is OVERRULED. 
 
In Reply, Defendants submit evidentiary objections
to the declaration of Keven Steinberg and Spencer Weinerman. Objection Nos. 1,
3-4, 7-8 are OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
David Weinerman, Jimi Bingham, and Ron Grossblatt, an individual and Trustee of
the Grossblatt Family Trust, Grant & Weber, a California corporation
(erroneously sued as Grant & Weber, Inc.) and Grant & Weber Arizona,
Inc., an Arizona corporation move the court for summary judgment on the claims
asserted by Plaintiff Spencer Weinerman in the Third Amended Complaint, or
alternatively, for summary adjudication of each cause of action. 
 
Issues
1 – 2 
 
Defendants
move for summary judgment on the second cause of action to enforce shareholder
inspection rights in GW Arizona, pursuant to Arizona statute, Ariz. Rev. Stat.
§ 10-1602 on the grounds Spencer did not send the <arch 23 demand to GW Arizona,
David, Ron or Jimi and Spencer’s March 23 demand failed to comply with the requirements
of Arizona law. 
 
Defendants
contend Attorney Puritsky did not represent GW Arizona, David, Ron or Jimi at
the time Spencer made his demand and since Spencer does not allege he sent the
March 23 Demand to those parties, or any attorney representing those parties, they
cannot be liable for failing to comply with the March 23 Demand. In support of
their motion for summary judgment, Defendants present the declaration of Mr.
Purtsky who states “Mr. Steinberg’s March 23, 2021 letter was sent only to my
email address. In March 2021 I represented GW California. I have never
represented David Weinerman, Ron Grossblatt or Jimi Bingham individually, or
Grant & Weber Arizona, Inc.” (Puritsky Decl. ¶3.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants seek to hide around who was technically
the counsel for one party or another and in what capacity they were
representing that client. Plaintiff contends it was a revolving carousel of
attorneys at different times, substituting in and out of the various cases, and
muddling who they were actually representing. Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel
believes to have also sent notice to other counsel Gorham, Erigero and Lepore. (Steinberg
Decl. ¶¶6, 8.) 
 
The
court finds Mr. Steinberg’s declaration is insufficient to raise a triable
issue of fact that Puritsky ever held himself out or claimed to represent Grant
Weber AZ or Weinerman, Grosblatt and Bingham. The court notes Mr. Steinberg’s
declaration stating he believes he sent copies and/or notices of the demands to
all other counsel is not sufficient to create a triable issue of material fact.
First, declarations based on information and belief are insufficient to meet
the burden of proof on opposing a motion for summary judgment. (See Lopez v.
University Partners (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 1117, 1124.) Moreover, Mr.
Steinberg does not present admissible evidence supporting this contention.
Exhibit 1 of his declaration is directly solely to Mr. Puritsky.  Mr. Steinberg’s vague and conclusory
statements that “it was portrayed, represented, and understood that Puritsky
was the corporate counsel and representative for all Grant & Weber entities,”
are insufficient to raise a triable issue of fact that he ever held himself out
as counsel for these individuals and entities. 
 
Accordingly,
the court finds that defendants are entitled to summary adjudication of the
Second Cause of Action. 
 
Issues
3 – 4 
 
Defendants
move for summary judgment on the fourth cause of action for breach of the
Arizona Bylaws on the grounds the March 23 Demand was not sent to David, Ron,
Jimi or GW Arizona, or anyone acting on their behalf and even if Spencer had
sent the March 23 Demand to David, Ron, Jimi or GW Arizona, Spencer fails to
even allege facts sufficient to show a breach.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff states if the Defendants are willing to stipulate that
any request under the bylaws of either GW CA or GW AZ is moot because there
were no records to produce, then this issue can be dismissed. Defendants do not
acknowledge this in Reply. Parties are to confirm whether there is an agreement
to stipulate there are no records to produce and the third and fourth causes of
action are dismissed. 
 
Issues
5 – 6 
 
Defendants
move for summary judgment of the first cause of action which seeks GW
California as well as David, Ron, and Jimi to make available all corporate
records of GW California as permitted by California Corporations Code section
1601.
 
Defendants
again argue since Spencer does not allege that he sent the March 23 Demand to David,
Ron or Jimi, or their legal counsel/agent, they cannot be liable for failing to
comply with the March 23 Demand.  But
here, there is no denial that Puritsky represented GW CA.  Sending the notice to him was sufficient to
put the corporation and its corporate officers on notice that plaintiff was
seeking to review corporate records.   
 
Defendants
further argue Spencer refused to identify his purpose in seeking an inspection,
refused to define what documents he sought to inspect, and he demanded
“immediate compliance” all in non-compliance of Corporations Code section 1601.
Specifically, Section 1601 permits a shareholder to inspect certain records
“upon the written demand on the corporation of any shareholder . . . at any
reasonable time during usual business hours, for a purpose reasonably related
to the holder’s interests as a shareholder . . . .” (Corps. Code §1601(a)(1).)
Defendants contend therefore under Section 1601, counsel for GW California
reasonably responded to Spencer’s March 23 Demand to seek both the scope of
records sought and to determine his purpose in seeking the inspection.
Moreover, the explanation was necessary since the statute allows inspection
only if it is reasonably related to the shareholder’s interest as a shareholder
(as opposed to for purposes of gaining a competitive advantage by accessing
confidential, competitive information).
 
However,
Section 1601 does not require the purpose be in the written demand. It merely
states that the demand must be made for a purpose reasonably related to the
holder’s interest as a shareholder. Moreover, under former Civil Code section
355 (now Corps. Code §1601), a shareholder who made written demand to inspect
corporation's records was entitled to inspect list of shareholders and to make
extracts therefrom unless it was shown that demand was not for any purpose
reasonably related to shareholder's interest as a shareholder. (Gilmore v.
Emsco Derrick & Equipment Co. (1937) 22 Cal.App.2d 64, 67.) Defendants,
in Reply, state Mr. Steinberg’s Declaration actually confirms that Spencer had
an improper purpose, as he suggests that the March 23 Demand was “a necessary”
part of the derivative action pending between the parties when the March 23
Demand was sent. (Steinberg Decl. ¶9.) (See Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 316, 328 [no authority for the proposition that section 1601
authorized discovery in an ongoing lawsuit.].) However, the court finds Mr.
Steinberg’s contention is not similar to the facts in Bezirdjian. In Bezirdjian,
the court rejected the plaintiff's argument that he was entitled under section
1601 to discovery of “the Committee's report and the materials that the
Committee relied on in refusing his demand” to commence legal action. (Bezirdjian,
supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at pp. 326, 328.) The court held that section
1601 did not authorize discovery when there was an ongoing lawsuit. (Id.
at p. 328.) Mr. Steinberg instead states he and opposing counsel had been in
communications so it was no secret Plaintiff sought to inspect corporate
records as permitted by law as to at least the Arizona and California Grant
& Weber entities. (Steinberg Decl. ¶¶8, 9.)   The court finds that there are triable issues
of fact that defendants have improperly prevented inspection of corporate
records under Corporations Code Section 1601 and in violation of GW
California’s bylaws.  
 
Issues
7 – 8 
 
Lastly,
Defendants move for summary judgment on the third cause of action for violation
of the GW California bylaws on the grounds Plaintiff did not send the March 23
Demand to David, Ron, or Jimi and moreover, Spencer was not denied any
shareholder rights afforded to him under the GW California Bylaws. 
 
As
noted above, Plaintiff states if the Defendants are willing to stipulate that
any request under the bylaws of either GW CA or GW AZ is moot because there
were no records to produce, then this issue can be dismissed. Defendants do not
acknowledge this in Reply. Parties are to confirm whether there is an agreement
to stipulate there are no records to produce and the third and fourth causes of
action are dismissed. 