 Case Number:  22VECV01458    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  W KIMBERLY
DAVIS, et al. v. PAIGE HEMMIS, et al.
 
DEFENDANT THE OAKS OF CALABASAS HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION'S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS' VERIFIED THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date of Hearing:        April
12, 2024                         Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV01458
 
Moving Party:            Defendant The Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners Association 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and Jonathan
Davis  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Marko Decl. ¶3.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis filed a third amended complaint against
Defendants Paige Hemmis, Jason Short, Ameka Benton, Scott Fields, Hallmark Cards,
Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc., Paige Hemmis, Inc., Aria Music Group, The
Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners Association, Melissa Improta, Jason Improta, and Compass
California, Inc. for 1) Intentional Interference with Contract; 2) Negligence; 3)
Trespass; 4) Violations of Civil Code § 1798.93; 5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 6)
Professional Negligence; 7) Unfair Business Practices; 8) Fraudulent
Concealment; 9) Negligent Misrepresentation; 10) Fraud; 11) Slander of Title; 12)
Constructive Fraud; 13) Wrongful Eviction; 14) Quiet Title; and 15) Conversion.
 
Plaintiffs allege about September 15,
2019, when Plaintiffs were absent from the subject property, Defendants Hemmis
and Short unlawfully entered upon the subject property and remained in
possession of the property until early July 2022. While Defendants Hemmis and
Short were in possession of the property, Plaintiffs were engaged in a dispute
with their mortgage lender, US Bank, related to a settlement agreement that was
entered into to address the pay off of a mortgage loan. Plaintiffs further
allege at some point prior to September 12, 2019, Defendants Hemmis, Short, Improta
and Compass engaged in a conspiracy to attempt to steal title to the
Plaintiffs’ home. On this point, Plaintiffs claim Hemmis and Short fraudulently
forged a lease that purported to have Kimberly Davis' signature on it. As a
result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiffs have been damaged. Plaintiff
dismissed Defendants Ameka Benton and Scott Fields. 
 
On March 24, 2023, this action was
related to Kimberly Davis v. Nationstar, et al. (23VECV01125). On August
18, 2023, Paige Hemmis and Jason Short filed a cross-complaint against Kimberly
Ann Davis, Compass California, Inc. dba Compass, Melissa Improta, and Jason
Improta for breach of contract, money had and received, implied
indemnification, express indemnification, and comparative contribution. Cross-Complainants
dismissed their cause of action for express indemnification. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant The Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners Association’s Demurrer is
OVERRULED IN PART; Motion to Strike is GRANTED IN PART WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiff
requests this court take judicial notice of the following documents: (1) Declaration
of Covenants, Conditions & Restrictions (The Oaks of Calabasas) (Exh. 1);
(2) Incident Crime Report (Exh. 2); (3) Complaint for Forcible Detainer (Exh.
3); (4) September 13, 2023 Ruling on Hearing on Motion to Strike (Exh. 4); (5)
Third Amended Complaint (Exh. 5); and (6) May 5, 2023 Ruling on Hearing on
Motion to Strike (Exh. 6). The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant The Oaks of Calabasas
Homeowners Association ("Oaks" or "HOA") demurs to the
Third Amended Complaint on the grounds the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for negligence, breach of fiduciary
duty, or violation of Business and Profession Code section 17200 against
Defendant and is uncertain. 
 
Negligence
 
To state a cause of action for
negligence, a plaintiff must allege: (1) a legal duty to exercise due care; (2)
breach of that legal duty; (3) proximate causation of an injury.  (Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) 


The HOA argues as a corporation, it is
subject to the standard established under the "business judgment rule” and
therefore, its decision to permit Hemmis and Short into the Association without
contacting the Plaintiffs first to determine said authorization is protected.
Specifically, the complaint alleges Hemmis and Short made false representations
including to the HOA. Because the HOA was operating under the representation
that Hemmis and Short had a valid lease agreement when it allegedly granted
Hemmis and Short access to the community, the HOA was sound in its decision to
let them access to the property. The HOA further argues Plaintiffs have failed
to allege any causal connection between the Oaks' conduct and its breach or Plaintiffs'
injury. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the HOA
has the responsibility of permitting individuals to have access to transponders
and other access to the neighborhood and is fully aware of Plaintiffs’ contact
information. Accordingly, it was extremely negligent to permit Hemmis and Short
into the Association without contacting the Plaintiffs first to determine said
authorization. Moreover, the “business judgment rule” is not applicable to the
facts in this case. Plaintiffs contend the cases cited by Defendant applies to
the liability of individual directors, not the homeowners’ association itself.
Additionally, there are no allegations about the board of directors making a
decision and the rule does not apply to those who acted in bad faith. The
complaint clearly alleges Ms. Thaller conspired with Hemmis. 
 
The court notes a recent decision by
the Third District Court of Appeals found the business judgment rule applies to
HOA board decisions. (See Lauckhart v. El Macero Homeowners Assn. (2023)
92 Cal.App.5th 889, 908.) Taking this into consideration, the court finds,
however, Plaintiffs have alleged facts to support a claim that the decision was
made in bad faith. Specifically, Hemmis and Short conspired with Ms. Thaller or
someone else on behalf of the HOA to proceed with their scheme. These
allegations along with Plaintiff’s proximate cause allegations (¶163) are
sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. The court further notes for the
first time in reply the HOA discusses their duty as applying only to common
areas, not Plaintiffs’ individual property. The court briefly notes although White
v. Cox (1971) 17 Cal.App.3d 824 held a homeowner's association is liable to
a member for negligence of the association in failing to maintain common areas,
that does not limit the case to where the HOA owes no duty to activity on the
private property of a member. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second
cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
A fiduciary duty is founded upon a special
relationship imposed by law or when “confidence is reposed by persons in the
integrity of others” who voluntarily accept the confidence.  (Tri-Growth
Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf, Burdman, Duignan & Eisenberg (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 1139, 1150.)  “[B]efore a person can be charged with a
fiduciary obligation, he [or she] must either knowingly undertake to act on
behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship which
imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.”  (City of Hope Nat'l Med.
Ctr. v. Genentech (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386).  “[I]n recognition of
the increasingly important role played by private homeowners' associations in
such public-service functions as maintenance and repair of public areas and
utilities, street and common area lighting, sanitation and the regulation and
enforcement of zoning ordinances, the courts have recognized that such
associations owe a fiduciary duty to their members.”  (Cohen v. Kite
Hill Community Assn. (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 642, 650–651.)  
 
HOA demurs to the fifth cause of action
on the grounds Plaintiffs have not alleged that the HOA violated its governing
documents or any statutory requirements nor have they alleged the HOA acted in
bad faith or with conflicting interests to its members. Additionally,
Plaintiffs have not alleged that the association took arbitrary action in
carrying out its functions.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
complaint plainly pleads the HOA breached its fiduciary duty when Ms. Thaller,
or someone else at the HOA, conspired with Ms. Hemmis to give her access to the
subject property. Plaintiffs contend other courts have noted that part of the
fiduciary duties that homeowners associations owe their members are matters of
general public safety, such as not permitting unauthorized persons to take
possession of a member's home. (See Cohen v. Kite Hill Community Assn.
(Ct. App. 1983) 142 Cal. App. 3d 642.) 
 
The court agrees with plaintiffs that
the allegations sufficient. Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth cause of
action is OVERRULED. 
 
Violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200 
 
To successfully plead a UCL claim for
unfair business practices, a plaintiff must allege facts justifying relief in
the form of protecting the public from unfair business practices or deceptive
advertising. (Day v. AT&T Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 325, 331-332.)
A plaintiff must plead and prove that the defendant engaged in a business
practice that was either unlawful (i.e., is forbidden by law) or unfair (i.e.,
harm to victim outweighs any benefit) or fraudulent (i.e., is likely to deceive
members of the public).  (Albillo v. Intermodal Container Services,
Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 190, 206.) 
 
The HOA demurs to the seventh cause of
action for violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 on the
grounds Plaintiffs cite no authority in which a homeowners association has been
treated as a "business under the UCL” (see That v. Alders Maintenance
Assn. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1427) and moreover, the TAC identifies no
particular section of the statutory scheme that was allegedly violated and
fails to describe with any reasonable particularity the facts supporting an
alleged violation of the statute by the HOA.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the HOA’s
involvement in the commercial conspiracy clearly put them within the purview of
the UCL and moreover, the Alders Maintenance Assn. court specifically
left open the possibility of Business and Professions Code § 17200 applying to
homeowners’ associations. Plaintiffs lastly argue the “lumps together” is fine
pleading and the claim is based on the HOA conspiring with Hemmis and Short to
give them access to the Plaintiffs’ home. 

 
The court agrees Plaintiffs have not
alleged facts sufficient under violation of Business and Professions Code
17200. While the court in Alders Maintenance did not foreclose entirely
the notion that the UCL could apply to an association, the examples provided
are not like the ones here. Plaintiffs have not shown how the Oaks engaged in
commercial activity. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
The HOA moves to strike Plaintiffs’
allegations for punitive damages, the claim for emotional distress and attorney
fees. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the HOA
is barred from filing a motion to strike now because the HOA did not file a
motion to strike to the previous versions of the complaint. The court agrees
with the HOA that this instant case is not the piecemeal motion practice the
legislature sought to bar when enacting Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5(b). This is the first time the HOA has brought a motion to strike. 
 
Regarding punitives, the acts
underlying Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages are for the Oaks manager
participating in the malicious fraudulent, and/or oppressive conduct herself
when the manager granted the other defendants access in order to participate in
their scheme in the highly-guarded, upscale neighborhood.  The court agrees that these allegations are
sufficient to state a claim for punitive damages.
 
The court denies the motion to strike
the emotional distress damages, as a plaintiff may seek emotional distress
damages based on a claim for negligence and breach of fiduciary duty.   
 
However, the court agrees Plaintiff has
not alleged grounds for attorney fees. Civil Code section 5975(c), which is
part of the Davis-Stirling Common Interest Development Act governing relations
between homeowner associations and their members, provides that a prevailing
party in an action to enforce the governing documents between the parties
“shall be awarded reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.” (Civ. Code § 5975(c).)
However, Plaintiff hasn’t alleged enforcement of the CC&R. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND, in part. 