 Case Number:  23VECV03599    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  W SYLVIA MORA v. ROCK STAR PROPERTIES LLC
DBA AGWC ROCKIN' RESCUE, et al.
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE,
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date of Hearing:        April 12, 2024                                     Trial
Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV03599
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Rock Star
Properties, LLC, Ady Gil and Fabienne Origer
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Syliva Mora  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 17, 2023, Plaintiff Sylivia Mora filed a complaint
against Defendants Rock Star Properties, LLC dba AGWC Rockin’ Rescue, Ady Gil
and Fabienne Origer for negligence, strict liability, and punitive damages.
Plaintiff alleges on December 24, 2022, Plaintiff was a volunteer at Rock Star
Properties, LLC dba AGWC Rockin’ Rescue (“Rescue”). While Plaintiff was sitting
on the sidewalk near the Rescue, one of Rescue’s Labrador dogs, viciously
attacked Plaintiff, causing severe injuries to Plaintiff’s person including to
her back, neck, arms, wrist, and hand along with nerve damage and loss of
functionality.
 
Plaintiff sought leave of court to add “Ady Gil World
Conservation” as a defendant in place of the fictitious name “DOE 1” The court
granted Plaintiff’s motion and Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint on
February 27, 2024.  Previously, the
defendants demurred to the fourth cause of action for punitive damages.  The court overruled that motion but agreed
that the claim for punitive damages was not a separate cause of action; rather,
it was an additional claim for damages that would apply to the other three
causes of action.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative,
Summary Adjudication is GRANTED, in part. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
 
Defendants submit evidentiary objections
to the declaration filed by Nora Betoei filed by Plaintiff in conjunction with
Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, or in the
alterative, summary adjudication.
 
The court declines to rule on
Defendant’s objections to Nora Betoei declaration. Code of Civil Procedure §
437c(q) states “In granting or denying a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections to evidence that it
deems material to its disposition of the motion. Objections to evidence that
are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall be preserved for appellate
review.”   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Rock Star Properties, LLC (erroneously sued as Rock
Star Properties LLC DBA AGWC Rockin Rescue), Ady Gil and Fabienne Origer (“Defendants”)
move for summary judgment on Plaintiff Sylvia Mora’s complaint on the grounds that
the action has no merit, there is no triable issue of material fact and
Defendants are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Alternatively,
Defendants move for summary adjudication against Plaintiff as to their causes action
for negligence, strict liability (Civil Code § 3342), strict liability (animal
with known dangerous propensity) and punitive damage. Defendant Ady Gil World
Conservation (“AGWC”) joins in the motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication filed by Rock Star Properties LLC, Ady Gil, and
Fabienne Origer. 
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App.
4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment
should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)
 
Indemnity Waiver
 
Defendants first move for summary judgment on the grounds Mora’s
claim for negligence is vitiated by the indemnity waiver, release of liability
and assumption of risk she signed when she began volunteering at AGWC. 
 
“Generally, all persons are legally responsible ‘for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the
management of his or her property.’ (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) However, ‘[a]n
exculpatory contract releasing a party from liability for future ordinary
negligence is valid unless it is prohibited by statute or impairs the public
interest. [Citation.]’ (Citations.)” (Joshi v. Fitness International, LLC
(2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 814, 824.) Even if a waiver of liability is enforceable
against a cause of action for general negligence, a waiver cannot release a
defendant for actions that are grossly negligent. (City of Santa Barbara v.
Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 777.) Although “[g]enerally it is a
triable issue of fact whether there has been such a lack of care as to
constitute gross negligence [Citation] but not always. [Citation.]” (Decker
v. City of Imperial Beach (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 349, 358.) 
 
Defendants present evidence of a signed document captioned
“indemnity waiver, release of liability and assumption of risk” concurrent with
a volunteer questionnaire. (Gil Decl., Exh. A.) Defendants contend the terms of
the release are unambiguous and sufficiently broad to include the injury
sustained by Plaintiff. As such, the indemnity waiver, release of liability and
assumption of risk document signed by Mora shields all Defendants from
liability. Defendants further argue they cannot be held liable for negligence because
the underlying facts demonstrate, conclusively, that Mora primarily assumed the
risk of harm. “Primary assumption of risk arises where a plaintiff voluntarily
participates in an activity or sport involving certain inherent risks; primary
assumption of risk … bar[s] recovery because no duty of care is owed as to such
risks.” (West v. Sundown Little League of Stockton (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th
351, 357.) Defendants present evidence Mora was fully aware of Rebel’s
aggressive behavior, unadoptable, had a bite history and posed the potential to
harm her. (Issacs Decl., Exh. A, pp. 97:12- 98:14, 110:20-111:11, 117:24-118:2)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues despite the waiver signed by
Plaintiff, the Defendants' actions—or lack thereof—raise serious questions
regarding potential gross negligence or reckless misconduct, particularly
highlighted by their failure to muzzle Rebel despite known aggressive behavior
and previous dog bite history before Plaintiff’s accident. Moreover, Plaintiff
contends the enforceability of the waiver itself is subject to scrutiny. 
 
“Gross negligence is pleaded by alleging the traditional elements
of negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. However, to set forth a
claim for ‘gross negligence’ the plaintiff must allege extreme conduct on the
part of the defendant. The conduct alleged must rise to the level of either a
‘want of even scant care’ or ‘an extreme departure from the ordinary standard
of conduct.’” (Rosencrans v. Dover Images, Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th
1072, 1082 [citations omitted, some internal quotations omitted for
clarity].)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants owned, kept, and allowed the
Rebel to remain on and off the premises without a muzzle despite Rebel’s
dangerous propensity, nature, and tendencies. (FAC ¶31.) Before Rebel attacked
and bit Plaintiff, Defendants knew or should have known that Rebel had this
aggressive nature and/or tendency, yet failed to warn Plaintiff of such
dangerous propensity or take any other measure to protect Plaintiff from the
danger posed. (FAC ¶32.) Plaintiff supports these allegations with deposition
testimony from Mora who stated it was policy to not have dogs muzzled. 
 
These allegations identify a question of fact with whether Defendants
acted with gross negligence when implemented a policy of not muzzling animals,
even ones they knew had aggressive tendencies and a history of biting. If
defendants’ conduct is found to have amounted to gross negligence, the waiver
would not apply as a matter of law.  
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the
first cause of action is DENIED as to AGWC. 
There was no or insufficient evidence presented to establish that Rock
Star, Gil or Origer owe any duty to plaintiff or breached that duty of care
with respect to the handling of Rebel; accordingly, they are entitled to
summary adjudication of the negligence claim. 

 
Strict Liability (Civil Code § 3342)
 
Under Civil Code section 3342(a) the “owner of any dog is liable
for the damages suffered by any person who is bitten by the dog while in a
public place or lawfully in a private place, including the property of the
owner of the dog, regardless of the former viciousness of the dog or the
owner's knowledge of such viciousness.”  The defense of assumption of
the risk is available despite the language of Civil Code, section 3342. (Burden
v. Globerson (1967) 252 Cal.App.2d 468, 470.) An “owner” of a dog is “[o]ne
who treats a dog as living at his house and undertakes to control his
actions.”  (Buffington v. Nicholson
(1947) 78 Cal. App. 2d 37, 42.)
 
Defendants argue neither Rock Star, Gil, nor Origer owned Rebel
and therefore, Mora cannot sue these parties under the strict reading under the
statute. Defendants contend the facts here differ than Buffington on the
grounds it is undisputed that Rock Star, owner of the property in which AGWC is
located, does not meet the aforesaid criteria, nor is there any evidence that
Gil or Origer kept or harbored Rebel. Moreover, Mora expressly assumed the risk
of injury and her claim for strict liability is untenable on this basis alone. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the depositions of both Origer and
Gil establish a close relationship and control over Rebel, if not outright ownership
of Rebel. Plaintiff further argues the doctrine of assumption of risk does not
bar Plaintiff’s claims because Plaintiff was a volunteer at the rescue and was
not compensated. The reliance on Plaintiff’s purported assumption of risk is
therefore misplaced. 
 
It seems the parties do not dispute AGWC is an owner under Civil
Code section 3342 and the only dispute is as to Rockstar, Gil and Origer. First,
the court finds Plaintiff has failed to show a triable issue of material fact as
to Rock Star Properties, LLC. Defendant Gil attests “While the Property at
which AGWC is located is owned by Rock Star, Rock Star has no ownership
interest or involvement in the operations of AGWC. Moreover, AGWC is not a dba
of Rock Star.” (Gil Decl. ¶4.) Plaintiff claims there is overlap between Rock
Star Properties and AGWC; however, the evidence provided to oppose the motions
for summary judgment does not establish any relationship other than that Gil is
the managing owner of Rock Star, which allows AGWC to use its property to run
an animal shelter. Additionally, Plaintiff has not presented evidence Gil or
Origer qualify as keepers of Rebel. “Whether or not a person is a keeper
depends upon the peculiar facts and circumstances of each individual case. A
man may own an animal and yet not be its keeper. The word ‘keeper’ is
equivalent to ‘the person who harbors.’ Harboring means protecting. So one who
treats a dog as living at his house, and undertakes to control his actions, is
the owner or keeper within the meaning of the law; but the casual presence of
an animal on his premises, if not so treated, does not constitute him such
owner or keeper.' 3 C.J.S., Animals § 165, p. 1266. (Emphasis added.)” (Buffington,
supra, 78 Cal.App.2d at p. 42.)  Mr.
Gil is the owner of AGWC and Ms. Origer is a volunteer and the manager of AGWC.

 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the
second cause of action against Rock Star Properties, Gil, and Origer is
GRANTED. 
 
Strict Liability (Animal with Known Dangerous Propensity)
 
Defendants move for summary judgment of the third cause of action
on the grounds Mora’s claim is untenable. 
 
“A common law strict liability cause of action may also be
maintained if the owner of a domestic animal that bites or injures another
person knew or had reason to know of the animal's vicious propensities.” 
(Priebe v. Nelson (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 1112, 1115, citing BAJI No. 6.66;
see also Judicial Council of Cal., Civ. Jury Instns. (2003–2004) CACI No.
462.)  The essential elements of this claim are: (1) the Defendant owned
or kept an animal; (2) the animal had a vicious propensity; (3) the animal
caused plaintiff to suffer injury, damage, loss or harm; and (4) before
plaintiff was injured, the defendant knew or had reason to know, of the vicious
propensity. (BAJI No. 6.66.) 
 
Defendants argue Mora was expressly aware of the risk associated
with walking Rebel and therefore, there can be no liability under this common
law claim. 
 
As previously discussed, Plaintiff has failed to present evidence Rock
Star Properties, Gil, and/or Origer were harboring Rebel. Rock Star Properties,
Gil, and/or Origer cannot be held liable under a theory of common law strict
liability for the actions of a dog that they did not own or harbor. As for
Defendants’ assumption of risk argument, there is a question as to whether
Defendant unreasonably increased the risk inherent in volunteering at
Defendant’s facility by having an alleged no muzzle policy. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the
third cause of action against Rock Star Properties, Gil, and Origer is GRANTED.

 
Punitive Damages 
 
Defendants move for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s punitive
damages claim on the grounds the claim is untenable. 
 
“A party can move for summary adjudication of a claim for punitive
damages under Civil Code section 3294 (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1))[.]”
(Myers v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1435–1436.)

 
Defendants argue there is no actionable underlying tort that would
support a punitive damage claim. And even if this court found that Mora’s
underlying claims create a triable issue of fact, imposition of punitive
damages would not be appropriate as it is more than evident that Defendants did
not act with malice, oppression or fraud and there is no triable issue in this
regard.
 
There is an underlying tort that would support Plaintiff’s
punitive damage and a jury may find that Defendants failure to implement
preventative measures despite being fully aware of Rebel's dangerous
propensities constitutes malicious conduct under Civil Code section 3294. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the
fourth cause of action is DENIED. 
 
 