  Case Number:  23STCV24336    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ BEVERLY M. HALLER, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. SANTA PAULA POST ACUTE, LLC, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV24336 Hearing Date: November 18, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Beverly M. Haller by and through her Successor-In-Interest, Richard A. Haller, Richard A. Haller, and Melissa Haller (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Santa Paula Post Acute, LLC dba Santa Paula Post Acute Center, LBCSP Skilled, LLC, Matthew Haller and Does 1 through 200 arising from the death of decedent Beverly M. Haller. The complaint sets forth four causes of action for (1) Elder Abuse, (2) Negligence, (3) Violation of Residents Rights, and (4) Wrongful Death. On October 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the redacted motion to enforce settlement under CCP § 664.6 and for entry of judgment. Plaintiffs argue the parties resolved the matter on May 31, 2024, and that the Settlement Agreement and Release (“SAR”) was fully executed by Plaintiffs on June 17, 2024. However, Defendant has breached the SAR by failing to pay Plaintiff any of the settlement sum despite Plaintiffs having satisfied all their obligations as provided in section 1 of the SAR. The parties conferred on the issue of the settlement funds, in which Defendant’s counsel advised Plaintiffs’ counsel that there was a “coverage dispute” and that Defendant requested the settlement be paid in installments. Plaintiffs/Nominal Defendants are not agreeable to the request to be paid in installment payments. On October 22, 2024, Santa Paula Post Acute, LLC dba Santa Paula Post Acute Center (“Defendant”) filed an opposition arguing that the tentative settlement was never finalized, and that the SAR was signed only by Plaintiffs. Defendant contends that Plaintiffs signed a version of the SAR which incorporated Plaintiffs’ counsel’s proposed changes, but that Defendant never signed that proposed settlement agreement nor did the parties ever stipulate to any type of settlement agreement in Court. Defendant also contends that the email from its counsel on May 31, 2024 does not satisfy the writing requirement of CCP § 664.6 because it agreed to only one term of the tentative settlement deal, but not intended to agree to the entire written settlement. On October 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply, arguing that Defendant’s counsel sent over a finalized SAR for review and signature, and that if the terms of the agreement were still being finalized, then the SAR would have not been sent for signature.  II. LEGAL STANDARD Pursuant to CCP § 664.6(a): “If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”¿ Pursuant to CCP § 664.6(b): “For purposes of this section, a writing is signed by a party if it is signed by any of the following:¿ (1) The party.¿ (2) An attorney who represents the party.¿ (3) If the party is an insurer, an agent who is authorized in writing by the insurer to sign on the insurer's behalf.” Strict compliance with the statutory requirements is necessary before a court can enforce a settlement agreement under this statute.¿ (Sully-Miller Contracting Co. v. Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 30, 37.)¿Thus, to enforce a written settlement agreement under CCP § 664.6, the following three elements must be met: (1) the parties must have come to a meeting of the minds on all material points; (2) there must be a writing that contains the material terms of the agreement; and (3) the writing must be signed by the parties. (Weddington Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 797-98.) “A procedure in which a settlement is evidenced by one writing signed by both sides minimizes the possibility of … dispute[s] and legitimizes the summary nature of the section 664.6 procedure.”¿(Robertson v. Chen (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1290, 1293.)¿  III. DISCUSSION The purpose of CCP § 664.6’s enactment “was enacted to provide “an expedient and cost effective means of enforcing a settlement agreement” and as “a valid alternative to a motion for summary judgment” and the other methods of enforcement. [Citations]. The Legislature created this procedure to benefit not only parties but also the justice system, relieving it of the burden of more time-consuming and expensive processes.” (Provost v. Regents of Univ. of California (2011) 201 Cal. App. 4th 1289, 1298.) “Because of its summary nature, strict compliance with the requirements of [Code of Civil Procedure] section 664.6 is prerequisite to invoking the power of the court to impose a settlement agreement. [Citation].” (J.B.B. Investment Partners, Ltd. v. Fair¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 974, 984.) The statute “ “require[s] the signatures of the parties seeking to enforce the agreement under [Code of Civil Procedure] section 664.6 and against whom the agreement is sought to be enforced. [Citation].” (Ibid. [emphasis added]; see also Levy v. Superior Court (1995) 10 Cal.4th 578, 586 [The Supreme Court made clear that an agreement to settle cannot be enforced under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6 unless it is signed by all of the litigating parties; the term “parties” means the litigant themselves and does not include their attorneys of record.].) Plaintiffs seek to enforce the SAR against Defendant, but Defendant did not sign the SAR. Because the instant motion is to enforce specifically under CCP § 664.6, which is subject to strict statutory requirements, the Court is unable to grant relief under this provision.  IV. CONCLUSION Plaintiffs’ motion to enforce settlement under CCP § 664.6 is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: November 15, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 