  Case Number:  20CHCV00305    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-17-24
Case #20CHCV00305 , Adela
Mercado, et al. vs. Alan Ulloa, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO STAY ALL PROCEEDINGS
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Adela Mercado, Francisco Munoz,
Hyun Sook Lim, Jorge Ochoa, and Ildeliza Ochoa
RESPONDING PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiffs are requesting that the Court stay all
proceedings pending their appeal.
 
RULING: Motion to stay is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiffs Adela Mercado, Francisco, Munoz, Hyun Sook Lim,
Jorge Ochoa, and Ildeliza Ochoa (Plaintiffs) filed this action on May 18, 2020.
One of the Defendants sued by Plaintiffs was San Francisco Townhomes
Association. On November 1, 2023, San Francisco Townhomes’ motion for summary
judgment was granted. After the motion was granted, Defendants Golden State
Claims Adjusters; Anchor Prime Builders, Inc.; Rober Lazo; Ramon Ulloa; and
Jose Pablo Ulloa Reyes remain as defendants in this case. On December 22, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal for the Court’s ruling on the motion for
summary judgment. 
 
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion to stay all
proceedings pending the appeal. No opposition has been filed to Plaintiffs’
motion.
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs filed this motion pursuant to CCP § 916(a). That
section provides:
“Except as
provided in Sections 917.1 to 917.9, inclusive, and in Section 116.810, the
perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment
or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or affected
thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial court
may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by
the judgment or order.”
(CCP § 916(a).)
 
The purpose of the automatic stay provision of section
916(a) “is to protect the appellate court's jurisdiction by preserving the
status quo until the appeal is decided.” (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v.
Deffino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 189.) “The [automatic stay] prevents the
trial court from rendering an appeal futile by altering the appealed judgment
or order by conducting other proceedings that may affect it.” (Elsea v.
Saberi (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 625, 629.)
 
“To accomplish this purpose, section 916, subdivision (a)
stays all further trial court proceedings ‘upon the matters embraced’ in or ‘affected’
by the appeal. In determining whether a proceeding is embraced in or affected
by the appeal, we must consider the appeal and its possible outcomes in
relation to the proceeding and its possible results. ‘W]hether a matter is ‘embraced’
in or ‘affected’ by a judgment [or order] within the meaning of [section 916]
depends on whether postjudgment [or postorder] proceedings on the matter would
have any effect on the ‘effectiveness’ of the appeal.’ (Citation.) ‘If so, the
proceedings are stayed; if not, the proceedings are permitted.’ (Citation.)” (Varian,
35 Cal.4th at 189.)
 
Plaintiffs argue in their motion that if the action is not
stayed, then important aspects of trial preparation would be affected, and they
would need to do duplicative discovery if the Court’s ruling on the motion for
summary judgment is reversed. They argue that it would be simplest and most
cost-effective to do discovery for all defendants at the same time.
 
Based on the automatic stay provision in CCP § 916(a), this
action is stayed pending appeal.
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to stay all proceedings is granted. The
Court will set an appeal status hearing, with the date to be determined at the
hearing on this motion.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.