 Case Number:  21STCV47138    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-17-24
Case #21STCV47138, James McMahon vs. Grand Apartments
on Lindley, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant FPI Management, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff James McMahon
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action for Battery
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotion Distress
·        
4th Cause of Action for Breach of the
Implied Warranty of Habitability
·        
5th Cause of Action for Breach of
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
·        
6th Cause of Action for Violation of
Civil Code § 1942.4
·        
7th Cause of Action for Private
Nuisance
·        
8th Cause of Action for Public
Nuisance
·        
9th Cause of Action for Breach of
Contract
 
Motion to Strike
·        
Paragraph 2 of the Prayer for Relief, p. 22:1
[claim for punitive damages]
·        
Paragraph 3 of the Prayer for Relief, p. 22:2
[claim for statutory damages]
·        
Paragraph 4 of the Prayer for Relief, p. 22:4
[claim for costs of the action, including attorney fees]
·        
Paragraph 40 of the Complaint, p. 8:19-25; Paragraph
58 of the Complaint, pp. 12:25-13:3; Paragraph 65 of the Complaint, pp.
14:24-15:2; Paragraph 78 of the Complaint, p.17:4-10; Paragraph 86 of the
Complaint, p. 18:20-26 [allegations related to punitive damages]
·        
Paragraph 94 of the Complaint, p.19:19-21
[allegations related to statutory damages and attorney’s fees and costs]
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
Motion to strike is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiff James McMahon (Plaintiff) alleges that he
entered into a lease agreement with Defendant Grand Apartments on Lindley in
November 2013. During his tenancy, he claims that he began to notice bedbugs on
December 28, 2019. Plaintiff informed the property manager, and remedial
measures were taken. Plaintiff alleges that no further remedial measures were
taken even though he continued to receive bed bug bites throughout his tenancy.
 
Plaintiff also alleges that the Health Department
performed an inspection of the unit on February 14, 2020, and provided Grand
Apartments on Lindley with a notice stating that the carpet was worn and deteriorated
and needed to be replaced. The flooring was replaced in May 2020. Plaintiff
further alleges that he suffered bodily injury and emotional distress.
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that Defendant FPI
Management, Inc. (Defendant) operates and manages Grand Apartments on Lindley. Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges nine causes of action against Defendant FPI and the other
defendants. The causes of action include (1) battery; (2) negligence; (3)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; (4) breach of implied warranty of
habitability; (5) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (6) violation of Civil
Code Section 1942.4; (7) private nuisance; (8) public nuisance; and (9) breach
of contract.
 
Defendant FPI filed its demurrer with motion to strike on
November 27, 2023. Plaintiff filed his opposition on Aprill 11, 2024.
Plaintiff’s opposition was filed late based on the original hearing date of
January 21, 2024. However, the Court will consider Plaintiff’s opposition.
Defendant filed its reply on April 30, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            First
Cause of Action for Battery
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s cause of action for battery on
the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against Defendant.
 
A battery claim requires plaintiff to prove: (1) defendant
touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm
or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3)
plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable
person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching. (So
v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 669.)
 
Defendant argues in its demurrer that Plaintiff has not
satisfied the intent element of battery. Some level of intent is necessary for
a battery claim. (See Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879,
890-891.) Plaintiff’s complaint does allege that Defendants acted with intent
to harm (Comp., ¶ 36), but the conduct that Plaintiff has actually alleged,
i.e., failure to eradicate and failure to notify Plaintiff (Comp., ¶ 35), would
constitute failures to act and are not indicative of any intent to harm Plaintiff.
Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendant acted with intent to harm appears to be a
conclusory allegation and an attempt to check the box for the elements of
battery, rather than an actual factual allegation.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to maintain
a cause of action for battery. Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Cause
of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
            Third
Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s cause of action for IIED on
the basis that it does not plead facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.
 
The elements of a claim for intentional infliction of
emotional distress are (1) defendant engaged in outrageous conduct, (2) with an
intention to cause or reckless disregard for the probability of causing
emotional distress, (3) severe emotional distress was suffered by plaintiff,
and (4) an actual and proximate causal link between the tortious conduct and
the emotional distress. (See Cochran v. Cohran (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
488, 494; Yurick v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1116, 1123.)
 
Outrageous conduct is that which is “so extreme as to exceed
all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (See Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001.) To plead a
claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must allege
“with great specificity” those acts which he believes is so extreme as to
exceed all bounds usually tolerated in a civilized community. (Vasquez v.
Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.) In evaluating whether the defendant’s conduct was outrageous, it is “not
… enough that the defendant has acted with an intent which is tortious or even
criminal, or that he intended to inflict emotional distress, or even that his
conduct has been characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which
would entitle the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort. Liability has
been found only where the conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so
extreme in degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be
regarded as atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized community.” (McMahon
v. Craig (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 222, 236.)
 
Similar to the previous cause of action, Plaintiff has
failed to plead that Defendant acted with intent beyond conclusory allegations.
(Comp., ¶¶ 60-61.) Furthermore, the conduct that Plaintiff has alleged, failure
to act, is not so extreme that it exceeds all bounds that are usually tolerated
in a civilized community. Additionally, Plaintiff lived in the apartment for
six years before he experienced the issues with the bed bugs. Therefore, his
allegations that Defendants failed to notify him of the bed bug infestation do
not make sense. 
 
Furthermore, an inadequate response from a landlord or
apartment manager would not give rise to a claim for intentional infliction of
emotional distress. (See McDonell v. American Trust Co. (1955) 130
Cal.App.2d 296.)
 
Plaintiff has also failed to allege that he suffered severe
emotional distress that would rise to the level contemplated by a cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to
maintain this cause of action. Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third Cause
of Action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
            Fourth,
Fifth, and Ninth Causes of Action (Contractual Causes of Action)
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s causes of action for breach
of the implied warranty of habitability, breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment,
and breach of contract on the basis that Plaintiff has not pled the existence
of a contract between him and Defendant.
 
Defendant argues in its demurrer that because Plaintiff
failed to attach a copy of the lease agreement to his complaint or otherwise
pled the existence of a contract between Plaintiff and Defendant FPI, then
Plaintiff cannot maintain his contractual causes of action against Defendant.
 
To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the  
contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract
or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the  
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to plead the existence of a
contract between Plaintiff and Defendant FPI. Plaintiff only alleges that “On
or about November 2013, Mr. McMahon signed a lease at the GRAND APARTMENTS ON
LINDLEY, and was provided Apartment #K168.” (Comp., ¶16.) This is not
sufficient to indicate whether the contract was with Grand Apartments on
Lindley or with Defendant FPI. Plaintiff must either attach a copy of the
contract to the complaint or plead the legal effect        of the contract. (See Miles v. Deutsche Bank National
Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) Plaintiff’s complaint has not
alleged facts sufficient to maintain a cause of action for breach of contract
against Defendant.
 
Next, there is a common law implied warranty of habitability
in residential leases in California. (Fairchild v. Park (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 919, 924-925.) A breach of the implied warranty of habitability is
a contractual cause of action. (Id.) Because Plaintiff has not alleged
facts sufficient to demonstrate the existence of a contract between him and
Defendant, Plaintiff cannot maintain a cause of action for breach of implied
warranty of habitability.
 
Finally, each residential lease contains an implied covenant
of quiet enjoyment. (Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873,
896-897.) This claim must also be supported by the existence of a contract. (Id.)
Plaintiff has not alleged facts to show the existence of a contract with Defendant.
Plaintiff cannot maintain this cause of action, either.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fourth, Fifth, and Ninth
Causes of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
            Sixth
Cause of Action for Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action on the
basis that Plaintiff has not pled it with the requisite specificity and because
the code section does not apply to Defendant because Defendant is not a
landlord under the meaning of the code.
 
Civ. Code § 1942.4 states that a landlord of a dwelling may
not demand rent if (1) the dwelling substantially lacks specific affirmative
characteristics, (2) a public officer has notified the landlord in writing of
an obligation to abate the nuisance or repair the substandard conditions, (3)
the conditions have existed and not been abated 35 days beyond the date of the
service of the notice from the public officer, and (4) the conditions were not
caused by an act or omission of the tenant or lessee. Further, statutory causes
of action must be pleaded with particularity. (Hood v. Hacienda La Puente
Unified School District (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 435, 439 (“the general rule
[is] that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity[.]”)
 
Plaintiff’s complaint does not allege that a public officer
had notified Defendant of an obligation to abate the nuisance. This is a
necessary requirement for a claim for violation of Section 1942.4. Plaintiff
has also not pled any facts indicating that the substandard condition was not
remedied within 35 days of notice of a public official.
 
Defendant also argues that it does not meet the definition
of landlord for Civ. Code § 1942.4. “‘Landlord’ means an owner of a residential
rental property.” (Civ. Code § 1954.202.) Defendant FPI is not the owner of the
property; it is the manager, as Plaintiff indicates in his complaint. (Comp., ¶
6.)
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff has not pled facts
sufficient to maintain a cause of action for violation of this section.
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action is sustained with
leave to amend.
 
            Seventh
and Eighth Causes of Action for Private and Public Nuisances
Defendant demurs to these causes of action on the basis that
they are based on the same facts as, and thus are duplicative of, Plaintiff’s
negligence cause of action.
 
A nuisance is defined “[a]nything which is injurious to
health, ... indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free
use of property....” (Civ. Code § 3479.) Where a nuisance claim relies on
the same facts as a negligence claim, the nuisance cause of action is a
negligence claim and is duplicative of the actual negligence claim. (El
Escorial Owner’s Association v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th
1337, 1349.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s cause of action for private nuisance relies
on the same facts as Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence. Therefore,
Plaintiff’s private nuisance claim is duplicative of Plaintiff’s negligence
claim. To maintain this cause of action, Plaintiff would have to demonstrate
that it is different from his negligence cause of action.
 
Plaintiff’s claim for public
nuisance is similarly duplicative, and it fails to demonstrate how a
substantial number of people were also affected by the condition at the same
time. (See Civ. Code § 3480; People ex rel. Gallo v. Acuna (1997) 14
Cal.4th 1090, 1104.) Plaintiff alleges that the bed bug “infestation affects
the community at large” (Comp., ¶ 103), but Plaintiff does not elaborate on how
the community at large was affected.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action is sustained with leave to
amend.
 
Motion to Strike
A court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” Under CCP § 436(b), the court may “[s]trike out all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” 
 
            Punitive
Damages
Defendant has moved to strike Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages as to it on the basis that Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled
that Defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice.
 
Punitive damages are governed by Civ. Code § 3294: “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in Civ. Code § 3294. (Coll.
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) “Malice is
defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id.
at 725.) Oppression is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).) 
  
The “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as
intentional, willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of
oppression, fraud or malice…within the meaning of section 3294.” (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) 
 
“It is not sufficient to allege merely that defendant ‘acted
with oppression, fraud or malice.’ Rather, plaintiff must allege specific facts
showing that defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent or malicious (e.g.,
that defendant acted with the intent to inflict great bodily harm on plaintiff
or to destroy plaintiff's property or reputation).” (Croskey, et al., Cal.
Prac. Guide: Insurance Litigation Ch. 13-C (Thomson Reuters, 2016) ¶ 13:197.2;
and see, Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 598, 643 [allegations that defendant’s conduct was “intentional,
and done willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with
conscious disregard for Plaintiff's rights” did not satisfy specific pleading
requirements].) 
 
In this case, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged that
Defendant acted with malice, oppression, or fraud. Instead, Plaintiff only
makes conclusory allegations that Defendant acted as such. (See Comp., ¶¶ 40,
58, 65, 78, 86.) That is not sufficient to maintain a claim for punitive
damages. Additionally, to maintain a claim for punitive damages against a
corporation, Plaintiff would have to show that the oppression, fraud, or malice
was on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.
(Civ. Code § 3294(b).)
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted for Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages and related allegations, though Plaintiff’s claim
will not be stricken in its entirety as it could still apply to other
defendants.
 
            Attorney
Fees
Defendant has requested that Plaintiff’s request for
attorney fees be stricken because attorney fees are available only when
provided for by contract or statute. (CCP §1033.5(a)(10); Santisas v. Goodin
(1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 606; Dep’t of Forestry & Fire Protection v.
Lebrock (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1141.)
 
Plaintiff asserts in his complaint that he can recover
attorney fees pursuant to Civ. Code § 1942.4. (Comp., ¶ 94.) However, the Court
sustained Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action related to this
section. Unless Plaintiff can amend this cause of action and make it viable,
Plaintiff cannot maintain his request for attorney fees. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is granted for
Plaintiff’s request for attorney fees, for Defendant FPI only.
 
            Statutory
Damages
Plaintiff also asserted a right to statutory damages
pursuant to Civ. Code § 1942.4. However, as discussed above, the Court
sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the cause of action related to that section.
Therefore, unless Plaintiff can amend that cause of action, Plaintiff cannot
maintain his request for statutory damages. Defendant’s motion to strike is
granted for Plaintiff’s request for statutory damages, for Defendant FPI only.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First, Third, Fourth,
Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Causes of Action is sustained with
leave to amend.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted in its entirety.
 
Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.