 Case Number:  22CHCV00676    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-17-24
Case #22CHCV00676 , Sergey Vershinin vs. Janie Cohen
Trial Date: 2-10-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant
Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Company
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Sergey Vershinin
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
An Order compelling
Plaintiff’s responses to requests for admissions, as well as sanctions.
 
RULING: Cross-Defendant’s
motion to compel responses to requests for admissions is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On November 3,
2023, Cross-Defendant Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Company (Coldwell) served
Plaintiff Sergey Vershinin (Plaintiff) with Requests for Admission, Set One. On
December 4, 2023, one day before Plaintiff’s responses were due, Plaintiff’s
attorney requested a three week extension. Coldwell’s counsel denied the
request because of the upcoming deadline for a motion for summary judgment. The
next day, Plaintiff served unverified responses to all of Coldwell’s discovery
requests, including the requests for admission. Coldwell’s counsel attempted to
get the verified responses through the meet and confer process, but Plaintiff’s
counsel never sent them, despite her indicating that she would provide the
verified responses within two weeks. Coldwell’s counsel indicates that
Plaintiff’s counsel told her that there had been a breakdown in communication
between her and Plaintiff. 
 
Coldwell filed
this motion to compel responses to requests for admission on April 18, 2024. Coldwell
seeks verified, code-compliant answers to the requests for admission. Coldwell
has also requested sanctions in the amount of $1,950 against Plaintiff and/or
his counsel of record.
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition was filed on May 6, 2024. Plaintiff’s only argument against
Coldwell’s motion is that it was filed late and should have been filed within
45 days of service of Plaintiff’s responses.
 
Coldwell argues
in its reply that its motion was timely because it is not seeking to compel
further responses; rather, it is seeking to compel responses because
Plaintiff’s lack of verified responses amounted to no responses at all.
 
ANALYSIS
“Any party may
obtain discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to the action
admit the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters
of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for
admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”
(CCP § 2033.010.)¿ “Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the
party to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original of the
response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on all
other parties who have appeared…” (CCP § 2033.250(a).)¿ 
¿ 
If a party to
whom request for admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the
party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including based
on privilege or the work product doctrine. (CCP § 2033.280(a).)
 
A party
responding to Requests for Admission must respond separately to each request
propounded. (CCP § 2033.210(a).) Responses must be as complete and
straightforward as possible, and must either admit, deny, or indicate that the
party lacks sufficient knowledge to respond. (CCP § 2033.220.)
 
Discovery
responses that are provided but are not verified are tantamount to no responses
at all. (Appleton v. Superior Ct. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.)
 
First,
Plaintiff’s responses were unverified, so they amount to no responses at all. The
45-day deadline from CCP § 2033.290(c) only applies if verified responses were
served, so Coldwell’s motion to compel was timely. Next, Plaintiff’s responses
do not comply with the CCP § 2033.210(a) requirement that he respond to each
request separately because Plaintiff answered every single request with the
exact same objection. Finally, Plaintiff’s responses were not as complete and
straightforward as possible, nor did Plaintiff admit, deny, or indicate that he
lacked sufficient knowledge to answer the request, as required by CCP §
2033.220.
 
The Court would
note that Coldwell could have filed a motion to deem requests for admissions
admitted, but instead chose to file a motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses. Coldwell’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Coldwell’s requests for admission is
granted. Plaintiff must provide verified, code-compliant responses within 30
days.
 
Sanctions
CCP § 2023.030
authorizes the Court to issue sanctions against a party engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process. Failure to respond to discovery,
evasive responses, and objections lacking substantial justification are
“misuses of the discovery process.” (CCP § 2023.010, subd. (d)-(f).)
 
Coldwell has
requested sanctions in the amount of $1,950 against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel of record for having to bring this motion. The amount was based on Coldwell’s
counsel spending 6 hours on the motion at $325 an hour. (Salinas-Mendoza Decl.,
¶ 12.) The Court finds that this is a reasonable amount for this motion.
 
Coldwell’s
request for sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record is
granted in the amount of $1,950.
 
ORDER
1.      Coldwell’s
motion to compel responses to the RFAs is granted. Plaintiff must submit
code-complaint, verified responses within 30 days.
2.      Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s counsel of record are ordered to pay sanctions in the total
amount of $1,950. Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record are ordered to
pay these sanctions to Coldwell’s counsel within thirty (30) days.