 Case Number:  23CHCV03043    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-17-24
Case #23CHCV03043,
Oakridge Family Homes, LP vs. Karina Hernandez, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Karina Hernandez and Leilani Hernadez
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Oakridge Family Homes, LP
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendants are
requesting that the Court enter an order vacating the default and judgment
entered against them.
 
RULING: Motion
denied.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This is a
failure to pay rent case filed by Plaintiff Oakridge Family Homes, LP
(Plaintiff) on October 10, 2023. On August 26, 2023, the Notice to Pay Rent or
30 Days to Quit was served on Defendants Karina Hernandez and Leilani Hernandez
(Defendants). The Notice expired on September 26, 2023.
 
Plaintiff filed
proofs of personal and substituted service on November 15, 2023, indicating
that Defendants were served on November 6, 2023. Default was entered against
Defendant Karina Hernandez on January 11, 2024, because her answer was stricken
due to her failure to appear. Judgment for unlawful detainer was entered by
default against both Defendants on January 26, 2024, and Plaintiff reobtained
possession of the premises.
 
Defendants
filed their motion to vacate default and default judgment in pro per on March
28, 2024. Plaintiff filed its opposition to their motion on April 26, 2024. No
reply has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
CCP Section
473(b) states as follows: 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party…from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.”
 
The law favors
hearings on the merits, so any doubts as to the application of section 473
should be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default. (See
Shapiro v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.)
 
 
Defendants’
motion appears to argue that they had technical difficulties with the remote
appearance application and were unable to attend the hearing, so default was
entered against them for their nonappearance. Based on this, it would appear
that Defendants are arguing that the default should be vacated due to excusable
neglect.
 
As for
Defendants’ claims regarding technical issues preventing them from attending
the January 11 hearing, Defendant Karina Hernandez filed an ex parte
application to stay execution of judgment on March 8. In her declaration
in support of that application, Paragraphs 10 and 11, she mentions the January
11 hearing, but simply states that she missed it. The preceding paragraphs of
her declaration make it seem like she missed the hearing because of stress
related to her grandchild. Defendant Leilani Hernandez was served back in
November 2023 and never appeared until after judgment was entered, by way of
the March ex parte application to stay execution of judgment, long after default
had been entered against her. The technical problem issue was not raised until
two months after the January 11 hearing.
 
It appears that
Defendant Karina Hernandez’s reasons for missing the January 11 hearing have
changed, and no reason is given for Defendant Leilani Hernandez’s failure to
file an answer or otherwise appear until the filing of the March ex parte
application. Based on this, Defendants have not sufficiently demonstrated that
the default was entered against them due to inadvertence, surprise, mistake, or
excusable neglect. Defendants’ motion is denied on this basis.
 
Alternatively, Plaintiff
argues that because a writ of possession was issued and it has retaken
possession of the property, then there is no remedy for Defendants
post-lockout. Plaintiff cites a couple of cases that stand for the proposition
that a court cannot “undo” a sheriff executing on the judgment for possession.
(See Cardenas v. Noren (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1346; see also Del
Riccio v. Superior Court (1952) 115 Cal.App.2d 29.) Plaintiff argues that
these cases demonstrate that the Court has no authority to return possession of
a premises to a tenant once the landlord has possession of the premises. The Del
Riccio Court held that “…the [trial] court could not, by ordering a stay, undo
what had already been done so as to deprive the creditor of ownership and use
of money collected under the writ.” (Del Riccio, 115 Cal.App.2d at 31.) 
 
The situation
here is similar. If the Court were to grant Defendants’ motion to set aside
default, then that would open up the possibility of depriving Plaintiff, as
creditor, of possession of its property. This is true even when a landlord
wrongfully deprives a tenant of possession and the sheriff improperly evicted
them. (Cardenas, 235 Cal.App.3d at 1350.) Defendants were lawfully
locked out of the premises when default and judgment of possession were entered
against them. They would not have a remedy at this point. Alternatively,
Defendants’ motion is denied because they lack a remedy.
 
Defendants’
motion to vacate default and default judgment is denied.
 
Moving party to
give notice.