 Case Number:  22SMCV01060    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  I The court writes to express its views on the settlement
communication issue.  As the court
understands it, plaintiff would like to introduce the substantive
communications and attachments between the parties’ Texas counsel.  Defendant opposes.  The communications in question were
substantive communications with attachments and concerned the dispute now in
trial.  They were between counsel for the
parties.  The substantive communications
included a statement “*** TRE 408 COMMUNICATION ***”  TRE 408 is an obvious reference to Texas Rule
of Evidence 408, which provides that evidence of certain aspects of settlement
communications are inadmissible at trial. 
It is a bit broader than California Evidence Code section 1152.  As pertinent here, Rule 408 states that “Evidence
of the following is not admissible—either to prove or disprove the validity or
amount of a disputed claim . . . (2) conduct or a statement made during
compromise negotiations about the claim . . . .”  There would be an interesting question as to
whether section 1152 governs as opposed to Rule 408.  After all the contract is a California
contract (at least arguably) and plaintiff is a Californian.  And, of course, the case is being tried
here.  Under section 1152, the bar to
admissibility would not apply in the court’s view because section 1152 requires
an actual offer to compromise.  As the
court reads the communications, there never was an offer to compromise
anything.  Rather, the two attorneys were
discussing the merits of the case, each explaining why their client was right
and the other party was wrong.  No one
ever offered to settle.  Plaintiff never
offered to reduce the claim; defendant never offered to pay a penny.
 
But the fact that both parties referred expressly to Rule
408 convinces the court that the parties intended to agree that the
communications would be governed by Rule 408, not by the California Evidence
Code.  Defendant argues that their
agreement goes further than that. 
Defendant argues that although the parties referred to Rule 408, they
meant to agree that their communications would be inadmissible whether or not
the communications came within Rule 408. 
The court cannot agree with that. 
At this point, the rule comes down to basic principles of contract
law.  This is a written contract (at
least in this regard).  Under
California’s contract interpretation rules, the court looks to objective
evidence of the contract’s meaning, which is best found in the actual words
used.  Because there is no parol evidence
being offered, the court must interpret the contract according to what is
written; not what might have been written or some secret meaning that the
parties may have intended.  The comment
makes express and explicit reference to Rule 408.  It certainly could have said that the
communication was not to be used for any purpose, but it did not.  Thus, the admissibility will, at least in the
first instance, depend on whether it comes within Rule 408.
 
Unlike California law, Rule 408 applies to “a statement made
during compromise negotiations about the claim.”  While usually negotiations include some
actual offers or demands, they need not do so. 
Discussions can be preliminary to what it hoped will be a
settlement.  The reference to Rule 408
strongly suggests that such was the parties’ mutual belief and intent when they
wrote their emails.  While the
discussions never led anywhere, the court (contrary to its earlier view) is
hard pressed to see how these would not be statements made during compromise
negotiations.  Because (unlike California
law) there need not be an actual offer to compromise, the court believes that
the communications would fall within Rule 408, and thus within the parties’
agreement that they not be admitted at trial.
 
That rule is not as harsh as one might think.  It does seem to be a fair understanding of
the parties’ mutual intent when the communications were sent.  Further, there is nothing in the defendant’s
emails in which liability is admitted; at least not at first glance.
 
The court has not made any attempt to rule on the documents
attached to the emails.  The court does
not know enough about them.  If those
documents were not prepared for the email, but rather were more in the nature
of business records, then they would not be within the Rule 408 bar.  If, however, they were prepared specifically
for the email communication, the rule might be otherwise.  Without knowing more, the court cannot say
right now.