 Case Number:  23SMCV02412    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  I This is a demurrer brought by the specially appearing
defendants.  (The demurrer by Clark,
though, is MOOT as Clark has been dismissed.) 
Oddly, there is a quirk in the law that allows a party to move to quash
for lack of jurisdiction and later demur. 
If it is done the other way around, the demurrer counts as a general
appearance and the jurisdictional objection is waived.  But if the motion to quash is first, the
demurrer is permitted.  Accordingly, the
demurrers are proper and the motions to quash remain at issue.
 
The thrust of the demurrer is that there are no allegations
against the individuals that are sufficient. 
There are also demurrers as to uncertainty.  As to the products liability torts and
general negligence, the court tends to agree with the defense.  Whether the theory be one of negligence or
strict liability, an employee of the entity manufacturing the product is not
personally liable for the failure to warn, or the design or manufacturing
defect.  The entity is responsible; not
the individual employee.  Therefore, the
court is inclined to SUSTAIN the demurrers as to those causes of action and,
unless plaintiff can explain why that defect can be cured, the court sees no
point in amending.  But the rule could be
different as to the intentional torts.  
 
Turning first to intentional infliction of emotional
distress, the court believes more is needed. 
This tort is often alleged, but hard to prove.  To make it out, plaintiff will need to allege
the specific conduct by the particular defendant that constitutes actions that
meet the tort’s criteria.  That will (or
at least could) be especially hard because there is no connection between these
defendants and the plaintiff herself. 
Generalized bad acts, even if tortious, may well not be sufficient for
this particular tort.  The court is
inclined to SUSTAIN but WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
The sixth cause of action is for fraud.  The allegation is that all of the defendants
were acting together and in unison, knowing that the statements that they were
telling people to make were false and that the product could cause harm that
they were covering up.  (Of course, those
are only allegations; at this stage, the court is not looking for proof or
evidence.)  It is true that specific
speakers are not identified with precision, or even each person’s specific
role, where that sort of information is within defendant’s knowledge but not
plaintiff’s, the specificity requirements of fraud are relaxed.  Nor is it critical where all are alleged to
be acting in intentional concert. 
Therefore, the court is inclined to OVERRULE the demurrer in this
regard.
 
Plaintiff has 30 days’ leave to amend.  