 Case Number:  20STCV39460    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to quash a deposition subpoena.  The motion appears to be premature because
the subpoena has not been issued and is DENIED on that basis.  Had the subpoena been issued, though, the
court would view the matter as follows. 
 
The discovery cut-off has come and gone.  Absent an order re-opening discovery, it is
too late now.  Defendant nonetheless
states that the two people at issue were only recently discovered—specifically
when plaintiff identified them at his deposition.  Plaintiff, however, states that the witnesses
were identified in responses to interrogatories back in 2021 and their presence
was also in the medical report notes. 
Thus, plaintiff contends, defendant has known of these witnesses for
some time and the delay is not fairly attributable to a new discovery.
 
Defendant also states that at or after plaintiff’s
deposition, on February 23, 2024, defendant stated that it was going to
subpoena the witnesses.  According to the
defense, plaintiff’s counsel said not to issue subpoenae and that counsel would
produce the witnesses.  Plaintiff’s
counsel states that defendant mischaracterizes the discussion.  Plaintiff’s counsel did say that there was no
need for a subpoena, but counsel never waived the discovery cut-off.  This gets to a bit of a problem.  At the time of the deposition, the trial date
was March 11, 2024.  By that point, the
time to propound new discovery had come and gone.  And although the trial was continued by the
court, the discovery cut off was not continued. 
So at the time the promise was made, there was no point to serving any
subpoena; such process would have been quashed as untimely.  That lends some credence to plaintiff’s
counsel’s position that while he agreed that no subpoena would be needed, it
was only formality that would be waived. 
The problem, though, is that the actual conversation is a bit
different.  Defense counsel wrote
plaintiff’s counsel on March 14, 2024 that these two witnesses were mentioned
during the deposition and in discovery. 
Defense counsel went on to say that “to the extent that you intend to
call them as witnesses at the time of trial, we want to take their
depositions.  Please advise of your intentions
in this regard.  Additionally, if you do
intend to call them as witnesses, please advise whether you will agree to
accept service of a subpoena and notice of deposition on their behalf.”  The response, later that day, was “I will
arrange for their depos; No need to subpoena.” 
The language was “I will arrange for their depos.”  That is a bit different than simply agreeing
to accept service of a subpoena but reserving substantive rights.
 
A week later, plaintiff’s counsel stated that he was
“confirming that you do not need to subpoena Rita or Pepe Sigal for depo.  But please remind me whether you ever made
such a request before the trial continuance. 
Because of Ray’s trial commencement, we agreed that the depos that
already scheduled or agreed to could be deferred . . . It was not the purpose
of that agreement to request discovery or depos of witnesses not previously
requested.”  The response to that by the
defense was a statement that “we reached agreement to take the depositions of
the percipient/non-expert witnesses.” 
Counsel went on to note that plaintiff’s deposition was delayed due to
issues relating to plaintiff and that it was at that deposition that these two
witnesses’ involvement was set forth. 
Plaintiff’s counsel then responded that the agreement was to accept the
subpoena so that the formality could be avoided but it was not meant to
resurrect a discovery right already gone. 
Counsel suggested an IDC, but that idea was not accepted.
 
So, at the end of the day, at the time that plaintiff’s
counsel said he would arrange the depositions, the time to force a deposition
had already come and gone.  There is no
reliance at stake here and thus no estoppel. 

 
The court will discuss the matter further with counsel, but
the court is somewhat disappointed that this is the sort of thing that needs to
be litigated.  The court would need to
hear the hardship to the witnesses, if any, and the importance of their likely
testimony.  Also, assuming the court
construes this as a motion to re-open discovery, the court would want to know
why it is that these witnesses were not deposed earlier.  As said before, there is no estoppel.  But it could be that the discovery responses
did not disclose fully the witnesses’ import. 
Or it could be that there was an agreement to allow percipient witness
discovery to go beyond the cut off.