  Case Number:  19SMCV02200    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for an FSC.  The court gave its FSC order on October 8,
2020, and a number of times thereafter.  The
court is in receipt of the following FSC materials: (1) Joint Witness
List.  There are a lot of
witnesses—36.  The total estimated
testimony time is about 70 hours, which is a lot.  (2) Joint Exhibit List.  There are about 150 exhibits, but a number
are deposition excerpts.  The court
assumes that a blank in the stipulated authenticity column means that the
parties DO stipulate.  (3) Jury
Instructions.  Most are joint
instructions, but defendant objects to 16 CACI instructions.  Each party has also proposed four special
instructions.  Plaintiff objects to two
that defendant proposes and defendant objects to one that plaintiff
proposes.  The court needs to know the
basis of the objections.  If the
objection is a wording objection, the court would ask the parties to meet and
confer further and (if absolutely necessary) provide the court with a red-line
as to the disputed instruction.  If the
objection is that the objecting party does not believe that the evidence will
support the instruction, the party should so state—in other words, it is a
conditional objection only.  If the
objection is one where the party believes that the instruction mis-states the
law, the objecting party should say why the objection is a mis-statement of
law.  If the objection is something else,
the objecting party should state the nature of the objection.  The court is not looking for briefing—just a
short statement.  The court is also not
looking for a response.  (4) Joint
Statement of the Case.  This appears to
comply.
 
The court does not have the following documents: (1)
Deposition Chart.  The court knows that
some deposition excerpts may be used because they are noted on the exhibit
list.  But the chart is required.  It will include objections and any
counter-designations.  No entry on the
chart is needed for excerpts to be used for impeachment only.  (2) Jury Questionnaire.  The court does not need one if no one is
seeking a questionnaire.  (3) Verdict
Form.  The court needs the parties to
meet and confer on a form of verdict. 
(4)  Good Faith Estimate of Trial
Length.  This ought to have two
parts—testimony and “all in.”  The court
recognizes that a witness list is a document of preclusion—witnesses are
included even though they might well not be needed because failing to include
them could lead to exclusion.  Further,
time estimates are often high.  What the
court is looking for here is the parties’ actual estimates.  If the parties can agree, that would be
great.  If not, then a joint submission
with each side’s estimate is fine.  The
estimate should be in hours.  (5) Trial
Briefs.  These are optional, so they do
not need to be filed.  (6) Statement of
Unusual Issues.  If there are none, then
this need not be filed.
 
The court is also in receipt of two stipulations by the
parties.  The court will approve both.
 
The court is also in receipt of 16 motions in
limine by the defense along with oppositions.
 
The trial on this matter is set for May 20, 2024.  However, the court has another case that has
answered ready for trial that day.  The
court had hoped that the case in question would have started trial two weeks
earlier so that it would be closer to over by the time this one is set to
begin, but another intervening trial has pushed the court’s trial
calendar.  And those parties have answered
ready for trial, so it is highly unlikely that the case will settle or be
continued.  That case is running on the
five-year statute, so it must have priority over this one.  The court will discuss with the parties the
following options: (1) trail that case (which is likely a bad option because
there is another five-year case right behind this one, and both are long-ish
trials); (2) set a new trial date now; or (3) hold a TSC on May 20, 2024, at 9
am to allow the parties to meet and confer and also get schedules from their
key witnesses as to availability.  The
court thinks option (3) is the best option.
 
The court will rule on the MIL’s at the continued FSC.  For the continued FSC, the court asks the
parties to address the materials the court does not have.  The parties need not re-file documents that
remain operative (which would include the witness list, the exhibit list, and
the short statement of the case). 