 Case Number:  21STCV04325    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for an FSC.  The court gave its FSC order on September 3,
2021.  The court is in receipt of the
following FSC materials.  (1) Joint
Witness List.  There are a lot of
witnesses and approximately 80 hours of direct and cross-examination
testimony.  (2) Exhibit List.  There are 75 or so exhibits.  The objections are boilerplate and
unacceptable, for example a hearsay objection to the other party’s discovery
responses.  The exhibits also include
deposition excerpts and blocks of exhibits that ought to be broken apart
because some may be deemed admissible but others might not be admitted.  Identification of production numbers where
possible is also something the court would like to see.  (3) Jury Instructions.  (4) Statement of the Case.  Implicit in the jury instructions are verdict
forms.  It appears that defendant
proposes a verdict form from CACI and plaintiff proposes a general verdict.
 
The court also received, on May 9, 2024, defendant’s trial
brief and an opposition to plaintiff’s motion in limine 10.  However, due to the late filing, the court
has not reviewed those documents.
 
The court has also seen defense counsel’s declaration that
counsel is engaged in trial.  The court
would normally need to inquire further. 
For future reference, the fact that counsel is engaged is good cause to
continue if, and only if, the potential conflict was brought to this court’s
attention on the day trial here was set or it was brought to the attention of
the other trial court when that trial was set and the other trial judge
nonetheless set the trial, knowing it would conflict with this one and
that trial has actually started.  That
showing has not been made here, and therefore the trial would not be continued
on that basis.  However, as set forth
below, the trial will not go forward next week for other reasons.
 
The court is also in receipt of 12 in limine motions
from defendant and 9 in limine motions from plaintiff (motion 10 is
present, but the court did not see motion 9). 
Defendant did not oppose the motions until yesterday, which is untimely.
 
The court does not have the following FSC materials: (1)
Good Faith Trial Estimate.  This is an
estimate (hopefully joint, but if not a joint filing with each party’s view) as
to how many hours of testimony there will actually be an how many “all in”
hours the trial will take—soup to nuts. 
The court does not want to rely on the witness list because that is a
document of preclusion.  Witnesses are
often on the list to avoid having them excluded even though it is unlikely they
will really be called, and time estimates are often longer than is really
anticipated to avoid having a judge cut off testimony.  The court is aware that plaintiff believes
that the actual trial length is only 5 days, but that might be overly optimistic.  The estimate should be in hours, not
days.  (2) Deposition Chart.  It is not here, even though it appears that
at least one party intends to use portions of a deposition transcript for
purposes other than impeachment.  The
parties should look at the court’s web site to see what the court requires in
this regard.  (3) Jury
Questionnaire.  This is not required if
no one seeks a questionnaire.  (4) Trial
Briefs.  These, too, are optional.  (5) Statement of Unusual Issues.  This need not be filed if there are none.
 
As to the jury instructions, the court needs to know the
nature of the objections—especially defendant’s objections.  If the issue is wording, then the parties
need to submit a red-line.  If the
objection is because a party believes that the evidence will not support the
instruction, then the objecting party ought to say so, and the matter will be
resolved as the evidence comes in.  If
the objection is that the instruction mis-states the law, then the parties
should each submit a 1-page brief explaining why the instruction is or is not
legally correct.  If the objection is
something else, the parties should file a 1 page brief explaining what the
objection is and why it is or is not well taken.  These 1 page briefs can be combined into one
filing.
 
The case is therefore not quite ready for trial.  But, as it turns out, the court is likely to
be engaged anyway.  The court has a
matter that was supposed to go to trial on May 6, but will more likely start on
May 20.  That is because another case
“snuck in” and the court had to delay that trial as a result.  Because that trial is on the five-year, it will
have priority.  It is also likely to be
somewhat lengthy.  And there is another
trial with similar issues after that. 
Therefore, even were this case fully ready for trial, the court is
otherwise engaged in trial and would have to delay this one.  There are three options: (1) this case can
trail (although there is another case that is also set for May 20), (2) the court
can set a new date today; or (3) the court can hold a TSC on May 20, 2024, at 9
am.  The court suggests option 3 so that
the parties can confer with their key witnesses to ascertain availability and
also meet and confer to see if there are dates to which they can all agree.
 
The court will rule on the MIL’s at the next final status
conference.