 Case Number:  23STCV01367    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  39 John Doe v.
OptumCare Management, LLC, et al.
Case No.
23STCV01367
Motion to Vacate
Order Compelling Arbitration
 
            Plaintiff
John Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this wrongful termination action against OptumCare
Management, Inc. (“Optum”), UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (“United”), Maria
Orozco, and Veronica Ramirez (collectively, “Defendants”).  The Court granted Optum and United’s motion
for a judgment on the pleadings with respect to the third and fourth causes of
action.  Defendants then moved to compel
arbitration of the remaining claims, and the Court granted that motion. Now,
Plaintiff moves to vacate the Court’s order and return this case to the
Superior Court based upon Defendants’ alleged failure to pay the arbitration
fee before the deadline.
 
Under the California Arbitration
Act, in an employment arbitration, if the employer fails to timely pay the fees
and costs to initiate the arbitration within 30 days of the due date, the
employer has breached the arbitration agreement, and has waived the right to
compel arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1281.97, subd. (a)(1), 1281.98, subd.
(a)(1).)
 
            The Court
granted Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration on September 12, 2023.  On October 10, 2023, the American Arbitration
Association (“AAA”) issued an invoice requesting payment of his $25 fee on or
before October 17, 2023.  (See
Declaration of Tao Y. Leung, ¶ 5 & Exh. D.) 
The invoice also stated: “A non-refundable fee in the amount of $2,100
is payable in full by the employer, unless the plan provides that the employer
pay more.”  (Ibid.)  However, the letter did not set a deadline
for the employer’s fee.  (Ibid.)  
 
            Then, on
October 17, 2023, AAA sent Defendant’s counsel an invoice via email for “Your
Portion of the Administrative Fee,” which was $2,425.  (Id., Exh E.) 
The email stated that “payment is due upon receipt and must be paid no
later than 30 days from the date of the invoice.”  (Ibid.) 
The email also stated: “Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
1281.98, the AAA cannot grant any extensions to this payment deadline.”  (Ibid.) 
On November 17, 2023, AAA sent the parties a letter stating that they
had not received the required fee on or before the deadline (November 16, 2023).  (See Declaration of Emanuel Shirazi, Exh. E.)  Defendant’s counsel paid the required fee immediately
upon receiving this letter.  (See
Declaration of Tao Y. Leung, ¶ 7.)
 
            Plaintiff
moves to vacate the arbitration order and restore the case to the active docket
under Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.97 and 1281.98, which state that
the employer waives its right to proceed by way of arbitration if the fee is
not paid “within 30 days after the due date.” 
In this case, the parties’ arbitration agreement sets forth the
procedure of initiating an arbitration. 
There are two different procedures:
 
a.               
Arbitration Initiated by Employee – UnitedHealth
Group shall pay 100 percent in excess of the first twenty-five dollars ($25) of
the required AAA administrative fee.  An employee
may initiate arbitration by submitting . . . a written demand for arbitration
which states a claim under applicable federal, state or local law to Corporate
Legal Department, United Health Group, 9900 Bren Road East, MN008-T502,
Minnetonka, MN 55343, with a check for $25 payable to ‘UnitedHealth Group.’ . .
.  Within 30 business days of receiving
such demand UnitedHealth Group shall file the demand with the appropriate
office of the AAA, together with the applicable administrative fee as provided
in the AAA’s fee schedule.
 
b.              
Arbitration Initiated by UnitedHealth Group –
UnitedHealth Group may initiate arbitration by submitting, within the
applicable statute of limitations period, a written demand for arbitration which
states a claim under applicable federal, state, or local law to the employee’s
last home address of record via certified mail or overnight mail. . . .  Within 30 business days of submitting the
demand to the employee, UnitedHealth Group shall file the demand with the
appropriate office of the AAA, together with the applicable administrative fee
as provided in the AAA’s fee schedule.
 
(See id., Exh. A, ¶ 1(a) & (b).)  However, neither provision applies because
this was an arbitration ordered by the Court based upon Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration.  Moreover, the
parties agreed that Plaintiff would initiate the arbitration directly with AAA.  (Declaration of Tao Y. Leung, Exh. B.)  As such, the parties stipulated to use a
different procedure than those contained within the arbitration agreement.
 
            Defendant’s
counsel argues that he “did not agree to waive or modify any other term of the
agreement.”  (Id., ¶ 3.)  By stipulating to use a different procedure
than those contained within the arbitration agreement, the parties were no
longer bound by the terms of those procedures (viz., the 30-business day
deadline) unless they stipulated accordingly. 
The record reflects no such stipulation. 
This issue is not governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6,
which extends deadlines by two court days for electronic service.  (See Suarez v. Superior Court (2024) ---
Cal.Rptr.3d ---, 2024 WL 256450.)  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
vacate its prior order compelling arbitration in this case.  The Court returns the case to the active
docket.
 
            2.         The Court sets the following dates:
 
                        Final
Status Conference:        August 1, 2025,
at 9:00 a.m.
 
                        Trial:                                       August 12,
2025, at 9:30 a.m.
 
The parties shall file joint trial documents on or before
July 25, 2025.  The parties shall
identify all witnesses they intend to call in their respective cases-in-chief,
and identify and produce all exhibits they intend to introduce in their
respective cases-in-chief, on or before July 25, 2025.
 
            3.         The parties shall post jury fees within
thirty (30) days of they shall waive jury in this matter.
 
            4.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 
 