  Case Number:  22STCV32523    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  11 Jones (22STCV32523)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           11/8/24
Time:                          1:45
pm
Moving Party:           Buzz Logistics Inc. (“Buzz”)
Joinder:                     Amazon Logistics, Inc., et al. (collectively
“Amazon”)
Opposing Party:        Andrea Jones (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Buzz’s motion to compel arbitration is denied.
 
Amazon’s joinder is denied.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Buzz is a delivery-service company. 
Plaintiff used to work for Buzz as a delivery driver.  She alleges that Buzz subjected her and other
current and former employees to numerous wage-and-hour violations.
 
Here, Buzz moves to compel arbitration.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.”  (Knight,
et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution (The Rutter Group
December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The
verified petition (and attached copy of the agreement) normally proves the
existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits
or declarations may be necessary when factual issues are tendered.”   (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff started working for
Buzz in August 2021.  (See Al-Chabaoun
Decl., ¶ 2.)  During the onboarding
process, which took place online, Buzz claims Plaintiff e-signed Buzz’s arbitration
agreement.  (See id. at ¶ 17.)
 
Soha Al-Chabaoun directs human resources for Beyond HR LLC, a company
that provides human-resources services to client companies, including
Buzz.  (See ibid.)  Al-Chabaoun describes the onboarding process
this way:
 
5. . . . When Buzz intend[s] to hire a new employee,
it creates a profile for the employee using their name and e-mail address,
which causes the onboarding system to send the individual an e-mail. The e-mail
notifies the individual of Buzz’s invitation to join it in delivering Amazon
packages. It also provides instructions for accessing the steps in the
onboarding process. . . .
 
6. After an employee clicks the “Sign in” link in the
email above, the web browser will open a Welcome page that informs the
potential employee that Buzz has invited them to join its delivery company and
they can “join the company” by clicking on the provided link and creating a
unique account. . . .
 
7. To create their account, the individual has to
verify their e-mail address with a unique one-time password that the system
sends to their e-mail address, and then the individual sets their own private
password. Once they have created and securely accessed their account, they
receive an invitation to join Buzz and continue onboarding by clicking on
“Accept Invitation.” . . .
 
8. When the new individual clicks “Accept Invitation,”
the link takes the potential new employee to page instructing him or her to
download an application on their mobile device to continue with the onboarding
process. . . .
 
9. When the employee clicks “Download app,” the screen
displays a link for the employee to download an application. Once the potential
new employee downloads that application and launches it, the person must then
enter his or her email and personal, private password referenced above. 
 
10. After the user enters the correct email address
and password and clicks “Sign In,” the application proceeds [to a page titled
“GET STARTED” with a “Continue” button.]
 
11. After the user clicks “Continue,” the application
displays [an “Agreements” page that includes an “Arbitration Agreement” link.]
 
12. If the user taps the line that says “Arbitration
Agreement” . . . , the application displays the Agreement . . . , and the
employee can tap the screen to scroll through it[.]
 
13. . . . Once the potential new employee scrolls
through the whole Agreement, he or she can tap the box to the left of “I Agree
and Accept,” and then “Continue.” After the potential employee taps the box to
the left of “I Agree and Accept” and then “Continue,” the application displays
. . . a green checkmark indicating the potential employee has accepted the
Agreement[.]
 
14. The onboarding process gives the potential new
employee as much time as they wish for reviewing the terms of the Agreement.
For example, he or she could review the Agreement on one day, then return to
the application on another day, and click to accept the Agreement at that time.
 
* * *
 
16. After the potential new employee taps “I Agree and
Accept” and “Continue,” their profile (the one I can view in the onboarding
system) will display a green checkmark next to the words “Arbitration
Agreement,” indicating the individual has electronically accepted the
Agreement. Before the new employee clicks “I Agree and Accept” under the
Agreement, there is no green checkmark next to the words “Arbitration
Agreement” in his or her profile. The only way that the checkmark can turn
green is if the new employee accepts the Agreement through his or her account
through the steps above. No one other than the employee able to access the
employee’s account and accept the Agreement– the employee must do that
themselves.
 
(Id. at ¶¶ 5-14, 16.)
 
Buzz’s
arbitration agreement is attached to Al-Chabaoun’s declaration at exhibit
1.  The agreement states:
 
MUTUAL AGREEMENT
TO INDIVIDUALLY ARBITRATE DISPUTES 
 
__________________________________________________________________
 
It is the Company’s
goal to provide you (the “Employee”) with a rewarding work environment.
Disputes related to work can arise, however, and, if not resolved informally,
can be disruptive, costly, and time consuming to resolve. Arbitration is an
alternative to the traditional lawsuit and may resolve disputes more quickly
and with less cost. In a traditional lawsuit, issues are resolved in court by a
judge or a jury. In arbitration, issues are resolved outside of court by an
independent third-party, known as an arbitrator. 
 
MANDATORY
ARBITRATION. THE EMPLOYEE AND COMPANY AGREE THAT ANY COVERED CLAIM (DEFINED
BELOW), WHETHER BASED IN CONTRACT, TORT, STATUTE, COMMON LAW, FRAUD,
MISREPRESENTATION OR ANY OTHER LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY, SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO
INDIVIDUAL BINDING ARBITRATION. 
 
Covered Claims.
Except as explained in the section “Claims Not Covered” below, this Mutual
Agreement to Individually Arbitrate Disputes (this “Agreement”) covers all
past, current, and future grievances, disputes, claims, issues, or causes of
action (collectively, "claims") under applicable federal, state or
local laws, arising out of or relating to (a) Employee's application, hiring,
hours worked, services provided, and/or employment with the Company or the
termination thereof, and/or (b) a Company policy or practice, or the Company’s
relationship with or to a customer, vendor, or third party, including without
limitation claims Employee may have against the Company and/or any Covered
Parties (defined below), or that the Company may have against Employee. 
 
The claims covered
by this Agreement include, but are not limited to claims asserted under or
relating to: (i) Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and similar state
statutes; (ii) Age Discrimination in Employment Act and similar state statutes;
(iii) Fair Labor Standards Act or similar state statutes; (iv) Family and
Medical Leave Act or similar state statutes; (v) Americans with Disabilities
Act or similar state statutes; (vi) injuries you believe are attributable to
the Company under theories of product liability, strict liability, intentional
wrongdoing, gross negligence, negligence, or respondeat superior; (vii) actions
or omissions of third parties you attribute to the Company; (viii) claims
brought pursuant to actual or alleged exceptions to the exclusive remedy
provisions of state workers compensation laws; (ix) Consolidated Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1985; (v) federal and state antitrust law; (xi) issues
regarding benefits, bonuses, wages, penalties, co-employment, or joint employment;
(xii) contracts between you and the Company; (xiii) personal or emotional
injury to you or your family; (xiv) federal, state, local, or municipal
regulations, ordinances, or orders; (xv) any common law, or statutory law
issues relating to discrimination by sex, race, age, national origin, sexual
orientation, family or marital status, disability, medical condition, weight,
dress, or religion or other characteristic protected by applicable law; (xvi)
wrongful retaliation of any type, including retaliation related to workers’
compensation laws or employee injury benefit plan actionable at law or equity;
and (xvii) misappropriation of confidential information or other acts or
omissions by you.
 
Without limiting the
above, the Employee and the Company each specifically acknowledges and agrees
that all claims involving minimum wages, overtime, unpaid wages, expense
reimbursement, wage statements, and claims involving meal and rest breaks shall
be subject to arbitration under this Agreement. 
 
The Employee and the
Company each specifically acknowledges and agrees that any claims brought by
the Employee against any of the Covered Parties, whether brought jointly or
severally with claims against the Company, shall be subject to arbitration
under this Agreement. “Covered Parties” means the Company, any entity formerly
or currently owned, affiliated, controlled or operated by the Company (a
“company entity”), clients of the Company or a company entity, and the former
and current officers, directors, managers, employees, owners, attorneys,
agents, and vendors of the Company and/or a company entity and/or clients of
the Company. 
 
Claims Not
Covered. This Agreement does not apply to: (i) claims for workers'
compensation or unemployment benefits; (ii) claims expressly precluded from
being arbitrated by a governing federal statute; (iii) claims that, under
applicable state law that is not preempted by the Federal Arbitration Act, the
parties cannot agree to arbitrate; (iv) claims that must be brought before the
National Labor Relations Board (“NLRB”); (v) claims for any relief asserted
under or governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
(“ERISA”) (the resolution of ERISA claims will be governed by the terms of the
applicable plan and/or applicable law); (vi) actions to confirm, vacate,
modify, or correct an arbitrator’s award; (vii) sexual harassment or sexual assault
claims, except if the Employee chooses to submit them to arbitration under the
terms of this Agreement; and (viii) nothing in this Agreement prohibits the
filing any claim or charge with a government administrative agency (for
example, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, NLRB, Securities and
Exchange Commission, or a similar state regulatory agency). To the extent such
a claim is not resolved before the agency, it is subject to arbitration under
this Agreement rather than proceeding in court. 
 
Waiver of Class,
Collective, Consolidated and Representative Action Claims. Each of the
Employee and the Company expressly intends and agrees, to the absolute maximum
extent permitted by law, that: (a) class action, collective action, or
consolidated action procedures are hereby waived and shall not be asserted in
arbitration or in court, nor will they apply in any arbitration pursuant to
this Agreement; (b) representative action procedures are hereby waived and
shall not be asserted in arbitration or in court, nor will they apply in any
arbitration pursuant to this Agreement; (c) each will not assert class action,
collective action, consolidated action or representative action claims against
the other in arbitration or court or otherwise; and (d) the Employee and the
Company shall only submit their own, individual claims in arbitration and will
not seek to represent the interests of any other person. No arbitrator selected
to arbitrate any claim covered by this Agreement is authorized to arbitrate any
claim on a class, collective, consolidated, or representative basis. 
 
In the event the
waiver of representative actions is found to be unenforceable in whole or in
part, then the representative action will be heard in court, not arbitration,
as to the portion of the representative claim to which the waiver is found to
be unenforceable and all other Covered Claims will remain subject to
arbitration. In that event, the representative claim in court shall be stayed
until the arbitration is concluded, unless such stay is contrary to applicable
law. 
 
Notwithstanding any
provision in the applicable arbitration rules, a court of law must resolve any
dispute concerning the validity and enforceability of the Agreement, and the
validity, enforceability or interpretation of the provisions pertaining to class,
collective, and representative action waivers. The arbitrator must resolve all
other disputes, including the arbitrability of claims pursuant to such other
provisions. 
 
Neutral
Arbitrator. The arbitration will be administered by an independent and
neutral arbitrator from the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) in
accordance with the AAA Employment Arbitration Rules and Mediation procedures
(“AAA Rules”) available online at www.adr.org/employment
(or to be provided upon request). If, however, the AAA Rules are inconsistent
with the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall govern. The
arbitrator has no relationship with the Company and, just as a judge in a
lawsuit would, provides an impartial resolution to the dispute. The arbitrator
will be selected by mutual agreement of the parties from a list of arbitrators
provided by the AAA. If for any reason the AAA will not administer the
arbitration, the party seeking arbitration may initiate the arbitration with
JAMS (www.jamsadr.com) or other recognized
arbitration services provider. 
 
Claims Procedure.
A demand for arbitration must be in writing and filed with AAA. Written notice
of any Company claim will be delivered by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of Employee. The written notice
shall identify and describe the nature of all claims asserted and the facts
upon which such claims are based. Written notice of arbitration shall be
initiated within the same time limitations that federal or state law applies to
those claim(s). 
 
Arbitration Fees
and Costs. The Employee will pay $200 towards any arbitration filing fee,
and the Company will pay all other arbitration filing fees as well as the
arbitrator’s fees. If any party prevails on a statutory claim that affords the
prevailing party attorneys' fees and costs, or if there is a written agreement
providing for attorneys' fees and costs, the party can recover attorneys’ fees
and costs to the same extent as if the claim had been brought in court. Any
dispute as to the reasonableness of any fee or cost shall be resolved by the
arbitrator.
 
Applicable Law
and Effect of Decisions. 
 
·      
Interpretation and Enforcement of the Agreement:
The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) and federal common law applicable to
arbitration shall govern the interpretation and enforcement of this Agreement.
If, for any reason, the FAA or federal common law is found not to apply to this
Agreement (or its agreement to arbitrate), then applicable state law shall
govern. 
·      
Pre-hearing Motions: Only claims that are
recognized under existing law may be heard by the arbitrator. Any party to the
arbitration shall have the right to file a motion to dismiss and/or a motion
for summary judgment, which the arbitrator shall decide by application of the
standards under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure governing such motions. 
·      
Substantive Law: The arbitrator shall apply the
substantive state or federal law (and the law of remedies, if applicable)
applicable to the claim(s) asserted. 
·      
Written Decisions and Awards: The arbitrator
shall render a written decision explaining his or her findings and conclusions.
The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding upon the parties to the
arbitration, subject only to review under the FAA (or applicable state law). 
·      
No Preclusive Effect: The arbitrator’s decisions
and awards shall have no preclusive effect as to issues or claims in any other
arbitration or court proceeding, unless all of the parties in the other
proceeding were also a named party in the arbitration in which the award or
decision was issued. 
 
Severability.
If any provision of this Agreement to arbitrate is adjudged to be void or
otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the void or unenforceable
provision shall be severed and such adjudication shall not affect the validity
of the remainder of this Agreement to arbitrate. The only exception is that
this Agreement is not, and shall never be construed as, reformed to be, or
enforced as if it were, an agreement to arbitrate claims on a class,
collective, consolidated, or representative basis. Stated differently, under no
circumstance will a claim be allowed to proceed in arbitration as a class
action, collective action, consolidated action, or representative action. 
 
Waiver of Trial
by Jury. Each of the Employee and the Company understands and fully agrees that
by entering into this Agreement to arbitrate, each agrees to resolve all claims
through arbitration and is giving up the right to have a trial by jury and the
right of appeal following the rendering of a decision except on the grounds for
reviewing an arbitration award under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) or
applicable state law. 
 
Term of
Agreement. This Agreement to arbitrate shall survive the termination of
Employee's employment. 
 
Entire Agreement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Company and
Employee regarding the subject matter herein and supersedes any and all prior
agreements and understandings regarding the subject matter. This Agreement
cannot be amended or modified except by a written agreement between the
parties. 
 
Employee
Acknowledgment. I understand that by clicking on the “I Agree and Accept”
Button below that I agree to the terms of, and agree to be bound by, this
Agreement. I further agree and acknowledge that my acceptance of or continuing
employment with the Company provides further evidence of my agreement to accept
and be bound by the terms of this Agreement. I understand that this Agreement
will remain in effect after my employment ends and that nothing in this
Agreement modifies the at-will nature of my employment.
 
(Id. at Ex. 1, pp. 1-3, emphasis
in original.)
 
Facts and terms like these
normally suffice to establish an agreement to arbitrate; however, Plaintiff
contends the motion should be denied because Buzz’s evidence fails to show that
Plaintiff signed the agreement.  (See
Opposition, pp. 11-12 [claiming Buzz’s documents do not bear Plaintiff’s
signature].) 
 
In reply, Buzz asserts that the
evidence is sufficient to authenticate the agreement and Plaintiff’s
e-signature.
 
The Court agrees with Buzz.  “Authentication
of a writing means [1] the introduction of evidence sufficient to sustain a
finding that it is the writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is
or [2] the establishment of such facts by any other means provided by law.”  (Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:321.1 [quoting
Evidence Code section 1400].)  “An ‘electronic signature is
attributable to a person if it was the act of the person’ and this may be shown
in any manner.”  (Id. at ¶ 5:321.3.)  “[A] party may
establish that the electronic signature was ‘the act of the person’ by presenting
evidence that a unique login and password known only to that person was
required to affix the electronic signature, along with evidence detailing the
procedures the person had to follow to electronically sign the document and the
accompanying security precautions.” (Bannister v. Marinidence Opco,
LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 545.)  There is no e-signature on the agreement
itself, but Al-Chabaoun’s declaration and supplemental declaration provide the
required information and show that Plaintiff “complete[d] the onboarding
process” and “review[ed] and accept[ed]” the agreement.  (Supp. Al-Chabaoun Decl., ¶ 7; see also id.
at Ex. 4; Al-Chabaoun Decl., ¶¶ 5-14, 16-17, Ex. 1.)
 
Buzz’s showing is based, in part,
on reply evidence.  Although the Court
believes the showing is adequate to meet Buzz’s burden, if Plaintiff continues
to contest authentication, the Court will give Plaintiff a chance to respond to
the evidence.
 
Last point.  Plaintiff admits that she e-signed the
onboarding documents (see Jones Decl., ¶ 4) yet claims she does not remember
“signing anything that required [her] to waive any rights.”  (Id. at ¶ 9.) 
Lack of memory is not a defense.  Nor is failure to read.  (See, e.g., Ramos v. Westlake Services LLC
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 674, 687 [“[T]he fact that [the plaintiff]
signed a contract in a language he may not have completely understood would not
bar enforcement of the arbitration agreement. 
If [the plaintiff] did not speak or understand English sufficiently to
comprehend the English Contract, he should have had it read or explained to
him.”].)
 
FAA
 
Buzz’s
agreement states that “[t]he Federal Arbitration Act (‘FAA’) and federal
common law applicable to arbitration shall govern the interpretation and
enforcement of this Agreement.” 
(Al-Chabaoun Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3.)
 
Notwithstanding
this language, Plaintiff contends the Court should find the FAA inapplicable,
and apply the California Arbitration Act instead, due to an exception.  She claims the FAA does not apply to
transportation workers.  She asserts that
Buzz employed her as a transportation worker and that her work duties
(delivering packages) affected interstate commerce.  (See Opposition, pp. 3-5.)
 
Buzz
claims workers who “driv[e] items from pickup spots within California to
delivery destinations within California do[] not qualify” for the
exception.  (Reply, p. 1; see also id. at
pp. 2-3.)
 
Section
1 of the FAA “exempts . . . ‘contracts of employment of seamen, railroad
employees, or any other class of workers engaged in foreign or interstate
commerce[]’” – i.e., transportation workers – “from the statute’s ambit[.]”  (Southwest Airlines Co. v. Saxon
(2022) 596 U.S. 450, 454 (“Southwest”).) 
“The party opposing arbitration bears the burden of demonstrating that
the exemption applies.”  (Performance
Team Freight Systems, Inc. v. Aleman (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th
1233, 1241.)  To establish the exemption, the opposing party must show that the
agreement is “both a ‘contract of employment’ and one entered into with a ‘worker’
of the type described in” section 1.  (Amos
v. Amazon Logistics, Inc. (4th Cir. 2023) 74 F.4th
591, 596.)  
 
Buzz’s agreement is titled “MUTUAL AGREEMENT TO
INDIVIDUALLY ARBITRATE DISPUTES[.]” 
(Al-Chabaoun Decl., Ex. 1, p. 1, emphasis in original.)  The only other documents are the employee
handbook, which states, emphatically, that it “IS NOT A CONTRACT OF
EMPLOYMENT” (Supp. Al-Chabaoun Decl., Ex. 3, p. 1, emphasis in original),
Plaintiff’s on-line acceptance of Buzz’s agreement (see id. at Ex. 4), and two
minute orders.  (See Aradi Decl., Exs. 1,
2.)  On the current record, none of them
appears to constitute a contract of employment. 

 
The
next question is whether Plaintiff was a transportation worker.
“‘Transportation workers’ are those workers ‘engaged in the movement of goods
in interstate commerce’” (Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:58 [citing Southwest,
supra, 596 U.S. 450]), but a qualification exists.  “[T]he more related to the transportation
industry an enterprise is, the less necessary it becomes for the employee to be
directly transporting goods.”  (Garrido
v. Air Liquide Industrial U.S. LP (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 833,
840.)  Buzz operates a delivery
business.  (See, e.g., Al-Chabaoun Decl.,
¶ 2.)  Buzz hired Plaintiff to make local-only
deliveries “from an Amazon warehouse in Santa Ana, California[.]”  (Ibid.) 
A post-Saxon decision from the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals
holds that local-only delivery drivers do not qualify for the
transportation-worker exemption.   (See Lopez
v. Cintas Corp. (5th Cir. 2022) 47 F.4th 428.)
 
On the
other hand, the Court found a case disagreeing with the Fifth Circuit (see Brock
v. Flowers Food, Inc. (D. Colo. 2023) 673 F.Supp.3d 1180) and also found
First Circuit cases that determined that “last-mile delivery drivers for Amazon
were engaged in interstate commerce, even though their ‘role in transporting
the goods occurred entirely within a single state.’”  (Fraga v. Premium Retail Services, Inc.
(1st Cir. 2023) 61 F.4th 228, 238; see also Waithaka
v. Amazon.com, Inc. (1st Cir. 2020) 966 F.3d 10.)
 
Ultimately,
the Court does not need to decide whether Plaintiff satisfies the
transportation-worker exception.  The
motion to compel must be denied because Buzz’s agreement is unconscionable.
 
Unconscionability and Enforcement
 
Unconscionability
is a contract defense.  (See Torrecillas
v. Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485,
492.)  Under the FAA (assuming it
applies), unconscionability can be utilized to “invalidate [an] arbitration
agreement[].”  (Ibid.)  Courts apply state law to test whether the
agreement is unconscionable.  (See, e.g.,
Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th
1105, 1119.)
 
“[U]nconscionability
has both a procedural and a substantive element, the former focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly
harsh or one-sided results.”  (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114,
internal quotation marks omitted.)  “The
prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must
both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to
enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Ibid.) 
“But they need not be present in the same degree.”  (Ibid.) 
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.”  (Ibid.)  “In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  (Ibid.)
 
Procedural
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff contends
the agreement “was a contract of adhesion, presented to the employee with no
opportunity for negotiation[.]”  (Opposition,
p. 6.)
 
“[A] predispute arbitration agreement is not invalid merely because
it is imposed as a condition of employment.” 
(Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 1105, 1122–1123.)  Stated
another way, “the mandatory nature of an arbitration agreement does not, by
itself, render the agreement unenforceable.” 
(Ibid.; see also Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:146 [“The mere fact an adhesion
contract is involved does not per se render the arbitration clause
unenforceable.  Rationale: Such contracts
are ‘an inevitable fact of life for all citizens – businessman and consumer alike.’”],
emphasis in original.)
 
At most, the
evidence demonstrates a low degree of procedural unconscionability.  (See Jones Decl., ¶ 4 [“When I created my
account and signed into the link, the application for each page scrolled
automatically to the ‘agree’ tab, making it difficult for me to read the
documents it was referring to. I could not move on to the next section of the
required documents without agreeing to the section before it. I was informed
that if I did not agree to all the documents, then I could not start working.”];
cf. Al-Chabaoun Decl., ¶ 15 [stating that “[t]he Agreement allows the
individual to acknowledge an agreement to it by clicking ‘I Agree and Accept[]’”
and quoting the agreement’s “Employee Acknowledgment” paragraph],
emphasis in original.)[1]
 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement contains an unfair cost requirement
and is overbroad scope-wise and duration-wise. 
She also challenges the class and representative waivers.  (See Opposition, pp. 7-10.)
 
Cost Requirement
 
Plaintiff contends the agreement
requires the employee to pay a $200.00 filing fee.  (See Opposition, pp. 8-9.)
 
Buzz did not respond.  (See Reply, pp. 5-7.)
 
Because the agreement is
unenforceable for other reasons, the Court declines to decide this issue.
 
Scope and
Duration
 
Citing Cook v. University of
Southern California (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 312, Plaintiff claims
the agreement’s:
 
* scope is “unlimited” in that
“it covers ‘all past, current, and future grievances, disputes, claims, issues,
or causes of action . . .’ [citation], whether or not they relate to
[Plaintiff’s] employment” (Opposition, p. 10); and
 
* duration is “indefinite”
in that “the agreement survives [Plaintiff’s] termination.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)
 
Buzz contends the FAA preempts Cook.  (See Reply, p. 7.)
 
The Court disagrees.  Buzz only devotes one sentence to the
preemption argument.  The argument is
conclusory.  (See ibid.)
 
The Court also reiterates that,
even when the FAA governs, unconscionability is determined under state
law.  (See Lagatree,
supra, 74 Cal.App.4th at 1119; see also Dr.’s Assocs, Inc. v.
Casarotto (1996) 517 U.S. 681, 687; Sandler v. Modernizing Medicine,
Inc. (S.D. Cal. Oct. 9, 2024, No. 24-cv-00812-AJB-BJC) 2024 WL 4469217, at
*2.)
 
As to
scope, Buzz contends Cook is distinguishable because Buzz’s agreement
only covers employment-related claims. 
(See Reply, pp. 7-8.)
 
As to duration, Buzz claims the
duration “is limited by the types of” covered claims “and their respective
statutes of limitation.”  (Id. at p. 8.)
 
Cook is a May 2024 decision from the Second District
Court of Appeal.  There, the trial court
found the arbitration agreement substantively unconscionable in three ways and
held that the unconscionable provisions could not be severed.  The Second District affirmed all three
points.  First, the panel found the scope
unconscionable because the agreement covered all claims, not just
employment-related claims.  (See Cook,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 321-325.) 
Second, the duration was unconscionable because the agreement stated
that it would survive Cook’s employment and could only be “revoked” if Cook and
USC’s president signed a written termination request that “expressly
mention[ed] the arbitration agreement.” 
(Id. at 326; see also id. at 325.) 
Third, the agreement lacked mutuality because it “require[d] Cook to
arbitrate . . . all claims she [] ha[d] against USC” and USC’s “related
entities” without requiring the “‘related entities’ to arbitrate their claims
against [her].”  (Id. at 326; see also
id. at 327-328.)
 
On balance, the Court finds Cook
analogous because Buzz’s agreement appears to have the same three defects:
 
SCOPE – “[b]y its express terms,”
the Cook agreement covered “all claims, whether or not arising out of
Employee’s University employment, remuneration or termination, that Employee
may have against the University or any of its related entities . . . ; and all
claims that the University may have against Employee.”  (Cook, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th
at 321.)  “The plain language of the
agreement require[d] Cook to arbitrate claims that [were] unrelated to her
employment with USC.”  (Ibid.; see also
id. at 325 [“The arbitration agreement drafted by USC applies to all claims ‘whether
or not arising out of Employee's University employment, remuneration or
termination.’ If USC had been concerned about capturing termination or
retaliation claims related to Cook’s employment, it simply could have limited
the scope of the agreement to claims arising out of or relating to her
employment or termination. It is difficult to see how it is justified to expect
Cook—as a condition of her employment at the university—to give up the right to
ever sue a USC employee in court for defamatory statements or other claims that
are completely unrelated to Cook's employment.”].)  
 
Buzz’s agreement also covers
claims unrelated to employment:
 
Covered Claims.
Except as explained in the section “Claims Not Covered” below, this Mutual
Agreement to Individually Arbitrate Disputes (this “Agreement”) covers all
past, current, and future grievances, disputes, claims, issues, or causes of
action (collectively, "claims") under applicable federal, state or
local laws, arising out of or relating to (a) Employee's application, hiring,
hours worked, services provided, and/or employment with the Company or the
termination thereof, and/or (b) a Company policy or practice, or the
Company’s relationship with or to a customer, vendor, or third party, including
without limitation claims Employee may have against the Company and/or any
Covered Parties (defined below), or that the Company may have against
Employee.
 
(Al-Chabaoun Decl., Ex. 1, p. 1,
bold in original, italics added.)  
 
DURATION – to repeat, the Second
District found the duration of the USC agreement unconscionable because it survived
Cook’s employment and could only be “revoked” if Cook and USC’s president
signed a written termination request that “expressly mention[ed] the
arbitration agreement.”  (Cook,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 326.) 

 
Buzz’s agreement states that it
“survive[s] termination of [Plaintiff’s] employment” (Al-Chabaoun Decl., Ex. 1,
p. 3), and it requires a “written agreement between the parties” to “amend[] or
modi[y.]”  (Ibid.)
 
MUTUALITY –  Cook states:
 
The trial court also
found the agreement was unconscionable because it lacked mutuality. The
agreement requires Cook to arbitrate any and all claims she may have against
USC “or any of its related entities, including but not limited to faculty
practice plans, or its or their officers, trustees, administrators, employees
or agents, in their capacity as such or otherwise.” However, the agreement does
not require USC's “related entities” to arbitrate their claims against Cook.
 
* * *
 
Under Armendariz,
a modicum of bilaterality is required in arbitration agreements. Still, nothing
in Armendariz supports the conclusion that the presence of a
modicum of bilaterality renders an agreement per se conscionable. The presence
of a modicum of bilaterality will not save a clause that is, in practical
effect, unjustifiably one-sided. There is no question that it is more difficult
for a party to enforce an arbitration agreement against a nonsignatory than it
is for a nonsignatory to enforce an arbitration agreement against a party. This
is intentional, as arbitration is “a voluntary means of resolving disputes, and
this voluntariness has been its bedrock justification.” [Citation.] “Arbitration
is consensual in nature. The fundamental assumption of arbitration is that it
may be invoked as an alternative to the settlement of disputes by means other
than the judicial process solely because all parties have chosen to arbitrate
them. [Citations.] Even the strong public policy in favor of arbitration does not
extend to those who are not parties to an arbitration agreement or who have not
authorized anyone to act for them in executing such an agreement.” [Citation.]
 
As a result,
nonsignatories may enforce an arbitration agreement against a party to the
agreement simply by showing they are intended third-party beneficiaries of the
arbitration agreement. [Citation.] Where the agreement requires arbitration of
claims against certain classes of third parties, nonsignatories can make “a
prima facie showing sufficient to allow them to enforce the arbitration clause
as third party beneficiaries” simply by showing they fall within one of the
classes of beneficiaries identified by the contract. [Citation.]
 
Conversely, for Cook
to enforce the arbitration agreement against USC's agents or employees as
third-party beneficiaries, she would have to show they actually accepted a
benefit under the agreement. [Citation.] It is difficult to imagine how Cook
could carry this burden to compel USC's employees and agents to arbitration
unless those specific agents or employees first moved to compel arbitration
under the agreement. While it is theoretically possible for Cook to make this
showing, it is unlikely. [Citation.]
 
The plain language
of the arbitration agreement thus provides a significant benefit to USC's
related entities without any reciprocal benefit to Cook.
 
USC has offered no
justification for this one-sided treatment. [Citation.] We find the trial court
did not err in holding the arbitration agreement was substantively
unconscionable for lack of mutuality in the claims that are subject to
arbitration.
 
(Cook, supra, 102
Cal.App.5th at 326, 327-328, underlined case names added.)  
 
Likewise, Buzz’s agreement
provides:
 
The Employee and the
Company each specifically acknowledges and agrees that any claims brought by
the Employee against any of the Covered Parties, whether brought jointly or
severally with claims against the Company, shall be subject to arbitration
under this Agreement. “Covered Parties” means the Company, any entity formerly
or currently owned, affiliated, controlled or operated by the Company (a
“company entity”), clients of the Company or a company entity, and the former
and current officers, directors, managers, employees, owners, attorneys,
agents, and vendors of the Company . . . .
 
(Al-Chabaoun Decl., Ex. 1, p. 1.)  Plaintiff’s obligation to arbitrate is a
one-way obligation.  The “Covered
Parties” do not need to arbitrate their claims. 

 
The final question is whether
these defects can be severed.  The answer
is no.  (See Cook, supra, 102
Cal.App.5th at 328-330.)
 
Consequently, Buzz’s agreement is
unconscionable and unenforceable, and the motion to compel is denied.
 
Class and Representative Waivers
 
Buzz asserts: 
 
* the agreement requires arbitration on an individual basis and
does not permit class claims to be arbitrated (see Motion, pp. 9-11); and 
 
* the individual Private Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) claim
should be arbitrated and the representative claim should be dismissed or
stayed.  (See Motion, pp. 9-12.)
 
In light of the preceding
analysis, the Court does not need to rule on these issues.
 
Unpaid Wages
 
According to Plaintiff, Labor
Code section 229 bars arbitration of Plaintiff’s wage-based causes of
action.  (See Opposition, pp. 12-13.)
 
The Court declines to rule.
 
Amazon
 
Amazon
is a nonsignatory but contends it qualifies as a third-party beneficiary.  (See Joinder, pp. 1-2.)
 
The joinder is denied because
Buzz’s agreement is unconscionable.
 
 
 
 
 


