 Case Number:  23STCV09780    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  1 23STCV09780 DAVID ARGUETA vs THE AMAAD INSTITUTE, et al.
Defendant’s Motion to Relate Cases
TENTATIVE RULING: 
Defendant The Amaad Institute’s Motion To Relate [L.A. Local Rule
3.3(f)(3)] is DENIED.  Counsel for
Plaintiffs to give notice.  
Background of 23STCV09780 Argueta
v. The AMAAD Institute
 
On May 2, 2023, Plaintiff David Argueta filed this
action against The AMAAD Institute, Carl Highshaw, Gerald Garth, Anthony
Singleton, and Ryan Sample arising out of Plaintiff’s employment as a Behavioral
Health Therapist for Defendant AMAAD Institute. The complaint asserts ten
causes of action and alleges Defendant AMAAD Institute treated Plaintiff
differently after various complaints and ultimately terminated Plaintiff’s
employment while Plaintiff was on leave. Plaintiff alleges he made complaints
regarding his pay and classification, assigned work outside his job
description, “express” client intakes, misuse of grant funds, and the lack of
privacy when discussing client matters. Plaintiff also alleges he went on
medical leave on June 3, 2021 due to stress with an original return date of
August 3, 2021. Plaintiff’s doctor allegedly extended the leave to October 3,
2021, but Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s employment before the extended
period expired.
 
On
July 28, 2023, the court entered the parties’ stipulation dismissing the
individual defendants from the action.
 
On
March 25, 2024, Defendant AMAAD Institute filed a Notice of Related Case
involving 23STCV09780 and 23STCV10606 Bender
v. The AMAAD Institute, indicating the cases were related based upon the
first and second grounds enumerated in California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a)
without additional explanation.
 
On
April 9, 2024, Judge Daniel M. Crowley issued an order providing: “[t]he Court
finds that the following cases, 23STCV09780 and 23STCV10606, are not related
within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).” 
 
This
case is currently pending in Department 71 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse with
trial set for August 26, 2024.
 
Background of 23STCV10606 Bender v.
The AMAAD Institute
 
On May 11, 2023, Crystal Gayle Bender filed
23STCV10606 against The AMAAD Institute, arising out of her employment as a Therapist
for Defendant. The complaint asserts thirteen causes of action. Plaintiff
alleges she had her remote status revoked, complained about being the only
therapist working on evenings and on Saturdays without additional compensation,
was retaliated against for reporting an alleged sexual advance made by an
employee to one of Plaintiff’s clients, and complained about building safety as
well as a lack of privacy to conduct client meetings. Plaintiff also alleges
she experienced “substantial pushback and frustration from defendants” when
requesting leave to care for her injured mother. Plaintiff further alleges
Defendant terminated her employment while on leave after suffering a panic attack.
 
This
case is currently pending in Department 53 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse with
trial set for May 7, 2025. 
 
Motion to Relate Cases
 
Standard 
 
In the event that the pertinent judge under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.300(h)(1) does not relate any of the cases set forth in
a Notice of Related Case, Department 1 may relate the matters on noticed
motion. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(h)(1)(D); LASC Local Rules, rule 3.3(f)(3).) 
 
Plaintiff’s
Opposition is Largely Non-Responsive and the Request for Sanctions is
Unsupported
 
Plaintiff’s opposition is captioned as
“Plaintiffs’ Opposition To Defendants Motion To Consolidate,” argues the cases
should not be consolidated, and cites Code of Civil Procedure section 1048,
which governs consolidation. 
 
As noted by Defendant in reply, its
motion is a motion to relate, not a motion to consolidate. Cases cannot be
consolidated, and a party cannot move for consolidation, unless the cases are
pending in the same Department, typically pursuant to an order relating the two
cases. (LASC Local Rules, rule 3.3(g)(1) (“Cases may not be consolidated unless
they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may
be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different departments,
have been related into a single department, or if the cases were already
assigned to that department.”).) The
motion does not seek consolidation, Department 1 does not consolidate cases,
and any arguments related to consolidation are premature.
 
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions because
Defendant “clearly violated local Rule 3(g)(1) by failing to file related cases
and transfer both the Argueta matter and Bender matter to the same department.”
(Opp. at 9:1-15.) Defendant’s motion to relate is expressly authorized by LASC
Local Rules, rule 3.3(f)(3) and there is no basis for Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions. 
 
The
Motion is Procedurally Proper
 
Plaintiff argues
the motion is improper, citing Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 and the
standards for seeking reconsideration of a court order. (Opp. at 4:3-17.) Defendant’s
motion is expressly authorized by California Rules of Court, rule
3.300(h)(1)(D) and LASC Local Rules, rule 3.3(f)(3) and therefore is not constrained by the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008. On April 9, 2024, Judge Daniel M. Crowley issued
an order declining to relate the two cases at issue. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is properly made in Department 1.
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(h)(1)(D), LASC Local Rule 3.3(f)(3).)   
 
Plaintiff also argues that
Defendant unreasonably delayed in filing the motion. (Opp. at 4:18-5:4.)
However, the motion was filed on April 18, 2024, only nine days after the April
9, 2024 order declining to relate the cases. Defendant’s motion to relate was
promptly filed and there are no time constraints in California Rules of Court
3.300(h)(1)(D) or LASC Local Rules, rule 3.3(f)(3). 
 
The Court Declines to Relate the Cases at Issue
 
Cases are related when they (1)
involve the same parties and are based on the same or similar claims, (2) arise
from the same or substantially identical transactions, incidents, or events
requiring the determination of the same or substantially identical questions of
law or fact, (3) involve claims against, title to, possession of, or damages to
the same property, or (4) are likely for other reasons to require substantial
duplication of judicial resources if heard by different judges. (Cal. R. Ct.,
rule 3.300(a).)
 
Defendant’s
motion contends the cases are related based upon the first and second grounds
enumerated in Rule 3.300(a). (Mot. at 6:2-8.) 
 
As
seen above, the cases do not involve the same parties as Defendant AMAAD
Institute is the only party common to both actions. (Cal. R. Ct., rule
3.300(a)(1).) The cases also do not arise from the same or substantially
identical transactions, incidents, or events requiring the determination of the
same or substantially identical questions of law or fact. (Cal. R. Ct., rule
3.300(a)(2).) Each case arises out of each Plaintiff’s separate employment with
Defendant and their specific experiences during that employment. As noted by
Plaintiffs in opposition, the cases involve different alleged protected
complaints. Plaintiff Bender asserts claims based upon the contention she is an
hourly employee entitled to overtime pay and had a contract not to have her
employment terminated without good cause, claims that are not at issue in the
Argueta action. The overlap between the two cases primarily arises from the
Plaintiffs’ common employer, but each case will involve determinations
regarding the application of the law to the facts specific to each Plaintiff. The
individual issues of law and fact predominate and the cases are not likely to
result in a substantial duplication of judicial resources within the meaning of
California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a)(4).
 
The
Court declines to relate to the two cases at issue. 
 
Defendant
also cites Code of Civil Procedure section 404.1. (Mot. at 6:9-15, 7:6-15.)
However, this statute governs the coordination of cases pending in different
superior courts and is therefore inapplicable to a motion to relate two cases
pending in the same superior court. 
 
The
Court shall not relate the cases identified by Defendant and the motion is
DENIED. 
 