 Case Number:  24STCV03737    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  1 24STCV03737           RANDY
ABRAHAM GALLO vs THE LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
Respondent The People of the State of California’s Motion
To Transfer Writ Petition To The Appellate Division
TENTATIVE RULING: 
  The Motion To Transfer Writ
Petition To The Appellate Division is GRANTED. The petition shall be reassigned
to the Appellate Division.  Moving party
to give notice.
Background
 
On February 14, 2024, Randy Abraham Gallo filed a
petition for writ of mandate or prohibition seeking review of the trial court's
denial of a demurrer and motion to strike directed at the criminal complaint
against him in Los Angeles Superior Court case 3SV02004 People of the State
of California v. Gallo.
 
The petition was initially assigned to an unlimited
civil law courtroom, Department 20 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
 
On February 20, 2024, Judge Kevin C. Brazile issued
an order providing, in relevant part, “The Court, after reviewing this case, is
transferring this case to Department 1 for review of the petition and
reassignment to the Writs and Receivers department.” 
 
On February 22, 2024, this Court issued an order
providing, in relevant part: “[g]ood cause appearing and on order of the Court,
the above matter is reassigned at the direction of the Supervising Judge to
Judge James C. Chalfant in Department 85 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse for all
further proceedings.”
 
On May 23, 2024, Judge Chalfant issued an order
providing, in part: “[t]he case is ordered transferred to Department One for
review and reassignment to the Appellate Division. Notice is waived. LATER: After
conferring with the Judicial Assistant in Department One, the motion to
transfer scheduled for 06/06/2024 will remain on calendar as previously set. The
Judicial Assistant in Department 85 gives telephonic notice to both sides this
date.”
 
Discussion 
 
The
Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern the assignment of cases
between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc. § 402.) The court may
transfer cases that are filed in an incorrect department. (See generally People v. Superior Court of San
Bernardino County (1930) 104 Cal.App. 276, 281
(“The juvenile court is itself a superior court, although acting in a
particular class of cases, and has an inherent power to transfer a case to
another department of the same court, when the limits of its special powers are
reached.”); Saks v. Damon Raike & Co. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
419, 430 n.8 (“Although the parties do not
address this point, we note that the trial court could have, on its own
motion, transferred this action to the probate department .
. . rather than dismissing it.”).)
 
The parties acknowledge and agree that the petition
filed in 24STCV03737 is a writ seeking appellate review of a ruling in a
misdemeanor case. (Mot. at 6:4-6 (“The writ petition seeks review of the trial
court’s denial of Gallo’s demurrer to the criminal complaint.”); Opp. at 1:21-24
(“Petitioner
/ Defendant had brought this Petition for Writ of Mandate / Prohibition in
response to the trial court’s denial of his Demurrer to Respondent /
Plaintiff’s misdemeanor criminal complaint against him.”).) 
 
Under the applicable Local Rules of the Los Angeles
Superior Court, petitions seeking writ review of a ruling in a misdemeanor
proceeding should be filed in the Appellate Division. (LASC Local Rules, rule
2.1(f) (“The department designated by the Presiding Judge to hear
appeals and writ petitions in limited civil and criminal cases constitutes the
Appellate Division of the Los Angeles Superior Court.”); rule 2.7 (“. . . the following actions,
proceedings, and procedures are assigned in the CENTRAL DISTRICT (Stanley Mosk
Courthouse) as follows: Appeal from judgment or order in misdemeanor,
infraction, and limited civil case (except small claims case), from anywhere in
the county . . . Appellate Division. . . . Petition for writ of review,
mandate, or prohibition in misdemeanor, infraction, and limited civil case,
from anywhere in the county . . . Appellate Division.”); rule 9.1(c)(1) (“The
Appellate Division has jurisdiction over all petitions for writs of mandate,
prohibition, and review (certiorari) in any misdemeanor, infraction, or limited
civil case. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1068(b), 1085(b) and 1103(b).).”).) 
 
The
Court finds the case was improperly filed and should be transferred to the
Appellate Division, which is the proper division to rule on The People’s
arguments regarding the merits and timeliness of the petition. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED as to the request to transfer the action. The Court
declines to reach the merits of the petition. 
 
 