 Case Number:  23STCV07012    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date:
10-1-24
Case
#23STCV07012
Trial
Date: 7-14-25 c/f 12-9-24
 
MEDICAL SUBPOENA
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Alhambra Police Department
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff, Kafshi Bennet, pro per
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Medical Records
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On an uncertain date, Plaintiff Kafshi Bennet was
involuntarily detained under Health and Safety Code section 5150. The placement
apparently arose from a series of interactions with Defendant, the Alhambra
Police Department.
 
On March 29, 2023, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a complaint
for “Violation of Civil Rights, and Declaratory and Injunctive Relief.” On June
26, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the complaint with 60 days leave
to amend.
 
On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a first
amended complaint for False Imprisonment/False Arrest, Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress, Interference with Rights Secured by the Constitution
and/or Laws of the State of California, Multiple Violations of Civil Rights
pursuant to 42 USC 1983, and Respondeat Superior. The first amended complaint
also includes a copy of an October 25, 2023, filed claim for damages.
 
On January 2, 2024, the court denied the motion to dismiss
the complaint due to the filing of the first amended complaint 76 days after
the order sustaining the demurrer (16 days more than the 60 days granted for
leave to amend). Defendant answered the first amended complaint on January 31,
2024.
 
RULING: Granted.
Defendant
Alhambra Police Department moves to compel compliance with medical records
subpoena served on third party Exodus Recovery. The court electronic filing
system shows no opposition on file at the time of the tentative ruling
publication cutoff. Alhambra Police Department filed a notice of
non-opposition.
 
Prior
to the filing of the motion, Alhambra Police Department requested HIPPA
releases, which Plaintiff refused to execute. Subpoenas were subsequently
served on the medical provider, and denied on the basis of lack of
authorization. The instant motion was subsequently filed. [Declaration of Yelena
Bakman, ¶¶ 4-11, Ex. A-C.]
 
“If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b)
... may make an order … directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare...” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd.
(a).)
 
“[T]he mere
filing of a lawsuit does not trigger application of the patient-litigant
exception.” (Patterson v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 927, 930.) A patient may
continue to exercise a reasonable expectation of privacy of their medical
information if the information is not directly relevant to a particular
condition the patient placed in issue. (California
Consumer Health Care Council v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 21, 31.) “‘The patient thus is not obligated to sacrifice all
privacy to seek redress for a specific mental or emotional injury; the scope of
the inquiry permitted depends upon the nature of the injuries which the
patient-litigant himself has brought before the court.’” (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864.) “‘The party
seeking the constitutionally protected information has the burden of
establishing that the information sought is directly relevant to the claims.
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]”  (See Barrenda L. v. Superior Court (1998) 65
Cal. App. 4th 794, 801-802.) The standard for good cause requires the moving
party to produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) “[A]n implicit waiver of a party's constitutional rights
encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim and
essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit… [¶] … On occasion her privacy
interests may have to give way to her opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus
courts must balance the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts
against the privacy interests of persons subject to discovery.” (Id. at p. 842.) 
 
Plaintiff’s emotional medical state was placed in issue
through the filing of the subject action and damages claim, thereby providing Alhambra
Police Department with the right to examine Plaintiff’s medical history prior
to, during and after the time of the incident(s). It is presumed from the discovery responses that at least
some of the subject records directly relate to the anguish caused by the
underlying incidents. Plaintiff presents no opposition otherwise seeking to
limit production or other privileges. (In re Lifschutz (1970) 2 Cal.3d 415, 439; Patterson v. Superior Court, supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at pp. 931-932; see
Evid. Code, § 1016, subd. (a).)
 
The court finds no reasonable alternatives for discovery of
the information exists. Defendant therefore presents a basis for production of
the records. The unopposed motion to compel compliance with the subpoena is
therefore GRANTED. Records are limited to production relating directly the
subject action (e.g. subsequent to the incident), but may include prior records
for purposes of establishing noticeable changes following the course of events,
if applicable. Any range of records shall not exceed five years prior to the
first claim.
 
Alhambra Police Department to arrange for service,
compliance and production of the records pursuant to the order compelling
production pursuant to the subpoenas.
 
Alhambra Police Department makes no request for sanctions.
“[I]n making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section
1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount
of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2.)
 
Trial set for July 14, 2025.
 
Defendant to provide notice.
 