 Case Number:  22STLC04924    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  26   
Weiner
v. Century Property Management Investments, Inc., et al.CONTINUE
TRIAL DATE
(CRC
RULE 3.1332)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Century Property Management & Investment, Inc. and Deion Gerhard’s Motion
to Continue the Trial Date is GRANTED. TRIAL IS CONTINUED TO APRIL 24, 2024 AT
8:30 AM IN DEPARTMENT 26 IN THE SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE. DISCOVERY AND MOTION
CUTOFF DATES TO FOLLOW THE NEW TRIAL DATE.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff Samara A. Weiner (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant
action for recovery of COVID-19 rental debt against Defendants Century Property
Management & Investment, Inc. and Deion Gerhard (“Defendants”) on July 27,
2022. Defendants filed an answer and cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Art
Koomer, and Michael Koomer on November 23, 2022. Arthur Koomer and Michael also
filed cross-complaints against unnamed cross-defendants on May 18, 2023 and
June 30, 2023, respectively.
 
Plaintiff’s notice of related case was denied on August 17,
2023 and her ex parte application to consolidate related actions was denied on
the same date. On November 9, 2023, Defendants filed a motion for judgment on
the pleadings, which is set for hearing on December 18, 2023. Defendants have
also filed a motion to bifurcate, which is set to be heard on December 21,
2023. 
 
Defendants filed the
instant Motion to Continue Trial on November 13, 2023. Plaintiff filed an
opposition on November 27, 2023.
 
Discussion
 
“Although continuances of
trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its
own merits. The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332, subd.
(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a
trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of
the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address
the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial. 
(See generally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332, subd. (d)(1)-(11).)
Additionally, factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the
motion or application. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332, subds. (c), (d).)
 
Defendants argue that good
cause exists for a continuance of the trial date, which is currently set for January
24, 2024, because additional time is required to complete discovery. They
contend that Plaintiff did not provide substantive responses to discovery but
agreed to do so after a meet and confer effort. (Motion, Seaman Decl., ¶¶5, 8,
14, 15 and Exhs. F, L, M.) Plaintiff has also purportedly failed to make
herself available for deposition. (Id. at ¶¶7-13.) Given the trial
cutoff dates and Defendants’ upcoming motion for judgment on the pleadings,
they argue that a continuance is necessary. In opposition, Plaintiff disputes
not providing substantive discovery responses but does not support the argument
with any declaration or evidence to demonstrate these facts. (Opp., Weiner
Decl., ¶¶3-7.) Instead, Plaintiff’s supporting declaration discusses the merits
of the action against Defendants. (Ibid.) The opposition is also
confused by a portion of an email that is at the top of several pages. (Id.
at pp. 2-3, 5.) 
 
The circumstances demonstrated
by Defendants’ Motion are reasonable grounds to continue the trial date for a
brief period of time. There have been no prior continuances and there are
motions filed by both parties that remain pending. Plaintiff may argue that she
is ready for trial but has not shown prejudice from any continuance. Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that the factors of Rule 3.1332 weigh in favor
of the requested continuance of the trial date. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Century Property Management & Investment, Inc. and Deion Gerhard’s Motion
to Continue the Trial Date is GRANTED. TRIAL IS CONTINUED TO APRIL 24, 2024 AT
8:30 AM IN DEPARTMENT 26 IN THE SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE. DISCOVERY AND MOTION
CUTOFF DATES TO FOLLOW THE NEW TRIAL DATE.
 
 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 