  Case Number:  21STCV09496    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 17, 2024                TRIAL DATE: March
4, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Vista Montoya Homeowners Association v.
Lidia Miranda, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV09496            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION NOTICE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Vista Montoya Homeowners Association
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 12/12/24
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract that was filed on March 10, 2021.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated the terms of a Declaration of
Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions which governed the property in which
the Defendants reside by allowing a leaking air conditioning unit to cause
significant damage to a common area adjacent to Defendants’ property.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant
Miranda’s compliance with a deposition subpoena for production of documents,
and for sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Notice is GRANTED. Defendant Miranda
is ordered to provide verified, code-complaint responses to the requests for
production without objections within 30 days of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,260 against
Defendant Miranda and her counsel, jointly and severally. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant
Miranda’s compliance with a deposition notice for production of documents. 
Legal
Standard
 
            Plaintiff’s does not set forth in
the Notice of Motion the statutes or other authority under which it is seeking
the relief requested in this motion. However, the caption of the motion
expressly states that this motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450(a). Therefore, although Plaintiff’s notice of motion
is not strictly compliant with the form of notice specified in Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010, Plaintiff’s notice substantially complies with those
requirements. The Court therefore will address this motion on the merits as it
presents itself in the caption.
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a).) Further, where production of documents is sought in
connection with the deposition, the motion must set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450(b)(1).) 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deposition must
include a meet and confer declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.450(b); 2016.040.)  
 
The declaration of Karina M. Babikian
attached to the motion describes the extensive efforts undertaken by Plaintiff
to meet and confer regarding the failure to produce the documents which are the
subject of this motion. (Declaration of Karina M. Babikian ISO Mot. ¶ 6; Exh.
2.) Defendant’s counsel only responded once with a bare statement that
documents were forthcoming. (Id.)  Plaintiff has therefore satisfied its
statutory meet-and-confer obligations.
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff served Defendant Miranda
with a Deposition Notice on August 29, 2024, demanding that Defendant appear
for deposition and produce 29 categories of documents. (Babikian Decl. ¶3; Exh.
1.) Although Defendant appeared for deposition on September 13, she failed to
produce documents or otherwise respond to the requests for production. (Id.
¶ 4.) 
 
Plaintiff does not directly explain the
relevance of the categories of documents sought so as to demonstrate good cause
for their production, but examination of the Deposition Notice reveals that the
document requests are facially relevant. Requests Nos. 1 through 6 seek
documents and communications related to each of the three causes of action in
the Complaint. (Babikian Decl. Exh. 1. Nos. 1-6.) Likewise, Requests 7 through
10 seek similar documents related to Defendant’s Answer or to the action as a
whole. (Id. Nos. 7-10.) Requests Nos. 11 through 26 seek photographs,
documents, or communications pertaining to Defendant’s balcony, the air
conditioning unit on that balcony, and the turf which was allegedly installed
on that balcony, all of which go directly to the factual contentions set forth
in the Complaint. (Babikian Decl. Exh. 1. Nos. 11-26; Complaint ¶¶ 11-25.)
Finally, Requests Nos. 27, 28, and 29 seek the Association’s Declaration of
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions, the Association’s governing documents,
and any documents evidencing Defendant’s ownership of the unit, respectively.
(Babikian Decl. Exh. 1. Nos. 27-29.) These materials are also facially relevant
to this action. 
 
As Plaintiff’s document requests
demonstrate good cause on their face, Plaintiff is entitled to an order
compelling Defendant to produce these materials.
 
Request
for Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests an award of sanctions
in the amount of $2,860 against Defendant and her counsel, jointly and
severally. 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450(g)(1) requires the Court to impose sanctions against
any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel deposition,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. The Court may award sanctions to a party who moves to compel discovery
even though no opposition is filed. (Cal Rules of Court Rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the
amount of $2,860, based on a total of 3 hours actually incurred at $400 per
hour, plus four hours anticipated at the same rate, plus $60 in filing fees. (Babikian
Decl. ¶ 8.) The Court declines to award attorney’s fees that have not been
actually incurred and will therefore award reduced sanctions in the amount of $1,260,
reflecting 3 hours actually incurred at $400 per hour plus $60 in filing fees. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Notice is GRANTED. Defendant Miranda
is ordered to provide verified, code-complaint responses to the requests for
production without objections within 30 days of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,260 against
Defendant Miranda and her counsel, jointly and severally, to be paid to
Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 17,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 