  Case Number:  22STCV24086    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  71
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



POURANDOKHT
  POURAT,  
  
         vs.
 
SHAHRAM
  MOUSSAZADEH. 


 Case No.: 22STCV24086
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 24, 2023



 
Cross-Defendant
Robert Gentino’s unopposed special motion to strike the first amended cross-complaint
of pro per Cross-Complainant Hormoz Pourat is granted as to the complaint
against Gentino for misconduct.  Gentino may
separately move for an award of attorneys’ fees and costs.  
 
Cross-Defendant
Robert Gentino (“Gentino”) (“Cross-Defendant”) moves unopposed to strike
the first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”) of pro per Cross-Complainant Hormoz
Pourat (“Hormoz”) (“Cross-Complainant”) on the grounds that Cross-Complainant’s
FACC seeks damages arising out of the exercise rights of petition and free
speech under the U.S. Constitution, and Cross-Complainant cannot establish a
probability that he will prevail on the merits. 
(Notice of Motion, pg. 1; C.C.P. §425.16.)  Gentino also seeks an award of the attorneys’
fees and costs of $4,568.91.  (Notice of
Motion, pg. 1; C.C.P. §425.16(c).)  
 
Background 
         This matter involves an alleged agreement between Plaintiff
Pourandokht Pourat (“Pourandokht”) and her nephew, Defendant Shahram
Moussazadeh (“Moussazadeh”), regarding real property located at 11815 Dorothy
St., #5, Los Angeles, CA 90049 (“Subject Property”).  Pourandokht filed her initial complaint
against Moussazadeh on July 26, 2022.  Pourandokht
filed her first amended complaint against Moussazadeh on November 29, 2022. 
Hormoz, Pourandokht’s son,
filed his initial Cross-Complaint (“CC”) against Moussazadeh on April 11, 2023.  Hormoz filed the operative FACC on July 5,
2023, against Moussazadeh and his attorney of record, Gentino, alleging six
causes of action: (1) declaratory relief; (2) Uniform Voidable Transactions Act
(Civil Code §§3439 et seq.); (3) breach of oral contract; (4) intentional
misrepresentation; (5) financial elder abuse; and (6) quiet title.  
On August 25, 2023, Cross-Defendants
filed the instant motion.  On October 17,
2023, Hormoz filed a document that does not appear to be an opposition.[1]  As of the date of this hearing, no opposition
has been filed, nor has any reply.
 
Special Motion to Strike
         “Litigation of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step
process. First, ‘the moving defendant bears the burden of establishing that the
challenged allegations or claims ‘aris[e] from’ protected activity in which the
defendant has engaged.’ [Citation.] Second, for each claim that does arise from
protected activity, the plaintiff must show the claim has “at least ‘minimal
merit.’ [Citation.]”  (Bonni v. St.
Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009, citations omitted.)  As to the second step inquiry, a plaintiff
seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim “may not rely solely on its
complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent
admissible evidence.”  (Sweetwater Union High School District v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940, citations omitted.)
A cross-complainant opposing
a special motion to strike has the burden to “state [] and substantiate [] a
legally sufficient claim.”  (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88 & 93.)  “‘Put another way, the [cross-complainant] “must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the [cross-complainant] is credited.”’ [Citations.]”  (Id. at pgs. 88-89.)  To that end, the cross-complainant must
present competent evidence, “that would be admissible at trial.”  (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.)  “[D]eclarations
may not be based upon ‘information and belief’ [citation]” and documents
submitted without the proper foundation will not be considered.  (Id.) 
The cross-complaint, even if verified, is insufficient to carry the cross-complainant’s
shifted burden.  (Roberts v. Los
Angeles County Bar Association (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 614; Karnazes
v. Ares (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 344, 354 [“pleadings do not constitute
evidence”]; see also Burke, Anti-SLAPP Litigation (The Rutter Group,
Civil Litigation Series 2018 § 5:13) [“To satisfy prong two, the [cross-complainant]
must submit admissible evidence that if credited is sufficient to sustain a
favorable judgment against the legal theories asserted by the [cross-defendant].”].)
 
Prong One: Arising from
Protected Activity
“A cause of action is subject
to a special motion to strike if the [cross-defendant] shows that the cause of
action arises from an act in furtherance of the [cross-defendant’s]
constitutional right of petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue and the [cross-complainant] fails to demonstrate a probability of
prevailing on the claim. [Citations.]”  (Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money
Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 883.) 
“An ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ is defined by statute to
include ‘(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.’  [Citation.]
If the [cross-defendant] shows that the cause of action arises from a statement
described in clause (1) or (2) of section 425.16, subdivision (e), the defendant is not
required to separately demonstrate that the statement was made in connection
with a ‘public issue.’ [Citation.]”  (Id.)
“A cause of action is one
‘arising from’ protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(1) only if the [cross-defendants’] act on which the cause of
action is based was an act in furtherance of the [cross-defendant’s]
constitutional right of petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue. [Citation.] In deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is
satisfied, ‘the court shall consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing
affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’
[(C.C.P. §425.16(b)(2).)] Whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied
depends on the ‘gravamen or principal thrust’ of the claim. [Citations.] A
cause of action does not arise from protected activity for purposes of the
anti-SLAPP statute if the protected activity is merely incidental to the cause
of action. [Citations.]”  (Digerati Holdings, LLC, 194 Cal.App.4th at pgs. 883-884, citations omitted.)  To show that a claim arises from protected
activity under §425.16(b)(1), it is not sufficient to show that the claim “was
filed after, or because of, protected activity, or when protected activity
merely provides evidentiary support or context for the claim.” (Rand
Resources, LLC v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 621.)  “Rather, the protected activity must ‘supply
elements of the challenged claim.’ [Citation.]”  (Id., citations omitted.)
“At the first step, the
moving [cross-defendant] bears the burden of identifying all allegations of
protected activity, and the claims for relief supported by them. When relief is
sought based on allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the
unprotected activity is disregarded at this stage.  If the court determines that relief is sought
based on allegations arising from activity protected by the statute, the second
step is reached. There, the burden shifts to the [cross-complainant] to demonstrate
that each challenged claim based on protected activity is legally sufficient
and factually substantiated. The court, without resolving evidentiary
conflicts, must determine whether the [cross-complainant’s] showing, if
accepted by the trier of fact, would be sufficient to sustain a favorable
judgment. If not, the claim is stricken. Allegations of protected activity
supporting the stricken claim are eliminated from the [cross-complaint], unless
they also support a distinct claim on which the [cross-complainant] has shown a
probability of prevailing.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376,
396, emphasis added.)
The burden is on the
cross-complainant to produce evidence that would be admissible at trial—i.e.,
to proffer a prima facie showing of facts supporting a judgment in cross-complainant’s
favor.  (Chavez v. Mendoza (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1087.)
Gentino argues Hormoz’s
allegation in ¶51 of the FACC, titled “Complaint against Defendant’s Attorney,
Robert Gentino, for Misconduct” was a valid exercise of the right of petition
and free speech, as it involved sending emails in connection with litigation.  (Motion, pg. 3; C.C.P. §425.16.)
 
Statements or Writing Made in Connection with
an Issue Under Consideration or Review by a Judicial Body (C.C.P. §425.16(e)(2))
Gentino met his burden to
show the cause of action against him for misconduct asserted in Hormoz’s FACC
arises from an “act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or
free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection
with a public issue.”  (C.C.P. §§425.16(b), (e).)  Hormoz’s cause of action against Gentino is
based on the following allegation:
On April 16, 2023, I [Hormoz] emailed Robert Gentino several
emails asking him to email me the motion of default which he had filed against
me. In the second email, I asked him to email me the motion he filed to depose
me. I have attached copies of the emails which I sent him and his replies. Mr.
Gentino was back mailing [sic] me. Please see the copies of the emails between
Mr. Gentino and me. I would ask this court to discipline Mr. Gentino.  
 
(FACC ¶51.)  
“The constitutional right to
petition, as we have seen, includes the basic act of filing litigation or
otherwise seeking administrative action.”  (Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 8, 19.)  The right of
petition includes access to the courts.  (Briggs v. Eden Counsel for Hope &
Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1115 [“[j]ust as communications
preparatory to or in anticipation of the bringing of an action or other
official proceeding are within the protection of the litigation privilege of
Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) . . . such statements are equally
entitled to the benefits of section 425.16.”].)  Gentino argues his communications with Hormoz
are protected by the litigation privilege. 
(Motion, pgs. 4-6.)  However, the
issue of litigation privilege is not relevant to the first prong of an
anti-SLAPP, but rather the second prong.  Gentino’s alleged wrongful act of sending
emails in connection with litigation was a valid exercise of his free speech
and was in support of his client’s right to petition.  Therefore, Gentino met his burden of demonstrating
Hormoz’s cause of action against him for misconduct arises from protected
activity.  
The burden shifts to Hormoz
to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the cause of action against
Gentino.  Hormoz has not met his burden.
 
Prong
Two: Probability of Prevailing
A.   Malicious Prosecution
“To establish a cause of
action for the malicious prosecution of a civil proceeding, a plaintiff must
plead and prove that the prior action (1) was commenced by or at the direction
of the defendant and was pursued to a legal termination in his, plaintiff’s,
favor; (2) was brought without probable cause; and (3) was initiated with
malice.”  (Bertero v. National General
Corp. (1974) 13 Cal.3d 43, 50, internal citations omitted.)         
Hormoz failed to establish a
probability of prevailing on his claim against Gentino for misconduct by
failing to submit sufficient evidence to support a prima facie cause of action for what
appears in substance to be a cause of action for malicious prosecution.  Further, Hormoz’s October 17, 2023, filing
appears to concede that the allegations pertaining to the agreement between
Moussazadeh and Pourandokht never existed, and that Hormoz wishes to withdraw
this part of his FACC.  (10/17/23
Filing.)
Assuming,
arguendo, Hormoz met his burden on prong 2, his allegation pertaining to
Gentino’s conduct falls within the litigation privilege, which is absolute and
applies regardless of malice.  (See
Civ. Code §47(b) [defining “privileged publication” as a communication made “in
any (1) legislative proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any other
official proceeding authorized by law, or (4) in the initiation or course of
any other proceeding authorized by law”]; Bergstein v. Stroock & Stroock
& Lavan LLP (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 793, 814  [“the litigation privilege is absolute and
applies regardless of malice and has been given broad application”], internal
quotations and citations omitted.)
Accordingly, Hormoz failed to
establish a probability of prevailing on his cause of action against Gentino.
 
Conclusion
         Based on the foregoing, Gentino’s unopposed special
motion to strike Hormoz’s cause of action against him is granted.  Gentino may
separately move for an award of attorneys’ fees and costs.  
 
Dated:  October _____, 2023
                                                                        





  