 Case Number:  23STCV19069    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  74 People of  the State of California v. Ultimate Host, LLC, et al. Defendants’ Demurrer to Complaint BACKGROUND              This action arises from allegedly  unruly parties at properties that serve as short-term rentals.             On August 10, 2023, the People of  the State of California (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Ultimate Host,  LLC and Mokhtar Jabli (Defendants), in addition to others.              The complaint alleges the following  causes of action: (1) violation of California’s unfair competition law and (2)  public nuisance.             On October 2, 2023, Defendants filed  this demurrer. LEGAL STANDARD             A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (¿¿Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318¿¿.) “¿To  survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a  cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the  plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.¿” (¿¿C.A. v. William S. Hart Union  High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872¿¿.) For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (¿Aubry v. Tri-City  Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967¿.) A demurrer  “¿does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿” (¿¿Daar  v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713¿¿.)DISCUSSION              In  support of their demurrer, Defendants first argue Defendant Jabli cannot be  liable in his individual capacity. That is, Plaintiff’s allegations do not  indicate that Defendant Ultimate Host is an alter-ego of Defendant Jabli.  According to Defendants, the court should dismiss the claims against Defendant  Jabli on this basis.              However,  Plaintiff has alleged facts that, if true, support Defendant’s Jabli’s personal  liability for violations of California’s Unfair Competition Law, which prohibits unlawful business practices. (Bus.  & Prof. Code, § 17200.) Under the allegations, Defendant Jabli is a tenant  at the Birds Villa. (Complaint, ¶¶ 48, 51.) Defendant Jabli has subleased the  property for short-term rentals, even though the property is not registered for  home sharing. (Complaint, ¶¶ 48, 51, 75; LAMC, § 12.22, subd. (A)(d)(1)-(2).) In  addition, the allegations suggest Defendant Jabli has subleased the property  for the purposes of parties that have violated the Los Angeles House Party  Ordinance. (Complaint, ¶ 2, 48, 51, 83; see LAMC, §§ 41.58.1, 116.01.)              The foregoing allegations also  support Plaintiff’s public nuisance claim against Defendant Jabli. Under Los  Angeles Municipal Code section 11.00, subdivision (l), any violation of the  municipal code is declared to be a public nuisance. Moreover, “where the law  expressly declares something to be a nuisance, then no inquiry beyond its  existence need be made and in this sense its mere existence is said to be a  nuisance per se.” (People v. ConAgra Grocery Products Co. (2017) 17  Cal.App.5th 51, 114.) Thus, the court will not dismiss Defendant Jabli from the  action.             Defendants go on to argue that  Plaintiff’s complaint contains inaccurate allegations. But for the purpose of  testing the sufficiency of causes of action, the demurrer admits the truth of  all material facts properly pleaded. (¿Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.,  supra, Cal.4th at pp. 966-967¿.) The court will not sustain Defendants’  demurrer on this basis, either. CONCLUSION  The  court overrules Defendants’ demurrer. Defendants  shall file and serve their answer within 20 days. Defendants  shall give notice.////////////////////////////The People of the State of  California v. Ultimate Host, LLC, et al. Defendants’ Motion to Strike  Portions of the Complaint The court considered the moving  papers and opposition. BACKGROUND             This action arises from allegedly  unruly parties at properties that serve as short-term rentals.             On August 10, 2023, the People of  the State of California (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Ultimate Host,  LLC and Mokhtar Jabli (Defendants), in addition to others.              The complaint alleges the following  causes of action: (1) violation of California’s unfair competition law and (2)  public nuisance. LEGAL STANDARD             A court may strike any “¿irrelevant,  false or improper matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of a pleading  “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule,  or an order of the court.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 436¿.) “¿The grounds for a  motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from  any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code  Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿             DISCUSSION              Defendants  first argue the court should strike inaccurate facts from the complaint. But in  ruling on a motion to strike, the court presumes the allegations in the  complaint to be true. (Clauson v. Sup.Ct. (Pedus Services, Inc.) (1998)  67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)[1] Next,  Defendants contend the court should strike the request for costs because  Plaintiff cites no statute in support. However, under Code of Civil Procedure  section 1032, subdivision (b), a prevailing party is entitled to costs in any  action as a matter of right, unless otherwise expressly provided by statute. Last,  the court notes that Defendants have not identified the portions of the  complaint they seek to strike in the notice. (California Rules of Court, rule  3.1322.)  CONCLUSION              The  court denies Defendants’ motion to strike in its entirety.             Defendants shall give notice.     