 Case Number:  23AHCV01423    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



CHANTALL RAMIREZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AHMC
   HEALTHCARE, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01423
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: EX PARTE APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY RESTRAINING ORDER AND FOR
   ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   31, 2024




 


)


 



 
On December 16, 2024, defendants AHMC
Healthcare, Inc., AHMC Monterey Park Hospital LP, AHMC Garfield Medical Center
LP, AHMC Greater El Monte Community Hospital LP, AHMC Anaheim Regional Medical
Center LP, AHMC San Gabriel Valley Medical Center, AHMC Seton Medical Center
LLC, and AHMC Whittier Hospital Medical Center LP (collectively, “Defendants”) applied
ex parte for a temporary restraining order (“TRO”) and for an order to show
cause regarding a preliminary injunction staying the arbitration in Chantall
Ramirez v. AHMC Monterey Park Hospital LP, AAA Case No. 01-0003-6368 (“Ramirez
Arbitration”), which pertains to the individual claims asserted by plaintiff
Chantall Ramirez (“Plaintiff”) for violations of Labor Code sections 226,
226.7, 512, and Sections 11 and 12 of the Industrial Welfare Commission’s Wage
Orders 4 and/or 5, and Plaintiff’s individual claim for civil penalties for
violations of Labor Code sections 2698, et seq. (Fishman Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Plaintiff opposes the ex parte
application on the grounds that the arbitrator has sole authority to hear (and
decide) the issue of a stay. (Opp., p. 2.) The mutual arbitration agreement,
attached as Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Jeffrey F. Bollinger, states that “any
and all claims and disputes that arise out of or are related in any way to
[Plaintiff’s] employment or the termination of [her] employment with AHMC”
shall be submitted to “final and binding arbitration.” (Bollinger Decl., Ex. 1,
p. 119.) “[F]inal and binding arbitration will be the sole and exclusive remedy
for any claim or dispute against AHMC Healthcare Inc. or any of its affiliated
hospitals, facilities, companies or entities, and any of their employees,
officers, directors, Medical Staff, physicians or agents.” (Ibid.) There
is no carve-out for seeking provisional remedies in a court of law. 
In a supplemental brief, Defendants
argue that the right to seek injunctive relief cannot be waived by an
arbitration agreement. Defendants cite to McGill v. Citibank, N.A.
(2017) 2 Cal.5th 945, but as Plaintiff points out in her supplemental brief, McGill
is factually and procedurally inapposite because it addresses the nonwaivable
“statutory right to seek public injunctive relief under the UCL, the CLRA, or
the false advertising law.” McGill distinguished public injunctive
relief from “[r]elief that has the primary purpose or effect of redressing or
preventing injury to an individual plaintiff—or to a group of individuals
similarly situated to the plaintiff.” (McGill, supra, 2 Cal.5th at
p. 955.) Defendant also argues that Roberts v. Packard, Packard &
Johnson (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 822, supports the proposition that the Court
retains jurisdiction in this specific instance to provide injunctive relief. However,
Roberts outlines “several specific instances” where jurisdiction may be
exercised, such as when an arbitrator is not granted general law discovery
powers, or where there is a need “for judicial assistance in moving the
arbitration forward”, or when the party is dissatisfied with the award of the
arbitrator. (Roberts, supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at pp. 841-842.)  In fact, in Roberts, the specific issue
was the award of attorney fees. Additionally, Defendants’ citation to Labor
Code section 2699(e)(1) is unavailing because it only establishes that the Court
has the same discretion as the Labor and Workforce Development Agency (“LWDA”) to
award injunctive relief without any discussion of the scope of the Court’s
jurisdiction to do so while arbitration is pending. 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s
assertion that while Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.8 applies to
Defendants’ request for a TRO, Defendants have not shown that provisional
relief is warranted. Section 1281.8 states that a party to a pending
arbitration proceeding may apply to the court for a provisional remedy “only
upon the ground that the award to which the applicant may be entitled may be
rendered ineffectual without provisional relief.” Defendants have not shown
that such grounds exist. Whether a stay is granted does not render
“ineffectual” the relief that Defendants would obtain if they eventually
prevail in arbitration. While Defendants would certainly incur costs in proceeding
with the arbitration, Defendants do not provide any authority for their
proposition that such costs rise to the level of irreparable harm justifying a
TRO.   
 The
ex parte application for a TRO and OSC re: preliminary injunction is DENIED. 
Dated
this 31st
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 