  Case Number:  21STCV09956    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



RICARDO CALVARIO,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MICHAEL
   HOMAYUN, DDS, et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV09956
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS MICHAEL HOMAYUN, DDS AND MICHAEL HOMAYUN DENTAL
   CORPORATION dba COMFORT DENTAL CENTER’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   31, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On March 15, 2021,
plaintiff Ricardo Calvario (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants
Michael Homayun, DDS (“Dr. Homayun”), Michael Homayun Dental Corporation dba
Comfort Dental Center (“Comfort Dental”), and Oral Aesthetic Advocacy Group,
Inc. dba Cosmetic Dentistry Grants (“Cosmetic Dentistry”). 
Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on September 21, 2021,
which includes causes of action for: (1) professional negligence, (2) medical
battery, (3) intentional misrepresentation, (4) concealment, (5) false promise,
and (6) negligent misrepresentation. 
On April 24,
2024, Dr. Homayun and Comfort Dental Center (collectively, “Defendants”) filed
this motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s claims for Second Cause of
Action for medical battery, Third Cause of Action for intentional
misrepresentation, and Fourth Cause of Action for concealment. Defendants also
moved for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action
even though those were only asserted against Cosmetic Dentistry. Therefore, as
an initial matter, the summary adjudication motion with respect to the Fifth
and Sixth Causes of Action is DENIED.  
Plaintiff
filed opposition papers on October 25, 2024. 
Defendants
filed reply papers on November 1, 2024. 
On November
8, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on this motion to allow the parties to
submit supplemental briefs summarizing the oral arguments made at the hearing.
Both parties submitted supplemental briefs on December 2, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Id., subd. (f)(2).)  Therefore, a defendant moving for summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To meet this burden
of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not
only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that
“the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits,
declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters
of which judicial notice may be taken. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) “Once the defendant . . . has met
that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
III.       
DISCUSSION 
A.  
Plaintiff’s
Second Cause of Action: Medical Battery 
In 2018, Plaintiff was missing four
upper front teeth and desired dental treatment to replace the missing teeth. (FAC,
¶ 10.) Plaintiff applied for grant funding through the program that Cosmetic
Dentistry advertised as a grant program. (FAC, ¶ 11.) Thereafter, Mr. Calvario
was approved for a “grant” and was referred by Cosmetic Dentistry to Defendants.
(Id.) Plaintiff told Dr. Homayun that he wished to have four dental
implants where his four missing teeth were. (FAC, ¶ 18.) Dr. Homayun told
Calvario that four implants would not successfully hold and instead recommended
six implants with individual crowns, which would cost $17,000. (FAC, ¶ 18.) On
or about November 27, 2018, Plaintiff had six implant posts placed by Dr.
Homayun, and various medical problems followed. Plaintiff claims that the
treatment plan recommended by Dr. Homayun was not appropriate and that the
implant posts were inappropriately placed. 
In support of his medical battery
claim, Plaintiff alleges that he “consented to the placement of the implant
posts on the condition that [Defendants] confirmed in their professional
capacity that [Plaintiff[ was an appropriate candidate for the procedure.”
(FAC, ¶ 50.) Plaintiff claims Defendants failed to confirm whether he was an
appropriate candidate yet proceeded anyways, causing him physical, mental, and financial
harm. (FAC, ¶ 54.) 
Defendants move for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s medical battery claim on the grounds that Plaintiff
provided “informed consent” and Plaintiff cannot prove that Defendants intentionally
deviated from that consent. (Motion, p. 10.) Defendants contend that Plaintiff “was
adequately informed and consented to [the] recognized risks and complications [of
the procedure].” (Motion, p. 11.) As evidence, Defendants refer to a consent
form signed by Plaintiff. The majority of the consent form, attached as
Defendants’ Exhibit B, is illegible to the Court. And even if the form were
legible, Defendants’ emphasis on informed consent is irrelevant. (Motion, p.
11; Defs.’ Supp. Br., pp. 2-3.) As Defendants acknowledge, medical battery, based
on a violation of conditional consent, and professional negligence, based on a lack
of informed consent, are separate causes of action. (Defs.’ Supp. Br., p. 3
[citing Saxena v. Goffney (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 316, 324].) 
The Court additionally notes that
Plaintiff’s argument that his consent was conditioned on the Defendants doing
the work properly and completing it is nothing more than a malpractice
argument; the Court excludes that aspect of Plaintiff’s conditionality argument
from its analysis of the medical battery claim. However, Plaintiff's use of the
term “confirmed” in the context of Defendants confirming Plaintiff’s
suitability for the procedure to which he consented suggests, in its
imprecision, that somehow the Defendants were required to do something after
obtaining the Plaintiff's consent to “confirm” his suitability or were required,
perhaps, to further engage the Plaintiff on the issue of whether the procedure
should go forward after some additional examination to “confirm” his suitability.
If either were the case, it is impossible to determine from the illegible
consent documentation provided by Defendants or any other evidence before the
Court. 
On reflection, though, that is needless
perplexity. Plaintiff’s claim, in essence, is that before engaging in the
dental work to which Plaintiff purportedly had consented (again, the illegible
exhibits), the Defendants actually knew that Plaintiff was not a suitable
candidate for the procedure, and, that, therefore, the Defendants did not,
because they could not, “confirm” that the Plaintiff was a suitable candidate
for the procedure. Because this condition was not met, and the Defendants
nonetheless intentionally undertook work on the Plaintiff, a medical battery ensued.

Plaintiff does not make this claim particularly
clearly (perhaps deliberately because it could raise a high bar at trial) and neither
parties’ experts address whether Defendants ever met the alleged condition of
confirming that Plaintiff was a suitable candidate for the procedure (despite addressing
the negligence issue in detail). (See FAC, ¶ 50.) Defendant’s expert
declaration of Peter Moy, DMD (“Dr. Moy”) only recites events recorded in
Plaintiff’s medical records before broadly concluding that “Dr. Homayun
provided an appropriate plan of care” and “did not deviate from the consent
given.” (Defs.’s Ex. A, ¶ 25.) There is no reasoning supporting Dr. Moy’s
conclusion and his unsupported opinion is insufficient to show that no triable
issue of material fact exists. As the movants for summary adjudication, the initial
burden to address the issue of conditionality was on Defendants, and having
failed to do so, the burden to show a triable issue of fact did not shift to
Plaintiff.
Accordingly, the motion for summary
adjudication of the Second Cause of Action is DENIED.
B.  
Plaintiff’s
Third and Fourth Causes of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation and
Concealment
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants misrepresented
that Cosmetic Dentistry’s grant would cover the dental services and failed to
disclose that their services were “significantly above market price” due to
their referral agreement with Cosmetic Dentistry. (FAC, ¶¶ 62, 63, 76.)
Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants concealed the fact that Dr. Homayun never
intended to place implants without charging Plaintiff for additional subsequent
work. (FAC, ¶¶ 77-78.)  
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s fraud
claims are related to promises, representations, and information communicated
to Plaintiff by Cosmetic Dentistry and not any representations by Defendants.
Defendants cite Plaintiff’s deposition testimony and discovery responses as
evidence that any representations about receiving grant funding for dental care
and reimbursements for the cost of dental care were made by Cosmetic Dentistry.
However, the deposition testimony merely shows that Plaintiff first had
interactions with Cosmetic Dentistry and that Cosmetic Dentistry approved
Plaintiff’s grant application. (UMF No. 38 [citing Defs.’ Ex. C, 55:19-56:13,
64:3-8].) It is not evidence that Defendants never made any of the alleged
misrepresentations about the treatment cost or grant program. In fact, when
describing an interaction with Dr. Homayun, Plaintiff testified that Dr.
Homayun told him that the treatment would cost $17,000 and that he “had to pay
it up front.” (Defs.’ Ex. C, 74:2-5.)
The Court additionally notes that even
if Defendants shifted the burden of production to Plaintiff, Plaintiff
testified that “Rose”, identified as “the girl at the front desk in the – in []Dr.
Homayun[‘s office]” told him that “[he] had to pay the money up front before
anything starts” and that “the grant was going to reimburse [him] later.”
(Plaintiff’s Ex. 1, 75:9-76:4.) This is sufficient to raise a triable issue of
material fact with respect to the Third Cause of Action for Intentional
Misrepresentation. 
Furthermore, Defendants fail to show
that no misrepresentations were made regarding the market price of their dental
services. Defendants cite Plaintiff’s testimony that he was given an estimate
of $26,000 “to do all the upper part” and that he could not afford it.  (Ex. C, 58:19-24.) Defendants do not describe
whether the quoted cost was for the same treatment and the fact that Defendants
only charged Plaintiff $17,000 for six implants does not show that his services
were market price. (Defs.’ Ex. C, 74:2-4, 20-25.) 
As Defendants cannot prove that the
entirety of the Third and Fourth Causes of Action lack merit, the motion for
summary adjudication of the Third and Fourth Causes of Action is DENIED. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary adjudication is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated this 31st
day of December
2024 




 
 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 