 Case Number:  24NWCV00580    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  C SOLIS v. DAVIS, ET AL.
CASE NO.: 24NWCV00580
HEARING:  January 14,
2024 @ 10:30 a.m.
JUDGE:  RAUL A.
SAHAGUN
 
#11
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant Hope Vega’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED, on the condition that Defendant pays
for Plaintiff’s arbitration fees. 
 
Defendant to give
notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a legal malpractice action. On February 23, 2024,
Plaintiff Sara Solis (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Vincent
W. Davis and Joyce Hope Vega (“Defendants”). Defendants substituted in as
Plaintiff’s counsel in a separate proceeding in 2019. (Complaint, ¶ 25.)
Plaintiff alleges that during that proceeding, Defendants sought multiple
continuances of trial extending the five-year statute deadline and failed to make
timely filings ultimately leading to the Court dismissing Plaintiff’s complaint
with prejudice. (Complaint, ¶¶ 38-55.) The Complaint alleges the following causes
of action: (1) Professional Negligence, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty, (4) Conversion.
 
Both Defendants filed Motions to Compel Arbitration. On
December 18, 2024, the Court heard Defendant Davis’ Motion. The Court ruled
that Defendant could elect to pay Plaintiff’s share of the arbitration fees or
waive the right to arbitrate Plaintiff’s claim. (See 12/18/24 Minute Order.)
 
Defendant Hope Vega (“Defendant”) now moves to compel
arbitration. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the
court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the
parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or controversies in the
parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party petitioning to
compel arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid
agreement to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense.
(Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348,
356-57.)¿ 
 
¿“If a court of competent jurisdiction. . .has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)¿¿ 
 
Discussion
 
          Valid
Agreement
 
The Court first addresses the issue of whether Defendant, as
a non-signatory, can enforce the arbitration agreement against Plaintiff.
Defendant argues that the equitable estoppel doctrine applies where Plaintiff’s
claims against Defendant Hope Vega are inextricably intertwined with her claims
against Defendant Davis. Defendant is an associate attorney for Defendant Davis
and worked on the case at the center of the legal malpractice claim. (Hope Vega
Decl., ¶¶ 3, 5.) Plaintiff does not dispute this argument in the opposition. 
 
The Court finds that Defendant can enforce the arbitration
agreement as a non-signatory based on equitable estoppel doctrine. The
equitable estoppel exception applies where “the causes of action against the
nonsignatory are intimately founded in and intertwined with the underlying
contract obligations” and “where the claims are based on the same facts and are
inherently inseparable from the arbitrable claims against signatory
defendants.” (Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 786.)
Here, Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Hope Vega are intertwined with
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Davis, the signatory to the arbitration
agreement. Defendant Hope Vega is an associate attorney for Defendant Davis and
worked on the case at the center of the legal malpractice claim. (Hope Vega
Decl., ¶¶ 3, 5.) The Court finds the claims concern common issue of fact and
law. Defendant Hope Vega may thus enforce the arbitration agreement as a
non-signatory.
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law,
Arbitration Clauses are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such
grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) In
ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
“With respect to the moving party’s burden to provide
evidence of the¿existence¿of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court. (See¿Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp.¿(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218; see also Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition to compel arbitration or to stay
proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must
state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must
be stated verbatim, or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to
the petition and incorporated by reference”].) Once such a document is
presented to the court, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to
compel, who may present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and
evidence in support of those challenges. [Citation.]” (Baker v. Italian
Maple Holdings, LLC¿(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Here, Defendant attached the Attorney-Client Fee Agreement (“Agreement”)
entered between Plaintiff and Defendant Davis on September 30, 2019. (Hope Vega
Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. A.) The Agreement contains an arbitration provision in section
11 as follows:
 
11. ARBITRATION OF
FEE OR OTHER DISPUTES:
 
11.1 Any dispute
between Client and Attorney as to the reasonable value of services under this
Agreement shall be arbitrated under the provisions of the State Bar Fee
Arbitration Program by the Los Angeles County Fee Arbitration Program. 
 
1.2 Any dispute
(other than one concerning legal fees only), including, but not limited set
forth in section 6200-6206 of the California Business and Professions Code,
disputes as to the quality of Attorneys’ services, breach of fiduciary duties,
fraud or any other aspect of the attorney-client relationship, will be
determined by submission to binding arbitration as provided by California law,
and not by a lawsuit or resort to court process, except as California law
provides for judicial review or arbitration proceedings. Client may also have
the right, under California law to mandatory nonbinding arbitration before a
binding arbitration. If Client is entitled to and asks for, nonbinding
arbitration, and Client and/or Attorney is/are unhappy with the result, it will
be followed by binding arbitration. All parties to this Agreement, by entering
into it, are giving up their rights to have any dispute decided in a court of
law before a judge or jury and instead, are accepting the use of arbitration 
11.3 By signing this
Agreement, Client is consenting to binding arbitration of any and all disputes.
 
The Court finds Defendant has
proven the existence of a valid, signed arbitration agreement with Plaintiff
that covers the claims in dispute. In opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute
the existence of an arbitration agreement. Rather, Plaintiff argues that due to
her limited financial means, this agreement is unconscionable and unenforceable
unless Defendants pay all arbitration fees.
 
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff argues that the
Agreement is unconscionable because it denies her of a forum to litigate her
claims. In support of this argument, Plaintiff relies on Roldan v. Callahan
& Blaine (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 87 and Aronow v. Superior Court
(2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 865. In Roldan, the California Court of Appeals
reviewed a trial court decision to deny a motion seeking an order to compel a
defendant to advance the upfront cost of an arbitration forum. (Roldan,
219 Cal.App.4th at p. 89.) The Roldan court declined to reach the issue
of whether arbitration agreements are unenforceable based on a plaintiff’s
ability to pay but concluded that plaintiffs who were granted permission to
proceed in forma pauperis in trial court can be excluded from the obligation to
pay arbitration fees. (Id. at 95.) Therefore, the court gave the
defendant a choice—“if the trial court determines that any of these plaintiffs
is unable to share in the cost of the arbitration, [defendant] can elect to
either pay that plaintiff's share of the arbitration cost and remain in
arbitration or waive its right to arbitrate that plaintiff's claim.” (Id.
at 96.) In reaching this conclusion, the court reasoned “to rule otherwise
might effectively deprive [plaintiffs] of access to any forum for resolution of
their claims against [defendant].” (Ibid.)
 
The Court of Appeals in Aronow
affirmed Roldan, finding that a trial court should determine the issue
of arbitrator fee payment before commencement of arbitration, and, in the
situation plaintiff is unable to pay, to offer defendant to either pay costs or
waive the right to arbitrate. (Aronow, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at p. 884-86.)
The Court in Aronow suggested a fee waiver request could function to determine
a Plaintiff’s ability to pay arbitration costs:
 
“In response to a
petition to compel arbitration, a litigant who claims financial inability to
pay the arbitrator's fee could submit the Judicial Council application form and
the financial statement prescribed by Government Code section 68633,
subdivisions (c)(1) and (c)(2). The court may delegate to the clerk the
authority to grant applications for an initial fee waiver that meet the
standards of eligibility and application requirements set forth in Sections
68632 and 68633. (Gov. Code, § 68634, subd. (d).) Where a party seeking relief
from paying the arbitrator's fee is one of the persons enumerated in Government
Code section 68632’s list of persons eligible to proceed without paying court
fees and costs, the decision would be ministerial.”
 
(Id. at 884.)(Internal
citations omitted.)
 
Here, Plaintiff is not opposed to
arbitration and only takes issue with the associated fees. Plaintiff has
already submitted the Judicial Council application, and this Court granted a
fee waiver based on Plaintiff’s economic status. (Request to Waive Court Fees,
02/23/2024.) Prior to filing this case, Plaintiff’s counsel requested
Defendants pay the arbitration fees, but did not receive a response. (Moore
Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) Plaintiff is willing to submit to arbitration if
Defendants agree to pay the costs. (Moore Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
In reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff is required to pay her pro rate share of the arbitration fees. In the
alternative, Defendant argues Plaintiff should seek a fee waiver for arbitration.
 
The Court finds Plaintiff is not
opposed to arbitration but is opposed to paying her share of fees due to her
indigent status. The Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, on
the condition that Defendant pays for arbitration fees. 