 Case Number:  23NWCV01911    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  C TRIAS v. HYUNDAI
MOTOR AMERICA, ET AL.
CASE NO.: 23NWCV01911
HEARING:  January 7,
2024 @ 9:30 a.m.
JUDGE:  RAUL A.
SAHAGUN
 
#3
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant Hyundai
Motor America’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The action is stayed
pending arbitration. 
 
Defendant to give
notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a lemon law action. On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff
Keilani C. Trias (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Hyundai Motor America,
Modernity Equity Holdings Little Hills, Inc., Norm Reeves Hyundai Superstore,
and Does 1 to 10. The Complaint alleges Defendants failed repair or replace Plaintiff’s
2021 Hyundai Elantra (“Subject Vehicle”). The Complaint alleges the following
causes of action: 1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act-Breach of Express Warranty,
2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act-Breach of Implied Warranty, 3) Violation of
the Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2, and 4) Negligent Repair. These causes of
action “arise out of warranty and repair obligations of HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA
in connection with a vehicle that Plaintiff purchased and for which HYUNDAI
MOTOR AMERICA issued a written warranty,” where “[t]he warranty was not issued
by the selling dealership.” (Compl., ¶ 9.)
 
Defendant Hyundai Motor America (“Defendant”) now moves to
compel arbitration under the Warranty and Bluelink Connected Services Agreement,
and requests to stay the action.
 
Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice of
the Complaint but notes that judicial notice for files already in the record
are unnecessary.
 
The Court grants all of Plaintiff’s Requests for Judicial
Notice. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules Plaintiff’s evidentiary objection to
paragraph 3 and Exhibit 3 in the Declaration of Ali Ameripour and to paragraph
5 in the Declaration of Vijay Rao in support of the Motion. 
Legal Standard
 
Parties may be compelled to
arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid
agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the
controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2; see also Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden
of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)¿ 
 
¿“If a court of
competent jurisdiction. . .has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an
issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State,
the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)¿¿ 

 
Discussion
 
Arbitration Under Hyundai’s
Bluelink Service Agreement
 
Defendant argues that arbitration may also be enforced under
the Bluelink Connected Services Agreement. Defendant contends that on or about
May 31, 2021, Plaintiffs enrolled their vehicle in the Hyundai’s Bluelink
Service through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment process. (Rao Decl., ¶ 5.) Hyundai’s
Bluelink Service refers to a connected car system that includes various
functions and features. (Rao Decl., ¶ 3.) In order to enroll in Hyundai’s
Bluelink services, customers must agree to the then-effective Connected
Services Agreement (“CSA”). (Rao Decl., ¶ 4.) In order to enroll in Hyundai’s
Bluelink services, a person would have had to click a box to acknowledge that
they “read and agree[d] to the Blue Link Terms & Conditions” and then click
the “Complete” button. (Rao Decl., ¶ 6.) The phrase “Terms & Conditions”
included a hyperlink to the CSA. (Ibid.) As presented to Plaintiffs, the
box acknowledging the Terms & Conditions would not have been “prepopulated”
with a check mark. (Ibid.) Plaintiff would have had to click that box to
acknowledge assent to the CSA, due to a customer not being able to successfully
activate Bluelink services through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment process
unless they complete the step requiring them to click the box acknowledging
they agree to the Bluelink Terms and Conditions. (Ibid.)
 
The arbitration provision in the CSA provides: 
 
Hyundai and you
agree to arbitrate any and all disputes and claims between us arising out of or
relating to this Agreement, Connected Services, Connected Services Systems,
Service Plans, your Vehicle, use of the sites, or products, services, or
programs you purchase, enroll in or seek product/service support for, whether
you are a Visitor or Customer, via the sites or through mobile application,
except any disputes or claims which under governing law are not subject to
arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. This agreement
to arbitrate is intended to be broadly interpreted and to make all disputes and
claims between us subject to arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by
law. […] The agreement to arbitrate otherwise includes, but is not limited to:
claims based in contract, tort, warranty, statute, fraud, misrepresentation or
any other legal theory; claims that arose before this or any prior Agreement
(including, but not limited to, claims relating to advertising) […] 
 
(Rao Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. 2, p. 15.)
 
The Court is not persuaded that Counsel Rao has personal
knowledge that Plaintiff entered into the agreement. The Court sustains Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objection. Defendant thus cannot establish mutual assent. 

Further, the Court finds Defendant has not met its burden of proving that
Plaintiff’s claims are covered under the Bluelink Connected Services Agreement.
According to Defendant, the Bluelink system refers to a connected car system
that includes various functions and features. (Rao Decl., ¶ 5.) It is unclear
whether any of Plaintiff’s claims involve the Bluelink system. The Complaint
does not mention the Bluelink system. 
 
Accordingly, arbitration is not compelled under the Bluelink
Connected Services Agreement.
 
Arbitration under the Owner’s
Handbook and Warranty Information
 
The 2021 Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information (“Warranty
Agreement”) provides the following:
 
“PLEASE READ THIS
SECTION IN ITS ENTIRETY AS IT AFFECTS YOUR RIGHTS 
 
If you purchased or
leased your Hyundai vehicle in the State of California, you and we each agree
that any claim or disputes between us (including between you and any of our
affiliated companies) related to or arising out of your vehicle purchase, use
of your vehicle, the vehicle warranty, representations in the warranty, or the
duties contemplated under the warranty, including without limitation claims
related to the failure to conform a vehicle to warranty, failure to repurchase
or replace your vehicle, or claims for a refund or partial refund of your
vehicle's purchase price (excluding personal injury claims), but excluding
claims brought under the MagnusonMoss Warranty Act, shall be resolved by
binding arbitration at either your or our election, even if the claim is
initially filed in a court of law. If either you or we elect to resolve our
dispute via arbitration (as opposed to in a court of law), such binding
arbitration shall be administered by and through JAMS Mediation, Arbitration
and ADR Services (JAMS) under its Streamlined Arbitration Rules &
Procedures. 
 
We will pay all JAMS
fees for any arbitration except for the initial filing fee of $250. The
arbitration will be held in the city or county of your residence. To learn more
about arbitration, including how to commence arbitration, you may call any JAMS
office or go to www.jamsadr.org.
 
This agreement to
arbitrate is intended to be broadly interpreted and to make all disputes and
claims between us (including our affiliated companies) relating to or arising
out of your vehicle purchase, use of your vehicle, or the vehicle warranty
subject to arbitration to the maximum extent permitted by law. 
 
In any arbitration,
the arbitrator shall be bound by the terms of this agreement and shall follow
the applicable law. […] 
 
Notwithstanding the
above, either you may file a lawsuit in small claims court for any claims that
otherwise require binding arbitration. This agreement evidences a transaction
involving interstate commerce and shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration
Act, 9 U.S.C. §§ 1-16. Judgment upon any award in arbitration may be entered in
any court having jurisdiction. 
 
IF YOU PURCHASED OR
LEASED YOUR VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS
OF THIS BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY ACCEPTING BENEFITS UNDER THIS
WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO
BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT
US AT OPT-OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR PURCHASE OR LEASE TO
OPT-OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.”
 
(Ameripour Decl., Exh. 3, pp. 13-14.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff agreed to be bound when Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle and subsequently presented the vehicle for repair under
the Warranty Agreement. Defendant further argues that Plaintiff filed this
claim based on the existence of this Warranty. Thus, the arbitration agreement
applies to Plaintiff’s claims. Further, it is irrelevant that plaintiff did not
sign the agreement. Defendant argues that the doctrine of equitable estoppel
applies where Plaintiff took advantage of the benefits in the agreement but
attempts to avoid an arbitration clause due to lack of signature. 
 
Plaintiff argues the agreement is unenforceable because 1)
the Warranty Agreement is not properly authenticated, 2) Plaintiff did not
expressly assent to the Warranty Agreement. (Trias Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Plaintiff
argues she never relied on the Warranty Agreement in making her claims. (Trias
Decl., ¶ 7.) However, as mentioned above, Plaintiff does rely on the warranty
in her Complaint: “These causes of action arise out of warranty and repair
obligations of HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA in connection with a vehicle that
Plaintiff purchased and for which HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA issued a written
warranty. The warranty was not issued by the selling dealership.” (Compl., ¶
8.)
 
In reply, Defendant argues that Code of Civil Procedure,
section § 1281.2 only requires the court to make a finding of the arbitration agreement's
existence, not an evidentiary determination of its validity, citing Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.
 
The Court initially finds an agreement to arbitrate exists,
overruling Plaintiff’s evidentiary objection. “For purposes of a petition to
compel arbitration, it is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of
document authentication. . .[a] court is only required to make a finding of the
agreement's existence, not an evidentiary determination of its validity. (Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218–219.) Further,
Plaintiff has not introduced evidence of its invalidity or falsity. (See ibid.)
 
The Court agrees with Defendant that arbitration is proper
under the doctrine of equitable estoppel. “[A] party is not entitled to make
use of [a contract containing an arbitration clause] as long as it worked to
[his or] her advantage, then attempt to avoid its application in defining the
forum in which [his or] her dispute. . .should be resolved.” (Felisilda v.
FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 496.) The doctrine of equitable
estoppel is meant to “prevent a party from playing fast and loose with its
commitment to arbitrate, honoring it when advantageous and circumventing it to
gain undue advantage.” (Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana Environmental
Organizational Partnership (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705, 1714.) Here, Plaintiff
relies on the existence of the warranty in order to maintain the causes of
action alleged under the Song-Beverly Warranty Act and breach of warranty
claims. Accordingly, the Court determines that Defendant has met its burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement in the Warranty which
covers the subject of this lawsuit.
 
“[A] nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause
to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of
action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’
with the underlying contract obligations.” (Boucher v. Alliance Title Co.,
Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271.) “The fundamental point is that a
party may not make use of a contract containing an arbitration clause and then
attempt to avoid the duty to arbitrate by defining the forum in which the dispute
will be resolved.” (Id. at p. 272.) Here, Plaintiff’s claims are clearly
intertwined with the Warranty Agreement, as demonstrated in the Complaint. Plaintiff
thus may not avoid the arbitration provision while reaping the benefits of the
Agreement. The Court finds the doctrine of equitable estoppel applies.
 
Application of the Magnuson-Moss
Warranty Act
 
Plaintiff argues the SBA adopts the Magnuson-Moss Warranty
Act’s (MMWA) preclusion of binding arbitration of warranty disputes, citing
Civil Code of Procedure, section 1793.1(a)(1). Plaintiff argues that a Federal
Trade Commission (FTC) regulation under the MMWA, 16 C.F.R. § 703.5, subd. (j),
states that binding mandatory arbitration of any warranty claim is unlawful,
even if the warranty claims arise under State law. Plaintiffs cite federal
court cases supporting its contention that the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act bars
enforcement of binding arbitration of warranty disputes.
 
In reply, Defendant initially note that Plaintiff does not
bring a claim under the MMWA and Plaintiff’s argument is misplaced. Defendant
cites Walton v. Rose Mobile Homes LLC (5th Cir. 2002) 298 F.3d 470,
478-479 and Davis v. Southern Energy Homes, Inc. (11th Cir. 2002) 305
F.3d 1268, 1274-1280, which both held warranty claims under the MMWA may be
subject to valid binding arbitration. 
 
The Court need not resolve the conflict between the FAA and
the MMWA. The parties cite federal court cases that are merely persuasive, and
not binding on this Court. The Court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff
alleges no claims under the MMWA, and this argument is misplaced. Even though
the SBA incorporates the MMWA and FTC regulations interpreting the MMWA, the
Court in unaware of any California caselaw that precludes arbitration based on
the aforementioned FTC regulation. The Court thus cannot deny the Motion to
Compel based on this argument.
 
          Unconscionability

 
Unconscionability generally includes the absence of
meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with contract
terms that unreasonably favor the other party. (Carboni v. Arrospide
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 76, 82-83.) As the party asserting unconscionability,
Plaintiff has the burden of proving both procedural and substantive
unconscionability. (Crippen v. Central Valley RV Outlet. Inc. (2004) 124
Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165). Courts analyze the unconscionability standard in Civil
Code section 1670.5 as invoking elements of procedural and substantive
unconscionability. (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1267, 1280-81.) Procedural unconscionability focuses on whether
there is ‘oppression’ arising from an inequality of bargaining power or
‘surprise’ arising from buried terms in a complex printed form. (Ibid.)
The substantive element addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided
terms. (Ibid.) An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable only if both
the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied. (Stirlen v.
Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1533.) “[T]he more
substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, at 114.)
 
i.            
Procedural Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff argues the Warranty Agreement’s arbitration clause
is procedurally unconscionable because 1) the Agreement was a contract of
adhesion, in which Plaintiff had no opportunity to negotiate, and 2) Plaintiff
was not made aware of the clause or the 30-day opt out period. (Trias Decl., ¶
5.) Plaintiff was thus subject to oppression and surprise, constituting
procedural unconscionably.
 
Defendant argues that it had no duty to highlight the
arbitration provision or the opt-put provision in the Warranty Agreement. Further,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff was under no obligation to purchase the Subject
Vehicle, and that market choice bears on whether an agreement is adhesive.
 
The Court agrees with Defendant that it had no duty to
highlight the arbitration provision or the opt-put provision in the Warranty
Agreement. The Supreme Court of California has “never required, as a
prerequisite to finding procedural unconscionability, that the complaining
party show it tried to negotiate standardized contract provisions.” (Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 914.) A party is “under
no obligation to highlight the arbitration clause of its contract, nor [is] it
required to specifically call that clause to [the consumer’s] attention. Any
state law imposing such an obligation would be preempted by the FAA. (Ibid.)
The Court further finds that there is a low degree of procedural
unconscionability where the arbitration provision was located on page 13 of the
Warranty Agreement booklet, and where the arbitration provision is prominently
displayed in bold lettering in the first section of the “Hyundai Warranty
Information”. (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 3, pp. 12-14.) Therefore, Plaintiff has not
established procedural unconscionability. 
 
ii.           
Substantive Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff argues the arbitration clause is substantively
unconscionable because 1) it is one-sided in favor of the Defendant. Plaintiff
argues that, when arbitration agreements require arbitration of claims that are
“realistically” only brought by one of the parties to the agreement against the
other, they are substantively unconscionable as being “one-sided and harsh,”
citing employment cases. Plaintiff argues that Defendant issued the warranty,
and warranties are effectively one-sided promises extended by the seller to the
buyer. Thus, it would never be the case that Plaintiff could compel arbitration
against Defendant. The arbitration clause is thus one-sided in favor of
Defendant. Plaintiff argues elements of the CSA agreement are unconscionable,
but the Court need not address these arguments where it has been held the CSA
does not apply to Plaintiff’s claims.
 
Defendant argues that California public policy favors
arbitration. Defendant seems to address an argument that plaintiff does not
make—specifically, that the arbitration clause is unconscionable with respect
to discovery rules in the arbitration. The Court also notes Defendant discusses
the American Arbitration Association Rules when the arbitration clause requires
the parties to use JAMS. Defendant does not otherwise address Plaintiff’s
arguments.
 
While the Court is empathetic to Plaintiff’s argument
regarding the one-sided nature of warranties, the Court is not persuaded that
such rationale applies in this context. As Plaintiff acknowledges, this
rationale has “not been addressed by courts in the context of Song-Beverly Act
warranty claims,” and has been mainly applied in employment claims. (Opp., p.
18, lines 1-2.) The Court also finds the arbitration clause expressly provides
an opt-out provision, indicating a lack of substantive unconscionability.
Therefore, the Court finds the arbitration provision is not substantively
unconscionable.
 
Thus, Plaintiff has not met his burden of establishing both
procedural and substantive unconscionability. Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The case is ordered stayed pending binding
arbitration as to the entire action. 
 
 