 Case Number:  24NWCV02787    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  C SIMIN LP v. WELLS
INTERNATIONAL MARKETING GROUP, INC.
CASE NO.: 24NWCV02787
HEARING:  January 14,
2024 @ 10:30 a.m.
JUDGE:  RAUL A.
SAHAGUN
 
#12
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant Wells
International Marketing Group, Inc.’s Demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
 
Defendant to give
notice. 
 
Background
 
This is an unlawful detainer action. On August 27, 2024,
Plaintiff Simin LP (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Wells International
Marketing Group, Inc. (“Defendant”).
 
On November 13, 2024, the Court heard Defendant’s Demurrer
to the Complaint. The main issue was whether the Complaint properly alleged
service of the Three-Day Notice (“First Notice”). The Court found that while
Notice was not defective on its face, the Complaint failed to allege proper
service in accordance with either the terms of the lease of Code of Civil
Procedure 1162, subdivision (b)(3). The Court sustained the Demurrer with leave
to amend within 10 days. 
 
On November 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC). The FAC was amended to allege facts stating service of the
First Notice was proper under Code of Civil Procedure 1162, subdivision (b)(3)
(i.e., the First Notice was posted on the property and send via regular
mail). (FAC, ¶¶ 9(a), (b), Exhs. 2-3.) The FAC also contained allegations
regarding second Three-Day Notice served on November 15, 2024 (“Second
Notice”). (FAC, ¶¶ 9(c)-(e), Exhs. 4-6.) The Second Notice was served in the
same manner as the First Notice and was also sent via overnight mail. (Ibid.)
 
Defendant now demurs to the FAC on the grounds that it fails
to allege fact sufficient to state a cause of action for unlawful detainer and
is uncertain. 
 
On December 12, 2024, Plaintiff applied ex parte to advance
the hearing on the Demurrer and requested for application to be treated as the
opposition. The Court granted the application and advanced the hearing to
today’s date. 
 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer
tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  
  
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff
to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there
is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of
action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1161, subdivision (2),
a tenant is guilty of unlawful detainer under the following circumstances: 
 
“When the tenant
continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, without the permission of
the landlord, or the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, after
default in the payment of rent, pursuant to the lease or agreement under which
the property is held, and three days’ notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays
and other judicial holidays, in writing, requiring its payment, stating the
amount that is due, the name, telephone number, and address of the person to
whom the rent payment shall be made, and, if payment may be made personally,
the usual days and hours that person will be available to receive the payment.
. .” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1161, subd. (2).)
 
Accordingly, the basic elements of unlawful detainer for
nonpayment of rent are the following: 1) the tenant is in possession of the
premises, 2) that possession is without permission, 3) the tenant is in default
for nonpayment of rent, 4) the tenant has been properly served with a written
three-day notice, and (5) the default continues after the three-day notice
period has elapsed. (KB Salt Lake III, LLC v. Fitness Internat., LLC
(2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 1032, 1045.)
 
Meet and Confer
 
The meet and confer requirement for demurrers does not apply
to unlawful detainer proceedings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (d)(2).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant’s primary argument is that the FAC fails to state
a claim because it contains no allegations that it served a valid three-day
notice prior to the filing of this lawsuit. The First Notice was served
on Defendant by posting a copy at the Property and then mailing it to Defendant
via regular mail. The First Notice was not served properly according to the
Lease, which requires “all notices required or permitted by this lease or
applicable law shall be in writing and may be delivered in person or may be
sent by overnight delivery service guaranteeing next day delivery.”
(Paragraph 23 of the lease agreement, attached to FAC, Exh. 1).The Second
Notice was served after, the original Complaint was filed—thus,
Plaintiff cannot rely on the Second Notice because the facts necessary for an
unlawful detainer claim must occur prior to the filing of the lawsuit. Further,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot rely on the First Notice because it was
expressly canceled out by the language of the Second Notice, which states, “You
are further notified that this Notice supersedes all Notices to Pay Rent or
Surrender Possession of Premises or other default notices dated prior to the date
of this Notice with respect to the above-referenced Premises, but this Notice
is served in conjunction with and in addition to any and all notices of same
date.” (FAC, Exh. 4.) 
 
Defendant further argues that the FAC is uncertain and
ambiguous as to which three-day notice the action was filed upon. Lastly,
Defendant’s argue the FAC is uncertain because it asserts a breach of contract
claim for compensatory damages, which are not available in an action for
unlawful detainer. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant cites no
legal authority to support its contention that the Second Notice cannot be
grounds for the FAC. Plaintiff argues the Amended Complaint was filed more than
three days after service of the Second Notice and is thus not premature.
Plaintiff further argues the FAC adequately alleges the method of service for
each notice—the First Notice complies with Code of Civil Procedure section 1162,
subdivision (b)(3), and the Second Notice complied with Code of Civil Procedure
section 1162, subdivision (b)(3) and the Lease. Further, Plaintiff does
not seek to allege a separate claim for breach of contract. Moreover, the
remedies Plaintiff seeks—recovery of possession, past-due rent, forfeiture of
the lease, and damages related to the tenant's holding over—are consistent with
unlawful detainer action. 
 
In reply, Defendant argue that a valid three-day notice is a
prerequisite to filing an unlawful detainer action. Defendant reiterates that
Plaintiff’s amended allegations regarding the Second Notice could not have
grounded the first complaint because they did not occur when the complaint was
originally filed.
 
The Court will discuss the following issues: 1) whether the
notices were properly served and whether the FAC may rely upon the Second
Notice, 2) whether the FAC is uncertain, and 3) whether the FAC improperly
asserts a breach of contract claim. 
 
Breach of Contract Claim
 
The Court initially finds that the FAC does not assert a
separate breach of contract claim. The FAC only seeks recovery of possession,
past-due rent, forfeiture of the lease, and damages related to the tenant's
holding over. (FAC, ¶ 16.) The Court finds such remedies are awardable in an
unlawful detainer suit. The Court may not sustain the demurrer on these
grounds. 
 
Service of the Notices and
Reliance on the Second Notice
 
The parties agreed an alternative notice requirement via the
lease agreement. In commercial tenancies, parties can “lawfully agree to notice
requirements different from. . .those contained in [the Code of Civil
Procedure].” (Folberg v. Clara G.R. Kinney Co. (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d
136, 140.) Here, the lease agreement provides that “[a]ll notices required
or permitted by this [l]ease or applicable law shall be in writing and may be
delivered in person (by hand or by courier) or may be sent by overnight
delivery service guaranteeing next day delivery, with postage prepaid, and
shall be deemed sufficiently given if served in a manner specified in this
Paragraph 23.” (Compl., Exh. 1 at ¶ 23.1.)
 
As to the First Notice, the Court finds that service did not
comply with the lease agreement. The First Notice was served on Defendant by
posting a copy at the Property and then mailing it to Defendant via regular
mail. (See FAC, ¶ 9(a)-(b), Exh. 1.) Plaintiff admits that the First Notice
complied with Code of Civil Procedure section 1162, subdivision (b)(3) but not
the lease agreement, which requires notice to be served by “overnight delivery
service” and not regular mail. (See Opp. p. 10, line 2.) The Court finds the
First Notice was improperly served and thus, cannot serve as the basis for the
FAC.
 
The next issue is whether Plaintiff can rely on the Second
Notice, which was served after this action was filed and alleged in the
FAC. The Court initially finds that the Second Notice was properly served in
accordance with the lease agreement—it was posted at the property and mailed
via regular and overnight mail. (FAC, ¶ 9(c)-(d).) 
 
While service was proper, the Court finds that Plaintiff may
not rely on the Second Notice in the FAC. Plaintiff argues that the FAC, as an
amended Complaint, supersedes all prior complaints—thus, Plaintiff can rely on
the Second Notice as properly alleged in the FAC. The Court disagrees. Because
Plaintiff filed a new three-day notice after the original Complaint was
filed, the FAC is technically not an amended pleading but a “supplemental
pleading” which alleges facts occurring after the original pleading was filed.
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 464, subd. (a); see also California Farm & Fruit
Co. v. Schiappa-Pietra (1907) 151 Cal. 732, 742-743 (“The complaint,
whether original or amended, can properly speak only of things which occurred
either before or concurrently with the commencement of the action. But the
office of the supplemental complaint is to bring to notice things occurring
after the commencement of the action. . .”) (superseded by statute on unrelated
issue).) Case law provides that a supplemental pleading cannot cure a
premature lawsuit. (Radar v. Rogers (1957) 49 Cal.2d 243, 247 (“The
general rule is that where an action is prematurely brought, and the original
complaint must fall, a supplemental complaint has no place as a pleading.”).) Further,
a landlord generally need not file a supplemental unlawful detainer complaint
against an original defendant since the facts necessary to support eviction
must have occurred prior to filing of the UD complaint. (See
Friedman, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Landlord —Tenant (The Rutter Group
2024), ¶ 8:140.1.) Here, because the original Complaint was premised on an
improperly served three-day notice, the Complaint was prematurely brought.
Plaintiff cannot rely on a supplemental complaint to “aid an original complaint
which was filed before a cause of action had arisen.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Court sustains the Demurrer based on Plaintiff’s
misguided reliance on a supplemental pleading to “cure” the premature lawsuit,
where the First Notice was defective and the facts necessary to support the
action must have occurred prior to filing of the complaint. 
 
          Uncertainty
 
Defendants further demur on the grounds that the FAC is
uncertain as to which notice Plaintiff is relying on. On the face of the FAC, Plaintiff
relies on both the First and Second Notices—the opposition confirms this.
(Opp., p. 9, lines 23-24.) Yet Defendant points out that the First Notice was
explicitly withdrawn by the language of the Second Notice, which states the
following: “You are further notified that this Notice supersedes all Notices
to Pay Rent or Surrender Possession of Premises or other default notices dated
prior to the date of this Notice with respect to the above-referenced Premises.”
(FAC, Exh. 4.) 
 
Where there are inconsistencies between the notice attached
to the complaint and allegations in the complaint, the complaint may be subject
to special demurrer for uncertainty or general demurrer for failure to state a
cause of action. (See Dodd v. Citizens Bank of Costa Mesa (1990) 222
Cal.App.3d 1624, 1627; Friedman, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Landlord —Tenant
(The Rutter Group 2024), ¶ 8:225.5.) Further, “facts appearing in exhibits
attached to the complaint will also be accepted as true and, if contrary to the
allegations in the pleading, will be given precedence. (Dodd, 222
Cal.App.3d at p. 1627.)
 
The Court finds that the Second Notice, which states that it
supersedes the First Notice, must be taken as true. The Court agrees with
Defendant that the language in the Second Notice is inconsistent with the
allegations in the FAC, and thus, a demurrer lies. Further, as discussed
earlier, the FAC may not rely on the Second Notice to cure a defect in the
First Notice. 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court sustains the Demurrer
to the FAC without leave to amend. 