 Case Number:  22NWCV01310    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  C AMY N., ET AL. v. AMPAC MANAGEMENT GROUP, INC., ET
AL.
CASE NO.: 22NWCV01310
HEARING:  January 14,
2024 @ 9:30 a.m.JUDGE:  RAUL A. SAHAGUN
 
#2
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendants AMPAC
Management Group, Inc. and Villa Avila II Owners Association’s Motion for Leave
to Proceed with Neurophysiological (Mental) Examination of Plaintiff Amy N. is
DENIED.
 
Defendants to give
notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a premises liability action. On November 14, 2022,
Plaintiff Amy N., a minor, through her Guardian Ad Litem, Concepcion Ocampo
Villalobos, (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against AMPAC Management Group.,
Inc. and Does 1 to 30. Villa Avila II Owners Association was later added as a
Defendant. The Complaint alleges Defendant was the homeowners association in
charge of maintenance and repair of condominiums located at 4094 Rosemead
Boulevard, in the City of Pico Rivera, CA (“Subject Premises”). The Complaint
alleges that on June 19, 2021, as Plaintiff was playing on swings on the
Subject Premises, the swing seat broke, causing Plaintiff to fall and suffer
injuries. The Complaint alleges the two causes of action for 1) Negligence and
2) Premises Liability. 
 
Defendants AMPAC Management Group., Inc. and Villa Avila II
Owners Association (“Defendants”) now move for leave of Court to proceed with a
neuropsychological (mental) examination of Plaintiff.
 
Legal Standard
 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain
discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article 2
(commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall
obtain leave of court. 
 
(b) A motion for an examination under
subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any,
of the person or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
 
(c) Notice of the motion shall be
served on the person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the
action.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.) 
 
“(a) The court shall grant a motion for
a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause
shown.”
 
(b) If a party stipulates as provided
in subdivision (c), the court shall not order a mental examination of a person
for whose personal injuries a recovery is being sought except on a showing of
exceptional circumstances.
 
(c) A stipulation by a party under this
subdivision shall include both of the following:
(1) A stipulation that no claim is
being made for mental and emotional distress over and above that usually
associated with the physical injuries claimed.
(2) A stipulation that no expert
testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented
at trial in support of the claim for damages.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a).) 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion for mental examination shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subd. (b).) On December 20, 2024, Defense counsel sent a meet and
confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel requesting that Plaintiff voluntary submit
to a mental examination. (Williams Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. D.) On December 27, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent a response e-mail asking for a return call to discuss
the examination. (Williams Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. E.) The parties later met and
conferred telephonically—Plaintiff’s counsel would not agree to voluntary
submission of a mental examination or to Defendants’ proposal for Plaintiff to
waive all cognitive, mental, and behavioral health claims. (Williams Decl., ¶
8.) Plaintiff’s counsel proposed waiting a year to allow Plaintiff to determine
whether she would be pursuing such claims. (Ibid.) Defense counsel
contends this Motion is necessary absent an agreement by the parties. (Williams
Decl., ¶ 9.) The Court finds the meet and confer requirement has been met.
 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff has a seen a neurologist for the following
injuries listed in responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories,
and questioning at her mother’s deposition: headaches, memory loss,
motor-reflex decline, loss of sleep, nightmares, social impairment, school
setbacks, temperament issues and hair loss. (Williams Decl., ¶ 4; Exhs. A-C.)
As mentioned in the meet and confer section, Plaintiff has refused to
voluntarily submit to an additional mental examination. (Williams Decl., ¶ 8.)
Defendants seek an order requiring Plaintiff to submit to an additional mental
examination at the office of Leah Ellenberg, Ph.D., neuropsychologist, located
at 9401 Wilshire Blvd. Ste 730 Beverly Hills, CA 90212 from 9 a.m. to noon on
April 2 and 3, 2025. 
 
Defendants argue that there is good cause to compel
Plaintiff to undergo an additional mental examination by a specialist in a
different field. Defendants cite Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255 to support the contention that multiple defense
examinations may be permitted on a showing a good cause. Defendants argue that
a neuropsychologist examination is needed “to assess and evaluate treatment of
claimed cognitive, mental, and behavioral effects of brain disorders through
determination, measurement, and evaluation of Plaintiff’s claimed cognitive
symptoms and the efficacy of psychological treatment of Plaintiff.” (Williams
Decl., ¶ 9.) Defendants argue that the examination is limited only to areas
that are needed to evaluate Plaintiff’s damages claim and is reasonably
calculated to lead to discovery of admissible evidence. (Williams Decl., ¶ 10.)
Further, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has placed her mental condition at
issue and, if Plaintiff does not wish to submit to the examination, she must
wait her claim with respect to those damages for which the examination is
sought.
 
Plaintiff argues that it was first reasonably believed that
Plaintiff suffered severe mental injuries as a result of the Incident. Yet,
after medical assessment, it became apparent that she only suffered from garden
variety mental injuries associated with the physical injuries she suffered. (Perez
Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff is amendable to a stipulation pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (c), that (1) Plaintiff is making no
claim for mental and emotional distress over and above that usually associated
with the physical injuries claimed and (2) Plaintiff will not present expert
testimony at trial regarding this mental and emotional distress usually
associated with the physical injuries, in support of her claim for damages. (Perez
Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff has met and conferred with Defendants regarding a
stipulation since May 3, 2024, but Defendants indicated they were not amendable
to Plaintiff’s stipulation. (See Perez Decl., ¶ 4-8, Exh. 2.) The main point of
contention is the language of the stipulations—Defendant’s stipulation uses
more specific language regarding the types of mental injuries Plaintiff intends
to waive, and Plaintiff’s stipulation uses more general statutory language. (Perez
Decl., ¶ 6, Exhs. 1, 3.) Plaintiff has made it clear that she would only be
claiming orthopedic injuries and mental and/or emotional injuries commensurate with
such physical injuries. (Perez Decl., ¶ 7.) Nevertheless, the parties were not
able to come to an agreement regarding the stipulation up until December 31,
2024, and Plaintiff was forced to present her opposition to the present motion.
(Perez Decl., ¶ 8.) Because Plaintiff has stipulated pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (c), Plaintiff argues the Motion should
be denied.
 
Defendants argue in reply that exceptional circumstances
warrant on order for a mental examination, despite Plaintiff’s stipulation,
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (b). Defendants
argue it would be unfair for Plaintiff’s expert witness, a neurologist, to
testify about her mental injuries without allowing Defendants to offer their own
witness. In response to Plaintiff’s proposed stipulation, Defendants argue that
a more specific stipulation is consistent with the intent of Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 2032.320, subdivisions (b) and (c), and caselaw.
 
The Discovery Act permits a plaintiff to avoid the necessity
of submitting to a mental examination by stipulating that: (1) no claim is
being made for mental and emotional distress “over and above that usually
associated with the physical injuries claimed”; and (2) no psychiatric
testimony will be offered at trial in support of any claimed emotional
distress. (See CCP § 2032.320(c).) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has stipulated pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (c). Plaintiff’s proposed
stipulation borrows language directly from statute. (See Perez Decl., ¶ 6, Exh.
3.) The Court finds this language is sufficient—the statute clearly states that
if a party stipulates, the Court “shall not” order a mental examination “except
on a showing of exceptional circumstances.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320, subd.
(b).) Nothing in the statute requires Plaintiff to specify exactly which mental
injuries she disclaims. Defendant’s cited caselaw does not support the
contention that a more specific stipulation is needed—neither Doyle v.
Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878 and Davis v. Superior Court
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008 discuss stipulations under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.320, subdivision (c).
 
The Court finds Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 1249, inapplicable to support a finding of good cause to warrant an
additional mental examination. Shapira’s holding was that there is no
numerical limit on the number of mental examinations on a showing of good
cause. (Id. at p. 1255.) Yet, in that case, the plaintiff’s mental
injury, brain damage allegedly caused by defendant’s improper use of medication,
was severe and clearly at issue. (Id. at 1251-52.) Further, the
plaintiff was examined by two psychiatrists, who would testify at trial. (Id.
at p. 1254.) Here, Plaintiff has stipulated that 1) no claim is being made for
mental and emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the
physical injuries claimed, and 2) no expert witness will testify at trial as to
those mental injuries. (Perez Decl., ¶ 4.) The Court thus finds Defendants have
not offered a showing of exceptional circumstances, such as in Shapira,
that warrant an order to conduct an additional mental examination.
 
Accordingly, the Court denies Defendants’ Motion for Leave
to Proceed with Neurophysiological (Mental) Examination. 