  Case Number:  23TRCV02979    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                        Thursday, April 18, 2024 Department M                                                                                                                         Calendar
No. 10
 
  
PROCEEDINGS
 
Taylor
Trim & Supply, Inc. v. MW Residential SoCal Corp., et al.
23TRCV02979
1.      MW Residential SoCal Corp.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings

TENTATIVE RULING
 
MW Residential SoCal Corp.’s (“MW”) Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is denied without prejudice.
 
Background 
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on September 8, 2023, and
the First Amended Complaint was filed on October 17, 2023. Plaintiff alleges
the following facts. Plaintiff entered into an agreement with Defendant MW whereby
Plaintiff agreed to perform certain work on a construction project commonly
known as the Inglewood Market Gateway (“Project”), located at 213 E. Regent
Street, Inglewood, California 90301. Defendant failed to pay the full amount
due to Plaintiff.  
 
            Motion to Compel
Arbitration
 
            “California law
reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick
and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
            “The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by
a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1284.
 
            “The party opposing arbitration has
the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to
require arbitration of the dispute. 
Nonetheless, this policy does not override ordinary principles of
contract interpretation.  [T]he
contractual terms themselves must be carefully examined before the parties to
the contract can be ordered to arbitration: 
Although [t]he law favors contracts for arbitration of disputes between
parties, there is no policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of
controversies which they have not agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th
1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
            In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of
Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce
an arbitration agreement.”  Id. at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory who is the agent
of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims against his
will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
            Defendant MW moves for an order
compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and for an order for stay pending
completion of arbitration.  The motion is
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §1281 et seq. on the grounds that
Plaintiff is bound by an agreement to arbitrate the subject matter of the
Complaint. Defendant argues that a valid arbitration agreement exists between
the parties that requires arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims.  
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 states, in
relevant part: “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists[. . .]” “Generally, an
arbitration agreement must be memorialized in writing. A party's acceptance of an
agreement to arbitrate may be express, as where a party signs the agreement. A
signed agreement is not necessary, however, and a party's acceptance may be
implied in fact or be effectuated by delegated consent. An arbitration clause
within a contract may be binding on a party even if the party never actually
read the clause.” Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development
(US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (internal citations omitted).
 
            The motion is denied without
prejudice because, first, Defendant failed to submit competent evidence to
establish the existence of an arbitration agreement. Defendant refers to the
purported existence of an arbitration agreement in its memorandum of points and
authorities, but failed to attach a copy of the agreement, supported with
proper foundation, to the motion. In addition, Defendant fails to establish
Plaintiff’s refusal to arbitrate. In fact, Defendant admits that it is not yet
sure if Plaintiff will agree to arbitration. “Project personnel from Milender
White and Taylor Trim & Supply Inc., (“Taylor Trim”) have engaged in
initial discussions to resolve the dispute and, for that reason, the parties
have not yet addressed the arbitration provision within the subcontract between
Taylor Trim and Milender White” (Decl., Todd N. Bresler, ¶ 3.)  
 
            Therefore, the motion is denied
without prejudice.
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.