 Case Number:  24STCP00552    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, March 29, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCP00552
CASE NAME:                        American International Industries v. Jack LaSalle, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner American
International Industries
OPPOSING PARTY:             Respondents Jack and Diana LaSalle
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Applicable
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Petition for Protective
Order and to Quash Deposition Subpoena in Action Pending Outside of California
OPPOSITION:                        4 March 2024
REPLY:                                  22
March 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Petitioner’s motion for a protective order is
denied. Petitioner’s alternative motion to quash the subpoena is granted.
Petitioner to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On February 21, 2024,
American International Industries (“A-I-I” or “Petitioner”) filed a Petition
for a Protective Order and to Quash Deposition Action Pending Outside of
California. 
 
This petition relates to an
action filed on May 8, 2023, in the State of Washington, captioned Jack
LaSalle and Diane LaSalle v. American International Industries, et al.,
pending in the Superior Court for the State of Washington, King County, Case
No. 23-2-08165-0 SEA (“the Washington action”). The Washington action is a personal
injury action related to asbestos contamination of cosmetic talc filed by Jack
and Diane LaSalle (“Respondents”).
 
Respondents served a
subpoena for personal appearance and production of documents, electronically
stored, information, and things, on Brian Dror (“Dror”) on February 8, 2024. (See
Declaration of  David E. Ashdown ¶ 10,
Ex. F filed 02/21/2024.) Mr. Dror is A-I-I’s outside accountant, whose services
include consultation on talc litigation. (Id. at ¶ 9.) 
 
On February 23, 2024,
Petitioner A-I-I moved for a protective order or, in the alternative, to quash
the subpoena on the basis that the Respondents failed to provide notice to the
consumer pursuant to CCP § 1985.3. Respondents oppose the Motion. The matter is
now before the court. 
 
Motion for a
protective order[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard – Motion for a Protective Order
 
The court must restrict the frequency or extent of use of any
discovery method, in this case, depositions [See CCP § 2025.420], if it
determines either of the following:¿ (1) The discovery sought is unreasonably
cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more
convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive; (2) The selected method of
discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs of
the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake
in the litigation.¿ (CCP § 2019.030(a).)¿ The court may make these
determinations regarding depositions pursuant to a motion for a protective
order by a party or other affected person.¿ (CCP § 2025.420.)¿ On such a
motion, the party seeking the protective order carries the burden to show good
cause for whatever order is sought.¿ (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)¿ Only if the motion shows good cause or that
justice requires the exercise of discretion, may a court exercise its power to
order that a deposition shall not be taken or that it may be taken only at some
other time or place or in some other manner than as proposed, or that the scope
of the questions be limited or controlled in certain specified manners, etc.¿
(See Beverly Hills Nat'l Bank & Trust Co. v. Superior Court (1961)
195 Cal.App.2d 861, 866.)¿ The motion must also be accompanied by a “meet and
confer” declaration under CCP § 2016.040.¿ (CCP §§ 2019.030(b), 2025.420(a).) 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Petitioner A-I-I seeks a
protective order on the basis that the discovery sought is duplicative and that
Respondents are trying to gain an unfair advantage by attempting to select
Plaintiff’s 30(b)(6)(person most qualified). 
 
Petitioners argue that the
subpoena on Mr. Dror is unreasonably cumulative and duplicative, making the
request unduly burdensome and oppressive. (CCP § 2910.030(a).) Petitioner
asserts that Respondents have already served six sets of Request for Production
of Documents on each of A-I-I’s partners in the Washington action, with each
set containing 109 requests. (Ashdown Decl. Ex. B.) Respondents also served six
30(b)(6) notices of deposition on A-I-I and its five partners containing 114
categories of inquiry which correspond to over 100 requests for production of
documents. (Ashdown Decl. Ex. D.)
 
Petitioners answered
Respondents’ Request for Production of Documents and produced over 2500 pages
of documents. (Ashdown Decl. Ex. C.) Deposition dates have already been
provided and Mr. Dror has already been deposed as a 30(b)(6) witness on behalf
of A-I-I in the Washington action. (Ashdown Decl. ¶ 7; Reply at p. 1:25-26.) Petitioners
request that Mr. Dror’s deposition not take place and that all writing
designated in the subpoena not be produced because the discovery requested is
duplicative of the discovery issued to A-I-I and its partners in the Washington
action. 
 
Respondents believe that
Mr. Dror is an officer of A-I-I’s corporate partners and has knowledge and
documents pertaining to A-I-I’s products, structure, the structure of its
corporate partners, decision-making process, finances, and involvement in prior
talc litigation. Respondents assert that they are entitled to discovery as a
matter of right. “A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action ... if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP §
2017.010.) “Section 2017.010 and other statutes governing discovery ‘must be
construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly
improper by virtue of well-established causes for denial.’ [Citation.] This
means that ‘disclosure is a matter of right unless statutory or public policy
considerations clearly prohibit it.’ [Citation.]” (Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) 
 
If a party asserts a
“burdensome” objection, that party bears the burden of “showing the quantum of
work required” to respond to discovery and articulate that burden that is being
imposed on that party. (West Pico Furniture Co. v. Los Angeles v. Superior
Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417-418.) Petitioner asserts that Respondents
seek no “new” information and “cut and paste” from previous document requests
and deposition notices to A-1-1 and its partners in the Washington action. However,
Petitioner fails to explain why providing the same information to Respondents
is burdensome in terms of time and expense or why the Petitioner cannot object
to the requested discovery on an individual basis rather than object to the
entire request. 
 
In the alternative to
seeking a protective order, “a
party may object to a particular discovery
request, placing the burden on the party seeking discovery to enforce discovery
through a motion to compel.” (Fairmont Ins. Co., supra, 22
Cal.4th at p. 255.) Petitioner’s separate statement asserts that Respondents failed
to utilize the least restrictive means of obtaining the information sought
without identifying what those less restrictive means are and how those means
would not infringe on the Respondents’ right to discovery. In other words,
Petitioners fail to explain why the information sought from Mr. Dror is “obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less
burdensome, or less expensive.” (CCP § 2019. 030.) While Petitioner’s separate
statement objects to each item requested on the basis that the request is
duplicative, the objections fail to show that each item requested has already
been produced and where each item may be found. Instead, the objections are
conclusory and merely assert that the item requested is duplicative. 
 
Accordingly, Petitioner fails to show good cause for the
protective order. (CCP § 2025.420.) 
 
On reply, Petitioner asserts that it is entitled to a protective
order pursuant to CCP § 2019.030(a) and that this provision contains no requirement
to show good cause for a protective order. The court is aware that section
2019.030, like section 2017.020, provide limits on the scope, extent, and
frequency of discovery and allows a party to seek a protective order, but the
protective order is made pursuant to a separate statutory provision, here
section 2025.420, which states in relevant part: 
(b) The court, for good
cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party,
deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.
 
(CCP, §
2025.420(b) [italics added].) 
 
In Fairmont Ins. Co. the California Supreme Court was aware of
former section 2019(b)(1), the predecessor to section 2019. 030[2],
and noted that the standard for granting a protective order was a showing of
“good cause[3]”: 
 
Of course, a party objecting to particular discovery
requests, e.g., as unduly burdensome or oppressive, may seek a protective
order. [Citations.] In such case, the burden is on the party seeking
the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is sought. [Citation.]
 
(Id. at pp. 255.) Petitioner fails to
cite any case that would permit granting a protective order without a showing
of good cause. Moreover, the Editor’s note to section 2019.030 and the Legislative
Counsel’s Digest to AB 3081 that amended the former section 2019(b)(1) state
that the changes were not intended to substantively change the law of civil
discovery. 
 
Based on the above, the Petitioner’s request
for a protective order is denied. 
 
MOTION TO QUASH
 
I.         Legal Standard – Motion to Quash Subpoena 
 
CCP § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a
subpoena when necessary.¿ Section 1987.1 states, “If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things
before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a
deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.¿ In addition, the
court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”¿
 
II.        Discussion
 
Petitioner moves to quash
the subpoena on the basis that A-I-I is a consumer under CCP § 1985.3 and
Respondents failed to comply with the notice requirements applicable to
personal records of consumers. 
 
Section 1985.2 states in
the relevant part: 
 
(a) For purposes of this
section, the following definitions apply:
 
(1) “Personal records” means the original,
any copy of books, documents, other writings, or electronically stored
information pertaining to a consumer and which are maintained by any “witness”
which is a . . . accountant . . . [.]
 
(2) “Consumer” means any individual, partnership of
five or fewer persons, association, or trust which has transacted business with, or has used the services of, the
witness or for whom the witness has acted as agent or fiduciary.
 
(3)
“Subpoenaing party” means the person or persons causing a subpoena duces tecum
to be issued or served in connection with any civil action or proceeding
pursuant to this code, but shall not include the state or local agencies
described in Section 7465 of the Government Code, or any entity provided for
under Article VI of the California Constitution in any proceeding maintained
before an adjudicative body of that entity pursuant to Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 6000) of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code.
 
[ . .
. ]
 
The parties do not dispute that if Petitioner is a consumer
under section 1985.3(a)(2), then Respondents are required to provide Petitioner
with a consumer privacy protection notice under section 1985.3(e) and proof of
service in compliance with section 1985.3(c)(1). 
 
Respondents assert that section 1985.3 does not apply because
Petitioners are a corporate entity made up of five partnerships. Petitioners
assert they are a family-run California general partnership and that each of
the five partners that compromise A-I-I’s are Glamour Industries Co.,
SRYZ Corp., ARYZ Corp., ERX Corp., and RAZY Properties, Inc. (See Mot. at p.
1:1-13, fn. 2.) Accordingly, whether Petitioner is a “Consumer” depends on
whether A-1-1 fits the definition of “partnership of five or fewer persons.”
(CCP § 1985.3(a)(2).) 
 
Petitioners point out that
under CCP §§ 116.130(e) and (f), a “Person” “means an individual, corporation,
partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, firm,
association, or other entity” whereas “Individual” “means a natural person.” Therefore,
Petitioner argues that A-I-I is a partnership of five or fewer persons or
corporations, thus entitled to the notice protections under section 1985.3. The
court finds that if the Legislature intended to limit the protections of
section 1985.3 it would have limited the definition of “partnership” to “five
or fewer individuals” rather than “five or fewer persons.” 
 
“Any consumer whose personal records are
sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil action in
which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for
production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena
duces tecum.” (CCP § 1985.3(g).) “Failure to comply with this section shall be
sufficient basis for the witness to refuse to produce the personal records
sought by a subpoena duces tecum.” (CCP § 1985.1(k).)


Respondents assert that because Petitioners
have sufficient notice of the subpoena, strict compliance with the notice
requirements of section 1985.3 is not required. Respondents provide no legal or
statutory support for this proposition. More importantly, case law provides
differently: 
 
Because
defendants' subpoenas seek the personal information of investigated or
disciplined health care professionals, without redaction, defendants were
required to provide notice to these persons. Defendants did not do so. The
state agencies properly refused to produce such information. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (k).) The trial court erred by ordering its production.


(Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior
Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1038.) 
 
In sum, Mr. Dror is excused from providing
A-I-I’s personal records under section 1985.3(k). While Respondents argue that
Mr. Dror may be excused from providing personal records, he is not excused from
appearing at the deposition and testifying. However,  if Mr. Dror is to testify, what will he
testify about if not A-I-I’s personal records? Respondents’ subpoena requests
document production pertaining to A-I-I’s personal records as maintained by Mr.
Dror as a “witness,” and Respondents failed to show that Mr. Dror’s deposition
can still proceed without Respondents compliance with section 1985.3. 
 
Accordingly, the Petitioner’s motion to quash
is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Petitioner’s motion for a protective
order is denied. Petitioner’s alternative motion to quash the subpoena is
granted. Petitioner to give notice.
 


