 Case Number:  23VECV03208    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  T 23VECV03208 KENNETH NWOBI
vs VERITAS GLOBAL PROTECTION SERVICES, INC 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Veritas Global Protection Services,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action is GRANTED.   Arbitration status conference is set
_________, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
Introduction 
Defendant Veritas Global
Protection Services, Inc. (Defendant) moved to compel arbitration and stay
Plaintiff Kenneth Nwobi’s (Plaintiff) action. 

Discussion  
Defendant asserted that the Guard
Service Contract (Contract) purchased by Plaintiff included an arbitration
agreement.  (Brian Williams Decl. par. 4,
Exh. 1: See pg. 3, Section II, subsection 6.) 
Defendant further asserted that Plaintiff’s claims that Defendant
failed/refused to pay for repairs services to Plaintiff’s vehicle, as required
under the Contract are covered under the arbitration agreement.  Defendant met its initial burden to show the
existence of the arbitration agreement and that Plaintiff’s claims are covered
under the agreement.  The burden shifts
to Plaintiff to dispute enforcement.
Plaintiff argued that Defendant
lacks standing to invoke the arbitration provision because the terms “we” and
“us” in the Contract refer to Old Republic Insured Automotive Services,
Inc.  (Old Republic) (Williams Decl.,
par. 4, Exh. 1, pg. 2.)  Defendant is
only identified as the “Administrator” and not referenced in the arbitration
agreement.  However, Defendant countered
that they are the “distributor” of the contract on behalf of Old Republic.  The “distributor” is expressly named as a
person covered under the definition of “we” in the arbitration agreement.  Because Defendant is shown to be a
“distributor” for Old Republic and the “distributor” is a person that is
included in the definition of “we,” Defendant sufficiently  overcame Plaintiff’s dispute as to
standing.  Plaintiff failed to dispute
enforcement of the arbitration agreement. 

The parties' arguments as to
third-party beneficiary status of Defendant is not considered and moot because
Defendant sufficiently provided “distributor” status of the obligor, Old
Republic.  
The motion to compel arbitration
and stay the action is GRANTED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.