  Case Number:  21STCV04357    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Dignity Community Care’s Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
Defendant
Dignity Community Care dba California Hospital Medical Center (Dignity) moves for
an order determining good faith settlement under Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6(a).  Defendant Bryan D.
Hubbard, M.D., opposes the motion.
When
only some of multiple defendants alleged to be jointly liable settle a case,
the settling parties may apply to the court for a determination of good faith
settlement.  (CCP § 877.6(a).)  A determination of good faith settlement “shall
bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against
the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution,
or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”  (CCP § 877.6(c).)
In
Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488
(Tech-Bilt), the California Supreme Court set forth a non-exclusive list
of factors to consider in making this determination.  “The intent and policies underlying section
877.6 require that a number of factors be taken into account including a rough
approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds
among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.  Other relevant considerations include the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as
well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure
the interests of nonsettling defendants. 
[Citation.]  Finally, practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.”  (Id. at p. 499.)
The
opposing party bears “the burden below to show the settlement amount was ‘so
far “out of the ballpark” in relation to’ the Tech–Bilt factors that the
settlement was inconsistent with the equitable objectives of section
877.6.”  (Cahill v. San Diego Gas
& Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 967 (Cahill); accord
CCP § 877.6(d) [“The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the
burden of proof on that issue”].) 
Because the opposing party bears the burden of proof, the moving party
is “not compelled to make a showing as to their proportionate liability” when
bringing its motion.  (Mattco Forge,
Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1350, fn. 6 (Mattco).)  But after an opposing party “attack[s] the
settlement as lacking in good faith,” the moving party must “file
counter-affidavits (§ 877.6, subd. (b)) to make an evidentiary showing that the
settlement was ‘in the ballpark.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
To
prevail over an opposing party, “[s]ection 877.6 and Tech–Bilt require
an evidentiary showing, through expert declarations or other means, that the
proposed settlement is within the reasonable range permitted by the criterion
of good faith.”  (Mattco, supra,
at p. 1351.)  A determination of good
faith requires “substantial evidence,” which “is not synonymous with ‘any’
evidence; rather, it means the evidence must be of ponderable legal
significance, reasonable, credible, and of solid value.”  (Cahill, supra, 194 Cal.App.4th at p.
958.)  Finally, “the determination
whether the settlement was in good faith must be based on competent, admissible
evidence.”  (Brehm Communities v.
Superior Court (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 730, 736.)
Dignity
presents insufficient evidence on the key factors: plaintiff George Smith’s
approximate total recovery and Dignity’s proportionate liability.  In the settlement, Dignity paid plaintiff
$29,999.  With its moving papers, the
only evidence Dignity submitted was the declaration of its counsel.  (Guzé Decl., ¶¶ 1-8.)  Dignity’s counsel describes the settlement
and Dignity’s efforts to have Hubbard agree the settlement was in good faith.  (Id., ¶¶ 2-5, 8.)  He also makes the following conclusory
statement: Dignity “disputes liability and has the support of two expert
witnesses, including a general surgeon and a radiologist.  These experts were prepared to testify in
support of” Dignity.  (Id., ¶
6.)  
Dignity
presents additional evidence with its reply. 
In plaintiff’s interrogatory responses, he stated, “At this point in
time, plaintiff is not asserting a loss of earnings claim.”  (Supp. Guzé Decl., Ex. E, response to No.
8.1.)  At deposition, plaintiff testified
he lost approximately $21,000 to $50,000 in earnings.  (Id., Ex. D, Smith Depo.,
15:25-17:15.)  Dignity also presents
evidence that plaintiff did not respond to inquiries about “any Medi-Cal lien
asserted against” plaintiff.  (Id.,
¶ 4.)    
Smith’s
lost earnings and medical expenses do not paint a complete picture of his
potential recovery.  Dignity’s evidence does
not account for Smith’s pain and suffering in this personal injury/medical
malpractice action.  Smith’s
interrogatory responses do not state the amount of damages he claims for pain
and suffering, but he attested to suffering “a plethora of bodily injuries”
causing “severe pain.”  (Supp. Guzé Decl.
Ex. E, response to No. 6.2.)  His
responses further stated his “pain was so strong that it forced him to
repeatedly seek medical attention” at an emergency room and that he “was
devastated by the pain.”  (Ibid.)  
Smith
also responded that he continues to suffer: “The problem is so apparent that
even walking up the stairs to go to his front door has become arduous.  He now has to stop once or twice to catch his
breath just to walk up the stairs. 
…  [His] shortness of breath also
prevents him from doing the ordinary activities which he enjoyed, such as
walking around his neighborhood to do errands or just to go and get lunch.”  (Supp. Guzé Decl. Ex. E, response to No.
6.3.)  
Dignity
does not present substantial evidence approximating plaintiff’s total recovery.  It also presents no evidence (or argument) as
to the proportionate liability of Dignity and its co-defendants.  The court therefore lacks a sufficient basis
to determine that, under the Tech-Bilt factors, Dignity’s settlement of $29,999
was in good faith.
Disposition
Defendant
Dignity Community Care dba California Hospital Medical Center’s motion for
determination of good faith settlement is denied without prejudice.