..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV20057
Plaintiff's Name: Christopher T. Manshardt
Defendant's Name: James Jaber, M.D., LA Downtown Medical Center, LLC, Preferred IPA of California, A Professional Medical Corporation, and DOES 1 THROUGH 10, inclusive
People-Names: 
Company-Names: LA Downtown Medical Center, LLC, Preferred IPA of California, A Professional Medical Corporation
Places: 
Dates: 
Events: 
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: 
Case Citations: 
Statutes: 
Roles: 
Significant Statements: 

```

Here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The court has considered the demurrer filed by Defendant LA Downtown Medical Center, LLC, and has sustained it with respect to the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action. The court has also sustained the demurrer as to the third and fourth causes of action for fraud and negligent misrepresentation, respectively.

The court has found that the plaintiff's allegations do not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for battery, breach of fiduciary duty, intentional infliction of emotional distress, or negligent supervision/retention against Defendant LA Downtown Medical Center, LLC.

The court has granted the plaintiff leave to amend the complaint to plead facts that state a cause of action for the dismissed causes of action.

The court has also noted that the plaintiff's failure to address the issue of vicarious liability and the requirement of particularized allegations of the basis for vicarious liability and of ratification of the derivatively liable party in the fraud and negligent misrepresentation causes of action contributes to the dismissal of these causes of action.

The court has ordered that the plaintiff file an amended complaint within 30 days of the date of this order.
