  Case Number:  22STCV07996    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No. 
Cornwell vs. City of Compton, et. al.,
Case No. 22STCV07996
            
Tentative Ruling re: 
Plaintiff’s Demurrer to Defendant’s Second Amended Answer
 
Plaintiff Craig J. Cornwell (Plaintiff)
demurs to the 3rd-15th, 17th, and 18th Affirmative Defenses in the Second Amended
Answer (SAA) of Defendant City of Los Angeles (Defendant). The Court overrules
the demurrer as to Affirmative Defense Nos. 4, 6, 7, 9, and 13, and otherwise
sustains the demurrer. 
A
plaintiff may demur to a defendant’s answer within 10 days of being served with
the answer (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.40(b)) on three grounds: (1) failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a defense; (2) uncertainty; or (3) failure
to state whether a contract alleged in the answer is written or oral. (Id.,
§ 430.20). The demurrer may be to the whole answer or to any one or more
of the several defenses set up in the answer. (Code Civ. Proc., §430.50(b).) 
“Generally
speaking, the determination whether an answer states a defense is governed by
the same principles which are applicable in determining if a complaint states a
cause of action.”  (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964)
226 Cal. App. 2d 725, 732.)  “[T]he demurrer to the answer admits all
issuable facts pleaded therein and eliminates all allegations of the complaint
denied by the answer.”  (Id. at 733.)  Unlike a demurrer to a complaint,
“the defect in question need not appear on the face of the answer” as “[t]he
determination of the sufficiency of the answer requires an examination of the
complaint because its adequacy is with reference to the complaint it purports
to answer.” (Ibid.) 
The
Court finds the allegations in the SAA, liberally construed, sufficient to
support the affirmative defenses for unclean hands, laches, failure to mitigate,
and statute of frauds. (SAA ¶¶ 4, 6, 7, 9, 13.) These affirmative defenses are
supported by factual allegations and are not merely “terse legal conclusions.” (FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.) Plaintiff
argues that his alleged conduct supporting the affirmative defense for unclean
hands was not wrongful; however, “[w]hether the doctrine of unclean hands
applies is a question of fact.” (Kendall-Jackson Winery, Ltd. v. Superior
Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 970, 978.) In addition, while Plaintiff argues
that the defense for “Public Entity Immunity from Common Law Torts” (SAA ¶ 18)
is inapplicable because Plaintiff’s claims are in contract, the defense may
apply to Plaintiff’s tort claim for promissory fraud. (SAC ¶ 58.) Accordingly,
the demurrer is overruled as to the fourth through seventh, ninth, thirteenth, and
eighteenth affirmative defenses.
            Otherwise, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that
Defendant’s affirmative defenses are legally insufficient or inapplicable to
the facts pled. 
Defendant’s third
affirmative defense is for estoppel. “The requisite elements for equitable estoppel against a private party are: (1) the
party to be estopped was apprised of the
facts, (2) the party to be estopped
intended by conduct to induce reliance by the other party, or acted so as to
cause the other party reasonably to believe reliance was intended, (3) the
party asserting estoppel was ignorant of
the facts, and (4) the party asserting estoppel
suffered injury in reliance on the conduct.” (Medina v. Board of Retirement
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 864, 868.) Defendant alleges that Plaintiff must be
estopped from asserting the employment contract, because “(i) Plaintiff is
aware that reportable action needed to be taken during the February 23, 2021
and/or March 16, 2021 closed sessions in order for the agreement alleged in the
SAC to be final . . . (ii) Plaintiff is aware that the only employment contract
for city manager that he entered into with Defendant was the Employment Agreement
… executed on July 23, 2019 … and (iii) on or around February 23, 2021 when
Plaintiff presented Defendant with counterproposals of a proposed contract of
employment, Plaintiff intended that Defendant would and did act in reliance
upon such counterproposals by furthering negotiating the terms of these
proposals…” (SAA ¶ 3.) These allegations fail to show any fact of which
Defendant was ignorant and Plaintiff was apprised, and so have not satisfied the
third element of equitable estoppel. 
Defendant
presents no authority in support of its fifth affirmative defense, which
asserts that Plaintiff’s alleged failure to oppose the open session votes
constituted waiver.
Defendant’s
eighth affirmative defense for ratification alleges, “to the extent any
agreement ever came into existence . . . Plaintiff ratified the public open
session votes disapproving of the employment extension agreement and all
modifications thereof,” when he “voiced no complaint or opposition in any public
open session meeting . . . where his employment extension agreement . . . failed
to be approved by a majority vote.” (SAA ¶ 8.) Ratification has no application
to the facts alleged. “Ratification is the voluntary election by a person to
adopt in some manner as his own an act which was purportedly done on his behalf
by another person, the effect of which, as to some or all persons, is to treat
the act as if originally authorized by him.” (Rakestraw v. Rodrigues
(1972) 8 Cal.3d 67, 73.) Defendant’s alleged decision to reject the employment
extension agreement was not an act “purportedly done on [Plaintiff’s] behalf,”
and it is unclear how Plaintiff could have ratified the decision in this
context. 
Defendant’s
affirmative defenses for “Discharge of Duty/Full Performance” (SAA ¶ 10),
“C.C.P. § 128.7 Violation” (¶ 11), “Failure of Conditions Precedent” (¶ 12),
“The Ralph M. Brown Act” (¶ 14), and “City of Compton Charter and City
Municipal Code” (¶ 15) are improper because they are not affirmative defenses. “An affirmative
defense is
an allegation of new matter in the answer that is
not responsive
to an essential allegation in the complaint.
In other words, an affirmative defense is an allegation relied on by the defendant
that is not put in issue by the plaintiff's complaint. [Citations.] Where the
answer alleges facts showing that some essential allegation of the complaint is
not true, those facts are not ‘new matter,’ but only a traverse.” (The Bank
of New York Mellon v. Preciado (2013) 224 Cal.App.4th Supp. 1, 8.) Finally,
the affirmative defense for “Public Policy” (¶ 17) fails to plead any public
policy that would bar Plaintiff’s claims.