 Case Number:  22STCV15523    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No. 
Lima-Washington vs. Pasadena Unified School
District, et. al., Case
No. 22STCV15523
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration
 
            Plaintiff Antoinette Lima-Washington
(Plaintiff) moves for reconsideration of the Court’s November 8, 2023 Order
denying Plaintiff leave to file the Third Amended Complaint (TAC). The motion
is opposed by Defendants Pasadena Unified School District and Michael Bell
(collectively, Defendants). The motion is denied.
 
“When an application for an order has
been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order
may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of
the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and
to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008,
subd. (a).)
            Trial courts have broad discretion
in ruling on motions to reconsider a prior order. (Monroy v. City of Los
Angeles (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 248, 265.) “A party seeking reconsideration
also must provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce the
evidence at an earlier time.” (Yolo County Dept. of Child Support Services
v. Myers (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 42, 50.)
On November 8, 2023, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File the Third Amended Complaint based on
Plaintiff’s failure to satisfy Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b). The
Court found that Plaintiff failed to identify which added facts were newly
discovered, specify when those facts were discovered, or explain why the
amendment was necessary or proper.
 
Plaintiff’s motion sought to amend the
SAC to add two causes of action, for Retaliation under CFRA (Gov. Code §
12945.2) and Negligent Supervision. Plaintiff now moves the Court to reconsider
the November 8, 2023 Order (the Order) in part and permit Plaintiff to add only
the CFRA claim.
 
As an initial matter, the motion is not
untimely. Plaintiff filed her motion on November 20, 2023. November 18, 2023,
fell on a Saturday, and so the deadline to file the motion became the following
Monday, November 20. (Code Civ. Proc. § 12a.)
 
            Plaintiff moves to reconsider the
Order on the basis that new facts were discovered during the deposition of
Giovana Lovada Valdez (Valdez), who was assigned to Plaintiff’s classroom as a
substitute teacher during the year of Plaintiff’s CFRA leave. (Cook Decl. ¶ 6,
Ex. D.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that the transcript for Valdez’s deposition
was received only after the motion for leave to amend was filed. (Cook Decl. ¶
5.) Valdez testified that she was placed in Plaintiff’s classroom during
Plaintiff’s leave, and that Defendant Michael Bell told her that she could
expect to remain in the classroom. (Cook Decl., Ex. D [22].) Plaintiff also
states that Michael Mendelle, the school’s custodian, recently testified that
“[Plaintiff’s] classroom was taken over by another teacher.” (Cook Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
This evidence does not show any “new or
different facts [or] circumstances” warranting reconsideration. It does not
appear that the facts described are newly discovered, given that Plaintiff
alleged in prior complaints that Bell “had ‘thrown away’ her personal
belongings, books and teaching materials” during her leave of absence. (SAC ¶
34.) The Court also notes that the facts underlying Plaintiff’s proposed CFRA
cause of action were pled in previous complaints. (Cook Decl. ISO Motion for
Leave to Amend, TAC ¶¶ 44-54, 121-123; compare SAC ¶¶ 34-46.) Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint and Complaint each included a cause of action for Retaliation
under CFRA, but the claim was omitted from the SAC.
 
Furthermore, even assuming that this
evidence constituted “new facts” under Section 1008, it would not warrant
reconsideration of the prior ruling. A “new
fact” must “relat[e] to the merits of the
underlying motion.” (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494,
1500.) The purportedly new
evidence cited by Plaintiff would not satisfy the requirements to show “when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered” and “the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier” under Rule 3.1324,
subd. (b), given that Plaintiff’s proposed CFRA claim was premised on facts
already pled in prior complaints. 
 