  Case Number:  21STCV03986    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA ex
  rel. FRANK J. CANNATA,
 
                             Relator,
 
                              vs.
LUCKY’S
  TWO-WAY RADIOS, INC., a Nevada Corporation; BUDDY CORPORATION, a California
  Corporation; JAMES A. KAY, JR., an individual; DOES 1 through 20, Inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case
  No.:  21STCV03986
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 02/01/2021 
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 02/09/2023]
Trial
  Date: 09/03/2024



 
Hearing
date:              05/31/2024
Moving
Party:             Defendants
Lucky’s Two-Way Radios, Inc.; Buddy Corporation;                                        and
James A Kay Jr. 
Responding
Party:      N/A
- Unopposed
The Court
considered the moving papers. Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Form Interrogatories is GRANTED. The Court requests that Defense
Counsel provide calculations for the requested sanctions prior to the Court
imposing sanctions on Relator.

 

       
I.           
Background
Factual Background
            This
case stems from accusations of insurance fraud. On February 1, 2021, Frank J.
Cannata (Relator) filed a Complaint against three defendants: (1) Lucky’s
Two-Way Radios, Inc.; (2) Buddy Corporation; (3) and James A. Kay Jr
(collectively Defendants). The Complaint alleges that Defendants violated the
California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act (IFPA or INS § 1871.7). On February
9, 2023, Relator filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC). The
violations are grounded in Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendants owned
several pieces of defunct electronic equipment. (FAC, pgs. 5-7.) The Defendants
allege that this equipment was stolen by Relator, this allegation in and of
itself is the basis for a separate case, Lucky’s Two-Way Radios, Inc., et
al. vs. Frank J. Cannata, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. LC106864
(hereinafter, Case No. LC106864). (See Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice,
Exh. 1.) Per Plaintiff, after Defendants reported the theft, they claimed that
the value of the loss was $881,190.43. Plaintiff alleges that this value is
grossly inflated and constitutes fraud upon Defendants’ insurer Hartford Fire
Insurance Company, as the fair market value of the missing electronics is less
than $20,000.00. (FAC, ¶ 29.) Relator then filed suit. 
            The
motion before the Court is Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Form Interrogatories (the Motion). No opposition has been filed. 
   
II.           
Discussion 
Legal Standard
            The
propounding party may bring motions to compel further responses to
interrogatories or requests for production if it believes (1) the responses
received are evasive, or (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections raised are
meritless or too general. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a).) A
respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a motion filed
to compel further responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) The Court may impose a monetary sanction against the
losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
Analysis
            Defendants
contend that after propounding Form Interrogatories to Relator, the responses
received back were evasive and that when supplemental responses were promised
by Relator they were never received. The Court agrees and grants the Motion. 
            Defendants
propounded their initial discovery on December 19, 2023. Responses were
received on January 29, 2024 which contained objections and promises that
substantive responses would follow. (Declaration of Timothy D. McGonigle,
hereinafter, McGonigle Decl., ¶3.) As of the filing of the instant Motion, no
substantive responses were received. Attempts to meet and confer by Defendants
proved futile. (Id. at ¶¶4-5.)
            There
are 15 form interrogatories in dispute. Defendants correctly point out that the
Form Interrogatories propounded were authored by the California Judicial
Council. Objections to these interrogatories, like all objections, must be
substantiated by the objecting party, however, as no opposition has been filed,
Relator has failed to do so.           Although
the majority of the responses state that “Supplemental responses will be
furnished shortly” (See Separate Statement ISO Defendant’s Motion), no
responses were furnished. 
            The
responses that constitute objections are meritless. For example, Relator
objected to Form Interrogatory No. 2.5 which requests that the Relator state
their present address and addresses over the past five years. The objection is
based on privacy rights but has no grounds. This is a routine interrogatory
that must be answered. Similarly, the objection to Form Interrogatory No. 2.11
contends that the term “Incident” is overbroad. Relator filed this action and
is surely aware of the subject incident of this suit, moreover, this could have
been resolved upon Defendants’ attempts to meet and confer. Finally, the
objections that claim the Form Interrogatories are overbroad, oppressive, or
unintelligible are unpersuasive. As noted above these interrogatories were
authored and approved by the California Judicial Council. (See  Cal.
Prac. Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial, The Rutter Group 2023.) Accordingly,
the Motion is granted and sanctions are warranted. 
¶8:933. 
Sanctions
            Defense
counsel requests $4,500 in attorney’s fees and costs for bringing the instant
Motion, however, Defense counsel provides no calculations for how they arrived
at this figure. 
 
  III.           
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.
The Court requests that Defense Counsel provide calculations for the requested
sanctions prior to the Court imposing sanctions on Relator. 
 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: May 31, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court