 Case Number:  23STCV04377    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Ashley Ingraham,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV04377




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Carroll, Kelly, Trotter & Franzen, A Law Corporation, 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 12, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendant Carroll, Kelly, Trotter & Franzen, A Law Corporation
Responding Party: Plaintiff Ashley Ingraham
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
THE ACTION IS STAYED.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative
first amended complaint against Defendant, asserting seven causes of action for
Labor Code violations.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists….”  (CCP § 1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration exists unless
the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s conduct, other
grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a pending court action
arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  
(CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
 
A.           Existence of
Arbitration Agreement 
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the Arbitration Agreement executed by Plaintiff on April 16, 2018.
(Decl. Bischak, Exh. 1.) The agreement provides, “I hereby
agree to submit to binding arbitration all disputes and claims arising out of the
submission of this application. I further agree, in the event that I am hired
by Caroll, Kelly, Trotter, Franzen, McBride & Peabody, that all disputes
that cannot be resolved by informal internal resolution which might arise out
of employment with Carroll, Kelly, Trotter, Franzen, McBride & Peabody,
whether during or after that employment, will be submitted to binding
arbitration. I agree that such arbitration shall be conducted under the rules
of the American Arbitration Association. This application contains the entire
agreement between the parties with regard to dispute resolution, and there are
no other agreements as to dispute resolution, either oral or written.” (Id.) 
 
Defendant has met its burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
1. Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration
agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is an adhesion contract,
and Plaintiff was rushed into signing it. Regarding procedural
unconscionability, the California Supreme Court has found:
 
“[T]here are degrees of procedural unconscionability. At
one end of the spectrum are contracts that have been freely negotiated by
roughly equal parties, in which there is no procedural unconscionability . . .
. Contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices lie on
the other end of the spectrum. [Citation.] Ordinary contracts of adhesion,
although they are indispensable facts of modern life that are generally
enforced (see Graham v. Scissor–Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807,
817–818, 171 Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165), contain a degree of procedural
unconscionability even without any notable surprises, and ‘bear within them the
clear danger of oppression and overreaching.’ (Id. at p. 818 [171
Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165].)” (Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 443, 469, 64 Cal.Rptr.3d 773, 165 P.3d 556.)
 
(Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.) 
 
Generally, in the employer-employee
context, there is unequal bargaining power. (See Amendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 115 [“in the case of
preemployment arbitration contracts, the economic pressure exerted by employers
on all but the most sought-after employees may be particularly acute, for the
arbitration agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and
few employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration
requirement.”] 
 
The Court finds a very low degree of
procedural unconscionability here, as the agreement is one of adhesion. This
low degree of procedural unconscionability does not render the arbitration
agreement unconscionable; to find the agreement unenforceable, the degree of
substantive unconscionability must be high. (See Dotson v. Amgen, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 981.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it does not contain a jury waiver, it
lacks mutuality, and it does not specify which AAA rules apply. That the
agreement does not contain a jury waiver or specify the governing AAA rules does
not render the agreement substantively unconscionable. The agreement states
that all disputes must be submitted to arbitration under the AAA rules; this
does not imply that the agreement is unfair or overly one-sided. Similarly, the
agreement does not lack mutuality. It states that all disputes relating to
Plaintiff’s employment must be submitted to arbitration. This implies that any
dispute related to Plaintiff’s employment, regardless of who has brought the
dispute, must be arbitrated. The agreement is not unconscionable. 
2. Waiver
Plaintiff asserts Defendant has waived the
right to arbitrate because it did not indicate it would seek arbitration in its
case management statement or answer. This is insufficient to establish waiver. 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED. The action is STAYED.
 
 
 
 
 
 