 Case Number:  23STCV11736    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant
Stephanie Garcia’s Motion to Set Aside Default and Any Default Judgment
Defendant Stephanie Garcia moves to set aside her
default and the default judgment against her. 

This motion is procedurally defective.  Defendant filed this motion without any proof
she served it on plaintiff National Commercial Recovery, Inc. d/b/a Blair Smith
and Associates.  When a party files
anything in court, that party must also send a copy to the other parties, which
is known as serving the document.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1005 & 1010.) 
That party must also file proof of service with the court.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1013a-1013b; Cal.
Rules of court, rule 3.1300(c).)  Defendant
cannot file documents in court without both serving a copy on plaintiff and
filing a proof of service with the court.
The motion is also procedurally defective because
defendant did not attach a copy of a proposed answer or other responsive
pleading.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b) permits a defendant to apply for relief from a
default and default judgment.  That
subdivision further provides, “Application for this relief shall be accompanied
by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein,
otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  Defendant did not submit a copy of a proposed
answer to plaintiff’s complaint.  The
court therefore cannot grant this motion. 

Finally, defendant did not file a memorandum in
support of this motion as required.  “A
party filing a motion, except for a motion listed in rule 3.1114, must serve
and file a supporting memorandum.  The
court may construe the absence of a memorandum as an admission that the motion
… is not meritorious and cause for its denial.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(a).) 
Defendant’s motion states, “This Motion is based on the Memorandum of
Points and Authorities and the Declaration of Stephanie Garcia, the defendant,
which follows… .”  But defendant did not attach
a memorandum of points and authorities or a supporting declaration.
Defendant Stephanie Garcia’s motion to set aside
default and default judgment is denied
without prejudice.
 
 