  Case Number:  22TRCV00067    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                         Tuesday, March 26, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 10  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jeff
Williams v. City of Torrance, et al.   
22TRCV00067

1.     
City of
Torrance’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint 
2.     
City of
Torrance’s Motion to Strike Portions of Third Amended Complaint   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

City of Torrance’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint
is sustained without leave to amend.
 
City of Torrance’s Motion to Strike Portions of Third
Amended Complaint is moot.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on January 28, 2022. Plaintiff’s
Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) was filed on July 12, 2023. Plaintiff alleges
the following facts. Plaintiff is a firefighter paramedic for Defendant City of
Torrance. In 2011, Plaintiff was diagnosed with a “physical disability, mental
disability, or protected condition.” (TAC, ¶ 8.) In 2016, Plaintiff was removed
from his paramedic assignment by the Fire Chief. In 2020 and again in 2021,
Plaintiff asked to be reinstated to his paramedic assignment. Plaintiff was
never reinstated. Plaintiff was discriminated against due to his age and
disability. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (California
Government Code § 12940(a); 2. Failure to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA
(California Government Code § 12940(m); 3. Failure to Engage in Interactive
Process in Violation of FEHA (California Government Code § 12940(n). 
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendant filed meet and confer
declarations in sufficient compliance with both CCP § 430.41 and CCP §
435.5.  (Decls., James E. Oldendorph). 
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is granted pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s TAC
pursuant to CCP § 430.10(e) on the grounds that the causes of action are barred
by the applicable statute of limitations and that the causes of action fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendant also demurs pursuant
to CCP § 430.10(f) on the grounds that the causes of action are uncertain.
Defendant also argues that the TAC is subject to demurrer based on the sham
pleading doctrine.
Statute of
Limitations
 
The applicable statute of limitations in
effect at the time of Plaintiff’s claims was Gov. Code, § 12960 which stated:
“(d) No complaint may
be filed after the expiration of one year from the date upon which the alleged
unlawful practice or refusal to cooperate occurred, except that this period may
be extended as follows:
(1) For a period of
time not to exceed 90 days following the expiration of that year, if a person
allegedly aggrieved by an unlawful practice first obtained knowledge of the
facts of the alleged unlawful practice after the expiration of one year from
the date of their occurrence.”
 
“The Government
Claims Act (§ 810 et seq.) establishes certain conditions precedent to the
filing of a lawsuit against a public entity. As relevant here, a plaintiff must
timely file a claim for money or damages with the public entity. (§ 911.2) [....]
The failure to timely present a claim for money or damages to a public entity
bars the plaintiff from bringing suit against that entity. [....] Claims for
personal injury must be presented not later than six months after the accrual
of the cause of action, and claims relating to any other cause of action must
be filed within one year of the accrual of the cause of action. [....] The
deadline for bringing a lawsuit against the public entity after a claim
has been acted upon or deemed denied “is a true statute of limitations[.] [....]
With certain exceptions (§ 905), the timely filing of a written government
claim is an element that a plaintiff is required to prove in
order to prevail on his or her cause of action. Thus, a complaint failing to
allege facts demonstrating timely presentation of a claim or that such
presentation was excused is subject to a general demurrer for not stating facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2020)
48 Cal.App.5th 1104, 1118–1119 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
Plaintiff alleges the following:
“Plaintiff has exhausted his administrative remedies by filing a charge of
discrimination with the Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH), with
respect to the Fire Chief denying Plaintiff re-entry to the paramedic program
in 2020 and 2021 based on Plaintiff’s protected condition. The DFEH issued
Plaintiff a right to sue notice dated on or about October 16, 2021.” (TAC, ¶ 16.)

Plaintiff has failed
to allege facts demonstrating when he filed his government claim. However, Plaintiff
alleges when the DFEH issued its right to sue notice: October 16, 2021.
Plaintiff has alleged that he was first diagnosed with a disability in 2011, and
then alleges facts that he suffered an adverse employment action in 2016. As to
the first cause of action, facts supporting the year 2016 as the date of
accrual have been alleged by Plaintiff. Thus, a bar based on the statute of
limitations is revealed in the TAC. As to the second and third causes of
action, it is not certain when and whether Plaintiff gave notice to Defendant
regarding the need to accommodate. If the notice had been given sometime in
2011, then, the government claim should have been filed within one year of that
date. At a minimum, it appears that Plaintiff has alleged facts demonstrating
that Defendant knew of the alleged failure to accommodate and failure to engage
in an interactive process no later than 2016, and, again, as noted above, the
right to sue notice was issued on October 16, 2021, past the statute of
limitations. 
 
Plaintiff argues that
he is only alleging his claims based on the refusal to reinstate Plaintiff
which allegedly occurred in 2020 and 2021 and not on any other prior employment
action. Plaintiff attempts to cast his 2016 adverse employment action as a
simple disciplinary action – not related to age or disability discrimination.
Plaintiff alleges: “In or about 2016, Plaintiff was removed from the paramedic
program by the Fire Chief. At the time of the removal, the Fire Chief cited
section 3.2 of the Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) between the City and the
Fire Fighters Association. This specific section of the MOU relates to
notification of reassignment for disciplinary reasons. The Fire Chief’s notice
goes on by stating the decision to reassign Plaintiff was based on violations
of rules and regulations. Any discussion related to Plaintiff’s protected
condition had no bearing on the decision that was already made based on the MOU.”
 (TAC, ¶ 12.)  However, Plaintiff omitted a key allegation
which was included in the FAC and in the Complaint. Plaintiff previously
alleged in the FAC: “In or about 2016, Plaintiff was removed from the paramedic
program by the Fire Chief, resulting in a significant financial loss of pay,
pension benefits, as well as his reputation.  In the discussion with the Fire Chief over
the removal, the Plaintiff and Fire Chief discussed the Plaintiff’s protected
condition.”  (FAC, ¶ 12 (emphasis
added).)  Under the sham pleading
doctrine, a pleader cannot circumvent prior admissions by amending a pleading
without explanation.”  Womack v.
Lovell (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 772, 787. Here, Plaintiff has not adequately explained
this key omission of a prior admission which definitively showed that Plaintiff
had pled that he knew or had reason to suspect that his adverse employment
action in 2016 stemmed from discrimination due to his protected condition.  Additionally, in the TAC, Plaintiff appears to
freely admit that his previous suspicion that he was removed due to his
protected condition was again confirmed in 2020 and 2021.  “It became clear that the Fire Chief removed
Plaintiff from the paramedic program as a result of the Plaintiff’s protected
condition, and more importantly, conditioned the return to the program on
receipt of a guarantee that it would not surface again in the future.”  (TAC, ¶ 13.)
 
Similarly,
Plaintiff’s allegations in the TAC make clear that Plaintiff pled that he knew
or should have known that the adverse employment action stemmed from potential
discrimination in 2016. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the
following: “After time going by, Plaintiff having treated his protected
condition, Plaintiff formally requested in 2020 and again in 2021 to return
to the paramedic program. Plaintiff made these formal requests to the Fire
Chief in the presence of others. In response to these requests, and on
multiple occasions, the Fire Chief would ask Plaintiff in the presence of
others about his protected condition and whether the Plaintiff could guarantee
that his protected condition would not resurface again. It became clear that
the Fire Chief removed Plaintiff from the paramedic program as a result of the
Plaintiff’s protected condition, and more importantly, conditioned the return
to the program on receipt of a guarantee that it would not surface again in the
future. Plaintiff and the Fire Chief had multiple discussions in the
presence of others that Plaintiff was currently able to perform the role of
paramedic, but that he was being denied the position due to his past protected
conditions and/or being regarded as currently having protected conditions and/or a belief that the protected conditions
may return in the future.”  (TAC, ¶13
(emphasis added).)
 
While Plaintiff
attempts to frame these allegations as a new act of discrimination occurring in
2020 and 2021 which began a new accrual date, in fact, the allegations only
crystallize that Plaintiff should have known that the prior adverse employment
action stemmed from Plaintiff’s protected condition and not some non-related
disciplinary procedure.  For example, if
the 2016 adverse employment action actually resulted from the non-protected
condition disciplinary procedure, the Chief's conversations with Plaintiff in
2020 and 2021 would have involved Plaintiff refraining from whatever act
resulted in the disciplinary procedure rather than a discussion regarding his
protected conditions. Plaintiff’s allegations previously made in the Complaint
and the FAC, in which the parties discussed Plaintiff’s protected condition in
2016 and then the Chief again questioning Plaintiff about the protected
condition in 2020 and 2021 show that the accrual date, as pled by Plaintiff was
2016.
 
            With
the opposition to the demurrer to the SAC, Plaintiff argued that the continuing
violation doctrine does not, in fact, apply.  Now, with the TAC, strangely, Plaintiff
reverses course and argues that the continuing violation does apply. 
“Generally, a cause of action
accrues when [it] is complete with all of its elements[.][....] An exception to
this rule is the continuing violation doctrine. The continuing
violation doctrine aggregates a series of wrongs or injuries for purposes
of the statute of limitations, treating the limitations period as accruing for
all of them upon commission or sufferance of the last of them. Consequently,
the continuing violation doctrine allows liability for unlawful ... conduct
occurring outside the statute of limitations if it is sufficiently connected to
unlawful conduct within the limitations period. For the continuing violation
doctrine to apply, a plaintiff must show the defendant engaged in a pattern of
reasonably frequent and similar acts [that] may, in a given case, justify
treating the acts as an indivisible course of conduct actionable in its entirety,
notwithstanding that the conduct occurred partially outside and partially
inside the limitations period. [¶] Unlike equitable tolling, the continuing tort/continuing
violation theory affects a cause of action's accrual.[....] [A] court must
consider whether the employer's actions (1)...[were] sufficiently similar in
kind—recognizing ... that similar kinds of unlawful employer conduct,
such as acts of harassment or failures to reasonably accommodate
disability, may take a number of different forms [citation]; (2) have occurred
with reasonable frequency; (3) and have not acquired a degree of permanence.” Willis
v. City of Carlsbad (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 1104, 1124–1125 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).
            Plaintiff
argues that the continuing violation doctrine should be utilized to toll the
statute of limitations. However, here, Plaintiff has alleged facts
demonstrating an adverse employment action based on alleged discrimination in
2016.  The face of the allegations of the
TAC demonstrate that this adverse employment action acquired a degree of
permanence on that date. Plaintiff alleges that he again asked to be returned
back to his former position in 2020 and 2021 and was denied. This allegation
simply appears to be an allegation noting a statement made by Defendant
confirming and reiterating a decision which Plaintiff alleges was
discriminatory occurring in 2016. The
decision in 2016, which Plaintiff states was discriminatory, is the act which
actually caused the alleged adverse employment action.
The Court also notes the
following uncertainties and defects within the individual causes of action.
First Cause of Action for Discrimination in Violation
of FEHA (California Government Code § 12940(a))

            [I]n disability discrimination
cases, the threshold issue is whether there is direct evidence that the motive
for the employer's conduct was related to the employee's physical or mental
condition. [A] plaintiff alleging disability discrimination can establish the
requisite employer intent to discriminate by proving (1) the employer knew that
plaintiff had a physical condition that limited a major life activity, or
perceived him to have such a condition, and (2) the plaintiff's actual or
perceived physical condition was a substantial motivating reason for the
defendant's decision to subject the plaintiff to an adverse employment action.”
Glynn v. Superior Court (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 47, 53.
 
“[A] prima facie case, of age discrimination arises
when the employee shows (1) at the time of the adverse action he or she was 40
years of age or older, (2) an adverse employment action was
taken against the employee, (3) at the time of the adverse action the employee
was satisfactorily performing his or her job and (4) the employee was replaced
in his position by a significantly younger person.” Hersant v. Department of
Social Services (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1003.
 
Plaintiff is attempting to allege two theories of
discrimination – disability and age. To the extent that Plaintiff is attempting
to allege a theory based on age, Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to meet
the requisite elements listed above. Instead, Plaintiff merely sets forth a
purported stray remark noted above regarding “older personnel maybe should
leave.”  The mere pleading of this stray
remark does not satisfy the elements noted above.
 
Second Cause of Action for Failure to Accommodate in
Violation of FEHA (California Government Code § 12940(m))
 
“Subdivision (m)(1) of section 12940 makes it unlawful
[f]or an employer ... to fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known
physical or mental disability of an ... employee. Nothing in this subdivision
or in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a) shall be construed to require an
accommodation that is demonstrated by the employer or other covered entity to
produce undue hardship, as defined in subdivision (u) of Section 12926, to its
operation. [¶] There are three elements to a failure to accommodate action: (1)
the plaintiff has a disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a
qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform the essential functions
of the position); and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the
plaintiff's disability.” Hernandez v. Rancho Santiago Community College
District (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1187, 1193–1194.
 
“An employee cannot demand clairvoyance of his
employer. Where the disability, resulting limitations, and necessary
reasonable accommodations, are not open, obvious, and apparent to the employer,
... the employee bears the burden to specifically identify
the disability and resulting limitations, and to
suggest the reasonable accommodations.” Doe v. Department of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 721, 738–739 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
demonstrating notice and a request for accommodation, and facts to show that he
would have been able to perform the essential functions of the position. 
 
Third Cause of Action for Failure to Engage in
Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA (California Government Code § 12940(n))

            “The “interactive process” required
by the FEHA is an informal process with the employee or the employee's
representative, to attempt to identify a reasonable accommodation that will
enable the employee to perform the job effectively.” Wilson v. County of
Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1195.  Similar to the defects noted above, Plaintiff
has failed to allege facts to demonstrate that Plaintiff ever gave notice to
Defendant of the need for accommodation and requested a reasonable
accommodation. 
 
            Therefore, the demurrer to the TAC
is sustained without leave to amend. 

            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
The motion to strike is moot upon the
sustaining of the demurrer. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.