 Case Number:  23TRCP00441    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                         Tuesday, March 26, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 8  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Victorville/Desert
Springs, L.P., et al. v. Baronet & Co., Inc.   
23TRCP00441
1.      Victorville/Desert Springs, L.P. and Affordable
Multi-Family, LLC’s Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
2.      Baronet & Co., Inc.’s Petition to Vacate
Arbitration Award     
 
COURT RULING

            Victorville/Desert
Springs, L.P. and Affordable Multi-Family, LLC’s Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award is granted.
 
            Baronet
& Co., Inc.’s Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award is denied.
 
            Background
 
            Victorville/Desert
Springs, L.P. and Affordable Multi-Family, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed the
petition on November 15, 2023. The underlying dispute involved a settlement
agreement in which petitioner was to make certain payments in exchange for
respondent’s dismissal of three breach of contract actions. Petitioner seeks to
confirm the arbitration awarded entered in their favor which denied
respondent’s claims and awarded petitioner attorneys’ fees and costs. Baronet
& Co., Inc. (“Respondent”) filed an opposition to the petition to confirm
arbitration award and filed its own petition to vacate the arbitration award on
January 10, 2024.
 
            Petition
to Confirm Arbitration Award/Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award
 
            “Any
party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court
to confirm, correct or vacate the award. The petition shall name as respondents
all parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons
bound by the arbitration award.” Code Civ. Proc., § 1285. The procedure by
which a prevailing party obtains an enforceable judgment, upon the completion
of the arbitration, is to petition to confirm the award.  CCP § 1286; Loeb v. Record (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 431, 450.  
 
            Service
of this petition must meet the requirements of CCP § 1290.4.  CCP § 1290.4 states, in relevant part:  
            “(a)
A copy of the petition and a written notice of the time and place of the
hearing thereof and any other papers upon which the petition is based shall be
served in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of
such petition and notice.
            (c)
If the arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such service
shall be made and the person on whom service is to be made has previously
appeared in the proceeding or has previously been served in accordance with
subdivision (b) of this section, service shall be made in the manner provided
in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title 14 of Part 2 of this
code.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4.
 
            CCP §
1285.4 states: 
            “A
petition under this chapter shall:
            (a)
Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to
arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement.
            (b)
Set forth the names of the arbitrators.
            (c)
Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the
arbitrators, if any.”
 
            Code
Civ. Proc., § 1286.2 states:
            “(a)
Subject to Section 1286.4, the court shall vacate the award if the court
determines any of the following:
            (1)
The award was procured by corruption, fraud or other undue means.
            (2)
There was corruption in any of the arbitrators.
            (3)
The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a
neutral arbitrator.
            (4)
The arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award cannot be corrected without
affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted.
            (5)
The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the
arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor
or by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence material to the
controversy or by other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to the provisions
of this title.
            (6)
An arbitrator making the award either: (A) failed to disclose within the time
required for disclosure a ground for disqualification of which the arbitrator
was then aware; or (B) was subject to disqualification upon grounds specified
in Section 1281.91 but failed upon receipt of timely demand to disqualify
himself or herself as required by that provision. However, this subdivision
does not apply to arbitration proceedings conducted under a collective
bargaining agreement between employers and employees or between their
respective representatives.
            (b)
Petitions to vacate an arbitration award pursuant to Section 1285 are subject
to the provisions of Section 128.7.”
 
            “It
is well settled that arbitrators do not exceed their powers merely because they
assign an erroneous reason for their decision. A contrary holding would permit
the exception to swallow the rule of limited judicial review; a litigant could
always contend the arbitrator erred and thus exceeded his powers.” Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 28 (internal citations and
quotations omitted). “[I]t is within the “powers” of the arbitrator to resolve
the entire “merits” of the “controversy submitted” by the parties. Obviously,
the “merits” include all the contested issues of law and fact submitted to the
arbitrator for decision. The arbitrator's resolution of these issues is what
the parties bargained for in the arbitration agreement.” Id. (internal
citation omitted). 
 
            Judicial
review of an arbitration award is limited. Limiting grounds for judicial review
effectuates the parties’ agreement award be final and it reflects the view that
arbitrators may base their decisions on “broad principles of justice and
equity” … “paths neither marked nor traceable by judicial review.” Id.
at 11. Generally, errors of law committed by the arbitrator are not grounds for
challenging the arbitrator's award. Id. The rationale for this is
because the parties contracted that the arbitrator's decision, right or wrong,
would be conclusive and the risk of arbitral error has been reduced by
statutory provisions allowing courts to vacate or correct for “serious problems
with the award itself or with the fairness of the arbitral process.” Id.
at 12.
 
            On November
15, 2023, the petitioner filed a petition to confirm arbitration award. Petitioner
requests judgment in the amount of $813,903.62. The petitioner has properly
served the petition to confirm arbitration award and provided notice of the
hearing date. In the underlying arbitration, the arbitrator made certain
rulings and awarded the sum, noted above, in favor of the petitioner. (Petition,
Ex. 8c.)  
 
            Respondent
opposes the petition to confirm arbitration and filed its own petition to
vacate the arbitration award on the grounds that the arbitrator exceeded her
powers, that the award violates respondent’s
statutory rights, that the award violates a well-defined public policy, and that
the award does not bear a rational relationship to the contract.  
 
            “Arbitration
awards are final and conclusive because the parties have agreed they should be
so. This expectation of finality strongly informs the parties' choice of an
arbitral forum over a judicial one. The arbitrator's decision should be the
end, not the beginning, of the dispute. To ensure the arbitration decision is
final and conclusive, only limited judicial review is available. Courts may not
review the merits of the controversy, the validity of the arbitrator's
reasoning, or the sufficiency of the evidence. Indeed, an arbitrator's decision
is not generally reviewable for errors of fact or law, even if the error
appears on the face of the award and causes substantial injustice. [A]n award
reached by an arbitrator pursuant to a contractual agreement to arbitrate is
not subject to judicial review except on the grounds set forth in [Code of
Civil Procedure] sections 1286.2 (to vacate) and 1286.6 (for correction). [¶] Code
of Civil Procedure section 1286.2 sets forth the bases on which a court “shall”
vacate an arbitration award. A court shall vacate an award if it determines
[t]he arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award cannot be corrected
without affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted. An
arbitrator exceeds his powers when he acts without subject matter jurisdiction,
decides an issue that was not submitted to arbitration, arbitrarily remakes the
contract, upholds an illegal contract, issues an award that violates a
well-defined public policy, issues an award that violates a statutory right,
fashions a remedy that is not rationally related to the contract, or selects a
remedy not authorized by law. In other words, an arbitrator exceeds his powers
when he acts in a manner not authorized by the contract or by law.” Jordan
v. California Dept. of Motor Vehicles (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 431, 443
(internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            The
Court finds that the respondent failed to meet its burden to show the
following:  that the arbitrator exceeded
her powers, that the award violates respondent’s statutory rights, that the
award violates a well-defined public policy, and that the award does not bear a
rational relationship to the contract.  
 
            Respondent
argues that in an earlier arbitration in 2019 the arbitrator, Mr. George Calkins,
specifically held that the petitioner committed negligent misrepresentation.
This finding was to be considered collateral estoppel or res judicata on the
issue of negligent misrepresentation for the subject 2021 arbitration. The
parties allegedly agreed to this and the current arbitrator Ms. Deborah Ballati
purportedly confirmed this point. However, in the current arbitration, respondent
argues that Ms. Ballati’s ruling, in fact, completely disregarded the
conclusiveness of the issue of negligent misrepresentation and simply reversed
Mr. Calkins’ finding of negligent misrepresentation. As such, the respondent
contends that Ms. Balti exceeded her powers and that the arbitration award
which declined to award any damages in favor of respondent violates statutory
rights and public policy. 
 
             “[I]t is the general rule that, with narrow
exceptions, an arbitrator's decision cannot be reviewed for errors of fact or
law. In reaffirming this general rule, we recognize there is a risk that the
arbitrator will make a mistake. That risk, however, is acceptable for two
reasons. First, by voluntarily submitting to arbitration, the parties have
agreed to bear that risk in return for a quick, inexpensive, and conclusive
resolution to their dispute. [. . .] A second reason why we tolerate the risk of an
erroneous decision is because the Legislature has reduced the risk to the
parties of such a decision by providing for judicial review in circumstances
involving serious problems with the award itself, or with the fairness of the
arbitration process.” Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1,
11-12.
 
            The
instant Court cannot review the arbitrator’s alleged error in law in
disregarding principles of collateral estoppel and res judicata in her
arbitration decision. 
 
            “We
conclude that the finding of fact above quoted was res judicata of the facts
therein stated. Whether or not the court in the declaratory relief action
passed on issues which were properly matters for the arbitrator,2 it
is clear from the record that both parties had voluntarily litigated the
matters covered in the findings and that such findings were based on evidence
produced before the court. The record discloses no objections either to form or
to content of the findings as entered. (3) It is, of course, well settled that
a person may waive his right to arbitrate an issue. (Grunwald-Marx, Inc. v.
Los Angeles Joint Board, Amalgamated Clothing Workers (1961) 192 Cal.App.2d
268 [13 Cal.Rptr. 446].) If a petition for declaratory relief seeks to litigate
matters within the jurisdiction of an arbitrator, the remedy is to move to
dismiss the proceeding under section 1061 of the Code of Civil Procedure. [¶] However,
we agree with the conclusion of the trial court in the confirmation proceedings
that the decision of the arbitrator, whether or not correct, cannot be assailed
in this proceeding. The agreement in the policy to submit disputes to
arbitration was a “general” one. Under these circumstances, it is now the
settled law of California that, except for the matters expressly provided for
in section 1286.2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, a decision of an arbitrator
is binding, whether or not correct either in law or in fact.” Interinsurance
Exchange of Auto. Club of Southern Cal. v. Bailes (1963) 219 Cal.App.2d
830, 834.
 
            “As
stated above, on the record before us the arbitrator erred in deciding that
collateral estoppel applied. [. . . ] [T]the arbitrator decided the point which
was properly before him even if he did so incorrectly; right or wrong the
parties each agreed to be bound by any award pursuant to the pertinent
provisions of their contract. (4) According to California decisions, the mere
fact that the arbitrator used unsound reasoning in reaching a conclusion or
reached an erroneous conclusion within the scope of arbitration will not
invalidate the result.” Durand v. Wilshire Ins. Co. (1969) 270
Cal.App.2d 58, 62.
 
            Thus,
the arbitrator’s decision, even if erroneous, to disregard principles of
collateral estoppel and/or res judicata in her decision cannot be reviewed and
cannot now be unwound by the instant Court. Respondent argues that the above
case law decisions are very old and refers the Court to the Moncharsh
decision. However, Moncharsh did not reverse the authorities noted finding
that erroneous application of principles of res judicata/collateral estoppel
cannot be reviewed by the trial court, but simply reinforces the principle that
errors of law or law cannot be reviewed. Established case law confirms that errors
in law or fact cannot be disturbed by the trial Court. 
 
            In
addition, respondent fails to submit any authority to show that an erroneous
decision with respect to the application of collateral estoppel and/or res
judicata constitutes a violation of statutory rights or well-defined public
policy. “This exception is applicable only when there has been “‘a clear
expression of illegality or public policy’” that undermines the presumption in
favor of private arbitration.” Ahdout v. Hekmatjah (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 21, 38. “We are bound by principles established by our Supreme
Court, which compel deference to arbitration awards and limited use of the
public policy exception.”  City of
Richmond v. Service Employees Internat. Union, Local 1021 (2010) 189
Cal.App.4th 663, 675. If every error in law or fact can simply be deemed as a
violation of public policy or statutory rights sufficient to overturn an
arbitration award, the exception would swallow the general rule and would usurp
the clear authority set forth in Moncharsh. 
 
            Thus,
there is no showing that the award violates public policy or a statutory right.
Finally, Ms. Ballati did not fashion a remedy that is not rationally related to
the contract. The instant Court, therefore, cannot make a finding that the
arbitrator acted in excess of her powers. The instant Court may or may not
agree with the arbitrator’s findings but has no power to vacate the arbitration
award under these facts which are simply based on the arbitrator’s alleged
error in law or fact. To do so would undermine the extensive policy reasons
noted above regarding the instant Court’s limited powers of judicial review. 
 
            Thus,
the petitioner’s Motion to Confirm Arbitration Award is granted.      Respondent’s Petition to Vacate Arbitration
award is denied.
 
            Petitioner is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.