 Case Number:  22STCV37586    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion of Defendant American Honda Motor Company, Inc. for
Leave to File Cross-Complaint 
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On November 30, 2022, Deborah Joe and Kenneth Mack (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Lillian Swanson, American Honda Motor
Company, Inc. (“AHMC”), North American Honda, Honda Motor Company, LTD. (“HMC”),
and Does 1 through 50, asserting a cause of action for negligence arising out
of an automobile accident occurring on December 30, 2020.
 
On May 23 and 24, 2024, AHMC (for itself and as
erroneously sued as “North American Honda”) filed an answer and an amended
answer. 
 
Also on May 23, HMC filed a motion to quash service of
the summons.  That motion is set for
hearing on August 23.
 
A trial setting conference is also set for August 23.
 
On July 11, 2024, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff,
dismissed all claims asserted by Plaintiff Kenneth Mack without prejudice.
 
On calendar for hearing on July 31 is AHMC’s motion (filed
on June 17, 2024), for leave to file a cross-complaint. 
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
The Code of Civil Procedure distinguishes
between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints.  
A compulsory cross-complaint, under Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.30, is one that asserts (1) a “related cause of
action”; (2) that a party against whom a “complaint” has been filed and served
has against the “plaintiff”; and (3) that exists as of the time the answer to
the “complaint” is served.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  
As used in section 426.30, a “related cause
of action” is defined as “a cause of action which arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)  “Complaint” is defined to include a
cross-complaint, and “Plaintiff” is defined as “a person who files a complaint
or cross-complaint.”  (Id., subds.
(a) & (b).)  
Subject to the exceptions set forth by
statute, if a party fails to assert fails to assert a related cause of action
against the plaintiff that exists as of the time the party answers the
complaint, “such party may not thereafter in any other action assert against
the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)
A permissive
cross-complaint, in contrast, may include a much broader group of
pleadings.  Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 428.10, in a permissive cross-complaint a party may assert an unrelated
cause of action “against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.10, subd. (a).) 
Alternatively, in a permissive cross-complaint a party may assert a “cause of action he has against a person alleged to
be liable thereon, whether or not such a person is already party to the action,
if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the
property or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”
(Id., subd. (b).) 
Cross-complaints for contribution or indemnity against new parties fall
within the definition of a permissive cross-complaint in section 428.10.
A party
must file a compulsory cross-complaint at the same time as (or before) the
answer to the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  If a party
fails to do so, and then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the
court “after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may
be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50.)  The “good faith”
standard must “be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”  (Ibid.)
A party must file a permissive
cross-complaint before the court has set a date for trial, or, if the causes of
action in the cross-complaint are asserted against “any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her,” at or before the
party files the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a) &
(b).)  If a party fails to do so, and
then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court may grant
leave “in the interests of justice.” (Id., subd. (c).)
Cross-complaints against a person or
entity that is not already a party in the action are always permissive, rather
than compulsory. (Insurance Co. of North America v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. (1982)
128 Cal.App.3d 297, 303; 1 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial [The Rutter Group 2023], ¶ 6:524.)¿¿¿
Discussion
Honda seeks leave to file a cross-complaint
against Kenneth Mack and fictitiously named defendants. (Exh. A, Proposed
Cross-Complaint.) 
As a threshold matter, the Court notes that
it is unclear whether the proposed cross-complaint is compulsory or permissive.  At the time the motion was filed, the cross-complaint
was compulsory; it was a related cause of action by a defendant against a
plaintiff. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  Now that Mr. Mack has dismissed his claims
against AHMC, however, Mr. Mack is no longer a party, and the cross-complaint is
now permissive, rather than compulsory.
Regardless, however, under either standard,
AHMC has made a sufficient showing for an order granting leave to file the
proposed cross-complaint.  AHMC has
explained that at the time the answer was filed, it had only very limited
information about the accident at issue, and once it acquired additional
information, AHMC promptly filed this motion. 
(De Metruis Decl., ¶5 & Exh. B.) 
Accordingly, the Court finds that AHMC has acted in good faith.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)  Alternatively, and independently, the Court finds that
granting the motion is in the interests of justice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c))
The Court also finds that there will not be
any undue prejudice to any party from the filing of the cross-complaint.  Although the complaint was filed in November
30, 2022, the summons was only recently served, and there is not now a trial
date set.  
All substantive and procedural requirements
are satisfied.  The motion is granted.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS AHMC’s motion
for leave to file a cross-complaint. 
 
The
Court GRANTS AHMC leave to file the cross-complaint attached to its moving
papers within 10 days of the date of the hearing.
 
Moving
Party to give notice.