 Case Number:  23STCV10672    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion Opposing Entry of Judgment Pursuant to
Terms of Settlement
TentativeThe motion is denied on procedural grounds, without prejudice.
Background
On May 11, 2023, Darrell Jones (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against UPS, Federal Express and Does 1 through 25, asserting
causes of action for emotional distress and intentional infliction of emotional
distress arising from a verbal altercation occurring on June 14, 2022.
On July 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request to
dismiss UPS.
On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint asserting the same two causes of action and naming as
defendants The UPS Store Catherine Dash Franchise Owner; Federal Express; Doe 1
Federal Express Driver, and Does 2 through 25 (the “FAC”).
On November 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of
settlement of the entire case.
On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff substituted in as
his own counsel.  He now is representing himself.
On April 17, 2024, the Court discharged the OSC
re Dismissal (Settlement) and set a Trial Setting Conference.
On May 28, 2024,
the Court was again informed that the case had settled.  The Court vacated the Trial Setting
Conference and set an OSC re Dismissal (Settlement).
 
On June 21,
2024, Plaintiff filed this motion captioned as “Motion Opposing Entry of
Judgment Pursuant to Terms of Settlement, Civil Code [Code of Civil Procedure]
664.6.”  opposing the entry of judgment
under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. 
 
Federal Express
(“Defendant”) filed an opposition on July 9. 
 
No reply has
been filed.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6 provides: 
(a) If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a
writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally
before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon
motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If
requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to
enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement. 
(b) For purposes of this section, a
writing is signed by a party if it is signed by any of the following:
(1) The party.
(2) An attorney who represents the party.
(3) If the party is an insurer, an agent
who is authorized in writing by the insurer to sign on the insurer's behalf. 
Because of the summary nature of a proceeding to enforce a
settlement agreement under section 664.6, and because settlement of a lawsuit
implicates a substantial right of a litigant, strict compliance with the
statutory requirements is required.  (J.B.B.
Investment Partners, Ltd. v. Fair (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 974, 985; Sully-Miller Contracting Co. v.
Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 30, 37.) 
Before the Legislature amended the statute effective as of January 1, 2021, “parties” under section 664.6 meant the litigants
themselves, not their attorneys.  (See Levy v. Superior Court
(1995) 10 Cal.4th 578, 586.)  In any event, however, for a settlement
agreement to be enforceable under section 664.6, all “parties” (as that term is
defined in the statute) must sign, including the party seeking to enforce the
agreement and the party against whom enforcement is sought.  (J.B.B.
Investment Partners, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 985.) 
If the settlement leaves material terms wanting, or confusing, the
settlement cannot be enforced through the section 664.6 summary
proceeding.  (Compare Terry v. Conlan (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1445
[finding parties never agreed to the means that were material to the
settlement, including what role an independent manager was to play regarding
management of a trust property, and whether the trust should be qualified as a QTIP,
thereby indicating that there was no meeting of the minds as to the material
terms] with Osumi v. Sutton (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1355 [holding trial
court’s decision to extend closing date for vendor’s agreement to repurchase
house did not create a material term and was within court’s power because the
closing date had passed by the time the motions came on for hearing and a new
closing date was necessary to grant the relief sought by both parties].)  Nonetheless, when the “parties intend that an agreement be
binding, the fact that a more formal agreement must be prepared and executed
does not alter the validity of the agreement.” (Blix St.
Records, Inc. v. Cassidy (2010)
191 CA4th 39, 48.)  
It is possible for parties to have an
enforceable settlement agreement that is not subject to the summary enforcement
proceedings of section 664.6 (including, for example, an
enforceable oral agreement to settle or an agreement that is signed by an
authorized representative who has the power to bind the party but is not listed
in subdivision (b) of the statute).  In
those circumstances, a party seeking to enforce the agreement must proceed
through other means, such as a separate civil action, an amendment to the
answer to add a new affirmative defense, and/or a motion for summary judgment,
rather than through the summary procedures of section 664.6.  (See generally Weddington Productions v.
Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 809 [“Section 664.6 was enacted to provide
a summary procedure for specifically enforcing a settlement contract without
the need for a new lawsuit.”].)
In ruling on a motion brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 664.6, the court acts as a trier of fact.  The court may consider any admissible
evidence, including documents, declarations, and oral testimony.  (Kohn v. Jaymar-Ruby, Inc. (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1530, 1533; 3 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (2023), ¶¶ 12:977-12:978.6.)
Discussion
In his motion, Plaintiff opposes entry of
judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6.  Plaintiff apparently signed a settlement
agreement but now contends that he did so under “duress” after being “strongarmed
verbally by the defendant,” and “forced through coercion [and] psychological
pressure to act against my wishes.” 
Plaintiff identifies the following terms that he does not agree with: (1)
section 7, dismissal with prejudice, (2) section 11, indemnity, (3) section 13,
confidentiality, (4) section 14, non-disparagement policy, and (5) section 22, stating
that the writing is the entire agreement between the parties.  (Motion, at pp. 1-2; see also Randall Decl.,
¶ 13 & Exh. E.)
For two separate and independent reasons, the
Court must deny Plaintiff’s motion.
First, a motion is a request or application
for a court order.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1003.)  Plaintiff, who is not a lawyer
and is representing himself, does not identify any order that he is requesting
the Court to make.  Rather, he is
asserting what appears to be an advance opposition to a motion that Defendant
Federal Express has not yet filed, and might never file.  That is not a procedurally proper motion.
If in the future Federal Express files a
motion to enforce the settlement agreement, then Plaintiff will have the
opportunity to file an opposition.  But,
as of now, Plaintiff’s opposition (styled as a motion) is premature.
Second, although it is true that duress, if
proven, is generally a defense to contract enforcement, duress must be
proven.  Plaintiff’s conclusory
assertion, in a single sentence, that he signed a contract under duress,
without providing any additional evidence or details of what happened, is not a
sufficient basis for the Court to make a finding of duress.  If Federal Express files a motion to enforce
the settlement agreement, and if Plaintiff opposes it on the ground of duress,
more detail will be required from Plaintiff regarding how the duress or
coercion occurred, including (for example) who did or said what to whom, when
it occurred, and why and how it interfered with Plaintiff’s ability to consent freely
to the terms of the agreement.
Accordingly, at this time, and on this
record, Plaintiff’s motion to oppose is denied. 
The Court expresses no views on whether the settlement agreement signed
by the parties is or is not enforceable, whether under Code of Civil Procedure
section 664.6 or otherwise.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to oppose
enforcement of the settlement agreement on procedural grounds, without
prejudice as to whatever defenses Plaintiff might assert in the future if
Defendant seeks to enforce the settlement agreement.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 