 Case Number:  23CHCV03467    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49     Date:    8/1/24     Case    Name: Liliana Castillo Onofre v.    Golden Oak Dental Group, Emil J. Simanian, and Does 1 to    25     Case No.    23CHCV03467      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    AUGUST 1, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS [2187]  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case No. 23CHCV03467    Motion  filed: 5/23/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Emil J. Simanian D.D.S (the “Moving  Plaintiff” or “Simanian”) RESPONDING PARTY: None. NOTICE: OK.   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court compelling Plaintiff Liliana Castillo Onofre (“Plaintiff”  or “Onofre”), to serve verified responses, without objection, to the Moving  Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and imposing monetary sanctions  against Plaintiff and her attorney of record, in the amount of $2,610.00.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED. The request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action.  Subsequently, on January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed her operative First Amended  Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Simanian and Golden Oak Dental Group  (“GODG”) (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 to 25, alleging (1) Medical  Malpractice, (2) General Negligence, and (3) Negligence Hiring, Training, and  Supervision. Subsequently, Defendants filed their Answer to the Complaint on  February 29, 2024.    On May 23, 2024, Defendant Simanian filed the instant  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to the Special Interrogatories, Set One  (the “Motion”). Additionally, Simanian requests monetary sanctions against  Plaintiff and her counsel. Subsequently, Simanian filed a Notice of  Nonopposition to Motion to Compel on July 24, 2024.      No reply papers have been received by the Court.    ANALYSIS   If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to  serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling  responses and for a monetary sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,  subd. (b).)  The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel  where no responses have been served. All that needs to be shown in the  moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the  opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of  any kind has been served.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111  Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)    A.     Motion to  Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One   Moving Defendant’s counsel (“Counsel”) attests that on  February 29, 2024, it served Plaintiff with the first set of Special Interrogatories,  to which responses were due on April 1, 2024. (Conley Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. “A.”)  Having not received any responses by the due date, Counsel sent Plaintiff’s  counsel a written meet and confer letter on April 30, 2024, demanding Plaintiff  to serve responses, without objection, by May 6, 2024. (Id. ¶ 4, Ex.  “B.”) Subsequently, on May 2, 2024, in response to Plaintiff’s request for an  extension of two weeks, Counsel agreed to grant a one-week extension. (Id.  ¶ 6.) However, no responses had been received by Simanian as of May 21, 2024. (Id.  ¶ 7.)      Given the absence of any Opposition from Plaintiff and the  records above, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to serve a timely  response, thereby waiving any objection to the interrogatories, including those  based on privilege or the protection for work product, pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (a).      Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel Responses  to Special Interrogatories, Set One.   B.      Monetary  Sanctions   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290,  subdivision (c), “[t]he Court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7  (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust....” Additionally, California Rules of Court rule 3.1348(A)  further provides, “The Court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in  favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no  opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,  or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion  was filed.”    Here, Plaintiff did not provide responses to the Special  Interrogatories nor file an Opposition to the Motion. Accordingly, based on the  above records and authorities, the Court finds that it is appropriate to impose  monetary sanctions. In view of the totality of the circumstances, the  Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs  incurred for the work in preparing the Motion is $485.00, calculated at a  reasonable hourly rate of $425.00 for one hours reasonably spent, in addition  to $60 for filing fees.    Therefore, the Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s request for  monetary sanctions.   CONCLUSION   The Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Special  Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED.    Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified responses, without  objection, to Defendant Emil J. Simanian D.D.S.’s Special Interrogatories, Set  One, within 20 days.    Defendant Emil J. Simanian D.D.S.’s request for monetary  sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.    Plaintiff Liliana Castillo Onofre and her attorney of  record are ordered to jointly and severally pay $485.00 to Defendant Emil J.  Simanian D.D.S. within 20 days.    Moving party to give notice.     ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   Dept.    F49     Date:    8/1/24     Case    Name: Liliana Castillo Onofre v.    Golden Oak Dental Group, Emil J. Simanian, and Does 1 to    25     Case No.    23CHCV03467      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    AUGUST 1, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS [2954]  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case No. 23CHCV03467    Motion  filed: 5/23/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Emil J. Simanian D.D.S.,  Inc. d/b/a Golden Oak Dental Group Practice of Emil J Simanian DDS Inc. (the “Moving  Plaintiff” or “GODGP”) RESPONDING PARTY: None. NOTICE: OK.   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court compelling Plaintiff Liliana Castillo Onofre (“Plaintiff”  or “Onofre”), to serve verified responses, without objection, to the Moving  Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and imposing monetary sanctions  against Plaintiff and her attorney of record, in the amount of $2,610.00.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED. The request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action.  Subsequently, on January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed her operative First Amended  Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Emil J. Simanian D.D.S. (“Simanian”) and GODGP  (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 to 25, alleging (1) Medical  Malpractice, (2) General Negligence, and (3) Negligence Hiring, Training, and  Supervision. Subsequently, Defendants filed their Answer to the Complaint on  February 29, 2024.    On May 23, 2024, GODGP filed the instant Motion to Compel  Plaintiff’s Responses to the Special Interrogatories, Set One (the “Motion”).  Additionally, it requests monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her  counsel. Subsequently, GODGP filed a Notice of Nonopposition to Motion to  Compel on July 24, 2024.      No reply papers have been received by the Court.    ANALYSIS   If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to  serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling  responses and for a monetary sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,  subd. (b).)  The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel  where no responses have been served. All that needs to be shown in the  moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the  opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of  any kind has been served.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111  Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)    A.     Motion to  Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One   Moving Defendant’s counsel (“Counsel”) attests that on  February 29, 2024, it served Plaintiff with the first set of Special Interrogatories,  to which responses were due on April 1, 2024. (Conley Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. “A.”)  Having not received any responses by the due date, Counsel sent Plaintiff’s  counsel a written meet and confer letter on April 30, 2024, demanding Plaintiff  to serve responses, without objection, by May 6, 2024. (Id. ¶ 4, Ex.  “B.”) Subsequently, on May 2, 2024, in response to Plaintiff’s request for an  extension of two weeks, Counsel agreed to grant a one-week extension. (Id.  ¶ 6.) However, no responses had been received by GODGP as of May 21, 2024. (Id.  ¶ 7.)      Given the absence of any Opposition from Plaintiff and the  records above, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to serve a timely  response, thereby waiving any objection to the interrogatories, including those  based on privilege or the protection for work product, pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (a).      Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel Responses  to Special Interrogatories, Set One.   B.      Monetary  Sanctions   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision  (c), “[t]he Court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing  with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust....” Additionally, California Rules of Court rule  3.1348(A) further provides, “The Court may award sanctions under the Discovery  Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no  opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,  or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was  filed.”    Here, Plaintiff did not provide responses to the Special  Interrogatories nor file an Opposition to the Motion. Accordingly, based on the  above records and authorities, the Court finds that it is appropriate to impose  monetary sanctions.    Additionally, the Court notes that the current Motion  shares substantial similarities with a separately filed motion by Defendant  Simanian, which has led to a reduction in reasonable fees. In view of  the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and  reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work in  preparing the Motion is $272.50, calculated at a reasonable hourly rate of $425.00  for one-half hours reasonably spent, in addition to $60 for filing fees.    Therefore, the Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s request for  monetary sanctions.   CONCLUSION   The Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Special  Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED.    Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified responses, without  objection, to Defendant Emil J. Simanian D.D.S. Inc.’s Special Interrogatories,  Set One, within 20 days.    Defendant Emil J. Simanian D.D.S. Inc.’s request for  monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.    Plaintiff Liliana Castillo Onofre and her attorney of  record are ordered to jointly and severally pay $272.50 to Defendant Emil J.  Simanian D.D.S. Inc. within 20 days.    Moving party to give notice.     