 Case Number:  23TRCV00947    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  P Plaintiff’s Motion for ReconsiderationMoving Parties: Defendants South Park Doggie, Inc.; Amir Nayebdadash; and DanielleNayebdadashResponding Party: Plaintiffs Lauren and Armando HoganRULINGThe court considered the moving papers and opposition. Plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration is DENIED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn March 29, 2023, Plaintiffs Lauren Hogan (“Lauren”) and Armando Hogan (“Armando”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint. On September 27, 2023, Defendant South Park Doggie, Inc. (“SPD”) filed a demurrer to the complaint.On June 7, 2024, Defendants Amir Nayebdadash and Danielle Nayebdadash (collectively, “Nayebdadash Defendants”) filed a demurrer to the complaint and motion to strike.On July 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint.On September 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against SPD; Nayebdadash Defendants; Doggieworld Enterprises; Aimee Varguez; Elizabeth Varguez; and DOES 2-20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Negligence; (3) Trespass to Chattel; (4) Conversion; and (5) Strict Liability – Dangerous Animal.On September 24, 2024, Nayebdadash Defendants and SPD filed a demurrer and motion to strike. On October 11, 2024, Defendant SPD filed a notice of non-opposition to the demurrer. The court sustained SPD’s demurrer and granted Nayebdadash Defendants’ motion to strike without leave to amend.On November 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion. On November 25, 2024, Nayebdadash Defendants and SPD filed oppositions to the motion.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs allege that Moving Defendants are the owners of two vicious dogs, which they left in the control of SPD. (SAC, ¶ 5.) SPD placed Plaintiffs’ dog, Skye, in the same room as Moving Defendants’ dogs without supervision. (SAC, ¶ 13.)On August 9, 2022, Moving Defendants’ dogs attacked and killed Skye. (SAC, ¶ 14.) Plaintiffs allege that Moving Defendants knew of their dogs’ propensity for violence and trained them to be vicious and unruly. (SAC, ¶¶ 55-56.)LEGAL STANDARD“When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., §1008, subd. (a).)A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts, circumstances or law.” (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal. App. 4th 1494, 1499.) There is a strict requirement of diligence, meaning the moving party must present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence, different facts, or law earlier.  (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 674, 690.)  A motion for reconsideration is properly denied when it is based on evidence that could have been presented in connection with the original motion. (Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460; Hennigan v. White (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 395, 406.)  DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentPlaintiffs make this motion on the grounds that the court abused its discretion in sustaining the demurrer and motion to strike without leave to amend. Further, Plaintiffs have new facts showing that SPD was aware of the dogs’ vicious propensities. Plaintiffs also argue that the court misapplied the legal standard under Civ. Code section 3340.Opposing Party’s ArgumentNayebdadash Defendants argue that a “misinterpretation” of law is not a proper basis for a motion for reconsideration. They also argue that Plaintiffs have not presented new facts pertaining to them because they are not parties to the agreement.SPD contends that the Plaintiffs offer no evidence of the alleged temperament tests SPD conducted, nor did Plaintiffs’ counsel explain why these facts were not discovered earlier. Further, SPD was dismissed from the case, and the court no longer has jurisdiction.Merits of the MotionA. New LawAn argument that the court misinterpreted California law and therefore the moving party is relying on different law “is utterly specious. What [the moving party] essentially argues is that section 1008 does not apply when the litigant disagrees with the trial court’s ruling.” (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) Section 1008 is “the clear legislative intent to restrict motions to reconsider to circumstances where a party offers the court some fact or authority that was not previously considered by it.” (Ibid.) “The burden under section 1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.)Here, Plaintiffs ask the court to reconsider its ruling because it misapplied Civ. Code section 3340. Plaintiffs argue that the statute specifically provides for exemplary damages based on gross negligence, which Plaintiffs adequately pleaded.Plaintiffs offer no other case law or statute to support their motion. Rather, Plaintiffs attempt to relitigate the sufficiency of their pleading. The court previously assessed Plaintiffs’ pleading and found that Plaintiffs continued to rely on mere conclusions without stating supporting facts and that Plaintiffs did not assert that any other facts were available. In so doing, the court considered Section 3340.Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not offered any new law which would warrant reconsideration.B. New FactsWhen relying on new facts, the moving party must provide a “satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier time.” (Shiffer v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 246, 255.)Plaintiffs introduce Exhibit 1, a “Service Agreement” to support their contention that there are new facts showing that SPD had actual knowledge of the Basenjis’ temperament. Plaintiffs claim that the Service Agreement requires all dogs to undergo a temperament test prior to admission to SPD’s facilities. The Service Agreement contains no such provision. At best, it requires dog owners to complete a “guest profile” for their pets and warns pet owners that their pets may not pose a danger to other guests or SPD staff. There is simply no mention of a temperament assessment.Further, Plaintiffs’ counsel does not explain why, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, he could not have produced this document sooner.Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not offered new facts that would warrant reconsideration.C. Judgment has been entered as to South Park DoggieWhile the court has denied Plaintiffs’ motion to reconsider on its merits, the court also finds that it is without power to reconsider its ruling as to SPD. That entity was dismissed by the order dated October 22, 2024. Once the dismissal was entered, the court is without jurisdiction to reconsider the demurrer. (Passavanti v. Williams (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 1602, 1606.)CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion is DENIED in its entirety.Prevailing party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.