 Case Number:  22STCV31203    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Bruce Shafer,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV31203




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
David Underwood, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
October 16, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Assignment Order
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Bruce Shafer
Responding
Party: None
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No opposition has been received.
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure, section 708.510, subdivision (a), the Court may order the
judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or to an appointed receiver
all or part of a right to payment due or to become due. The types of payments
that can be assigned include wages due from the federal government if not
subject to a withholding order, rents, commissions, royalties, patent or
copyright payments, and insurance policy loan value. (Code Civ. Proc., §
708.510, subd. (a).)
 
Relevant factors the Court may take into
consideration when making an assignment order include the judgment debtor’s
reasonable requirements if they are a natural person, payments the judgment
debtor is required to make to satisfy other judgments and wage assignments, the
amount remaining due on the judgment, and the amount to be received in
satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned. (Code Civ. Proc., §
708.510, subd. (c).) 
Plaintiff moves for an assignment order of all payments or rights to payments that are due
or become due to Defendant David Underwood from the Receivership of the Estates
of Heartland Group Ventures, LLC, Blue Shield of California Life & Health
Insurance Company, Health Net Life Insurance Company, The Penn Insurance and
Annuity Company, and the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company. Plaintiff asserts
Underwood is entitled to investment income as well as sales commissions from
these sources. The amount remaining due on the judgment in this case is
$120,505.00.
 Plaintiff has established entitlement to an
assignment order. Defendant has not opposed. Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.