 Case Number:  24STCV15628    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LAURA A. ZIRATE, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ST. GEORGE TRUCKING & WAREHOUSING, INC.,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV15628
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 3, 2024



 
On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff Laura
A. Zirate filed this action against Defendants St. George Trucking & Warehousing
Inc. and STG Logistics Inc. arising from her employment.
On
August 28, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration.
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendants’
request for judicial notice of four trial court orders in different actions is denied.  These orders are unpublished and nonprecedential.  (See Santa Ana Hospital Medical Center v. Belshe
(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831 [“a written trial court ruling has no precedential
value”].)
Defendants’
request for judicial notice in reply is denied because the Court generally will
not consider new evidence submitted with a reply.¿¿(See¿Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537-1538.)
DISCUSSION
When seeking to compel arbitration
of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement
to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) 
The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)
The Court must grant a petition
to compel arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration
or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Under California law and the Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”), an arbitration agreement may be invalid based upon grounds applicable
to any contract, including unconscionability, fraud, duress, and public policy.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
A.        Defendants Have Shown The Existence of
An Arbitration Agreement.
On
April 4, 2023, Plaintiff electronically signed a Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate.  (McKenna Decl., Ex. A [“Arbitration Agreement”].)  Through the Arbitration Agreement, the parties
agreed to arbitrate all “claims based upon or related to discrimination, harassment,
retaliation, defamation (including post-employment defamation or retaliation), breach
of a contract or covenant, privacy, seating, fraud, negligence, breach of fiduciary
duty, trade secrets, unfair competition, wages, minimum wage and overtime or other
compensation or any monies claimed to be owed, meal breaks and rest periods, termination,
tort claims, common law claims, equitable claims, . . . and any and all claims for
violation of any federal, state or other governmental law, statute, regulation,
or ordinance.”
Defendants
have satisfied their burden of showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.
B.        The Arbitration Agreement Satisfies The
Armendariz Factors.
Arbitration
agreements for FEHA claims must (1) provide for neutral arbitrators, (2) provide
for more than minimal discovery, (3) require a written award, (4) provide for all
of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) not require
employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators’ fees or expenses
as a condition of access to the arbitration forum.  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102 (Armendariz).)  These requirements may apply to non-FEHA employment
claims.  (See Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 254 [applying the Armendariz factors
in the context of claims under the Labor Code].)
The
arbitration agreement provides for arbitration using a neutral arbitrator with AAA.  (Arbitration Agreement ¶ 5.)  The AAA Employment Arbitration Rules will apply,
and there are procedures for adequate discovery.  (Arbitration Agreement ¶¶ 5, 8.)  The arbitrator “may award any remedy to which
a party is entitled under applicable law, but remedies will be limited to those
that would be available to a party in their individual capacity for the claims presented
to the Arbitrator, and no remedies that otherwise would be available to an individual
under applicable law will be forfeited.” 
(Arbitration Agreement ¶ 5.)  The arbitrator
will issue a written opinion with the factual and legal basis for the award.  (Arbitration Agreement ¶ 10.)  Defendants will pay all costs and expenses unique
to arbitration, including the arbitrator’s fees.  (Arbitration Agreement ¶ 9.)
Accordingly,
the Arbitration Agreement satisfies Armendariz.
C.        Plaintiff’s Action is Not Purely Representative.
Plaintiff
does not argue that the Arbitration Agreement is generally unenforceable or unconscionable.  Instead, Plaintiff argues that “this Action is
purely representative,” and “this action falls squarely outside of the scope of
the purported arbitration agreement.”  (Opposition
at p. 1.)  The parties agreed to “arbitrate
PAGA claims on an individual basis only,” including “any claim by you under PAGA
to recover for unpaid wages, civil penalties, or other individual relief.”  (Arbitration Agreement ¶ 7.)
Civil
penalties can be recovered in an action brought by an aggrieved employee “on behalf
of the employee and other current or former employees.”  (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (a).)  “Under PAGA’s standing requirement, a plaintiff
can maintain non-individual PAGA claims in an action only by virtue of also maintaining
an individual claim in that action.  See Cal.
Lab. Code Ann. §§ 2699(a), (c).”  (Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, 663.)  Plaintiff’s precise allegations to avoid alleging
an individual claim does not change PAGA’s requirement of an individual claim.  (See Opposition at pp. 4-5 [“Here, Plaintiff’s
complaint is explicitly and exclusively representative in nature. . . . Plaintiff
has not brought any individual claims . . . With no individual claims asserted herein
by Plaintiff, there is nothing to compel to arbitration.”].)
The
Court will stay Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claims during arbitration of Plaintiff’s
individual PAGA claims.  (See Adolph v.
Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1126.)
CONCLUSION
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
The entire action is STAYED pending the conclusion of the arbitration.
A
Status Conference re: Arbitration is scheduled for December 3, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Five court days before, the parties are to file a joint report stating the
name of their retained arbitrator and the status of arbitration.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 3rd day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 