 Case Number:  23STCV21363    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 20, 2024                         TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Gabriela Cortez v. Burberry Limited, et
al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV21363            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY PROCEEDINGS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Burberry Limited and Ana Fragoso
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Gabriela
Cortez
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination action that was filed on September
6, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that she was harassed for taking maternity leave and
terminated for complaining about her mistreatment. 
 
Defendants move to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiff
raises several evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Nicola Internullo
in support of the Motion. The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
            Objection
No. 1: OVERRULED. Not a legal conclusion. The statement itself lays
foundation by explaining the matters which are in the witness’s personal
knowledge.
 
            Objection
No. 2: OVERRULED. Statement does not require authentication. Does not lack
foundation. This statement is not hearsay and is not speculative.
 
            Objection
No. 3: OVERRULED. Statement does not require authentication. Does not lack
foundation. Not hearsay nor speculation. Not an expert opinion.
 
            Objection
No. 4: OVERRULED. Plaintiff does not explain how the document is
incomplete. Exhibit does not lack authentication nor foundation, is not a legal
conclusion, and is not hearsay. 
 
            Objection
No. 5: OVERRULED. Statement does not require authentication. Does not lack
foundation. Not hearsay nor speculation. Not an expert opinion. Vagueness is
not a valid objection in this context.
 
            Objection
No. 6: OVERRULED. Exhibit does not lack authentication nor foundation, is
not a legal conclusion, and is not hearsay, nor is it an expert opinion.
 
            Objection
No. 7: OVERRULED. Statement does not require authentication. Does not lack
foundation. Not hearsay nor speculation. Not an expert opinion. Vagueness is
not a valid objection in this context.
 
            Objection
Nos. 8-9: OVERRULED. Statement does not require authentication. Does not
lack foundation. Not hearsay nor speculation. Not an expert opinion. Vagueness
is not a valid objection in this context.
 
Plaintiff’s Overlength Opposition Brief
 
            Plaintiff’s
opposition brief is 16 pages in length, discounting front matter and the tables
of contents and authorities. California Rule of Court 3.1113(d) states that a
responding memorandum is limited to 15 pages, unless permission to file
an overlength brief is obtained pursuant to subdivision (e). (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1113(d)-(e).) Notwithstanding Defendants’ objections, the Court does
not consider a single overlength page of argument to be a prejudicial violation
of this rule. The Court will therefore exercise its discretion to consider the entire
opposition. 
 
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement
 
Under California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Blake v. Ecker (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th
728, 741 (overruled on other grounds by
Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094).) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate, and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.) 
 
As to the burden of production,
rather than persuasion, on such a motion, courts have articulated a three-step
burden shifting process: 
 
First, the moving party bears the
burden of producing “prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate
the controversy.” [citation] The moving party “can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the [motion or] petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the [opposing party’s] signature.” [citation] Alternatively,
the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth the agreement’s
provisions in the motion. [citations] For this step, “it is not necessary to
follow the normal procedures of document authentication.” [citation] If the
moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party does
not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement, then nothing more is
required for the moving party to meet its burden of persuasion.
 
If the moving party meets its initial
prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the
second step, the opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to
challenge the authenticity of the agreement. [citation] The opposing party can
do this in several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify under oath
or declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does not
remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or does not
remember signing the agreement. [citations]
 
If the opposing party meets its burden
of producing evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must establish
with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. The
burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance of the evidence remains with
the moving party. [citation].
 
(Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165-66.) An electronic record or signature is attributable to
a person if it was the act of the person. (Civ. Code § 1633.9(a).) The act of
the person may be shown in any manner. (Id.) As described by the Court
of Appeal, “the burden of authenticating an electronic signature is not great.”
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 844.)
 
            Defendants
have provided a copy of an “Arbitration Policy/Agreement” which appears to bear
Plaintiff’s electronic signature dated April 5, 2018. (Declaration of Nicola
Internullo ISO Mot. Exh. A.) Defendants also present electronic records showing
that Plaintiff received the document via email and signed it on that date.
(Internullo Decl. ¶¶4-6, Exh. B.) 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that there is no evidence of a valid contract to arbitrate because there
was no mutual assent between the parties, insofar as the timestamps of
Defendants’ records show that Plaintiff signed the document 14 seconds after
opening it. (Internullo Decl. Exh. B.) Thus, Plaintiff argues, it was not
possible to read the document in that time. That said, Plaintiff’s failure to
read the contract is not a barrier to contract formation. (Iyere v. Wise
Auto Grp. (2023) 87 Cal. App. 5th 747, 759 [“It is hornbook law that
failing to read an agreement before signing it does not prevent formation of a
contract”].) The Court therefore finds that Defendants have demonstrated that
Plaintiff signed an agreement to arbitrate. 
 
Applicability of FAA
 
            Defendants
argue that the FAA governs the arbitration agreement at issue.
 
An arbitration clause is governed
by the FAA if the agreement is a contract “evidencing a transaction involving
commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) Courts “broadly construe” this phrase, because the
FAA “embodies Congress’ intent to provide for the enforcement of arbitration
agreements within the full reach of the Commerce Clause.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Pers., Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276,
1286.)
 
Here, the Agreement expressly
states that “interpretation and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed
by the [FAA].” (Internullo Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. A p. 4.) Plaintiff argues in
opposition that the Federal Arbitration Act does not apply to this matter
because Defendants were not engaged in interstate commerce. This argument is
not relevant where, as here, the parties expressly agreed that the FAA is the
governing law. The Court therefore finds that the Federal Arbitration Act
applies to this agreement.
 
Scope of the Arbitration Agreement
 
            Defendants
contend that the scope of the Arbitration Agreement covers Plaintiff’s substantive
claims. Plaintiff does not dispute this contention.
 
            “The scope
of arbitration is a matter of agreement between the parties.” (See, e.g., Ericksen,
Arbuthnot, McCarthy, Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35
Cal.3d 312, 323.) “A party can be compelled to arbitrate only those issues it
has agreed to arbitrate.” (Perez v. U-Haul Co. of California (2016) 3
Cal.App.5th 408, 419.)
 
            As it is
undisputed that the Agreement covers Plaintiff’s claims, the Court adopts the
agreement of the parties as to the scope of the agreement.
 
Third-Party Right to Compel Arbitration
 
            Defendants
argue that Defendant Fragoso is also entitled to compel arbitration as an
intended third-party beneficiary. 
 
“Someone who is not a party to a contractual arbitration provision
generally lacks standing to enforce it.” (Cohen v. TNP 2008 Participating
Notes Program, LLC (2019) 31 Cal. App. 5th 840, 856 [Citations
omitted].)  A nonsignatory may enforce an
arbitration provision “where they are intended third party beneficiaries or are
assigned rights under the contract.”  (Ibid.
[Citations omitted].)  This enforcement
right is “in Civil Code section 1559, which provides: ‘A contract, made
expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any time
before the parties thereto rescind it.’” 
(San Diego Hous. Comm'n v. Indus. Indem. Co. (2002) 95 Cal. App.
4th 669, 685.)  “It is well settled,
however, that Civil Code section 1559 excludes enforcement of a contract by
persons who are only incidentally or remotely benefited by the agreement.
[Citations.] The Supreme Court has held: ‘A third party should not be permitted
to enforce covenants made not for his benefit, but rather for others. He is not
a contracting party; his right to performance is predicated on the contracting
parties' intent to benefit him. [Citations.]’” 
(Harper v. Wausau Ins. Co. (1997) 56 Cal. App. 4th 1079, 1087.)
 
            The California Supreme Court
addressed the circumstances when a nonsignatory has standing to assert rights
under a contract as a third-party beneficiary in Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817. 
Under Goonewardene, a non-party to a contract is a third party
beneficiary if demonstrates “not only (1) that it is likely to benefit from the
contract, but also (2) that a motivating purpose of the contracting parties is
to provide a benefit to the third party, and further (3) that permitting the
third party to [assert rights under the contract] against a contracting party
is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties.” 
(Id., at p. 821.)  
 
            Here, the Arbitration Agreement
expressly states that “[t]he disputes covered under this Agreement
include any dispute between an employee and any other person where: (1) the
employee seeks to hold the Company liable on account of the other person’s
conduct or (2) the other person is also covered by this Agreement and the
dispute arises from or relates to employment, including termination from
employment, with the Company.” (Internullo Decl. Exh. A. p.1.) This language
plainly establishes all three Goonewardene factors on its face since
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Fragoso arise entirely out of their
relationship as fellow employees of the same company. (See generally,
Complaint.) Defendant Fragoso is therefore likewise entitled to enforce the
arbitration agreement as a third-party beneficiary. 
 
Waiver
 
            Plaintiff
argues in opposition that Defendants waived the right to compel arbitration by
removing this case to federal court and filing an answer to the Complaint. 
 
“As with any other contractual
right, the right to arbitration may be waived.” (Chase v. Blue Cross of
California (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1142, 1151 [citing Code Civ. Proc. §
1281.2(a)].) “A party seeking to prove waiver of a right to arbitration must
demonstrate (1) knowledge of an existing right to compel arbitration; (2) acts
inconsistent with that existing right; and (3) prejudice to the party opposing
arbitration.” (Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 1193, 1203.) Further, a petition to compel arbitration "should
be brought within a reasonable time." (Zamora v. Lehman (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 1, 17.) What constitutes a “reasonable time” is a question of fact
depending on the situation of the parties, the nature of the transaction, the
facts of the case, and any prejudice suffered by the opposing party. (See,
e.g., Spear v. California State Auto. Ass'n (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1035,
1043.)
 
Here, Plaintiff cites no authority standing for the position that removal
to federal court and filing of an answer constitute acts inconsistent with a
right to compel arbitration. Plaintiff has thus failed to carry her substantiate
this objection. 
 
Exclusion of Sexual Harassment Claims from Arbitration
 
            Plaintiff
also opposes arbitration arguing her claims for sexual harassment are excluded
under the recent amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act. 
 
            On March 3,
2022, the President signed the “Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and
Sexual Harassment Act of 2021” into law. (Pub. L. No. 117-90, 136 Stat. 26,
codified in 9 U.S.C. §§ 401, 402.) The effect of this provision is to preclude
arbitration of disputes relating to conduct alleged to be sexual harassment
under applicable law, including state law. (9 U.S.C. §§ 401, 402.) Section 3 of
the Act states that it applies “to any dispute or claim that arises on or after
the date of enactment of this Act.” (Pub. L. No. 117-90, 136 Stat. 26 § 3.)
Under the Fair Employment and Housing Act, claims accrue when the adverse
employment action occurs and the claimant suffers an injury. (McCaskey v.
California State Auto Assn. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 947, 997.) The Complaint
alleges Plaintiff was terminated on March 29, 2021, and the final instance of
allegedly injurious conduct occurred in April 2021, notwithstanding the
conclusory allegation of a continuing injury by failing to rehire Plaintiff.
(Complaint ¶ 15p-u.) Thus, as alleged, Plaintiff’s claim accrued at the latest in
April 2021, before the amendments were enacted. Therefore, these provisions do
not apply to this dispute.
 
Unconscionability
 
            Plaintiff’s final argument is that
the agreement is unenforceable because it is unconscionable. 
 
1.      Procedural Unconscionability
 
“‘To
briefly recapitulate the principles of unconscionability, the doctrine has
“‘both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on
‘“oppression”’ or ‘“surprise”’ due to unequal bargaining ¿power, the latter on ‘“overly harsh”’ … or ‘“one-sided”’
results.” [Citation.] The procedural element of an unconscionable contract
generally takes the form of a contract of adhesion, “‘which, imposed and
drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the
subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject
it.’” … [¶] Substantively unconscionable terms may take various forms, but may generally be described as unfairly one-sided.’
[Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 
 
“Under this approach, both the procedural
and substantive elements must be met before a contract or term will be deemed
unconscionable. Both, however, need not be present to the same degree. A
sliding scale is applied so that ‘the more substantively oppressive the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’
(Citations omitted.) 
 
(Walnut Producers of California v. Diamond Foods, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 634, 645
(bold emphasis added).)  
 
            Plaintiff argues that the agreement
is procedurally unconscionable because it is a contract of adhesion. This
argument presents only minimal unconscionability: 
 
“The
procedural element of the unconscionability analysis concerns the manner in which
the contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that time.
[Citation.] The element focuses on oppression or surprise. [Citation.]
‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power that results in no
real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice.’ [Citation.] Surprise is
defined as ‘“the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the
bargain are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to
enforce the disputed terms.”’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 
 
Plaintiffs claim the Agreement is procedurally
unconscionable because it is an adhesion contract. An adhesion contract is “a
standardized contract … imposed upon the subscribing party without an
opportunity to negotiate the terms.” (Citation omitted.) “The term signifies a
standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it. [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 
 
The California Supreme Court has consistently
stated that “‘[t]he procedural element of an unconscionable contract generally
takes the form of a contract of adhesion … .’ ”
(Citations omitted.) 
 
“Whether the challenged provision is within a
contract of adhesion pertains to the oppression aspect of procedural
unconscionability. A contract of adhesion is “imposed and drafted by the party
of superior bargaining strength” and “relegates to the subscribing party only
the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Citations omitted.) “[A]bsent unusual
circumstances, use of a contract of adhesion establishes a minimal degree of
procedural unconscionability notwithstanding the availability of market
alternatives.” (Citation omitted.) 
 
(Walnut Producers of California, supra, 187
Cal.App.4th at 645-46 [bold emphasis added].) Thus, even accepting Plaintiff’s
argument as true, this would establish only a minimum of procedural
unconscionability. 
 
            Second,
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is unconscionable because Defendants did
not provide Plaintiff with the rules which would govern the arbitration. Although
Plaintiff describes this argument as showing substantive unconscionability, failure
to provide arbitration rules or specify where they might be found is, instead, evidence
of procedural unconscionability. (See, e.g., Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc.
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 244-46.) However, the failure to attach arbitration
rules is not sufficient to support a finding of procedural unconscionability on
its own. (Peng v. First Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462,
1472.) Here, the Arbitration Agreement states:
 
Claims shall be
resolved through binding arbitration to be administered by the American
Arbitration Association (the “AAA”), in accordance with its Employment
Arbitration Rules and Mediation Procedures (the “AAA Rules”) then in effect,
except as otherwise modified herein. The AAA Rules may be found on the AAA’s
website: www.adr.org
 
(Internullo Decl.
Exh. A. p.3.) Plaintiff states she was not given a copy of the rules.
(Declaration of Gabriela Cortez ISO Opp. ¶ 7.) Moreover, as Plaintiff observes,
the link provided merely goes to the AAA’s primary webpage, not directly to the
governing rules. (See Hasty v. American Automobile Assn. (2023) 98
Cal.App.5th 1041, 1061 [stating that a non-functional hyperlink accompanying a
statement that arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the applicable
rules “then in effect” supports a finding of unconscionability].) Generally, however,
a challenge based on the failure to provide arbitration rules must also point
to some deficiency or element of the rules of which Plaintiff was unaware. (Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal. 4th 1237, 1246.) Here, as in Baltazar,
Plaintiff offers no such contention. 
 
            Third,
Plaintiff contends that the agreement is unconscionable because arbitration
presents advantages for an employer who repeatedly appears before the same
group of arbitrators. Plaintiff relies on a selective quotation from Mercuro
v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 167, in which the Court of Appeal
described these advantages. (Mercuro v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 167, 178-79.) As Defendants point out in reply, however, the
portion of this authority which Plaintiff omitted expressly states that the
“repeat player effect” has never been held to render an arbitration agreement
unconscionable per se. (Id. at 178.) The Mercuro Court also
expressly declined to so hold. (Id. at 179.) 
 
            The Court therefore
finds that Plaintiff has not demonstrated more than minimal procedural
unconscionability. 
 
2.     
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is substantively unconscionable. As
Plaintiff has shown only a minimal level of procedural unconscionability,
Plaintiff bears a higher burden to demonstrate substantive unconscionability. 
 
“A
provision is substantively unconscionable if it ‘involves contract terms that
are so one-sided as to “shock the conscience,” or that impose harsh or
oppressive terms.’ [Citation.] The phrases ‘harsh,’ ‘oppressive,’ and ‘shock
the conscience’ are not synonymous with ‘unreasonable.’ Basing an
unconscionability determination on the reasonableness of a contract provision
would inject an inappropriate level of judicial subjectivity into the analysis.
¿‘With a concept as nebulous as “unconscionability” it is important that courts
not be thrust in the paternalistic role of intervening to change contractual
terms that the parties have agreed to merely because the court believes the
terms are unreasonable. The terms must shock the conscience.’ [Citations.]”  
 
(Walnut Producers of California v. Diamond Foods, Inc.
supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at pp. 647-648.)

 
            An
agreement is not substantively unconscionable in the context of an employment discrimination
claim if it:
 
(1)
provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery,
(3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that
would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not require employees to
pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators’ fees or expenses as a
condition of access to the arbitration forum. Thus, an employee who is made to
use arbitration as a condition of employment "effectively may vindicate
[his or her] statutory cause of action in the arbitral forum.’ "
 
(Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83,
102.)
 
            Plaintiff
first argues that the agreement does not provide for adequate discovery because
the agreement only states that “Discovery will be governed by the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure.” (Internullo Decl. Exh. A. p.3.) Plaintiff claims that this
provision is unacceptably vague. The Court disagrees. This provision is a plain
statement that Plaintiff will enjoy the full scope of discovery under the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. That is manifestly more than minimal
discovery.
 
            Plaintiff
next argues that the agreement does not allow for judicial review of the
written arbitration award. This claim is specious. Judicial review of
arbitration awards is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act and the
California Arbitration Act. (9 U.S.C. §§ 9-13; Code Civ. Proc. § 1285 et
seq.) 
 
            Third,
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is substantively unconscionable because it
contains a confidentiality provision. The full confidentiality provision
states:
 
All proceedings and
documents prepared in connection with any arbitration pursuant to this
Agreement shall be confidential and, unless otherwise required by law, shall
not be disclosed to any other person other than the parties, their counsel,
witnesses, expert, and the arbitrator(s). The results of the arbitration,
unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, are confidential and may not be
disclosed, made public, or reported to any person or entity, except as
otherwise required by law, or the extent necessary in connection with judicial
review of the final written decision.
 
(Internullo Decl. Exh. A. p 4.) 
 
            Confidentiality
provisions are not per se unconscionable if they are based on a
legitimate commercial need. (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc., supra, 62
Cal.4th at 1250.) Here, however, Defendant identifies no commercial need for a
confidentiality provision. Moreover, in Hasty, the Court of Appeal
stated categorically that confidentiality provisions are substantively
unconscionable in the context of harassment, discrimination, and retaliation
claims because they only serve to benefit the employer. (Hasty, supra, 98
Cal.App.5th at 1062.) The Hasty Court reasoned: “Future employees cannot
take advantage of findings in past arbitrations or prove a pattern of
discrimination and/or retaliation.... In addition, ‘keeping past findings
secret undermines an employee's confidence in the fairness and honesty of the
arbitration process and thus potentially discourages that employee from
pursuing a valid discrimination claim.” (Hasty, supra, 98 Cal.App.5th at
1062, quoting Murrey v. Superior Court (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 1223,
1254.) Under this binding authority, the confidentiality provision is
substantively unconscionable. 
 
            Further, as
Plaintiff argues, the agreement also contains a waiver of class, collective,
and representative actions other than Private Attorney General Act claims and
requires that all claims must be brought in Plaintiff’s individual capacity.
(Internullo Decl. Exh. A. p.1.) As the Court of Appeal has repeatedly found,
these provisions “can be fairly read to limit only the employee’s rights.” (Hasty,
supra, 98 Cal.App.5th at 1062-63; see also Navas v. Fresh Venture Foods,
LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 626, 636.) Plaintiff has thus demonstrated that
the agreement has multiple unconscionable provisions. 
 
            Although
the Court is empowered to sever unconscionable provisions of a contract, the
Court has discretion to refuse to enforce the contract in its entirety. (Civ.
Code § 1670.5(a).) It is not an abuse of discretion for the Court to refuse to
enforce an arbitration agreement which contains multiple unconscionable terms.
(Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 124.) As Plaintiff has identified
multiple substantively unconscionable provisions and demonstrated some minimal
procedural unconscionability, that discretion is exercised here. 
 
            The Court
therefore finds that Plaintiff has shown that the agreement is permeated with
substantive unconscionability and is unconscionable on the whole.  Defendants are therefore not permitted to
enforce the Arbitration Agreement. 
 
//          
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 20, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 