  Case Number:  23VECV01030    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  T HART v. LASALLE, et al.
23VECV01030 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE:
The Case Management Conference is continued from 2/2/2024 to
5/24/2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Dept. T.  No
new CMC statements are required. No meet and confer is required.
NOTICE OF RULING AS TO THE MATTERS
ON CALENDAR 2/2/2024:
The clerk of the court will give notice of ruling on these matters
on calendar for 2/2/2024; no parties or counsel may give notice of ruling.  Any notices of ruling in violation of this
order will be stricken by the court without further notice.
PROTECTIVE ORDER:
To the extent that any discovery responses mention the need for a
protective order, it is the responsibility of the party claiming the need for
the protective order to promptly request it. 
No parties may object on the grounds of the need for a protective order
and then take no action.  Such failure to
timely act could be considered discovery abuse. 
If anyone claims the need for a protective order, a motion shall be
filed forthwith, or meet and confer for a stipulated protective order using the
court form.
TENTATIVE RULINGS:
1.     PLAINTIFF'S
MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES FILED 9/21/2023 AGAINST DEFENDANT LASALLE
PROPERTY FUND REIT, INC.
RFP Set 1, Nos. 1-19 Served 6/30/2023 on La Salle Property Fund Reit
Initially, the court notes that in the absence of violation of a
court order to produce, the court does not grant plaintiff's request that (1) LaSalle
not be permitted to introduce a defense as to the topic of each request where
they failed to produce any records.  As
to plaintiff's request that (2) "they be deemed facts as pled below"
the court does not know what this means. 
Wilson, Elser is ordered that it cannot shortcut its client's name
as it has appeared in this case.  The
court does not have in its file any answer on behalf of "LPF TRIANA, INC.
Erroneously Sued As LASALLE PROPERTY FUND REIT, INC."   The only answer is the amended verified
answer filed on 10/6/2023 that is on behalf of defendant “LPF Triana, LLC
(converted from LPF Triana, Inc.)” and none that mentions LaSalle Property Fund
REIT, Inc.
As it concerns this motion, therefore, there is no defendant that
has appeared in this case as LaSalle Property Fund, REIT, Inc. and therefore,
there can be no motion to compel its response to discovery.  There has been no answer in this case on
behalf of LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc. which is currently in default.
Deny as moot.  This
defendant has not appeared in this action so by law could not have been served
discovery by email.  Regardless, the
defendant is in default and no further action can be taken against it except
for entry of default judgment.
2.    PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY
FROM DEFENDANT KYLE DUPREE FILED 9/25/2023
The court only considers the requests in the Notice of
Motion.  Any other requests in the body
of the points and authorities will be disregarded.
As to RFP Set 1 Nos. 1 - 45 to defendant Kyle Dupree: Grant.  The responses were not Code compliant.  The documents are relevant to the subject
matter of the case or may lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  No privilege log was attached.  Except for attorney client privilege and
attorney work product, all objections are overruled.  Documents, except those subject to the
privilege log, shall be produced by paginating each page and indicating which
pages are responsive to which request for production. (Example: RFP#1: Pgs.
1-25, 76-90, 203-207, RFP#2: Pgs. 27-400, 425-426, etc.)  
Verified Code compliant responses and production, including
privilege log for attorney client privilege and attorney work product, due
within 20 days.
3.        PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION FILED 11/17/2023
The court has carefully reviewed the notice of motion seeking a
preliminary injunction and has discerned the following requests for
relief.  If they do not appear in the
notice of motion, the court will not consider them.  The issues raised in the notice of motion are
as follows:
a.     Plaintiff
requests a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendants Legacy Partners, Inc.,
Kyle Dupree, and each LaSalle defendant, his or her employees, agents, vendors,
and persons acting with them or on their destruction of evidence to include
trash bags on the 5th floor before 
business hours with the sole intent of keeping plaintiff from
photographing evidence of trash.  The
court interprets this to mean that plaintiff wants the court to order that
trash bags on the 5th floor cannot be removed before business hours.  It is unclear why the court would order that
trash remain when the landlord wants to pick up the trash.  The court does not intend to issue an order
requiring that trash not be moved so that plaintiff can have an opportunity to
take pictures of it.  If the underlying
complain of plaintiff is that the trash is not being picked up soon enough,
then it is counterintuitive to make the landlord delay picking up the
trash.  There is no information that
plaintiff is prevented from taking 
pictures of the trash at any time it accumulates. DENY.
b.     Plaintiff
requests a preliminary injunction enjoining defendants from destroying property
videos that evidence plaintiff and or talking to any agent of these defendants
and or evidencing harassment (they allege crucial videos are "not
transferring" and can't be viewed but one would have to view them before
transfer).  It is unclear what videos she
is talking about and how the court would enforce this order.  The court needs to hear further from the
plaintiff but at this time it is unenforceable as phrased.
c.      Plaintiff
requests access to the property portal. 
If she wishes to view the portal, she may seek an inspection through the
use of a Request for Inspection. 
Otherwise, she does not indicate any law or contract requiring them to
give her access to the property portal. There is no legal authority cited that
gives her any right to control the property portal.  It is not her property.  The court's tentative is to DENY on the
grounds that there is no authority for this request.
d.      Plaintiff seeks an order to prevent LaSalle
defendants from destroying copies of her rent checks. This assumes that LaSalle
takes possession of her rent checks.   Again, presumably she keeps a copy of the
checks she writes, and the bank has copies of the checks they cash.  It is unclear what plaintiff is requesting.
e.     Plaintiff
asks the court to prevent the checking account from being closed.  This request is DENIED.  Even if the account is closed, the account
information is still available and defendants will still have access to it, as
well as the bank records themselves available for inspection if proper. There
is no legal authority to prevent them from closing the account. Closing the
account does not change the records in possession of the bank and the
defendants.
4.        PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO TAX COSTS OF FILED 11/1/2023
The cost bill is not untimely. 
Judgment was entered on 8/22/2023. 
Notice of entry of judgment was given on 10/18/2023.  Pursuant to CRC 3.1700, the memorandum of
costs is due: within 15 days after the date of service of the notice of entry
of judgment or dismissal by the clerk under Code of Civil Procedure section
664.5 or the date of service of written notice of entry of judgment or dismissal,
or within 180 days after entry of judgment, whichever is first.  The clerk did not give notice of entry.  The cost bill was filed within 180 days of
the judgment.  Notice of entry was given
by counsel on 10/18/2023.  The email of
9/1/2023 does not constitute notice of entry of judgment.  It does not state the date judgment was
entered.  It was not filed with the
court.  It has no proof of service
attached.  The motion is denied on this
ground.
Plaintiff seeks to tax filing services of $83.70. The court finds
that the amount is not unreasonable in this community and the motion is denied
on this ground.
Plaintiff seeks to tax the filing fee for the peremptory
challenge.  The court finds this is a
proper filing fee.  The court will not
make a determination of whether there was some ulterior motive in filing the
peremptory challenge.  The motion is
denied on this ground.
As to Item 14, there are no receipts explaining what these are for
and whether they were required by the court. 
The court grants the motions as to Item 14.
5.        PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO ENFORCE COURT'S ORDER OF 10/25/2023 FILED ON 11/1/2023
The notice of motion asks for the following:
Plaintiff seeks an order that if the re-inspection is ordered that
David Lucas and Robyn Christy need not be present: Deny.  The parties may select who will attend the
re-inspection. 
Plaintiff seeks an order that Mr. Lucas and Ms. Christy do not
speak to her at inspections: Grant. 
Communications should be between counsel and Ms. Hart only. 
Plaintiff asks that the order mandate that the rooms be unlocked
so that she does not have to wait for the right employee to get the keys: Deny.  However, the court orders that if there is a
reinspection, all keys be immediately available.
Plaintiff asks the court for a handwriting sample from all Legacy
employees and those that left in 2023 or in the alternative plaintiff will
propound discovery seeking them: Deny. 
This is not the proper subject for a protective order.
The court understands that an inspection took place.  This motion is to enforce the inspection
order.
It was improper for Mr. Bubion to keep everyone waiting for the
inspection to begin.  He should have
arranged a later time or had someone else cover the inspection or cover the
court appearance.  Mr. Bubion is
requested to consider this concerning future appearances and appointments.  If the inspection proceeded without Mr.
Bubion at 10:42, then it could have started without him at 10 a.m. as court
ordered.
Onsite restaurant:  Under
California law, the landlord has rights to enter leased property under certain
circumstances.  There Is no authority for
Ms. Hart to force the landlord to enter the restaurant for legal purposes.  This would be the same if Ms. Hart wanted to
inspect someone else's apartment.  The
court does not find fault for no entry into the restaurant.
This was for an inspection only. 
If Ms. Hart wanted to print a report for her unit, she would need to do
a demand to inspect and a request to print the report for her unit while she
watches.  If she wants to inspect the
entire program, she will need to do another inspection demand stating with
particularity what she wants to do.
Mr. Bubion was not allowed to prevent Ms. Hart from photographing
the DVR system, front and back, if that happened.
The court is unclear about inspection of the motor for the
elevator but if there are restrictions on access, then the court will not allow
inspection.
The court does not understand why Mr. Lucas had to continually get
new keys if this is true.
The court's distillation of the motion is: Ms. Hart wants to 1-
inspect "cable room", 2-Morton's, 3-the DVR front and back for
photographing, and the 4-FOB system's ability to monitor plaintiff.
The court will hear argument but the tentative is: 1. Grant 2.
Deny 3. Grant and 4. Deny if she wants to start the program and run a report
(however, she can ask for the operating manual and the report in RFPs.  
As to monetary sanctions, the court defers for the time being.
6.        PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE
ORDER FILED ON 12/6/2024:
The court only addresses the issues set forth in the notice of
motion
"That Form Interrogatories (Set One), Form Interrogatories
(Set Two), Special Interrogatories (Set One); Request for Production of  Documents (Set One); Requests for production
of Documents (Set Two); Request for Admissions (Set One); and Request for
Admissions (Set Two) as to LEGACY PARTNERS, INC., and that Form Interrogatories
(Set One); Request for Documents (Set One); Request for Admissions (Set One);
and Special Interrogatories (Set One) as to DEANNA OBRIEN; and Form
Interrogatories (Set One); Special Interrogatories (Set One) Request for
Admissions (Set One) and Request for Documents (Set One) as to STEVEN LENARD
SAPP need not be answered and that the time to answer being that the
interrogatories are unduly burdensome (seeking photos and videos in the
thousands) and redundant in nature, that all of the documents requested need
not be produced (many already produced by the defendants as pled below), and
that the interrogatories and requests for production and admissions be limited
in scope as well as many are premature as plaintiff is STILL waiting for
discovery responses from these parties since June 2023 who have the evidence
they are seeking."
The court will not go through all of this discovery to make a
determination of what plaintiff should or should not answer.  It is the plaintiff's responsibility to
identify specifically what she does not believe she should answer.  If the only issues are those mentioned in her
papers, then the court will continue the hearing and issue a tentative
ruling.  If there are others which are
not specifically mentioned in her papers, the court will not speculate which
ones she believes she should not have to answer.  
7.        PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET 2 FILED AGAINST LEGACY PARTNERS ON
12/6/2023: 
Grant.  Verified
supplemental responses within 45 days as to each affirmative defense and each
denial of a material allegation must be answered with subparts.  If defendant does not have any supporting
facts, witnesses, or documents at this time, it should so state. 
Monetary sanctions will be considered. 
8.        PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO RFP SET 1 AGAINST DEFENDANT DEANNA OBRIEN FILED ON 12/18/2023:
Granted in part and denied in part.
All GRANTS do not include production of attorney work product and
attorney client privilege.  The further
verified response shall be Code compliant identifying whether are any
responsive documents and if they are being produced but if not, why not such as
they have been lost or destroyed, or whether responsive documents are in the
custody of another and state who that is, or that the documents have never
existed, and if privileged what is being withheld.  Each document produced shall have a unique
number or otherwise is divided into easily recognizable categories as to which
production request it goes to.  Privilege
log is required.  Verified written
response and production due in 45 days. 
No monetary sanctions as there was reasonable justification to not
produce some documents.  Plaintiff did
not prevail on all of her requests.
1 
Grant
2 
Grant
3 
Grant
5 
Grant
11 
Grant as to resignation communication only
17 
Deny as attorney work product, overbroad and privacy rights
19 
Grant
20 
Grant
22 
Deny as overbroad, attorney client privilege and privacy rights
23 
Deny on grounds of attorney client privilege
28 
Deny as it is unclear what relevance this would have
30 
Grant
33 
Grant
40 
Grant
41 
Grant
43 
Grant
47 
Grant as to resignation communication only
 51  Deny on grounds of attorney client privilege