  Case Number:  23STCV17632    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
WENDY WAI FONG HO, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
HOI YING EUGENIE LAI,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV17632
  Hearing Date:  October 16, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant lai’s demurrer to complaint




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 27, 2023, Plaintiffs Wendy Wai
Fong Ho and Raymond Ho filed this action against Defendants Hoi Ying Eugenie
Lai and Global West Real Estate Corporation. The complaint asserts causes of
action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) intentional fraud, (3) negligent
misrepresentation, (4) elder abuse, (5) financial elder abuse, (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (7) negligence, and (8) unfair competition. 
            On September 18, 2023, Defendant Lai
filed the instant demurrer to the complaint, arguing that the complaint fails
to specify which Plaintiff is asserting the causes of action against which
Defendant. Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In
a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
(SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on
the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
pleading, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th
at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike,
the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to
strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court notes
that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Buckman
Decl.) 
DISCUSSION
            “Each separately stated cause of
action, count, or defense must specifically state . . . [t]he party asserting
it if more than one party is represented on the pleading (e.g., ‘by plaintiff
Jones’); and . . . [t]he party or parties to whom it is directed (e.g., ‘against
defendant Smith’).” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 2.112.) 
            Defendant argues that the complaint
fails to comply with Rule 2.112 because it does not specify which Plaintiff is
asserting each cause of action, nor does it specify which Defendant each cause
of action is asserted against. Rule 2.112 does not mandate a particular format
for identifying the parties, although it provides examples. Here, the allegations
under each cause of action reference both Plaintiffs and both Defendants, thus
making it sufficiently clear that the causes of action are asserted by both Plaintiffs
against both Defendants. Additionally, all of the causes of action (except the
sixth) are clearly labeled as against “all defendants.” 
The complaint must be read in whole and
interpreted liberally. The Court finds that the complaint substantially
complies with Rule 2.112 and is not uncertain for failure to identify the
parties. Whether both Plaintiffs can actually succeed on each cause of action,
or whether both Defendants can actually be held liable on each cause of action,
are separate issues. For purposes of this demurrer, the complaint sufficiently identifies
which parties are asserting and defending each cause of action. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Lai’s demurrer is OVERRULED.

 