 Case Number:  23STCV13312    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:    
Plaintiff 6380 Quebec LLC’s Motions for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint and Leave to Record Another Notice of Pending Action

Plaintiff 6380 Quebec LLC moves for
leave to file a first amended complaint and for leave to record another notice
of pending action for real property at 6380 Quebec Drive, Los Angeles, CA
90068.  
Requests for Judicial Notice
            Defendants
request judicial notice of six exhibits. 
The exhibits are each subject to judicial notice for their existence,
contents, and legal effects.  The court grants
judicial notice of exhibits A through F.
Leave to File First Amended Complaint
Courts have discretion to permit an
amendment to any pleading “in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may
be proper.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  Courts exercise their discretion “liberally
to permit amendment,” and “[t]he policy favoring amendment is so strong that it
is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.”  (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)  
Defendants Easy Financial, LLC,
National Strategic Investments, LLC, and Benjamin Donel argue the motion is
procedurally defective.  They contend
that, rather than truly seeking leave to file an amended complaint under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, the motion seeks to substitute a plaintiff
under section 368.5 without giving proper notice of doing so.  Code of Civil Procedure section 368.5
provides, “An action or proceeding does not abate by the transfer of an
interest in the action or proceeding or by any other transfer of an interest.  The action or proceeding may be continued in
the name of the original party, or the court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action or proceeding.”  This section does not apply.  The proposed first amended complaint does not
seek to substitute or replace the plaintiff. 
It seeks to add a second plaintiff, Pacific Capital Quebec I, LLC, without
removing the original plaintiff, 6380 Quebec LLC.
Furthermore, defendants provide no authority
prohibiting substituting or adding a plaintiff via motion for leave to file an
amended complaint.  Nor do they cite
authority requiring a motion to substitute under section 368.5.  Unlike, for example, section 377.31, which
provides for a motion to substitute a successor after the plaintiff’s death, section
368.5 (and the other sections in the same chapter) do not provide for a motion or
other procedure to substitute the assignee as plaintiff.  
Defendants also cite contrary
authority from the California Supreme Court. 
Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235 rejected
an argument that “plaintiffs should not be permitted to substitute a new
plaintiff because their failure to name the new plaintiff in their original
complaint was not a mistake.”  (Id.
at p. 243.)  The Court stated, “Amendments
for this purpose are liberally allowed.” 
(Ibid.)
Defendants further argue the
amendment is improper because “the plaintiff proposed to be substituted may not
‘state facts which give rise to a wholly distinct and different legal
obligation against the defendant.’ ”  (Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn., supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 243.)  Though the proposed first amended complaint
includes additional factual allegations and an additional party, it still
arises from the same set of facts and legal liabilities or obligations: the
loan agreement and foreclosure on the subject real property.
Finally, defendants contend the
amendment would be futile.  In ruling on a motion for leave to amend,
courts generally do not consider the amended pleading’s merits.  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 739, 760.)  The court
declines to do so here.  
After considering all relevant
factors, the court finds that permitting plaintiff to file the proposed first
amended complaint furthers the interest of justice. 
Another Notice of Pending Action
Plaintiff fails to show grounds to record
another notice of pending action.  Code
of Civil Procedure section 405.36 provides, “Once a notice of pending action has been
expunged, the claimant may not record another notice of pending action as to
the affected property without leave of the court in which the action is
pending.”  
A party seeking a lis pendens must
establish “by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real
property claim.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
405.32.)  To show the probable validity of a real property
claim, plaintiff must, at a minimum: (1) state in its memorandum of points and
authorities the cause(s) of action it contends are “real property claims”; (2)
identify the elements of each relevant cause of action with supporting
authorities; (3) present evidence showing each element is satisfied; (4)
provide citations to the evidence in its brief so the court can verify its factual
assertions; and (5) provide authority to support the legal arguments on its substantive
claims.  Plaintiff does none of these things.  Instead, it presents a
convoluted explanation of various factual matters and procedural history
without providing any context.  By failing to provide the court with a
coherent argument and relevant citations to the record and legal authorities,
plaintiff has forfeited any argument that the court should permit it to record
another lis pendens on the subject property. 
Substantively, the motion relies on
the premise that plaintiff’s first amended complaint will cure the reason for
which the court expunged the lis pendens. 
On December 18, 2023, the court
granted defendant Easy Financial, LLC’s motion to expunge lis pendens in part
on the basis that plaintiff 6380 Quebec LLC was not a party to the relevant
loan agreement.  The proposed first
amended complaint purports to address that problem by adding a new plaintiff,
Pacific Capital Quebec I, LLC.  Plaintiff’s
motion, however, does not address the other reasons the court expunged the lis
pendens.  The court also found plaintiff
did not meet its burden of showing defendants breached an enforceable oral
foreclosure agreement. 
Assuming
plaintiff’s moving papers met its burden of showing the probable validity of a
real property claim, the opposition’s evidence adequately establishes plaintiff
is not likely to succeed on a real property claim.  Defendant Easy Financial, LLC presents
evidence that the borrower defaulted on the loan agreement and the forbearance
agreement and did not tender payment of the balance before foreclosure.  (Donel Decl., ¶¶ 12-20.)  
Plaintiff
ultimately may have meritorious real property claims.  But it has not met its burden of proof or
persuasion for the court to approve its recording of another notice of pending
action.
Disposition
Plaintiff 6380 Quebec LLC’s motion
for leave to file a first amended complaint is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to file
the first amended complaint (attached as Exhibit 14 to the compendium of
exhibits in support of the motion) forthwith.
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to record another notice of
pending action is denied.