  Case Number:  24STCP01560    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PHILIP
  CHATMAN, et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
AMANDA
  GARCIA 330 N BRAND, BLVD GLENDALE CA 
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCP01560
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 11, 2024



 
Defendant CT
Corporation’s motion to quash is GRANTED. Defendant Garcia’s joining motion is
similarly GRANTED.
 
            On
5/14/2024, pro per Plaintiffs Philip Chatman and Carla Wedlow
(collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against “Amanda Garcia 330 N.
Brand, Blvd. Glendale CA” 
 
            On
10/2/2024, specially appearing third-party CT Corporation System (CT
Corporation) moved to quash Plaintiffs’ purported service of summons. Defendant
Amanda Garcia (Garcia) joins in this motion. 

 
Discussion  
 
            CT
Corporation argues that CT Corporation was not properly served under California
Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 415.30, and thus, this Court lacks
jurisdiction over CT Corporation, and service should be quashed.
 
            After
review, the Court agrees. 
 
The purported
service at an address for CT Corporation is defective because (1) the Summons
and Complaint were delivered by first class mail without the required Notice of
Acknowledgement and Receipt Form or the required return envelope with postage
prepaid; and (2) CT Corporation is not named in the Summons or Complaint. 
 
CT
Corporation notes that while Ms. Garcia is an employee of CT Corporation, CT
Corporation is not the authorized agent for, or otherwise authorized to accept
service of process on behalf of, Ms. Garcia.
 
Similarly,
Ms. Garcia seeks to quash service on her because (1) the Summons and Complaint
were delivered by first class mail without the required Notice of Acknowledgement
of Receipt Form or the required return envelope with postage prepaid; and (2)
CT Corporation is not the authorized agent for, or otherwise authorized to
accept service of process on behalf of, Ms. Garcia. (CCP § 416.90.) Thus, the
purported service was defective and ineffective to serve Ms. Garcia. 
             
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant CT Corporation’s motion to quash is granted.
Defendant Garcia’s joining motion is similarly granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 