 Case Number:  23STCV08092    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



NAVID KESHAVARZ-NIA
 
        
  vs.
 
RAYTHEON (CA)
  TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08092 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: September 19, 2023



 
Defendants’
motion to dismiss forum non conveniens is GRANTED. 
 
            On
4/12/2023, Plaintiff Navid Keshavarz-Nia (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Raytheon (CA) Technologies Corporation and Raytheon Technologies, Inc.
(collectively, Defendants) alleging: (1) discrimination; (2) retaliation; (3)
failure to investigate and prevent violations of FEHA; and (4) Labor Code
section 1102.5. 
 
            Now,
Defendants move to dismiss, or in the alternative, stay this action, based on forum
non conveniens.
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants
argue that this case should be heard in Virginia, given that this case has only
a tenuous connection to California. In support, Defendants submitted evidence
that: 
 
-        
None of the parties are residents of
California. While Plaintiff states that he is a resident of California, in
reality he is and has been a resident of Virginia since 1/1/2023. 
 
-        
Defendant is headquartered in
Arlington, Virginia.
 
-        
The division of Raytheon Company that
Plaintiff performed work for is in Dulles, Virginia – not California.
 
-        
Raytheon Company hired Plaintiff to
perform work on site, in Virginia, on projects located and operating in
Virginia – not California.
 
-        
He reported to supervisors and
performed work on projects physically located in Dulles, Virginia – not California.
 
-        
All of the documents and information
pertaining to his employment and associated claims are located in Virginia –
not California.
 
-        
Witnesses directly involved in the
alleged conduct and overseeing subsequent investigations are located in
Virginia – not California.
 
-        
The only connection this case has to
California is that Raytheon Company accommodated Plaintiff’s request for a
temporary relocation to California to care for a sick relative. 
 
-        
While Plaintiff temporarily relocated
to California, all of the projects and employees Plaintiff worked with, or
reported to, were, and are, located in Dulles, Virginia or outside of
California. 
 
-        
Plaintiff worked from California until
December 2022, at which time he moved back to Vienna, Virginia. Plaintiff currently
lives in Virginia and works for Raytheon Company in Virginia.
 
(See
Flickinger Decl.) 
 
“Forum non
conveniens is an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a
court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of
action when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly
tried elsewhere.” (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.
(citation omitted).) When a court, upon motion of a party, or its own motion,
finds that in the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in
a forum outside the state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole
or in part on any conditions that may be just. (CCP § 410.30(a).) The defendant
bears the burden of proof that the action should be tried elsewhere. To
establish its burden, a defendant must show (1) a suitable alternative forum
exists and (2) the balance of private and public interest factors makes it
“just” that the litigation proceed in the alternative forum. (Stangvik, supra,
54 Cal.3d at p. 751.)
 
After review,
the Court agrees that Virginia is a more suitable forum for this action over
California, and the balance of the private interests of the litigants and the
interests of the public weighs against retaining this action for trial in
California.  
 
As for
private factors, here, all of the parties, documents and evidence, and nearly
all of the witnesses, are located outside of California. Plaintiff, an
indispensable witness, is a resident of Virginia and has been since he returned
from his temporary relocation on January 1, 2023. (Flickinger Dec., ¶¶ 6-9,
Exs. A-B.) The other potentially relevant third party witnesses reside in
Florida or California. (Id., ¶ 8.) Only two of the seven witnesses in this case
are in California. With the exception of two, both of whom are current
employees of Raytheon Company, the witnesses are geographically located closer
to Virginia than California. (Flickinger Dec., ¶ 7.)
 
As for public
factors, the conduct alleged does not relate to or affect any property located
in California or products manufactured there. Moreover, Virginia has a greater
interest in resolving its residents’ claims, implementing its laws and
regulating its business practices that directly affect Virginia. Here, Plaintiff’s
initial interviews, hire, and onboarding all occurred in Virginia. (Flickinger
Dec., ¶ 6; Roth Dec., ¶¶ 4-5.) His position was based out of Virginia. (Ibid.)
His assignments and the projects he performed work on are located in Virginia.
(Ibid.) All of the work he performed, while temporarily relocated to
care for a relative in California, affected and related to ongoing projects
physically occurring in Virginia. (Ibid.) Similarly, all of the
decisions relating to Plaintiff’s employment occurred out of or through the
Virginia headquarters and Dulles, Virginia facility. (Ibid.) As such,
the impact of his work and effects of the allegations alleged were all felt in
Virginia – not California. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ motion to dismiss is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 