  Case Number:  23STCV04534    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Yang Rim Co., Ltd., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV04534




 
v.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
A & Y International Global Inc., MIQBA, Inc., Adrian
  Nasimi, David Kim, Fred Kim, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July 9, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint
Moving Party:
Defendants A & Y International Global Inc., Adrian Nasimi
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Yang Rim Co., Ltd.
 
T/R:    DEFENDANTS’
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT IS GRANTED.
 
            DEFENDANTS
to notice.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff brought the present action for (1) breach of
contract(s), (2) account stated, (3) open book account, (4) common count for
services performed, (5) fraud/false promise, and (6) negligent
misrepresentation, based on an alleged series of purchase order contracts
entered into by Plaintiff and Defendants. 
Defendants David Kim, Fred Kim, and MIQBA, Inc. are in default.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action.¿.¿. whether
through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to
the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to
assert such cause at any time during the course of the action.  The court, after notice to the adverse party,
shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. 
This subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of
causes of action.”  (CCP § 426.50.)  Causes of action involving the same
transaction or occurrence as the claims in the plaintiff’s complaint are
compulsory and are forfeited if not pleaded in the same action.  (CCP § 426.30(a); 426.10(c).)  The Court has no discretion to deny a motion
for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint absent substantial evidence of
bad faith.  (Silver Organizations Ltd.
v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.) 
Permission to file a permissive cross-complaint may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.  (CCP § 428.50(c).
 
Defendants A & Y International Global Inc. and Adrian
Nasimi move for leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Yang Rim Co.,
Ltd. and Co-Defendants MIQBA, Inc., Fred Kim, David Kim, and new party Alex Kim
for (1) intentional fraud, (2) conspiracy to commit intentional fraud, (3)
conversion, and (4) conspiracy to commit conversion.  The proposed cross-complaint, attached as
Exhibit A, arises from the same transaction or occurrence as the underlying
complaint.  
 
Defendants argue that their first attorney, Andrew Ritholz,
withdrew as attorney of record prior to the beginning of discovery and failed
to file a timely cross-complaint due to neglect, inadvertence, or
oversight.  Defendants’ newly retained
counsel has learned new facts from documents produced during discovery on March
28, 2024, which support the filing of this cross-complaint.  
 
Defendants also ask for the matter to be abated on the basis
that Plaintiff is not qualified to do business in California and, thus, cannot
maintain the instant lawsuit. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the motion is supported
only by conclusions based on hearsay regarding recently discovered documents.  Plaintiff contends that the declaration of Defendants’
attorney is insufficient.
As noted, the
Court must allow leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint absent substantial
evidence of bad faith.  The Court does
not find evidence of bad faith.
 
Defendants may
move to abate the action through a separately filed motion. 
 
Defendants’ Motion
is GRANTED.


 