 Case Number:  23STCV10432    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Adam Amer,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:

 


 
23STCV10432




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative
  Ruling

 




 
Rita Noriega,
  et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
July 9, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Determine
Good Faith Settlement
Moving Party: Defendants On
Central Realty Inc. dba Coldwell Banker Hallmark Realty, Sevada Mkrdichian,
Redfin Corporation, and Alin Glogovicean
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO FOR APPROVAL OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT IS
GRANTED.
 
            DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or
self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
            
The
Court considers the moving papers. No opposition was filed.
Any party to an action in which it is alleged that two or
more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligors upon giving notice in the manner provided in Code of Civil
Procedure, section 1005(b).  (CCP §
877.6(a)(1).)  A determination by the
court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor
or co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.  (CCP § 877.6 (c).)  The party contesting the settlement bears the
burden of proving that the settlement is in bad faith.  (CCP § 877.6 (d).)  
 
            Defendants
On Central Realty Inc. dba Coldwell Banker Hallmark Realty, Sevada Mkrdichian,
Redfin Corporation, and Alin Glogovicean apply for approval of their good faith
settlement with Plaintiffs. After extensive negotiations Defendants agreed to
settle with Plaintiffs for $30,000. Defendants admit no fault, and state the
settlement is proportionate to their potential share of liability. Only one
cause of action was brought against them. There is no challenge to the
settlement, and the non-settling defendants have defaulted. The Court finds that
the settlement is in good faith.
            
            The application is GRANTED.
 
 
 