 Case Number:  24PSCP00106    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MAP REALTY
GROUP, INC.’s PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION is CONTINUED due to
concerns about proper service.
 
Background
 
This is an arbitration petition arising from a real estate
project. Petitioner or Plaintiff MAPS REALTY, INC. alleges the following
against Respondent or Defendant Wallace Y. Fu Architect, a California
Corporation: On July 26, 2019 and July 31, 2019, the parties entered into two
‘Owner-Architect Design Proposal Agreements’ (“Agreements”) wherein Defendant
was to provide architectural services for the design and permit approval for
the construction of certain apartment units to the preparation of civil engineering
plans (such as grading, drainage, and street improvements), and conceptual
drawings of the units, to preparing and applying for permits.[1]
Defendant, however, failed to timely seek an extension to the conductional use
permits and failed to submit renewed proposals by certain deadlines.
 
On February 29, 2024, the instant petition was filed.
 
On April 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a ‘PETITIONER'S REQUEST
FOR CONTINUANCE OF HEARING ON PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION’ (“Continuance
Request”). 
 
 
 
Discussion
 
There is no proof of service attached to the petition or
filed in the docket. According to the Continuance Request, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant is evading service. Indeed, there have been nine attempts at
service. (Continuance Request, Ex. 1.) 
But, while Plaintiff maintains that service has been attempted at the
individual Defendant’s “personal residence and business address,” the 40 E
Huntington Dr. Arcadia, CA 91006 (Business) where service was attempted five
times is a “bad address’ because there is new owner and a new business. 
 
While Plaintiff states that Fu’s insurance company has
communicated with Plaintiff (email sent on 4/3/24 seeking additional time), it
is still unclear whether Fu has been properly served with notice of the motion.

 
Thus, absent a showing of service, it would be a violation
of due process to rule on the motion. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the petition is CONTINUED to a date
TBD at the hearing. 


