  Case Number:  23AHCV02471    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



FRANCISCO TELETOR SENTE, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ANTHONY
   FELIX, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02471
 
ORDER
  RE: MOTION
   FOR HEARING ON SETTLED STATEMENT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   24, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On September 4, 2024,
plaintiff/appellant Francisco Teletor Sente (“Plaintiff”) filed a proposed
settled statement regarding the hearings on a demurrer filed by defendants
Anthony Felix and Diana Griego (“Defendants”) to Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint. At the conclusion of these hearings, which were held on June 7,
2024, and June 14, 2024, the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer without leave
to amend. 
On September 13, 2024, Defendants filed
their proposed amendments to Plaintiff’s proposed settled statement. On
September 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply to Defendants’ proposed amendments
as well as this request for a hearing pursuant to California Rules of Court
rule 8.137 (f)(1). A hearing was scheduled for October 24, 2024.  
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
According to CRC rule 8.137(d), a
proposed statement must contain “a statement of the points the appellant is
raising on appeal” and “a condensed narrative” of the specified oral
proceedings. The condensed narrative must include “a concise factual summary of
the evidence” relevant to the points that are being raised on appeal. (Cal. Rules
of Court, 8.137, subd. (d)(2)(A).) The proposed statement must also attach a
copy of the judgment or order being appealed.” (Id., subd. (d)(3).) 
Within 10 days after the hearing, the
judge must either (1) make any corrections or modifications to the statement
necessary to ensure that it is an accurate summary of the evidence and the
testimony of each witness that is relevant to the points the appellant is
raising on appeal or (2) identify the necessary corrections and modifications
and then order the appellant to prepare a statement incorporating them. (Id.,
subd. (f)(4).) If the judge makes any corrections or modifications to the
proposed statement, the clerk must serve the parties with copies of the
corrected or modified statement. (Id., subd. (g)(1).) If the judge
orders the appellant to prepare a statement incorporating corrections and
modifications, the appellant must serve and file the corrected or modified
statement within the time the judge orders. (Ibid.) Within 10 days after a corrected or
modified statement is served on the parties, any party may serve and file
proposed modifications or objections to the statement. (Cal. Rules of Court,
8.137, subd. (g)(2).) Within 10 days after the time for filing proposed
modifications or objections has expired, the judge must review the corrected or
modified statement and any proposed modifications or objections to the
statement the parties have filed. (Id., subd. (g)(3).) The judge must promptly certify the
statement if the judge does not order any corrections or modifications to the
statement. (Id., subd. (h)(1).) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
The Court has reviewed Plaintiff’s
proposed statement and Defendant’s proposed amendments. The Court has no
recollection of specific arguments made at the hearing in this case by either
Plaintiff or Defendants. The Court posted a tentative ruling prior to the
hearing, heard argument, and adopted its tentative ruling unchanged after the
hearing. The Court notes that it has over 1,000 cases on its docket, but,
recognizing the difficulty parties may have in obtaining court reporter
services, the Court endeavors to post thorough tentatives in response to the
briefing of the parties. Here, in the Court’s estimation, nothing was argued
requiring the Court to modify its tentative to account for any such argument.
Therefore, the Court cannot truthfully confirm either party’s characterization
of the legal arguments made at the hearing and can only settle any matters as
they appear on the docket and in the briefs. Accordingly, after reviewing the
proposed statement and amendments, the Court adopts Defendant’s proposed
amendments to Paragraphs 2, 3, and 4. The Court orders Plaintiff to strike
paragraphs 11, 12, 13, and 14. Plaintiff is ordered to replace Paragraph 7 and
10 as follows:
-     
Paragraph
7: “On June 7, 2024, DEFENDANTS’ demurrer was called by the Trial Court in
Department 3 of the Alhambra Superior Court. The Trial Court had posted a
tentative ruling online for the parties to review but the ruling was not
adopted because DEFENDANTS did not appear at the hearing. Instead, the hearing
was continued to June 14, 2024.” 
-     
Paragraph
10: “At the hearing on June 14, 2024, the Trial Court adopted its tentative
ruling after considering all arguments made in the parties’ briefs and oral
argument from all parties. The Court did not consider any extrinsic evidence or
testimony of witnesses, nor could it, because it was ruling on a demurrer.
Accordingly, the Trial Court SUSTAINED DEFENDANTS’ demurrer without leave to
amend and ordered DEFENDANTS to give notice.” 
The Court additionally orders that a true
and correct copy of the Court’s minute order issued on June 7, 2024, which sets
forth the Court’s tentative ruling that was adopted as final on June 14, 2024,
must be identified and attached as Exhibit B to the settled statement in
addition to the copy of the judgment. 
Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve
a corrected proposed statement on Defendants within 10 days of this Order. 
Dated
this 24th
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 