  Case Number:  22STCV10154    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Moving Party: Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Celina Rabago and Jaime Flores
 
 
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.  
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On March 23, 2022, Plaintiffs Celina
Rabago and Jaime Flores filed their Complaint against Defendant American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. on causes of action for alleged violations of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act and fraudulent inducement by concealment. 
 
        On August 11, 2022, Defendant filed its
Answer to the Complaint. 
 
        On December 2, 2022, the Court struck
paragraph 39 (regarding complaints filed with the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration against Defendant by individuals who are not the
Plaintiffs in this matter) from the Complaint. 
 
        On November 22, 2023, Defendant filed
its Motion for Summary Adjudication. In support of its Motion, Defendant
concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Jennifer Pacheco; (2) Separate
Statement; and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
        On January 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
their Opposition. In support of their Opposition, Plaintiffs concurrently
filed: (1) Appendix of Documentary Evidence; (2) Declaration of Timothy
Lupinek; and (3) Separate Statement. 
 
        On February 2, 2024, Defendant filed its
Reply. Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Response to Plaintiffs’ Separate
Statement; and (2) Evidentiary Objections to Declaration of Timothy Lupinek. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendant filed evidentiary objections to
Plaintiffs’ evidence. The following are the Court’s rulings on these
objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




4


 


OVERRULED




5


 


OVERRULED




6


 


OVERRULED




 
 
II.      
Legal Standard
 
“A party may
move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that
the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding. The motion may be made at any time after 60 days have elapsed since
the general appearance in the action or proceeding of each party against whom
the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the general appearance that
the court, with or without notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (1)(a).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. That is because of the general principle that a party who seeks
a court’s action in his favor bears the burden of persuasion thereon. There is
a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of
his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment standards in Aguilar
to motions for summary adjudication].) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues. Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.) 
 
“The trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a fact
finder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder,
supra, at p. 840, citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Dep’t of Transp. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
 
“On a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no
discretion to exercise. If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue
of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v.
Super. Ct. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320, citation omitted.) 
 
III.     Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to grant
summary adjudication on each of the causes of action in the Complaint. (Motion,
p. 15:12–21.) 
 
Defendant argues: (1) that Plaintiffs’
claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act are barred as a matter of
law because the subject vehicle was purchased used; (2) that Plaintiffs cannot
present triable issues of material fact proving breach of express warranty; (3)
that Plaintiff Jaime Flores is not a retail buyer and therefore may not
maintain an action under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act; (4) that
Plaintiffs cannot prove their fraud cause of action because Defendant does not
owe them a duty; (5) that Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is barred by the economic
loss rule; (6) that Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is barred by the statute of
limitations; and (7) that summary adjudication is appropriate as to punitive
damages. (Motion, pp. 4:19–20, 5:18–19, 7:1–2, 7:19, 8:1, 10:11, 11:23, 14:1.)
 
Plaintiffs disagree, arguing: (1) that
vehicles sold as manufacturer’s “certified pre-owned” are equally protected by
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act; (2) that Defendant provided written
warranties with the vehicle; (3) that the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
was created to enhance consumer protections; (4) that Plaintiff Jaime Flores is
a buyer within the meaning of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act; (5) that
the economic loss rule does not bar fraudulent inducement as a matter of law;
(6) that Defendant has not met its initial burden and the evidence shows
triable issues of material fact; (7) that the statute of limitations for each
of Plaintiffs’ claims are tolled; and (8) that Defendant has not met its burden
regarding the issue of punitive damages. (Opposition, pp. 4:6–7, 5:12, 8:26,
9:19, 12:6–7, 12:12, 14:8–9, 16:7–8, 17:14, 19:25.)
 
Defendant reiterates its arguments in its
Reply. 
 
B. 
    Used
Vehicles
 
Defendant argues that the claims under
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act are barred as a matter of law because
the subject vehicle was purchased used and the law “only applies to new
vehicles.” (Motion, p. 4:19–22, italics omitted.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
“Every manufacturer of consumer goods sold in this state and for
which the manufacturer has made an express warranty shall: (1) (A) Maintain in
this state sufficient service and repair facilities reasonably close to all
areas where its consumer goods are sold to carry out the terms of those
warranties or designate and authorize in this state as service and repair
facilities independent repair or service facilities reasonably close to all
areas where its consumer goods are sold to carry out the terms of the
warranties.” (Civ. Code, § 1793.2, subd. (a)(1)(A).)
 
“Except as provided in paragraph (2), if the
manufacturer or its representative in this state does not service or repair the
goods to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number
of attempts, the manufacturer shall either replace the goods or reimburse the
buyer in an amount equal to the purchase price paid by the buyer, less that
amount directly attributable to use by the buyer prior to the discovery of the
nonconformity.” (Civ. Code, § 1793.2, subd. (d)(1).)
 
“If the manufacturer or its representative in this
state is unable to service or repair a new motor vehicle, as that term is
defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 1793.22, to conform to
the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the
manufacturer shall either promptly replace the new motor vehicle in accordance
with subparagraph (A) or promptly make restitution to the buyer in accordance
with subparagraph (B). However, the buyer shall be free to elect restitution in
lieu of replacement, and in no event shall the buyer be required by the
manufacturer to accept a replacement vehicle.” (Civ. Code, § 1793.2, subd.
(d)(2).)
 
“For the purposes of subdivision (d) of Section 1793.2 and this
section, the following terms have the following meanings: . . . (2) ‘New motor
vehicle’ means a new motor vehicle that is bought or used primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes. . . .” (Civ. Code, § 1793.22, subd.
(e)(2).)
 
“We conclude the words of section 1793.22
are reasonably free from ambiguity and cars sold with a balance remaining on
the manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty are included within its definition
of ‘new motor vehicle.’” (Jensen v. BMW of N. Am., Inc. (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 112, 123.)
 
“Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (a) of Section 1791
defining consumer goods to mean ‘new’ goods, the obligation of a distributor or
retail seller of used consumer goods in a sale in which an express warranty is
given shall be the same as that imposed on manufacturers under this chapter
except: (a) It shall be the obligation of the distributor or retail seller
making express warranties with respect to used consumer goods (and not the
original manufacturer, distributor, or retail seller making express warranties
with respect to such goods when new) to maintain sufficient service and repair
facilities within this state to carry out the terms of such express
warranties.” (Civ. Code, § 1795.5, subd. (a).)
 
“Although the Song-Beverly Act generally
binds only distributors and retail sellers in the sale of used goods, we
conclude [a manufacturer] stepped into that role by issuing an express warranty
on the sale of a used vehicle.” (Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019)
43 Cal.App.5th 334, 337.)
 
        In summary, the law
recognizes two ways a manufacturer could be liable for these violations of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act as to used cars: a balance remained on the
used car’s original warranty, and/or the manufacturer stepped into the role of
a distributor and/or retailer by issuing an express warranty on the sale of a
used vehicle. 
 
        Here, Plaintiffs
submit to the Court evidence that on July 13, 2018, Plaintiffs purchased a
“certified pre-owned vehicle” from Defendant that included “certified pre-owned
vehicle warranty coverage.” (Decl. Lupinek, Exh. 2, p. 4 [actual page 51 of
252].) This coverage included:
 
·       Non-powertrain coverage (within new vehicle warranty)
o  
1
year/12,000 miles to 4 years/48,000 miles
 
·       Non-powertrain coverage (after new vehicle warranty has expired)
o  
1
year/12,000 miles starting from the date of Certified Pre-Owned Vehicle
delivery to buyer
 
·       Powertrain coverage
o  
7
years/100,000 miles from the original In-Service Date
(Ibid.)
 
        In addition,
Plaintiffs submit evidence that the 2016 car originally had a 3 year/36,000
miles for non-powertrain issues and a 5 year/60,000 miles warranty from
Defendant. (Decl. Lupinek, Exh. 1, pp. 8–9 [actual pages 15–16 of 252].)
 
        Thus, there are
multiple triable questions of material fact on this issue, including: (1)
whether the original warranty had expired by the time Plaintiffs purchased the
vehicle; and (2) whether Defendant sold the vehicle to Plaintiffs with an
additional warranty. 
 
C. 
    Breach
of Express Warranty 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs cannot
present triable issues of material fact proving breach of express warranty.
(Motion, p. 5:18–19.) Yet rather than claim there has not been a breach,
Defendant specifically argues that “Plaintiffs do not have standing as they do
not fit the Song-Beverly Act’s definition of ‘the consumer.’ . . . This
definition unequivocally applies to a new vehicle purchase, not a used vehicle
purchase.” (Id. at p. 6:14–22.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
As stated before, if a balance remained
on the used car’s original warranty when Plaintiffs bought the vehicle, and/or
Defendant stepped into the role of a distributor and/or retailer by issuing an
express warranty on the sale of the used vehicle to Plaintiffs, then there
could be a breach of an express warranty. Furthermore, Plaintiffs would have
standing as a consumer under the relevant definitions of the relevant statutes.
 
Whether a breach of the express warranty
occurred involves multiple triable questions of material fact, including
whether there were actually issues with the vehicle that needed repair.
Plaintiff submits evidence that there were such issues. (Decl. Lupinek, Exh.
7.)
 
D. 
    Whether
Plaintiff Jaime Flores is a Retail Buyer
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff Jaime
Flores does not have a claim here because: (1) he was not the co-purchaser of
the vehicle as he did not sign the Retail Installment Sales Contract (RISC);
(2) he is not the titleholder to the vehicle; and (3) the vehicle is not
registered in his name. (Motion, p. 7:13–18.)
 
Plaintiffs disagree, pointing to multiple
cases for the proposition that “there is no authority on point to support
[Defendant’s] position that an individual must be expressly named in the
purchase agreement to be considered a ‘buyer’ under the Song-Beverly Act.”
(Opposition, pp. 10:12–12:5.)
 
In its Reply, Defendant argues that the
plain language of the statute is clear and that each of the cases Plaintiffs
cite are inapposite. (Reply, p. 2:15–3:24.)
 
“As used in this chapter: . . . (b) ‘Buyer’
or ‘retail buyer’ means any individual who buys consumer goods from a person
engaged in the business of manufacturing, distributing, or selling consumer
goods at retail. As used in this subdivision, ‘person’ means any individual,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, or other
legal entity that engages in any of these businesses.” (Civ. Code, § 1791,
subd. (b).)
 
In Bishop v. Hyundai Motor America (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 750, 753–754, the plaintiff’s parents signed a purchase contract
when plaintiff was 17 years old. Plaintiff “made all ensuing payments” and “was
the primary driver of the vehicle.” (Ibid.)
 
In Krieger v. Nick Alexander Imports,
Inc. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 205, 209, the plaintiff’s father purchased a car
for plaintiff. Both the plaintiff and his father’s estate (the father was
deceased by the time the opinion issued) sued the dealership. (Ibid.)
 
In Martinez v. Kia Motors America,
Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 187, 190–191, the plaintiff purchased the
vehicle at issue. The Court of Appeal reversed the trial court when it ruled
that plaintiff could not seek replacement or reimbursement because she no longer
possessed the vehicle.” (Ibid.)
 
The statute defines “buyer” as “any
individual who buys consumer goods from a person engaged in the business of
manufacturing, distributing, or selling consumer goods at retail.” (Civ. Code,
§ 1791, subd. (b).) However, the cases cited by Plaintiffs and discussed above
seem to indicate that the question of who qualifies as a “buyer” in this
context is either more general than that suggested by text or has not always
been closely scrutinized in various prior lemon law cases. 
 
However, the cases do not make
individuals who were irrelevant to the purchase a “buyer.” In each of these
cases, the plaintiffs either bought a vehicle themselves or had someone else
buy it for them. While the types of documentary evidence that Defendant points
out are often important to figure out who is the “buyer,” they do not seem to
be dispositive. 
 
Here, the RISC only has the name of
Plaintiff Celina Rabago, not the name of Jaime Flores. Further, Defendant
correctly points out that Plaintiffs have not provided a registration or title
with the name of Plaintiff Jaime Flores. That would indicate that only
Plaintiff Celina Rabago is the buyer, not Plaintiff Jaime Flores. However,
Plaintiffs’ respective depositions indicate that they purchased the vehicle
together for their joint use. (See, for example, Decl. Lupinek, Exh. 5, pp.
19–22 [actual pages 133–136].) 
 
Ultimately, the Court need not, and does
not, decide at this time the boundaries of the definition of “buyer” in the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. It suffices to say that whether Plaintiff
Jaime Flores is actually a co-buyer of the vehicle along with Plaintiff Celina
Rabago is a triable issue of material fact that is not amenable to resolution
on a motion for summary adjudication. 
 
E. 
    Defendant’s
Duty to Disclose
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs cannot
prove their fraud cause of action because Defendant does not owe a duty to
Plaintiffs. (Motion, pp. 7:19, 8:1.) 
 
According to Defendant, “Plaintiffs’
claims fail because there were no ‘direct dealings’ between [Defendant] as a
distributor and Plaintiffs as an end consumer. Plaintiffs purchased the subject
vehicle from a dealership, not from [Defendant]. The dealer is not
[Defendant’s] agent. . . . Plaintiffs cannot point to any fraudulent representation
allegedly made by [Defendant].” (Motion, p. 9:1–10, emphases omitted.) Further,
Defendant argues that “Plaintiffs have no evidence that [Defendant] ‘actively
concealed’ any material facts from them” and “Plaintiffs cannot prove
concealment as there is no evidence [Defendant] had exclusive knowledge of
material fact at the time of sale that it failed to disclose to them and that
they could not have discovered”. (Id. at p. 9:11–12, 9:22–24.)
 
The Court disagrees with Defendant’s
arguments. 
 
There are multiple triable issues of
material facts here, including: (1) whether the dealership was Defendant’s
agent for the sale of the vehicle to Plaintiffs under the certified pre-owned
vehicle program; (2) whether Defendant had knowledge of the material facts at
the time of the sale; and (3) whether Defendant did not disclose the material
facts that it knew at the time of the sale. If Plaintiffs are able to prove the
answers to these questions in their favor, it is possible that Defendant could
be liable under a theory of fraudulent concealment. 
 
Furthermore, Defendant incorrectly flips
the logic of fraudulent concealment. If something has been concealed, actively
or not, there is often no representation. That does not mean there was no
fraud; it merely means that other acts aside from representations need to be
considered to determine if there was fraud. If there were a false
representation, then presumably a fraudulent misrepresentation theory would be
presented. 
 
F.  
    Economic
Loss Rule
 
Defendant argues that the fraud claim is
barred by the economic loss rule. (Motion, p. 10:11.)
 
The Court disagrees with Defendant’s
argument. 
 
“[F]or the reasons we have discussed
above, we conclude that, under California law, the economic loss rule does not
bar plaintiffs’ claim here for fraudulent inducement by concealment. Fraudulent
inducement claims fall within an exception to the economic loss rule recognized
by our Supreme Court, and plaintiffs allege fraudulent conduct that is
independent of [a car manufacturer’s] alleged warranty breaches.” (Dhital v.
Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 840, 843, citing Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 989–990.)
 
Defendant argues in its Reply that Dhital
is distinguishable because it involved a demurrer, not summary judgment,
and that the Court of Appeal noted that summary judgment is different. (Reply,
pp. 3:25–4:28; Dhital, supra, at p. 842, n. 5 [“We do not
preclude the possibility that, depending on the evidentiary record developed at
summary judgment or trial, a fraudulent inducement claim could be found not to
be independent of a plaintiff’s contract or warranty claims.”].)
 
The conduct alleged by Plaintiffs is
different in their fraud cause of action than in their other two causes of
action. Furthermore, as discussed above, the evidence submitted by Plaintiffs
is sufficient for there to be multiple triable issues of material fact
regarding the fraudulent concealment claim. Thus, summary adjudication of this
cause of action is not appropriate at this time based on the economic loss
rule. 
 
G. 
    Statute
of Limitations
 
Defendant argues that the fraud claim is
time-barred by the statute of limitations. (Motion, p. 11:23.)
 
The Court disagrees with Defendant’s
argument. 
 
“The limitations
period for fraud is three years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd.
(c).) The limitations period for breach of fiduciary duty is at most
four years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 343.) The limitations period for unfair
and unlawful business practices is four years. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17208.)”
(Vaca v. Wachovia Mortgage Corp. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 737, 744, fn.
4.)
“The statute of limitations usually commences
when a cause of action accrues, and it is generally said that an action accrues
on the date of injury. Alternatively, it is often stated that the statute
commences upon the occurrence of the last element essential to the cause of
action. These general principles have been significantly modified by the
common law ‘discovery rule,’ which provides that the accrual date may be
delayed until the plaintiff is aware of her injury and its negligent cause.” (Bernson v. Browning-Ferris Indus. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 926, 931 [cleaned up].)
“A close cousin of the discovery
rule is the well accepted principle of fraudulent concealment. It has long been
established that the defendant's fraud in concealing a cause of action against him
tolls the applicable statute of limitations, but only for that period during
which the claim is undiscovered by plaintiff or until such time as plaintiff,
by the exercise of reasonable diligence, should have discovered it. Like the
discovery rule, the rule of fraudulent concealment is an equitable principle
designed to effect substantial justice between the parties; its rationale is
that the culpable defendant should be estopped from profiting by his own wrong
to the extent that it hindered an otherwise diligent plaintiff in discovering
his cause of action.” (Bernson, supra, at p. 931 [cleaned up].)

 
“While ignorance of the existence of an injury or cause of
action may delay the running of the statute of limitations until the date of
discovery, the general rule in California has been that ignorance of the
identity of the defendant is not essential to a claim and therefore will not
toll the statute. As we have observed, the statute of limitations begins to run
when the plaintiff suspects or should suspect that her injury was caused by
wrongdoing, that someone has done something wrong to her. Aggrieved parties generally
need not know the exact manner in which their injuries were effected, nor the
identities of all parties who may have played a role therein.” (Bernson,
supra, at p. 932 [cleaned up].)
 
        Here, the Parties do not
dispute that Plaintiffs purchased the vehicle on July 25, 2018. Three years
from that date is July 25, 2021. The Complaint was filed on March 23, 2022.
Thus, it is possible that there is a statute of limitations issue here. 
 
        Plaintiffs argue that they
“could not have discovered Plaintiffs’ fraud claims prior to the latest repair
order presentation on September 20, 2021. Plaintiffs could not, even with
reasonable and diligent investigation, have discovered Plaintiffs’ claims on an
earlier date because of [Defendant’s] concealment of the defects in Plaintiffs’
vehicle and the fact that the service technicians represented to Plaintiffs
that the Subject Vehicle had been repaired and was safe to drive after each
prior repair attempt.” (Opposition, p. 19:4–9.) Plaintiffs point to the repair
orders as evidence of these claims. (Decl. Lupinek, Exh. 7.)
 
        The date upon which
Plaintiffs suspected there was fraudulent conduct (which in turn determines
when the statute of limitations was no longer tolled and began to run) is a
triable issue of material fact. Thus, summary adjudication of this cause
of action is not appropriate at this time based on the statute of limitations. 
 
H.      Punitive
Damages
 
Defendant argues that punitive damages
are not appropriate here because the dealership and its employees were not
agents of Defendant, and thus no officer, director, or managing agent of
Defendant committed, authorized, or ratified the allegedly fraudulent conduct
that would give rise to a punitive damages claim. (Motion, 15:4–10.)
 
The Court disagrees with Defendant’s
argument. 
 
As previously discussed, whether the
dealership is Defendant’s agent in this matter is a triable issue of material
fact. Furthermore, whether Plaintiff has shown enough evidence to meet the
clear and convincing evidence standard for punitive damages is inappropriate
for resolution on a motion for summary adjudication. 
 
In summary, Defendant has met its initial
burden to bring up these various arguments, and Plaintiffs have met their
subsequent burden to show that all of these various arguments involve triable
issues of material facts that warrant trial. 
 
IV.     
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.  
 