 Case Number:  22STCV34912    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  39 Yerik Berry v.
United Moving Cars, et al.
Case No.
22STCV34912
Motions to Compel
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories
Motions to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
 
[TENTATIVE] Order
 
            NOTICE: The
Court posts this tentative order on September 28, 2023, at 8:00 a.m., in
advance of the hearings on Plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses.  The Court advances the hearing on Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to Requests for Production of Documents from
October 3, 2023, to October 2, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.  Any party who does not appear at the hearing,
either remotely or in-person, shall waive the right to be heard on these
motions and shall submit to any order issued following the hearing.    
 
            Plaintiff
Yerik Berry (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment case against Defendants United
Moving Cars, Juan Carlos Acosta Martinez, and MA Guadalupe Acosta (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging retaliation and wrongful termination, as well as wage
and hour violations.  Now, Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to: (1) Form Interrogatories—General, (2) Form
Interrogatories—Employment, and (3) Requests for Production of Documents.  The Court rules as follows:
 
            1.         Timeliness – Defendants argue that these
motions are untimely.  A motion to compel
further responses must be filed and served “within 45 days of the service of
the verified response, or any supplemental verified response . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(c).)  Defendants served boilerplate objections
without substantive responses on March 31, 2023.  These responses were not verified.  Defendants then served boilerplate objections
and substantive responses on May 19, 2023. 
The motions were filed on June 30, 2023. 
Therefore, the motions were timely. 

 
            2.         Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Form Interrogatories—General.  The Court
grants the motion and orders Defendants to provide verified supplemental
responses without objections, within thirty (30) days.
 
            3.         Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Form Interrogatories—Employment.  The
Court grants the motion and orders Defendants to provide verified supplemental
responses, without objections, within thirty (30) days.  
            
            4.         Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Requests for Production of Documents – The Court orders as follows:
 
                        a.         The
Court advances the hearing from October 3, 2023, to October 2, 2023, at 8:30
a.m.  
 
b.         The motion is granted in part and
denied in part. 
 
c.         The
Court orders Defendants to verified supplemental responses, without objections
to the following RPDs within thirty (30) days: RPD #1 (payroll records), RPD #2
(personnel file), RPD #4 (employment documents), RPD #5 (documents relating to
hours worked), RPD #6 (documents relating to work schedule), RPD #7 (wage
statements), RPD #8 (documents relating to hours worked), RPD #11 (documents
relating to any investigation of plaintiff), RPD #12 (documents relating to
Plaintiff’s termination), RPD #13 (documents referenced in SROG), RPD #14
(documents referenced in FROG), and RPD #15 (documents referenced in
FROG).  
 
d.         The motion is denied with respect to
RPD #3.  
            5.         Sanctions – Plaintiff requests a total
of $5,380 in sanctions against Defendants and their counsel.  Defendants had no justification for refusing
to comply with standard and straightforward discovery requests.  Nor did Defendants have any justification for
opposing this motion.  Rather, this case
reflects that Defendants are engaged in gamesmanship and have abused the discovery
process, warranting sanctions. 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions and orders
Defendants and Defendants’ counsel, Mr. Dariush G. Adli, Esq., to pay sanctions
in the amount of $4,800, based upon 12 hours at $400 per hour, plus three
filing fees of $60 each.  The Court finds
this amount fairly and reasonably compensates Plaintiff for the expense of
litigating these motions.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatories—General is granted.  Defendants shall provide verified
supplemental responses, without objections, within thirty (30) days.
 
            2.         Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatories—Employment is granted.  Defendants shall provide verified
supplemental responses, without objections, within thirty (30) days.
 
            3.         The Court advances the hearing on
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Requests for Production of
Documents from October 3, 2023, to October 2, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.
 
            4.         Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Requests for Production of Documents is granted in part and denied
in part.  Defendants shall provide
verified supplemental responses, without objections, except with respect to RPD
#3.  The motion is denied with respect to
RPD #3.  
 
            5.         Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
granted.  The Court orders Defendants and
their counsel, Mr. Dariush Adli, Esq., jointly and severally, to pay sanctions
in the amount of $4,980, within thirty (30) days.
 
            6.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice
and file proof of such with the Court.     
            
 
              