  Case Number:  21STCV02371    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  39 Brink Biologics,
Inc. v. Sanofi, S.A., et al.
Case No.
21STCV02371
 
Order #1 of 3
Motion for
Compliance and Sanctions re: Anlai Wang’s Notebooks
 
[Tentative] Order #1
 
Plaintiff Brink
Biologics, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Sanofi, S.A.
(“Sanofi”), Sanofi-Aventis U.S., LLC (“SAUS”), and Sanofi-Aventis Recherche
& Developpement, S.A. (“SARD”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  Conkwest Incorporated (“Conkwest”), a
predecessor entity of Plaintiff, entered into a non-exclusive licensing
agreement with SARD on December 16, 2011. 
Plaintiff alleges that this agreement granted Defendants a license to
use NK-92 cells for limited research and development purposes.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were not
authorized to modify the cells or use the cells for commercial purposes, like
potency or quality control release assays. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated both prohibitions, as a
result of which Plaintiff terminated the license on January 19, 2021.  Defendants filed a cross-complaint against
Plaintiff stemming from this termination. 

 
Now, Plaintiff
moves to compel compliance with the Court’s order of August 1, 2022, arguing
that Defendants have not produced required discovery: (1) Laboratory
notebooks describing the use or modification of the NK-92 cells, (2) Documents
describing Defendants’ uses of the NK-92 cells with compositions other than
Isatuximab, and (3) Documents describing the use of the NK-92 cells by
“Industrial Affairs” and the “Commercial Framingham Facility.”  The Court addresses the first issue in this
motion, the laboratory notebooks. 
Plaintiff’s moving papers and the declaration of Matthew Blackburn,
dated September 11, 2023, do not establish any failure to produce any such
documents.  Because Plaintiff has failed
to satisfy its burden, the motion is denied. 
Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice.  
 
[Tentative] Order #2
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Plaintiff Brink
Biologics, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Sanofi, S.A.
(“Sanofi”), Sanofi-Aventis U.S., LLC (“SAUS”), and Sanofi-Aventis Recherche
& Developpement, S.A. (“SARD”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  Conkwest Incorporated (“Conkwest”), a
predecessor entity of Plaintiff, entered into a non-exclusive licensing
agreement with SARD on December 16, 2011.  Plaintiff alleges that this agreement granted
Defendants a license to use NK-92 cells for limited research and development
purposes.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants were not authorized to modify the cells or use the cells for
commercial purposes, like potency or quality control release assays.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated
both prohibitions, as a result of which Plaintiff terminated the license on
January 19, 2021.  Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff stemming from this termination.  
 
Now, Plaintiff
moves to compel compliance with the Court’s order of August 1, 2022, arguing
that Defendants have not produced required discovery: (1) Laboratory
notebooks describing the use or modification of the NK-92 cells, (2) Documents
describing Defendants’ uses of the NK-92 cells with compositions other than
Isatuximab, and (3) Documents describing the use of the NK-92 cells by
“Industrial Affairs” and the “Commercial Framingham Facility.”  The Court addresses the first issue in this
order, the laboratory notebooks, and continues the hearing to _________, 2023,
at _____.  The Court authorizes
Defendants’ counsel to file a sur-reply on the two dispositive issues on or
before ________, 2023.  
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY

 
            Plaintiff filed this action on
January 19, 2021, following which the parties have had numerous discovery
disputes.  After several hearings, the
Court issued on order on August 1, 2022, requiring Defendants to produce the
following documents, among others:
 
            RPD #1 – The Court ordered
Defendants to produce a code-compliant response that includes uses of NK-92
cell lines to date.
 
            RPD #3 – The Court ordered
Defendants to produce a code-compliant response that includes modifications of
the NK-92 cell lines to date.
 
            RPD #6 – The Court ordered
Defendants to produce a code-compliant response that includes the manufacturing
history of each NK-92 related composition to date. 
 
            On July 18, 2023, the Court held a
hearing on Plaintiff’s motions to compel further discovery responses, which
relates to similar issues as those raised in the instant motion.  The Court denied those motions.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated July 18,
2023, pp. 2-4.)  The Court addressed
Plaintiff’s counsel’s accusations of misconduct as follows:
 
“Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that Defendants have been evading their discovery obligations by
failing to search for documents from relevant custodians.  There is no support for this allegation in
the record.  The Court notes that
Plaintiff’s counsel seeks to take depositions of Nicholas McCray, David Dube,
Francisco Adrian, Anlai Wang, Ronan Crepin, Romain Pizzato, Alain Fouriner, and
Dominique Brault. In doing so, Plaintiff’s counsel effectively identifies these
individuals as the most relevant witnesses. Initially, Defendants searched for
documents from 21 custodians, including all of these witnesses except for
Francisco Adrian and David Dube. (See Declaration of Leeanne S. Mancari, dated
March 14, 2023, at ¶ 15.) Then, Plaintiff propounded additional Requests for
Production of Documents (“RPDs”) relating to 11 additional custodians,
including Francisco Adrian, which were subject to a motion to compel further
responses. The Court permitted Plaintiff’s counsel to select three additional
custodians from whom Defendants would search for responsive documents. (See
Court’s Minute Order, dated May 24, 2023.) Thus, Defendants have searched for
responsive documents from 24 custodians, including virtually every witness
identified by Plaintiff, as well as three custodians selected by Plaintiff’s
counsel. There is no basis to find that Ms. Mancari’s declaration is incorrect.
Accordingly, there is no apparent validity to Plaintiff’s counsel’s ‘conspiracy
theory’ that Defendants and their attorneys are evading their discovery
obligations.”
 
(Court’s
Minute Order, dated July 18, 2023, p. 4.) 

 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel seeks two
remedies.  First, Plaintiff’s counsel seeks
an order “compelling Defendants to comply with the Court’s August 1, 2022 Order
and to provide documents in response to Brink’s Request for Production of
Documents, Nos. 1 and 3 . . . .”  Although
Plaintiff’s counsel does not identify the Court’s authority to issue such an
order, the Court has two potential grounds upon which to issue such an order:
(1) The Court has inherent authority to enforce its discovery orders provided
that it does not contradict a rule of discovery in the Code of Civil Procedure;
and (2) The Court could issue an Order to Show Cause re: Contempt under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1209(a)(5) and, if it finds Defendants in contempt, fashion
an appropriate remedy.  Although
Plaintiff’s counsel does not cite section 1029(a)(5), he asks the Court to impose
“contempt sanctions against Defendants,” arguing that the Court has “broad
power to issue a contempt sanction against Defendants.”  Second, Plaintiff seeks discovery sanctions
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, which may include monetary,
issue, evidentiary, and/or terminating sanctions for a discovery abuse.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendants
have not produced three sets of responsive documents: (1) Laboratory notebooks
describing the use or modification of the NK-92 cells, (2) Documents describing
Defendants’ uses of the NK-92 cells with compositions other than Isatuximab,
and (3) Documents describing the use of the NK-92 cells by “Industrial Affairs”
and the “Commercial Framingham Facility.” 
The Court addresses the first issue in this order.  
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel argues “Defendants
have not produced laboratory notebooks that exist describing the use or
modification of the NK-92 cells.”  (Plaintiff’s
Memorandum of Points & Authorities, p. 6:25-26.)  Plaintiff’s counsel relies on the testimony
of Anlai Wang as follows:
 
            Q:        So in your
work at Sanofi, you keep a written lab notebook?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        And that’s
mandatory for all of the work you’re doing for the company?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        For the
entire 14 years you’ve been at the company?
 
            A:        Yes.  Before we had paper notebooks.  Now we have electronic notebooks.  That’s different.  
 
            Q:        And when
did the change from paper notebooks to electronic notebooks happen,
approximately?
 
            . . . 
 
            A:        . . . I
don’t recall how many years ago.  Maybe
about eight or nine years ago or something like -- 
 
            Q:        Okay.  So around 2015, 2016 you think you shifted
from a paper notebook to an electronic notebook?
 
            A:        I really
cannot give you an exact year, yeah.
 
            . . . 
 
            Q:        . . .
During the period of time when you had a paper notebook, you had more than one
notebook, correct?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        About how
many notebooks did you have, paper notebooks, that contained work relating to
NK-92 cells in any way?
 
            A:        Total, I
would say I have five to seven paper notebooks. 
Year.  But I cannot recall how
many notebooks have NK-92-related experiments. 

 
(Declaration
of Matthew Blackburn, dated September 11, 2023, Exh. D, pp. 71:13-73:10.)  Subsequently, Wang testified as follows:
 
            Q:        And you
testified yesterday that you would have had multiple paper notebooks that
contain your experiments involving NK-92 cells, correct?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        Are you
confident that there would be more than two pages in your paper notebooks that
relate to your use of NK-92 cells?
 
            . . . 
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        More than
three pages?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        Can you
give me an estimate of the total number of pages in your paper laboratory
notebooks that would have related to your use of NK-92 cells?
 
            A:        I can’t.
 
            Q:        It is more
than 10 pages?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        Was it
more than a hundred pages? 
 
            A:        No.
 
(Declaration
of Matthew Blackburn, dated September 26, 2023, Exh. Q, pp. 216:6-217:14.)  Wang provided additional explanation:  
 
            Q:        I think I
follow you.  I just want to make sure we
get a clear record here.  So you’re not
sure if the total number of pages in a laboratory notebook is a hundred or 150;
is that correct?
 
            A:        Correct.
 
            Q:        And you
told me that you had more than one paper laboratory notebook; right?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        And the
multiple paper notebooks you had contained your work on NK-92 cells?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        And you
know that there’s more than 10 pages in those paper notebooks but you can’t --
that related to your work in NK-92 cells, but you can’t be more specific than
that?
 
            A:        Yes.  But not for every notebook.  Specifically, if you say this notebook, I
would say yes.   
 
(Id., Exh. Q, pp. 217:21-218:15.) 
The Court interprets Wang’s testimony as follows: (1) Before switching
to electronic notebooks, Wang used between five and seven paper notebooks for
her work; (2) Each notebook had either 100 or 150 pages, meaning that Wang had
between 500 and 1,050 pages relating to her work in total; (3) At least two of
these notebooks had work relating to NK-92 cells; (4) Wang’s work relating to
NK-92 cells consumed between 10 and 100 pages in her paper notebooks; and (5)
The remaining pages related to other work. 

 
            Plaintiff’s counsel
argues that he received only three pages from Wang’s paper notebooks, citing
Exhibit R to his declaration.  (Id., Exh.
R.)  However, Wang’s deposition makes
clear that Defendants produced at least ten other pages from her paper
notebooks:
 
            Q:        Okay.  Let’s go to Exhibit Number 9, if you would,
which is Tab 60.  It is a 10-page
document, so take as much time and [sic] you need to review it.  But my question is whether you recognize
this?
 
            A:        Okay.  Yes.
 
            Q:        Is this
the record of an experiment that you conducted?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        Are there
any markings on this document to indicate that it came from your electronic
laboratory notebook?
 
            A:        No, not
from my electronic notebook.  From my
paper notebook.
 
            Q:        How do you
know that this came from your paper notebook?
 
            A:        Because
look at experiment date, that was October 27, 2014.
 
(Declaration of Isabella Neal, dated September 21, 2023, Exh. B, pp.
203:8-204:5.)  This testimony is corroborated
by the three other pages from Wang’s paper notebooks proffered by Plaintiff’s
counsel, which have dates of October 30, 2014, through November 5, 2014.  (See Declaration of Matthew Blackburn, dated
September 26, 2023, Exh. R.) 
Accordingly, the Court finds Wang’s testimony on this point to be
credible.  Indeed, Plaintiff’s counsel
attempted to impeach Wang, to no avail:
 
            Q:        Okay.  Well, we had a discussion yesterday about the
fact that you had both paper notebooks and electronic notebooks, and I asked at
the time if you knew when you switched over, and you said you couldn’t give me
a date.  And now it seems like you got a
very specific idea of what that happened. 
How do you [know] that information today about when it switched over?
 
            A:        Because I
remember, I told you I started working with -- in the CD38 project team in
2014, right, so I remember at beginning, when I put all the information and
also procedures and material and method with just my hand, not electronic
notebook.  I remember that.  
 
(Id., Exh. B, p. 204:6-22.)  In
fact, Wang testified about joining the CD38 project team in 2014 during her
prior day of testimony:  
 
            Q:        I’m not
sure I understand that answer.  So for
this notebook what are you willing to say about the number of pages that
contain your work relating to NK-92 cells?
 
            A:        Yes,
because let say, for example, before 2014, I was not in the CD38 project team,
so I was involved in totally different project.
 
            Q:        Right.
 
            A.        So, obviously, in that notebook, 
 
(Declaration of Matthew Blackburn, dated September 26, 2023, Exh. Q, p. 218:16-25.)  Plaintiff’s counsel did not provide Page
#219, or the next subsequent pages of Wang’s deposition, so it is unclear what
else Wang discussed on this topic. 
 
            In his reply brief, Plaintiff’s
counsel makes a series of specific arguments why he believes documents were
withheld, supported by his detailed declaration in connection with the reply
brief.  None of these reasons were cited
in connection with the moving papers.  It
is clear that Plaintiff’s counsel could have included these reasons in his
moving papers and initial declaration. 
Plaintiff’s counsel’s “sandbagging” gives rise to several issues.  First, Defendants have not had a fair
opportunity to respond to the specific issues forming the basis of the
motion.  Second, the Court does not have
sufficient information to resolve the motion, as the opposition
(understandably) does not address the specific alleged deficiencies raised in
the reply brief.    Third, the Court could not impose a contempt
sanction at this procedural stage, as requested by Plaintiff’s counsel.  Rather, the Court would have to issue an
Order to Show Cause why Defendants should not be held in contempt for the
alleged violation of its order and afford Defendants an opportunity to file a
response, which (presumably) would address the issues raised in the reply
brief.  Therefore, the Court continues
the hearing on this motion and authorizes Defendants’ counsel to file a
sur-reply supported by any necessary declarations.    
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel
states that he “identified native Excel files in Defendants’ productions
indicating that Ms. Wang had conducted at least 23 separate experiments
involving NK-92 cells before the CRB.HQL5 notebook was completed and turned in
by Ms. Wang.”  (Declaration of Matthew
Blackburn, dated September 26, 2023, ¶ 23.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that there were 23 separate dates in 2014 at
issue.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s counsel states: “I have
personally searched for paper laboratory notebook pages that were
produced by Defendants and relate to these experiments.  With the lone exception of October 20, 2014
(second) experiment shown in the last two pages of Exhibit R, Defendants have not
produced pages from any of Ms. Wang’s paper laboratory notebooks for any of
these experiments.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel is
incorrect.  As discussed, during her
deposition, Wang testified that ten pages relating to the experiment of October
27, 2014, were from her paper notebook, not her electronic notebook.  Accordingly, the Court questions whether
Plaintiff’s counsel can identify pages produced from the paper notebooks versus
the electronic notebooks.  Tellingly, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration does not state that he found no documents relating to the
23 experiments in 2014; only that he found no “paper” documents.  The Court does not believe Plaintiff’s
counsel has satisfied his burden on this issue. 
Nevertheless, the Court continues the hearing on the motion as it
relates to this issue and authorizes Defendants to file a sur-reply brief and
any necessary supporting declarations.  
 
            Similarly, Plaintiff’s
counsel states that he identified over 100 experiments conducted by Ms. Wang
involving NK-92 cells from January 14, 2015, to November 18, 2020.  (Id., ¶ 24.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states: “I have personally searched for paper or
electronic laboratory notebook pages produced by Defendants that relate to
those experiments.  Based on my search,
Defendants have not produced pages from any of Ms. Wang’s paper or electronic
laboratory notebooks that relate to these experiments.”  (Ibid.)  Because Plaintiff’s counsel raised this issue
in connection with the reply brief, the Court does not have sufficient
information to resolve the motion on that issue.  Therefore, the Court continues the hearing on
the motion as it relates to this issue and authorizes Defendants to file a
sur-reply brief and any necessary supporting declarations. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motion to compel compliance
with the Court’s order of August 1, 2022, and for sanctions, is continued as it
relates to Defendants’ alleged failure to produce Anlai Wang’s notebooks.
 
            2.         The Court authorizes Defendants’
counsel to file a sur-reply and any supporting declarations on or before
_________, 2023.
 
            3.         The hearing is continued to __________,
2023, at _______.
 
            4.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court.
 
 


 
Order #2 of 3
Motion for Compliance and
Sanctions re: Other Documents
 
Plaintiff Brink
Biologics, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Sanofi, S.A.
(“Sanofi”), Sanofi-Aventis U.S., LLC (“SAUS”), and Sanofi-Aventis Recherche
& Developpement, S.A. (“SARD”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  Conkwest Incorporated (“Conkwest”), a
predecessor entity of Plaintiff, entered into a non-exclusive licensing
agreement with SARD on December 16, 2011. 
Plaintiff alleges that this agreement granted Defendants a license to
use NK-92 cells for limited research and development purposes.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were not
authorized to modify the cells or use the cells for commercial purposes, like
potency or quality control release assays. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated both prohibitions, as a
result of which Plaintiff terminated the license on January 19, 2021.  Defendants filed a cross-complaint against
Plaintiff stemming from this termination. 

 
Now, Plaintiff
moves to compel compliance with the Court’s order of August 1, 2022, arguing
that Defendants have not produced required discovery: (1) Laboratory
notebooks describing the use or modification of the NK-92 cells, (2) Documents
describing Defendants’ uses of the NK-92 cells with compositions other than
Isatuximab, and (3) Documents describing the use of the NK-92 cells by
“Industrial Affairs” and the “Commercial Framingham Facility.”  The Court addresses the second and third
issue in this order, and denies the motion. 

 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY

 
            Plaintiff filed this action on
January 19, 2021, following which the parties have had numerous discovery
disputes.  After several hearings, the
Court issued on order on August 1, 2022, requiring Defendants to produce the
following documents, among others:
 
            RPD #1 – The Court ordered
Defendants to produce a code-compliant response that includes uses of NK-92
cell lines to date.
 
            RPD #3 – The Court ordered
Defendants to produce a code-compliant response that includes modifications of
the NK-92 cell lines to date.
 
            RPD #6 – The Court ordered
Defendants to produce a code-compliant response that includes the manufacturing
history of each NK-92 related composition to date.
 
            On July 18, 2023, the Court held a
hearing on Plaintiff’s motions to compel further discovery responses, which
relates to similar issues as those raised in the instant motion.  The Court denied those motions.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated July 18,
2023, pp. 2-4.)  The Court addressed
Plaintiff’s counsel’s accusations of misconduct as follows:
 
“Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that Defendants have been evading their discovery obligations by
failing to search for documents from relevant custodians.  There is no support for this allegation in
the record.  The Court notes that
Plaintiff’s counsel seeks to take depositions of Nicholas McCray, David Dube,
Francisco Adrian, Anlai Wang, Ronan Crepin, Romain Pizzato, Alain Fouriner, and
Dominique Brault. In doing so, Plaintiff’s counsel effectively identifies these
individuals as the most relevant witnesses. Initially, Defendants searched for
documents from 21 custodians, including all of these witnesses except for
Francisco Adrian and David Dube. (See Declaration of Leeanne S. Mancari, dated
March 14, 2023, at ¶ 15.) Then, Plaintiff propounded additional Requests for
Production of Documents (“RPDs”) relating to 11 additional custodians,
including Francisco Adrian, which were subject to a motion to compel further
responses. The Court permitted Plaintiff’s counsel to select three additional
custodians from whom Defendants would search for responsive documents. (See
Court’s Minute Order, dated May 24, 2023.) Thus, Defendants have searched for
responsive documents from 24 custodians, including virtually every witness
identified by Plaintiff, as well as three custodians selected by Plaintiff’s
counsel. There is no basis to find that Ms. Mancari’s declaration is incorrect.
Accordingly, there is no apparent validity to Plaintiff’s counsel’s ‘conspiracy
theory’ that Defendants and their attorneys are evading their discovery
obligations.”
 
(Court’s
Minute Order, dated July 18, 2023, p. 4.) 
  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel seeks two
remedies.  First, Plaintiff’s counsel
seeks an order “compelling Defendants to comply with the Court’s August 1, 2022
Order and to provide documents in response to Brink’s Request for Production of
Documents, Nos. 1 and 3 . . . .” 
Although Plaintiff’s counsel does not identify the Court’s authority to
issue such an order, the Court has two potential grounds upon which to issue
such an order: (1) The Court has inherent authority to enforce its discovery
orders provided that it does not contradict a rule of discovery in the Code of
Civil Procedure; and (2) The Court could issue an Order to Show Cause re:
Contempt under Code of Civil Procedure section 1209(a)(5) and, if it finds
Defendants in contempt, fashion an appropriate remedy.  Although Plaintiff’s counsel does not cite
section 1029(a)(5), he asks the Court to impose “contempt sanctions against
Defendants,” arguing that the Court has “broad power to issue a contempt
sanction against Defendants.”  Second,
Plaintiff seeks discovery sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, which may include monetary, issue, evidentiary, and/or terminating
sanctions for a discovery abuse.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendants
have not produced three sets of responsive documents: (1) Laboratory notebooks
describing the use or modification of the NK-92 cells, (2) Documents describing
Defendants’ uses of the NK-92 cells with compositions other than Isatuximab,
and (3) Documents describing the use of the NK-92 cells by “Industrial Affairs”
and the “Commercial Framingham Facility.” 
The Court previously issued an order on the first issue.  The Court now addresses the second and third
issue.  
 
            A.        Uses of NK-92 Cells with Compositions
other than Isatuximab
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel
argues that “[r]ecent deposition testimony also establishes that Defendants’
use of the NK-92 cells was not limited to isatuximab and that Defendants’ verified
response to Brink’s SROG No. 1 is false.” 
(Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points & Authorities, p. 7:23-25.)  SROG #1 required Defendants to “[e]xplain in
detail and with particularity how you have used or intend to use the NK-92
cells in connection with manufacturing or testing . . . of NK-92-RELATED
COMPOSITIONS . . . .”  (Declaration of
Matthew Blackburn, dated September 11, 2023, Exh. A.)  Defendants’ response stated: 
 
“NK-92 cells licensed under the 2011 License were
used in connection with an ADCC bioassay for isatuximab.  The bioassay was used to characterize
Sarclisa to demonstrate that Sarclisa provides antibody dependent cellular
cytotoxicity.  This work was began [sic]
after December 2011 and such use ended before April 30, 2019 in Vitry, France,
and was completed by Dominique Brault, Ronan Crepin, and Romain Pizzato.”  (Ibid.) 

 
Plaintiff’s counsel argues: “Defendants’ witnesses confessed that
Defendants had used the NK-92 cells with antibodies other than
isatuximab.”  (Plaintiff’s Memorandum of
Points & Authorities, p. 7:26-28.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel also argues: “[T]here were some uses of the NK-92
cells that were suggested in Defendants’ documents, and/or that their PMQ
witnesses would not or could not confirm without further documentary
evidence.”  (Id., p. 8:3-7.)  
 
            The mere fact that a
response to a SROG is incorrect is not a basis to compel additional
documents.  Rather, the remedy is
impeachment at trial.  In this case,
Defendant’s counsel represents that the response was correct at the time, and
since that time, Defendant’s counsel learned of “one attempt to modify the
NK-92 cell lines to express IL-2, which was unsuccessful.”  (Defendant’s Opposition, p. 3:20-22.)  According to Defendant’s counsel, there was
one attempted modification:
 
            Q:        Do you
know how many unsuccessful attempts to create IL-2 positive NK-92 cells were
made by the Sanofi Defendants?
 
            A:        No. 
I would say one.
 
            Q:        Why do you say one?
 
            A:        Because it didn’t work the first
time.  I don’t think a second time was
worth it.
 
(Declaration of Isabella Neal, Exh. A, p. 159:5-15.)
 
            Regardless, the issue is
not whether Defendants’ response to SROG #1 is correct.  Rather, the issue is whether Plaintiff has
demonstrated that Defendants did not produce all required documents.  Plaintiff has not satisfied its burden, as
the declarations of Plaintiff’s counsel do not establish that they are missing
any documents on this issue.  Rather,
Plaintiff appears to conflate testimony by “Defendants’ witnesses [that]
confessed Defendants had used the NK-92 cells with antibodies other than
isatuximab” with a failure to produce documents.  (See Plaintiff’s Reply Brief, p.
7:26-28.)  For example, Dr. Francisco Adrian
testified as follows:
 
            Q:        Okay.  And I just want to make sure I get the world
of antibodies that the Sanofi Defendants tested using any NK-92 cells out on
paper.  So give me that list.
 
            A:        Isatuximab,
isatuximab ADE, it’s isatuximab derived bispecifics, anti-PD-1 Regerneron,
anti-PD-1 nivolumab, anti-PDL-1 MP . . . Anti-PDL-1 MPDL328A.
 
            Q:        So who
owns MPDL328A?
 
            A:        I do not
recall.
 
            Q:        Was that a
Sanofi antibody?
 
            A:        No.
 
            Q:        Was that a
PD-1 antibody?
 
            A:        Anti-PD-L1.
 
            . . . 
 
            Q:        And will
you concede that each of the six monoclonal antibodies that you’ve identified
as isatuximab, isatuximab ADE, Dr. Fournier’s bispecifics, nivolumab, REGN2810,
and MPDL328A were all tested using modified NK-92 cells prepared by the Sanofi
Defendants?
 
            A:        Yes.  
 
(Declaration of Matthew Blackburn, dated September 11, 2023, Exh. C, pp. 164:14-165:7,
16611-18.)  As an initial matter, it is
not entirely clear that this testimony (as well as other testimony cited by
Plaintiff’s counsel) evidences a breach of the license.  Plaintiff concedes in the complaint: “The
2011 License related to research and development and did not permit SARD to use
NK-92 cells for commercial purposes.” 
(Complaint, ¶ 16.)  The license
also prohibited “the use of Cell Lines or Modified Cell Lines for batch or
quality control assays.”  (Ibid.)  The mere fact that Defendants are using modified
NK-92 cells to test monoclonal antibodies does not mean there was an improper
use.  In fact, Dr. Adrian testified that
this was research:
 
            Q:        You
mentioned preclinical research.  Can you
explain what that is?
 
            A:        Preclinical
search [sic], it covers a number of activities that are performed in the lab
with systems other than humans: cells, proteins, mice.  All those experiments performed in those
settings outside human testing are considered preclinical research.
 
            Q:        Okay.  We’ve spoken at length over the last couple
days about an experiment performed by Ms. Wang to overexpress PD-1 in an NK-92
cell.  Can you describe, in your own
words, what the value to the company was of that experiment in the resulting
cell?


            A:        The reason
to perform those experiments was to generate preclinical research data that
could support the combination of isatuximab with anti-PD-1, particularly in
multiple myeloma.  
 
(Declaration of Isabella Neal, Exh. A, p. 218:2-21.)  
 
            In itself, this
testimony does not evidence a violation of the license because Sanofi is
entitled to use NK-92 cells and modified NK-92 cells with respect to research
involving antibody products.  The license
states: “Conkwest hereby grants to Sanofi (and its Affiliates) during the Term,
for the Purpose, a worldwide, non-exclusive, license, with the limited right to
sublicense, under the Conkwest Intellectual Property and Conkwest Cell
Lines.”  (Complaint, Exh. A, ¶
2(a).)  The “Purpose” includes “research,
development, manufacture, use or other disposal of Antibody Products by Sanofi
(or one of its Affiliates), including without limitation . . . [o]ther research
and development purposes pertaining to Antibody Products.”  (Id., Exh. A, p. 5.)  The “Purpose” also permits Defendant to
“develop and/or manufacture the Modified Cell Line for use on Antibody Products
by Sanofi, (or its Affiliates) including without limitation . . . [o]ther
research and development purposes pertaining to Antibody Products.”  (Id., Exh. A, p. 6.)  
 
            Rather, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s theory of the case is that this research was not, in fact, research
because Defendants then filed a patent application for “use of isatuximab in
combination with an anti-PD-1 antibody.” 
(Complaint, Exh. B.)  The
application states: “Provided herein are combinations of isatuximab with an
anti-PD1 ffor use in a method to treat relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma
(RRMM).”  (Id, Exh. B, p. 1.)  Presumably, Defendants’ theory is that merely
seeking a patent does not violate the license. 
The license prohibits the “sale of a Commercial Product,” or the use of
NK-92 cells/modified cell lines “for batch or quality control release assays,”
which are performed only for commercial products.  (See id., Exh. B, ¶ 2(b).)  The license further states that Defendants
must obtain a new license “[i]f Sanofi desires to utilize the Cell Lines or
Modified Cell Lines for batch or quality control assays for release of one or
more Commercial Products . . . .” 
(Ibid.)  This may be an issue to
resolve on summary judgment.  Regardless,
even if Dr. Adrian’s testimony demonstrated a violation of the license, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declarations do not demonstrate that Defendants’ collections of Dr.
Francisco and Dr. Fournier’s ESI omitted any documents.  Therefore, the motion is denied. 
  
            B.        Use of NK-92 cells by Industrial Affairs

 
            Plaintiff’s counsel
argues that Industrial Affairs does quality control on marketing and commercial
products.  According to Plaintiff’s
counsel: “Dr. [Ronan] Crepin further admitted that IA performed quality control
testing and had access to the NK-92 cells.” 
(Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points & Authorities, p. 8:19-20.)  Plaintiff’s counsel argues that Defendants
produced no documents on quality control testing involving NK-92 cells.  
 
            Defendants’ counsel cites
different portions of Dr. Crepin’s deposition to explain the issue.  According to Dr. Crepin: “[W]e have sent the
cells to Quality Assurance and to quality control in IA in order to perform a
formal transfer study under quality and regulatory requirements.”  (Declaration of Isabella Neal, Exh. C, p.
60:10-12.)  Plaintiff’s question asked
additional questions on this issue:
 
            Q:        Do you
know what records exist of the testing that was done by the IA lab relating to
the use of NK-92 cells for ADCC assays?
 
            A:        I don’t
know because I don’t work in the QC IA lab, so I don’t know all their
documentations and how they handle it. 
What I know is their results are transcribed and is written in the
transfer study report.  That is a
detailed summary of all the results they have generated in the study with the
ADCC assay.
 
(Id., Exh. C, p. 185:7-19.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that these documents were produced.  (Id., ¶ 15.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel does not dispute that he received these
documents.  (Plaintiff’s Reply, p. 4:21-25.)  Plaintiff’s counsel has not established that
any other responsive documents exist.  
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel
focuses on Defendants’ failure to search Ekram Graa’s electronically stored
information for responsive documents. 
This does not establish misconduct. 
The Court notes as follows: “[I]n a case of this nature, it is appropriate to comply with
discovery obligations by selecting document custodians most likely to have
responsive documents and using search terms on electronically stored
information (“ESI”) to segregate potentially-responsive documents.”  (Court’s Minute Order, dated May 24, 2023, p.
2.)  Defendants collected documents from
21 potential custodians, including those who worked directly with NK-92
cells.  (Id., p. 3.)  The Court permitted Plaintiff’s counsel to
identify three additional document custodians whose ESI should be
searched.  (Ibid.)  Given Dr. Crepin’s testimony about IA’s
limited uses of NK-92 cells, and how the results are documented, it would not
necessarily be misconduct simply to request those documents.    
 
            Based upon the foregoing,
Defendant’s motion is denied with respect to alleged documents at Industrial
Affairs.  [Nevertheless, if
Plaintiff’s counsel believes that it is necessary to image and review Ekram
Graa’s ESI, the Court will order Defendants to do so provided that Plaintiff
pays all of the costs to collect and review the ESI, and to produce any
documents, including the vendor’s fees and DLA Piper’s fees.  The Court would require an undertaking or an
advance payment to Defendants’ counsel of $100,000 to cover these costs, and a
commitment to pay any additional costs over this amount.  If Plaintiff’s counsel accepts these
conditions, the parties shall file a stipulation and proposed order.]  
 
            C.        Use of NK-92 Cells at the Framingham
Facility 
 
            Finally, Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that “someone from the Farmingham facility requested NK-92
cells.”  (Plaintiff’s Memorandum of
Points & Authorities, p. 8:27-28.) 
Specifically, Defendants produced an internal email from Paula Boutin,
who is identified as a scientist at Sanofi, seeking NK-92 cells.  (Declaration of Matthew Blackburn, Exh. W.)  Boutin states: “We are starting a new project
that requires these cells” in an email dated September 20, 2021.  (Ibid.) 
This email—referencing a new project—was sent almost ten months after
this case was filed, after Defendants allegedly violated their license.  More important, Plaintiff’s case is based
upon modification and commercialization of the cells.  The license does not prohibit use of NK-92
cells for research purposes.  Therefore,
an email by a scientist almost ten months after this case was filed does not
evidence any failure to produce documents. 
Tellingly, Plaintiff’s counsel did not seek to take Boutin’s deposition
as a percipient witness.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motion to compel compliance
with the Court’s order of August 1, 2022, and for sanctions, is denied except
as it relates to Anlai Wang’s notebooks and sanctions.  
 
            2.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court.
 
     

 
Order #3 of 3
Motion to Compel PMQ
Witnesses
 
INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff Brink
Biologics, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Sanofi, S.A.
(“Sanofi”), Sanofi-Aventis U.S., LLC (“SAUS”), and Sanofi-Aventis Recherche
& Developpement, S.A. (“SARD”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  Conkwest Incorporated (“Conkwest”), a
predecessor entity of Plaintiff, entered into a non-exclusive licensing
agreement with SARD on December 16, 2011. 
Plaintiff alleges that this agreement granted Defendants a license to
use NK-92 cells for limited research and development purposes.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were not
authorized to modify the cells or use the cells for commercial purposes, like
potency or quality control release assays. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated both prohibitions, as a
result of which Plaintiff terminated the license on January 19, 2021.  Defendants filed a cross-complaint against
Plaintiff stemming from this termination. 
Now, Plaintiff moves for an order requiring Defendants to provide
competent persons most qualified (“PMQ”) witnesses to testify about the
following: (1) SARD Topics 33-36, 40-43, 45, 60, and 61, and (2) Sanofi SA and
SAUS Topics 27-30, 34-37, 39, 54, and 55. 
To the extent Plaintiff’s counsel seeks to revisit the PMQ topics, the
motion is denied.  To the extent
Plaintiff’s counsel argues that Defendants did not provide a proper PMQ, the
motion is continued to ________, 2023, at _______.   
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
            Plaintiff’s noticed
Defendants’ PMQ witnesses, and on April 20, 21, and 25, 2023, Defendants served
objections.  (See Declaration of Matthew
Blackburn, dated September 11, 2023, Exhs. M, N, O.)  The Court held numerous hearings and informal
discovery conferences (“IDCs”), but Plaintiff’s counsel did not alert the Court
to any problems.  The Court held an
informal discovery conference (“IDC”) on April 26, 2023.  The Court held a hearing on an ex parte
application on May 3, 2023, at which the Court set a new deadline for fact
witnesses’ depositions and ordered the parties to meet-and-confer concerning scheduling
issues.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated
May 3, 2023.)  On May 24, 2023, the Court
held a hearing on Defendants’ motion for a protective order, which included a
discussion of Requests for Production of Documents (“RPDs”).  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated May 24,
2023.)  
 
            Then, the Court held a
series of hearings relating to scheduling Defendants’ PMQ depositions.  On June 23, 2023, the Court conducted an
informal discovery conference and provided notice of a tentative deposition
schedule for the percipient witness and PMQ depositions.  (See Court’s Minute order, dated June 23,
2023.)  The Court held a hearing and
assisted the parties in a stipulation to take the percipient witness and PMQ
depositions at the same time, along with a schedule.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 29,
2023.)  At the hearing on July 18, 2023,
the Court granted the parties’ deposition schedule.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated July 18,
2023, p. 11.)  The Court conducted an
informal discovery conference on July 20, 2023. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated July 20, 2023.)  Although not reflected in the minute order,
the Court’s recollection is that Plaintiff’s counsel informed the Court that
there were disputes over the PMQ topics, but that the parties were working to
resolve the issues amongst themselves.   
     
            
            The first set of
depositions were conducted in Boston prior to the Court’s hearing on September
6, 2023.  At that hearing, the Court set
the dates for the depositions of Nicholas McCray and Shiv Krishnan in the
United States, as well as Domique Brault, Ronan Crepin, and Alain Fournier in
Europe.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated
September 6, 2023.)  Plaintiff’s counsel
indicated that he intended to file a motion for sanctions, but he did not
indicate that he intended to ask the Court to rule on Defendants’ objections to
the PMQ topics.  (Ibid.)  This motion was filed on September 11, 2023.
 
            The following are the
PMQ topics and Defendants’ responses:
 
            33.       The identifies of each NK-92-related
composition – Objection based upon the burdensome nature of the request.
 
            34.       Analytical procedures used in connection
with ADCC testing relating to NK-92 cell lines – Defendants agreed to produce
witnesses to testify regarding analytical procedures for ADCC assays for
isatuximab using NK-92 cells.
 
            35.       Acceptance criteria for ADCC testing
relating to NK-92 cell lines – Defendants agreed to produce witnesses to
testify about the acceptance criteria for the ADCC assay for isatuximab.
 
            36.       The identity of batches, if any, that did
not meet acceptance criteria for ADCC testing relating to NK-92 cell lines –
Defendants objected.
 
            40.       Batch release assays you conducted using
NK-92 cell lines, including but not limited to ADCC testing of isatuximab – Defendants
agreed to produce witnesses on this topic. 

 
            41.       Quality control release assays you
conducted using NK-92 cell lines, including but not limited to ADCC testing of
isatuximab – Defendants agreed to produce witnesses on this topic. 
 
            42.       Transfers of analytical protocols to
NK-92 cell lines – Defendants agreed to produce witnesses on this topic.
 
            43.       Any modifications to NK-92 cells lines –
Defendants agreed to produce witnesses on this topic.  
 
            45.       Any use of modified NK-92 cell lines –
Defendants agreed to produce witnesses on this topic.
 
            60.       Pre-clinical testing of NK-92-related
compositions using NK-92 cell lines – Defendants objected.
 
            61.       Pre-clinical testing of NK-92 cell lines
– Defendants objected.        
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            Plaintiff also moves to
compel Defendants to produce persons most qualified on specified topics.  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450,
if a party to the action fails to appear for deposition after service of a
deposition notice and the party has not served a valid objection to that
deposition notice, the party that noticed the deposition may move for an order
to compel the deponent to attend and testify at deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (a).)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            The Court denies the
motion to the extent Plaintiff’s counsel seeks to revisit the PMQ topics.  Defendants served objections in April 2023;
the Court had numerous discussions about the depositions; Plaintiff’s counsel
informed the Court that there were disputes but the parties were attempting to
resolve them; and the Court did not hear about any issues before the PMQ
depositions.  The Court has repeatedly offered
to conduct IDCs, and Plaintiff’s counsel was free to file an ex parte
application before the depositions.  It
is too late to raise issues now, given the time and expense that went into
scheduling and conducting these depositions. 
(See Crippen v. Superior Court (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 254, 260-261.)  However, the Court continues the motion as it
relates to compelling additional depositions of PMQs due to an alleged failure
to provide proper PMQs on topics for which Defendants agreed to do so.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motion to compel, to the
extent it relates to providing PMQs on topics to which Defendants previously
objected, is denied. 
 
            2.         Plaintiff’s motion to compel, to the
extent it relates to providing PMQs on topics for which Defendants agreed to
produce PMQs, is continued to _________, 2023, at ________.
 
            3.         If the parties reached stipulations
concerning PMQ topics after Defendants’ objections, the parties may file evidence
of those stipulations on or before ________, 2023. 
 
            4.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
            
 