 Case Number:  23STCV11890    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



SANTIAGO RAMIREZ, a minor, by
  and through his Guardian ad Litem, MARTHA RAMIREZ MORENO, et al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
CHA HOLLYWOOD PRESBYTERIAN
MEDICAL CENTER, et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV11890




Hearing Date:


October 6, 2023




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE: 
 
DEFENDANT ARUS ZOGRABYAN, M.D.’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT; 
 
CHA HOLLYWOOD PRESBYTERIAN MEDICAL CENTER’S NOTICE OF JOINDER TO
  DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT BY
DEFENDANT ARUS ZOGRABYAN, M.D.
 



 
Background
            Plaintiffs
Santiago Ramirez, a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Martha
Ramirez Moreno (“Santiago Ramirez”) and Martha Ramirez Moreno (“Martha
Ramirez”) (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on May 25, 2023 against
Defendants CHA Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center (“CHA”) and Arus
Zograbyan, M.D. (“Zograbyan”) (jointly, “Defendants”). The Complaint alleges
causes of action for (1) general negligence and (2) negligent infliction of
emotional distress.  
Zograbyan now demurs to the second cause of action of the Complaint.
CHA joins in the demurrer. Martha Ramirez opposes. 
 
Zograbyan’s
Demurrer
A.    ¿ Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.     Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiffs allege that on or around June 5, 2022, Martha Ramirez was
admitted to CHA for labor and delivery. (Compl., p. 4, ¶ 1.) Santiago Ramirez
was delivered at CHA on June 5, 2022 by Zograbyan. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs allege that “[d]espite a high-risk pregnancy, failure to
adequately progress, macrosomia, and impending shoulder dystocia, plaintiff
Martha Ramirez Moreno’s delivery was performed vaginally as opposed to via
caesarian section. As a result, minor plaintiff Santiago Ramirez suffered a
brachial plexus paralysis and other neurologic injuries. Plaintiff Martha
Ramirez Moreno suffered vaginal and other physical injuries in addition to
emotional distress.” (Compl., p. 4, ¶ 2.) 
Plaintiffs further allege that “Defendants, and each of them, were so
negligent in all phases of their diagnosis, care and treatment of plaintiffs
before, during and after delivery, that plaintiffs were injured. Said
negligence includes, but is not limited to, failure to obtain informed consent,
failure to perform caesarian section, mismanagement of labor and delivery,
mismanagement of shoulder dystocia and mismanagement of newborn care.” (Compl.,
p. 4, ¶ 3.)
 
C.     Second Cause of Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
In the second
cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress, Plaintiffs
allege that Martha Ramirez “is entitled to recover damages for
her emotional distress occasioned by the injuries sustained by her newborn
child, Santiago Ramirez.” (Compl., p. 5, ¶ 2.) In the second cause of action,
Plaintiffs also allege that “Plaintiff, Martha Ramirez Moreno, repeats and
re-alleges the First Cause of Action as if set forth in full herein.” (Compl.,
p. 5, ¶ 1.)
Zograbyan asserts that Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is
duplicative of their first cause of action for general negligence. More
specifically, Zograbyan argues that “it
is improper for Ms. Moreno to allege two separate causes of action for negligence. Indeed, both the first and
second causes of action are based on the same alleged facts, the same alleged harm, and the same
primary right, namely: Ms. Moreno and her son’s right to be free from medical negligence in
connection with the care they received during Ms. Moreno’s labor and delivery on June 5, 2022.”
(Demurrer at p. 7:13-17.) 
Zograbyan cites to Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064,
1072, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “[w]e have repeatedly recognized that [t]he
negligent causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but
the tort of negligence…The traditional elements of
duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply…Whether a defendant owes a
duty of care is a question of law. Its existence depends upon the
foreseeability of the risk and a weighing of policy considerations for and
against imposition of liability.”
(Internal quotations omitted, emphasis in original.) Zograbyan asserts
that accordingly, “under Burgess,
Ms. Moreno’s second cause of action for NIED is improper as it is duplicative of her first cause of
action for medical negligence.” (Demurrer at p. 7:20-21.)  
Zograbyan asserts that a demurrer
may be sustained as to a duplicative cause of action, citing to Award Metals,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1134-1135, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[d]espite the
label of negligence, however, real party alleges in the first cause of action,
in the language of section 4558, that
petitioner negligently, knowingly removed and/or failed to install a point
of operation guard on said power press, and that this removal or failure to
install was specifically authorized by said Defendant under conditions known by
said Defendant to create a probability of serious death or injury. Except for
the conclusory allegation that petitioner acted negligently, these
allegations are virtually identical to the allegations contained in the fifth
cause of action for violation of section 4558.
Petitioner concedes that the demurrer was properly overruled as to the fifth
cause of action under the exception of section
4558, and it would follow that the similar allegations in the first cause
of action should also survive the demurrer. But stating them in two causes
of action, as real party has done, is merely duplicative pleading which adds
nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory. For that reason, the
demurrer should have been sustained as to this cause of action insofar as it
affects petitioner.” (Internal quotations omitted.)
In the opposition, Martha Ramirez asserts that the two causes
of action of the Complaint are distinct. She asserts that “[e]ach cause of action pertains to emotional distress arising from a different injury to a different
person. Martha’s First Cause of Action asserts each Defendant’s breach
of a duty of care owed to Martha to avoid injuring Martha. Martha’s separate Second Cause of Action asserts each
Defendant’s breach of a duty of care owed to Martha to avoid
injuring Santiago.” (Opp’n at p. 3:14-18, emphasis omitted.) Martha
Ramirez asserts that “[g]iven the
different sources, the emotional distress that Martha asserts in her First
Cause of Action to be
occasioned by her own injuries may be substantially different than the
emotional distress that
Martha asserts in her Second Cause of Action to be occasioned by Santiago’s
injuries. Martha accordingly
asserts two non-duplicative causes of action.” (Opp’n at p. 6:1-4, emphasis
omitted) 
But Plaintiffs’ first
cause of action is alleged by Santiago Ramirez and Martha Ramirez
against Defendants. As set forth above, the first cause of action alleges that
“Defendants, and each of them, were so negligent in all phases of their
diagnosis, care and treatment of plaintiffs before, during and after
delivery, that plaintiffs were injured. Said negligence includes, but is
not limited to, failure to obtain informed consent, failure to perform
caesarian section, mismanagement of labor and delivery, mismanagement of
shoulder dystocia and mismanagement of newborn care.” (Compl., p. 4, ¶ 3, emphasis
added.) Plaintiffs also allege that “[n]ursing employee agents of CHA were
negligent in their nursing care and treatment of plaintiffs during labor
and delivery that as a proximate result, plaintiffs were injured. Said
negligence includes, but is not limited to, failure to utilize appropriate
maneuvers to assist in safe delivery of shoulder dystocia and timely reporting
to the physicians.” (Compl., p. 4, ¶ 4, emphasis added.) Thus, the first cause
of action refers to “plaintiffs” jointly as opposed to just Martha Ramirez; and
does not appear to be limited to Defendants’ alleged “breach of a duty of care owed to Martha to avoid injuring Martha,” as contended in Martha
Ramirez’s opposition. 
Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is alleged by Martha Ramirez
against Defendants. As discussed, the second cause of action alleges that
“[p]ursuant to Burgess v. Superior Court (1992)
2 Cal.4th 1064, Plaintiff, Martha Ramirez Moreno, is entitled to recover
damages for her emotional distress occasioned by the injuries sustained by her
newborn child, Santiago Ramirez.” (Compl., p. 5, ¶ 2.) Burgess v. Superior Court, supra, 2 Cal.4th at page 1069, provides, “[c]an a mother recover
damages for negligently inflicted emotional distress against a physician who entered
into a physician-patient relationship with her for care during labor and
delivery if her child is injured during the course of the delivery? Because the
professional malpractice alleged in this case breached a duty owed to the
mother as well as the child, we hold that the mother can be compensated
for emotional distress resulting from the breach of the duty. For public policy
reasons that have been previously articulated by this court, however, these
damages do not extend to emotional distress due to loss of affection, society,
companionship or similar harm that the mother may incur in adjusting to and
living with the child’s impairments.” 
In the reply, Zograbyan asserts that
“[a]lthough Plaintiffs argue Burgess supports the notion that Ms. Moreno
is entitled to bring two different negligence causes of action (one for
the emotional distress she suffered from her physical harm from
delivery, and another for the emotional distress she suffered from her son’s
physical harm from delivery), the principles established in Burgess belie
this.” (Reply at p. 5:14-18, emphasis in original) Zograbyan notes that in Burgess, the Court found that “[a]s in Marlene F.,
once the scope of the duty of care assumed by Gupta to Burgess is understood,
Burgess’s claim for emotional distress damages may simply be viewed as an
ordinary professional malpractice claim, which seeks as an element of damage
compensation for her serious emotional distress.” (Burgess v. Superior Court, supra, 2 Cal.4th at
p. 1077.) Zograbyan asserts that “[u]nder Burgess, it is…clear
Ms. Moreno’s first cause of action for professional malpractice (arising out of
the obstetrical care she received during her son’s delivery) already includes
‘as an element of damages compensation for her serious emotional distress’ due
to her son’s injuries.’” (Reply at p. 5:22-25.) 

Zograbyan also reiterates that “[t]he negligent causing
of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence…The traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and
damages apply.” (Burgess v. Superior Court, supra, 2 Cal.4th at
p. 1072 [emphasis in original].) Zograbyan asserts that “[h]ere,
that tort of negligence has already been asserted in Ms. Moreno’s first cause
of action, which asserts the very ‘ordinary professional malpractice claim’
contemplated by the Court in Burgess. Thus, Ms. Moreno does not have a
second or distinct cause of action for NIED in this case.” (Reply at p.
5:28-6:3.) 
Based on a consideration of the foregoing, the Court finds that
Zograbyan has the better argument that the second cause of action of the
Complaint is duplicative of the first cause of action. Thus, the Court sustains
Zograbyan’s demurrer, with leave to amend.[1]
CHA’s Joinder
CHA filed a joinder to Zograbyan’s demurrer to the Complaint. CHA’s
joinder states that CHA demurs to the second cause of action on the grounds
that “[t]he second cause of
action for negligent infliction of emotional distress fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is duplicative of the damages
claims made in Plaintiffs
first cause of action for negligence.” (Joinder at p. 4:4-6.) 
CHA cites to Barak v. The Quisenberry Law Firm (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th
654, 656-657, where “[a]ppellant Frederick Barak filed a complaint for malicious
prosecution against respondents Michael Larivee, the Quisenberry Law
Firm, and certain members of the Quisenberry Law Firm…On July 16,
2004, the Quisenberry Law Firm filed and served a special motion to
strike appellant’s complaint pursuant to section
425.16. It contended that the malicious prosecution action lacked merit and
appellant would not be able to demonstrate a reasonable probability of
prevailing on his claim. Hearing on the motion was noticed for August 17, 2004.
Larivee filed a document joining in the motion.” The Barak Court noted that “Larivee’s joinder not only states that he joins in the motion brought
by the Quisenberry Law Firm, he requests affirmative relief: ‘Defendant
LARIVEE seeks an order striking Plaintiff’s Complaint as to Defendant LARIVEE
and awarding Defendant LARIVEE his costs and attorney’s fees in bringing a
special motion to strike.’ In the penultimate paragraph, he states why a
ruling on the special motion to strike brought by the Quisenberry Law
Firm would also be applicable to him: ‘Most significantly, Defendant
LARIVEE is the client of attorney Defendants … . Accordingly, relief afforded
to [the attorney] Defendants under a special motion to strike should also be
afforded to Defendant LARIVEE because all the Defendants are in the same
relative position with regards to Plaintiff’s claims set forth in the
Complaint.’” (Id. at p. 661.) The
Court of Appeal in Barak found that “the nature of appellant’s
claim established the necessary foundation for application of section 425.16 and Larivee’s joinder sought
affirmative relief on behalf of himself. We find no abuse of discretion by the
trial court in entertaining the joinder. Nor is any prejudice demonstrated. Appellant failed to provide any
opposition to the special motion to strike and presents no argument on
appeal to demonstrate why the same result would not have been obtained had
Larivee filed a similar motion instead of a joinder.” (Id. at pp. 661-662.) 
CHA
asserts that here, CHA is “similarly
situated with Defendant Arus Zograbyan, M.D. regarding the issues presented in the Demurrer. Specifically, the
allegations to the second cause of action
are identical as to both Defendants.” (Joinder at p. 2:28-3:2.) The Court notes
that Plaintiffs do not dispute this in the opposition. Plaintiffs’ opposition
does not appear to contain any arguments opposing the joinder. In addition,
CHA’s joinder states that CHA demurs to the second cause of action. (See
Joinder at p. 4.)  
Based on the foregoing, the
Court grants CHA’s joinder. 
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Zograbyan’s
demurrer to the second cause of action of the
Complaint, with leave to amend. The Court grants CHA’s joinder in the demurrer.

The Court orders Plaintiffs to file and serve an amended
complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this Order. If no amended
complaint is filed within 20 days of this Order, Zograbyan and CHA are ordered to file and serve their answers within 30 days
of the date of this Order.¿ 
Zograbyan is ordered to give notice of this Order.¿ 
 
 
DATED:  October 6, 2023                              ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


