 Case Number:  22STCV28292    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



APPA DEVELOPMENT, et
  al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
OSCAR ALARCON, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  22STCV28292




Hearing Date:


October 6, 2023




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS IN THE AMOUNT OF $37,136.90 AGAINST
  PLAINTIFFS APPA DEVELOPMENT AND APP [SIC] REAL ESTATE JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY
  PURSUANT TO THE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT, CALIFORNIA CODE
  OF CIVIL PROCEDURE §1717 (b) AND CALIFORNIA CODE OF CIVIL
PROCEDURE §1033.5
 



 
Background 
Plaintiffs Appa
Development and Appa Real Estate (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on
August 30, 2022 against Defendant Oscar Alarcon (“Defendant”). The Complaint
asserts causes of action for (1) breach of written contract and (2) fraud and
deceit. 
On May 1, 2023, the Court issued an Order sustaining Defendant’s
demurrer to each of the causes of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend.

            On
July 13, 2023, the Court entered a “Judgment of Dismissal for Failure to File
Amended Complaint Within Time Allowed By Court CCP § 581(f)(2)” (herein, the
“Judgment”). The Judgment provides, inter alia, that “[p]ursuant to the
Court’s prior order on May 1, 2023 and following Plaintiff’s failure to file an
amended complaint within the time set forth in the Court’s May 1, 2023 order,
IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED that Plaintiffs’ Complaint is dismissed
with prejudice as to Defendant and that judgment be entered in favor of
Defendant; IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED that Defendant shall
recover from Plaintiffs Defendant’s costs of suit in accordance with a
memorandum of costs to be filed within 15 days after the entry of this
judgment.” 
Defendant now moves for
“an order awarding Defendant’s
attorneys’ fees and costs
in the amount of $37,136.90 as the prevailing party in this action against Appa
Development and Appa Real Estate…jointly and severally.” Plaintiffs oppose.[1] 
Discussion
A.    Entitlement to Attorney’s Fees
Civil Code section 1717, subdivision (a) provides: “In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.” In addition, Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5, subdivision (a)(10)(A) provides that attorney’s fees, when authorized by contract, are allowable as costs.
Pursuant to Civil Code section 1717, subdivision
(b)(1), “[t]he court, upon notice and motion by a party, shall
determine who is the party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section, whether or not the suit proceeds to final judgment. Except as provided
in paragraph (2), the party prevailing on the contract shall be the party who
recovered a greater relief in the action on the contract. The court may also
determine that there is no party prevailing on the contract for purposes of
this section.” As set forth above, the July 13, 2023 Judgment in this case provides, inter alia, that
“IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED that Plaintiffs’ Complaint is
dismissed with prejudice as to Defendant and that judgment be entered in favor
of Defendant.” 
Defendant asserts that “[t]he contract sued upon, the Settlement
Agreement, provides for recovery of attorneys’ fees and costs.” (Mot. at p.
2:1-2.) Defendant’s counsel’s supporting declaration attaches copy of the
“Negotiated Settlement Agreement and Release” between Defendant and Plaintiffs
(herein, the “Settlement Agreement”). (Wagner Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. C.) Defendant
notes that Section 14 of the Settlement Agreement
provides as follows: 
 
“14.     In
any legal action or other proceeding brought to enforce or interpret any of the
terms of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and legal costs
incurred. The parties expressly agree to waive the provisions of California
Evidence Code § 1152 solely to the extent necessary to render this Agreement admissible in a
proceeding to enforce the provisions hereof. Moreover, this Agreement constitutes a signed
writing enforceable pursuant to CCP Section 664.6 and admissible under Evidence Code Section
1123. If any party brings any motion, application, pleading or claim to enforce this agreement pursuant to CCP Section 664.6, the prevailing party will be entitled to reasonable attorney fees and
costs for such enforcement.”
(Wagner Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. C, § 14.) 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs brought an action against Defendant
for breach of contract and fraud resulting from the Settlement Agreement.
Indeed, in the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that on February 7, 2018, Defendant filed a wrongful termination
and discrimination action against
Plaintiffs, “bearing Los Angeles Superior Case no. BC693219” (referred
to herein as the “Underlying Action”). (Compl., ¶ 7.) The Underlying Action was resolved
and settled pursuant to a September 21, 2020 “Negotiated
Settlement Agreement and Release” (herein, the “Settlement Agreement”) (Compl., ¶ 7.)  
Plaintiffs further allege in the Complaint
that Paragraph 4(b) of the Settlement Agreement provides, inter alia,
that “ALARCON hereby represents and agrees that
there are no known other complaints,
lawsuits, actions, causes of action, administrative charges, claims, controversies, demands, grievances or proceedings against
any RELEASEE exist [sic], ALARCON agrees to immediately seek and
obtain dismissal with prejudice if any such action, charges or claims exists.”
(Compl., ¶ 7, Ex. A, ¶
4(b).) Plaintiffs allege that “[a]pparently, with Defendant enter [sic]
into this agreement and signed and notarized the
settlement, there was and still is a pending workers compensation action
against Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs allege that
“[d]espite Plaintiff’s numerous requests Defendant has failed to
dismiss the pending
workers compensation action, Case Number ADJ10806054 pending in the Marina Del Rey
Division of the State of California Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board.” (Compl., ¶ 8.)  
As set forth above, Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint was
sustained in its entirety, and the Court’s July 13, 2023 Judgment provides, inter alia, that
“[p]ursuant to the Court’s prior order on May 1, 2023 and following Plaintiff’s
failure to file an amended complaint within the time set forth in the Court’s
May 1, 2023 order, IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED that Plaintiffs’
Complaint is dismissed with prejudice as to Defendant and that judgment be
entered in favor of Defendant.” 
In the opposition,
Plaintiffs assert that Defendant is not entitled to attorney’s fees. More
specifically, Plaintiffs contend that “[o]n May 1, 2023 this court sustained
Defendant’s Demurrer and basically ruled the contract in this case ‘the
settlement agreement’ in a wrongful termination case Defendant filed was
enforceable as it called for dismissal of a pending worker compensation action
and this Court ruled that only the Worker Compensation Board can dismiss a
pending worker compensation. As such, the Court ruled the contract
unenforceable and the[sic] would hold true for all terms of the settlement
agreement, including the provision for attorney fees for the prevailing party.”
(Opp’n at p. 2:4-10.) But as noted by Defendant, the Court made no such ruling
that the Settlement Agreement is unenforceable. (See May 1, 2023 Order.)

Plaintiffs also assert
that Defendant’s motion is procedurally defective. Plaintiffs note that the
caption page of the motion references “PLAINTIFF’S NOTICE OF MOTION…” However, this
appears to be a typo, as the notice of motion indicates that the motion is
brought by Defendant, not Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs do not cite any legal
authority demonstrating that this is grounds to deny the instant motion. 
Plaintiffs also assert
that “there is no ‘meet and confer’ before filing this motion on the part of
Defendant,” but do not cite to any legal authority demonstrating that Defendant
must meet and confer with Plaintiffs in advance of filing the instant motion.
In addition, Plaintiffs argue that there is “no reservation number included,”
but Defendant’s reservation number is listed on the caption page of the motion.

            Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has
demonstrated his entitlement to attorney’s fees and costs here. 
B.    
The Hourly Rate of
Counsel and the Reasonableness of the Requested Fees
“[T]he fee
setting inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the
number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate. …
The reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for similar
work. The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration of
factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value
for the legal services provided.”
(PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095 [internal
citations omitted].)
“[T]he
court’s discretion in awarding attorney fees is … to be exercised so as to
fully compensate counsel for the prevailing party for services reasonably
provided to his or her client.” (Horsford v. Board of Trustees of California State
University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 395.) The trial court may reduce the award
where the fee request appears unreasonably inflated, such as where the
attorneys’ efforts are unorganized or duplicative. (Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635, fn. 21.) “[T]he
verified time statements of the attorneys, as officers of the court, are
entitled to credence in the absence of a clear indication the records are
erroneous.” (Horsford v. Bd. of Trustees
of California State Univ., supra,
at p. 396.)
Defendant’s counsel indicates that the
following attorneys at Reisner & King LLP performed work on this case,
followed by their requested hourly rates: Zachary Wagner ($375/hour),
Adam Reisner ($950/hour), and Tessa King ($850/hour). (Wagner Decl.,
¶ 8; Reisner Decl., ¶ 2; King Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant’s counsel also indicates
that the following paralegals performed work on this case, followed by their
requested hourly rates: Lorina Jasso ($250/hour), Nidia Guardado ($150/hour),
Abraham Ramirez ($150/hour), and John Ramone ($150/hour). (Wagner Decl., ¶ 9;
King Decl., ¶ 7; Jasso Decl., ¶ 3; Guardado Decl., ¶ 3.) In addition, the
background and experience of Defendant’s attorneys and paralegals is discussed
in the supporting declarations. (Wagner Decl., ¶ 8; Reisner Decl., ¶¶ 3-6, 9; King Decl.,
¶¶ 3, 5-9; Jasso Decl., ¶ 3; Guardado Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Plaintiffs
argue in the opposition that Defendant “seeks $950 an hour for attorney Adam
Reisner, and $850 an hour of for attorney Tessa King, both this [sic] attorneys
have far less experience as Plaintiffs’ counsel has as their California Bar
Number are in the 200,000, Plaintiffs’ counsel bill the reasonable rate of $250
an hour on this matter and billed less than 4 hours on the entire demurrer
proceeding…” (Opp’n at p. 2:24-28.) But as noted by Defendant, Plaintiffs do
not offer any evidence to support their purported assertion that Defendant’s
counsel’s hourly rates are unreasonable. 
The Court finds that the hourly rates
requested by Plaintiff’s counsel are reasonable and commensurate with rates
charged by attorneys with comparable skill and experience. 
Defendant
states that his counsel, Reisner & King LLP, expended 72 hours on this
matter. Defendant’s counsel attaches as Exhibit H to his declaration a “copy of
an excel sheet that [he] created by using [his] firm-wide software for keeping
track of work performed on this matter.” (Wagner Decl., ¶ 14, Ex. H.) The excel
sheet shows that from October 31, 2022 to the present, Defendant’s counsel
billed 72 hours on this matter. (Ibid.) This
amount also includes future expected attorneys’ fees for Defendant’s counsel to
review the opposition to the instant motion, draft a reply in support of the
motion, and prepare for and attend the hearing on the motion. (Ibid.) 
In
the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that “Defendant seeks over $36,000 in
attorney fees for filing one simple demurrer.” (Opp’n at p. 2:21.) But this is
not accurate, as the requested fees are for all of the time expended by
Defendant’s counsel on this matter. (See Wagner Decl., ¶ 14, Ex. H.)  
Plaintiffs
also assert that “Defendant seeks attorney fees for ‘paralegal’ time which the
contract does not call for.” (Opp’n at p. 2:23-24.) Defendant does not dispute
this point in the reply. Defendant’s motion indicates that the total amount
billed for work performed by Defendant’s paralegals totals $1,555.00. (See
Mot. at pp. 4:26-5:8; Wagner Decl., ¶ 14, Ex. H.) Thus, the Court deducts
$1,555.00 from the total amount requested. 
Lastly,
Defendant seeks costs in the amount of $1,221.90. (Wagner Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. I
(Memorandum of Costs).) Plaintiffs do not dispute Defendant’s
requested costs.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion
for attorneys’ fees and costs is granted in the amount of $35,581.90.  
Defendant is ordered
to give notice of this ruling.  
 
DATED:  October 6, 2023                              ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


