  Case Number:  BC657947    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
CROSS-MOTIONS FOR JUDGMENT ON BIFURCATED NET PROFITS TRIAL  
 
O’Neil
Digital Solutions, et al. v. James Lucanish, and related cross-complaint, Case
No. BC 657947
 Hearing Date: December 7, 2023, 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
RELEVANT BACKGROUND / STATEMENT OF FACTS
 
          On August 15, 2017, Lucanish filed a
first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”) that alleged wrongful accounting
practices by ODS concerning its 2015 financial statements that had the effect
of removing $10 million from its balance sheet. He contended that ODS had
“cooked the books” and unlawfully clawed back $500,000 that would otherwise be
income that would be subject to a payment of a bonus to Lucanish. (Paras. 54, 90
and 133) 
          In its May 16, 2023 initial ruling on
an OSC why the accounting issues should not be bifurcated, the Court noted that
determination of net profits during the applicable years is at the heart of
this case: 
“ODS contends that one of the reasons
for termination of Lucanish’s employment was Lucanish having obtained undue
advances on his bonus that were more than that which an accounting of ODS
records showed he was entitled based on ODS’ “operating income.” By contrast,
Lucanish contends that his termination by ODS was in violation of public policy
due to his having complained to ODS that the amounts he was entitled to as a
bonus would be justified were ODS to have properly accounted for how it
calculated its income and expenses.” (Fn. omitted)  
 
         By later ruling filed June 8, 2023, after
further briefing, the Court bifurcated trial. The Court framed the issue to be
decided: 
         
“The bifurcated issue will be strictly accounting what the net profits
were in 2015 and 2016 from an analysis of ODS’ financial records and other
relevant information, including hearing the competing percipient and expert
testimony in this regard, and in making that determination considering what
changes (if any) were made to how net profits were calculated in 2014 (or, if
necessary, in earlier years) for comparison “baseline” purposes only. (Fn.
omitted) In particular, the Court will hear the competing claims related to
treatment of “freight revenue,” transfer of funds between affiliated entities
to the extent those impact net profits and alleged accounting “discrepancies”
or “irregularities,” described also as “cooking of the books.”” 
 
          On August 24, 2023, again after further
briefing, the Court determined the applicable burdens of proof for this portion
of trial: ODS would initially be required to set forth a statement of “Bonusable
Operating Income (“BOI”) (the formal term for net profits) for 2015 and 2106
(with the necessary foundation for admissibility.) Lucanish would then have the
burden to support its allegations of irregularities in connection with those
statements – consistent with the burden of a plaintiff to prove wrongdoing. ODS
would then have an opportunity to defend against or rebut any such evidence of
wrongdoing. 
          On September 28, 2023, the Court
filed its Final Statement of Decision denying Lucanish’s claim of spoliation
related to certain back-up for ODS’ financial statements in connection with
determination of net profits. 
          On September 29, 2023, Lucanish filed
a statement of alleged disqualification against the undersigned arising from
its Final Statement of Decision as to spoliation. 
         On October 3, 2023, the Court filed an
order striking the statement of disqualification and denied an ex parte
application to continue trial pending a ruling of the Court of Appeal
concerning the order striking the statement of disqualification. 
          On October 3, 2023, trial of the
underlying issue of net profits commenced (the Court having already concluded
the spoliation phase of this part of trial). ODS called its CFO Eugene
Kumamoto, as well as Controller David Woodley. Kumamoto testified that as part
of the Deloitte audit of its 2016 statement ODS wrote off an invoice to CVS of
$900,000. ODS had already as part of its 2016 statement set up a $225,000 bad
debt reserve and therefore the audit decision had an impact of $675,000. BOI
was therefore reduced by $675,000. 
          On October 4, 2023, Lucanish called “out
of order” ODS former Controller Robert Beste. 
          On October 9, 2023, Lucanish began his testimony
in support of his case.[1]

          The Court admitted into evidence Exhibits
1155 and 1318, ODS’ 2015 and 2016 consolidated income statements, as well as
demonstrative charts concerning those statements, Exhibits 1376 and 1384. 
         On October 11, 2023, the Court of
Appeal denied the petition for writ of mandate challenging the order striking
the statement of disqualification. 
         On October 30, 2023, Lucanish sought
to put an end to the net profits trial by advising the Court that he would be
presenting no evidence, was withdrawing his own testimony and resting on his
cross-examination of the other witnesses.[2]
(While no formal statement of reasons was provided or required, it appeared
that Lucanish was concerned that potential rulings the Court might make in
determining net profits would impact the balance of his case.) Lucanish elected
further to relinquish his objections as to all items except as to the 2016
income statement based on the audit write-down of $675,000 regarding an invoice
to CVS.[3]
There was therefore no longer any objection to the 2015 statement. Lucanish
indicated he would be proceeding only by way of a non-suit motion that ODS had
not met its burden of proof. The Court made sure Lucanish understood that by
his doing so if he then did not prevail on that motion, he would not have any
further opportunity to prove the contentions in his cross-complaint as to
wrongdoing in connection with the income statements. The Court reiterated that
it would be then adjudicating the amount of ODS’ net profits based on the
evidence presented. ODS also stated it was reserving its rights to bring its
own counter motion for non-suit. As of October 30, ODS had not “rested” as far
as putting on witnesses to establish the initial requirement placed on ODS. 
 
CONTENTIONS 
 
Lucanish Motion 
 
          On November 13, 2023, Lucanish filed
his motion for judgment, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) sec. 631.8. [4]
He contends judgment should be entered in his favor for two principal reasons: 
          First, BOI for 2016 was $509,165.68
higher than represented in ODS’ financial statements for reasons ODS did not
dispute. [5]

          Second, ODS improperly lowered BOI by
$675,000 in writing-off a CVS invoice. Lucanish contends the write-off is not
permitted by Labor Code sec. 221 and even if permitted, was not supported by
the evidence ODS submitted.    
          Labor Code sec. 221 provides that
“[i]t shall be unlawful for any employer to collect or receive from an employee
any part of wages theretofore paid by said employer to said employee.” Lucanish
claims that he was paid his bonus in 2017 for amounts earned in 2016 and
therefore ODS cannot now claw-back that bonus by lowering the BOI the bonus was
based upon. 
          Lucanish argues ODS did not meet its
burden of proof to justify the write-off because the Court received no evidence
from anyone at either ODS or at CVS that CVS would not pay the invoice (for
example, the ODS salesperson responsible for this account, Laura Ballentine), that
the Court also did not hear from anyone at Deloitte that it opined ODS would
need to make this correction for its financial statements to be fairly stated, or
in turn from anyone at ODS with the relevant personal knowledge of the decision
to make the correction. Lucanish argues that Kumamoto’s testimony was without
foundation and moreover ODS was required to have designated him as an expert to
testify as to why ODS was entitled to make this correction. Further, Lucanish
argues ODS presented an insufficient basis for making the adjustment to the
2016 statement rather than in 2017 when ODS determined to make the write-off .   
 
          On November 20, 2023, ODS filed
opposition. ODS makes the following points: 
          Lucanish failed to meet his burden to
show intentional wrongdoing in ODS’ statement of net profits for purposes of
his cross-complaint by resting without putting on any evidence. The increase in
the statements by $509,165 was already included within the BOI ODS was
presenting. The write-off of $675,000 was proper given the Deloitte
recommendation and underlying history. ODS is therefore entitled to an order finding
in favor of ODS as to its statement of profits that can be used thereafter in
the jury phase of trial. 
          
Lucanish’s claims as to how ODS purportedly did not meet its initial
burden failed: The Court already overruled the objection that Kumamoto could
only testify if he had been designated as an expert witness. 
          ODS is not seeking to claw-back any
of the bonus Lucanish received based on the $675,000 overstatement of BOI.[6]
Moreover, Labor Code sec. 221 does not prohibit an employer recouping a  bonus paid if the conditions for payment of
that bonus were not satisfied. (Koehl v. Verio (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th
1313, 1329-1337) 
          Lucanish has long been aware of the CVS
write-down controversy and therefore ODS did not “sandbag” him on this issue. His
own exhibits on the exhibit list include ones pertaining to CVS. 
          Even if Lucanish were entitled to a
judgment, ODS should be permitted to present a rebuttal pursuant to CCP sec.
631.8. Unlike Lucanish, ODS had not rested. 
          
          On November 28, 2023, Lucanish filed
a Reply. He reiterates his contentions and responds to the opposition. As
discussed below, many of the arguments are based on assumptions that the Court
will adopt ODS positions. For example, he contends that ODS’ arguments based on
a purported impermissible claw-back also cannot be used as an offset against
the amount that Lucanish contends BOI should be increased. He argues also that any
mistake in the statements or subsequent undisputed correction should be treated
as evidence of “wrongdoing” as set forth in the FACC. He also explains why he
believes he was sandbagged as to the CVS invoice. The exhibits on the exhibit
list referenced did not give him notice that this would be an issue at trial. Finally,
he contends that ODS should have no right to reopen its case were the Court to
accept his position.  
 
ODS Motion 
 
          On November 13, 2023, ODS filed its
motion for judgment pursuant to CCP sec. 631.8. Specifically, ODS seeks a
judgment in its favor on the FACC of Lucanish to the extent he sought a
determination that ODS’ statement of its net profits for 2015 and 2016 were
false and inaccurate.[7]

          ODS brings this motion principally on
the basis that Lucanish withdrew his objections to ODS’ financial statements
(ODS having satisfied its initial requirement to present the statements to
which Lucanish would be objecting by the Court receiving into evidence the
relevant financial statements) and hence Lucanish failed to meet its burden of
proof, under Evid. Code secs. 110 and 115, to show any wrongdoing or
irregularities. 
          In turn, ODS argues that Lucanish
failed to prove his sole claim related to ODS not having met its initial burden
(as opposed to Lucanish meeting his own burden), as to the $675,000 write-down.
The claim failed because this write-down was properly part of a correction to its
financial statement where it resulted from a recommendation of Deloitte, ODS’
auditor, that this would be needed for an opinion that the statements were “fairly
stated.” 
          ODS summarizes that Deloitte’s
recommendation was proper because ODS had in 2016 determined this invoice to
CVS was uncollectible (based on CVS refusal to pay it) where the basis of the
invoice was software and services that it was the burden of ODS to provide to
CVS as part of its overhead for ensuring business continuity and disaster
recovery (to avoid loss of data) and was not an additional service CVS was
seeking. Moreover, ODS showed it had not properly billed CVS in the first place
because ODS had not in fact purchased the hardware that it was purportedly
selling to CVS. 
          ODS also argues that the internal
discussions as to how to address this cost and billing to CVS were matters as
to which Lucanish was involved while he was still employed by ODS and hence not
a matter he could now inconsistently contend was not properly part of its
financial statements. 
          In connection with its explanation,
ODS requests that the Court take judicial notice of generally accepted
accounting principles (“GAAP”).   
 
          On November 20, 2023, Lucanish filed
opposition and argues: 
          First, the $675,000 adjustment proves
his point that the statements were erroneous and that the net profits for 2016
should also be increased by $509,165 (by reason of the undisputed SAF and
insurance adjustments.) Specifically, he asserts that where the original
statements do not include the write-down, and ODS cannot use the demonstratives
(received into evidence) to establish the amount of ODS’ BOI, ODS did not meet
its burden of proof (as opposed to any burden he might have to show the statements
should be different). 
          Second, the Court may not enter
judgment on the FACC as to his claims of erroneous numbers where the audit was
not finished until after filing of the FACC and that this phase of trial
purportedly would not address his claims that ODS’ financial statements were erroneous.
          On November 28, 2023, ODS filed a
Reply, as well as a Response to the Objection to Request for Judicial Notice. In
summary, ODS reiterates why this phase of trial adjudicates Lucanish’s
allegations in his FACC as to how ODS calculated net profits, consistent with
earlier rulings referenced above. In turn, ODS argues how Lucanish failed to
put on any evidence to defeat a judgment on his FACC on the issue of net
profits.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          The parties are essentially in
agreement that the intended motions discussed on October 30, 2023 are a motion
for judgment under CCP sec. 631.8, not a motion for non-suit (applicable in a
jury trial). 
          CCP sec. 631.8
provides as follows: 
(a) After a
party has completed his presentation of evidence in a trial by the court, the
other party, without waiving his right to offer evidence in support of his
defense or in rebuttal in the event the motion is not granted, may move for a
judgment. The court as trier of the facts shall weigh the evidence and may
render a judgment in favor of the moving party, in which case the court shall
make a statement of decision as
provided in Sections
632 and 634, or may
decline to render any judgment until the close of all the evidence. The court
may consider all evidence received, provided, however, that the party against
whom the motion for judgment has been made shall have had an opportunity to
present additional evidence to rebut evidence received during the presentation
of evidence deemed by the presenting party to have been adverse to him, and to
rehabilitate the testimony of a witness whose credibility has been attacked by
the moving party. Such motion may also be made and granted as to any
cross-complaint.
(b) If it
appears that the evidence presented supports the granting of the motion as to
some but not all the issues involved in the action, the court shall grant the
motion as to those issues and the action shall proceed as to the issues
remaining. Despite the granting of such a motion, no final judgment shall be
entered prior to the termination of the action, but the final judgment in such
action shall, in addition to any matters determined in the trial, award
judgment as determined by the motion herein provided for.
(c) If
the motion is granted, unless the court in its order for judgment otherwise
specifies, such judgment operates as an adjudication upon the merits.
 
 
 
 
Lucanish’s Motion 
 
          The Court has ruled separately on the
evidentiary objections of ODS to certain evidence offered by Lucanish. 
          Lucanish is not entitled to a
judgment in his favor on the two items that increase BOI by $509,165.68 because
ODS never contended otherwise. The Court heard no evidence on these items that
were stipulated to among counsel based on deposition testimony.[8]
These amounts were part of ODS’ own statement of BOI, even if this revised
amount was more than the earlier financial statements. The issue was not per se
what the financial statements stated but what ODS was contending was its BOI.
Indeed, as discussed above, Lucanish’s objection to the $675,000 was also based
on events after compilation of the financial statements. ODS was not precluded
from making any revisions to its statements (that is likely inevitable with
income and expenses at this level). The issue was whether ODS’ statement of
profits for purposes of the pleadings at issue was proper. Lucanish did not
prevail on these undisputed issues. 
          Further, ODS had not rested. It still
had the right to call other witnesses even if Lucanish elected not to proceed
with his case. See Eddy v. Gallaway (1970) 11 Cal.App.3d 185 (Fact
that, as courtesy to counsel for defendants and with consent of plaintiff's
counsel, defense witness was called during presentation of plaintiff's case did
not bar entry of judgment for defendant after plaintiff's presentation of his
evidence where such witness' testimony could be disregarded as surplusage
immaterial to issues of plaintiff's complaint.) 
          Labor Code sec. 221 does not apply
here: Lucanish did not show how ODS was seeking to claw -back any bonus already
paid to Lucanish in 2016. Moreover, even if the write-down would have the
effect of reducing BOI, the Court finds ODS presented sufficient evidence to
show the basis for why its statement of BOI should be $675,000 lower than its
2016 financial statement. Lucanish did not present any evidence to show that
this revised statement of BOI was irregular or without basis.[9]
Consistent with how the Court framed the burdens as to the items Lucanish did
inform the Court concerning, the burden was on Lucanish, not ODS, to present
expert testimony that what ODS determined to do was wrong. See Swanson v.
Skiff (1979) 92 Cal.App.3d 805 (Where plaintiff, in suit to recover on
promissory note, introduced the note, where defendants admitted their
signatures, and where plaintiff thus made out a prima facie case, it was
defendants' burden to rebut the presumption of consideration; ¿accordingly,
substantial evidence supported the trial court's refusal to grant defendants'
motion for judgment when plaintiff rested.) 
          The Court stands by its rulings
related to allowing Kumamoto and Woodley to testify what Deloitte had stated
(where the truth of what Deloitte stated was not the issue.) Kumamoto
adequately explained, with the support of contemporaneous e-mail, why ODS made
this decision. ODS did not have the further burden of calling those involved in
the underlying transaction. The Court admitted ODS’ business records through
Kumamoto and Woodley related to the CVS invoice. (Ex. 1378) The issue was
rather the correction to the financial statement – as to which there was no
controversy was done. Moreover, Lucanish fails to show why ODS was required to
introduce expert testimony to justify what it did. 
          The Court was in any event not
persuaded that the write-off should have been to ODS’ 2017 statement when the
misstatement was in the 2016 statement (and hence why Deloitte opined that its
2016 statement should be corrected so the 2016 statement was a fair statement
of its income).[10]
If the determination that this income was not collectible was merely made in
the 2017 statement (or to the 2014 or 2015 statements),[11]
as Lucanish suggests, this would not correct the error in the 2016
statement.   
          Lucanish is not entitled to a
judgment in its favor on the net profits phase of trial. 
   

ODS’ Motion 
 
          CCP sec. 631.8(a) provides expressly
that the motion may be granted as to any cross-complaint. Sec. 631.8(b) also
provides expressly that the motion may be granted as to some but not all issues
involved in the action. 
          Initially, the Court sustains
Lucanish’s objection to ODS’ request that the Court take judicial notice of
GAAP, notwithstanding ODS’ Response. While GAAP is well known to be the
industry standard for consideration of financial statements, the Court does not
find these principles are themselves “facts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute,” and “capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonable indisputable accuracy,” as ODS
argues they would be under Evid. Code sec. 451(h). The issue here is the
validity of financial statements, not GAAP themselves. Lucanish is correct that
how GAAP may be applied would be the subject of testimony (whether by retained
experts or qualified percipient witnesses), not the subject of judicial notice.
No such evidence was offered. 
          Nonetheless, the Court still finds ODS
met its initial burden to establish the amount of ODS’ net profits for 2015 or
2016. There is no contention that it did not meet its requirement for 2015. As
to 2016, ODS showed what its net profits were after adjustment. The Court admitted
into evidence the 2016 income statement. The Court also heard testimony, as
well as received the demonstrative exhibits, to explain what ODS was contending
its BOI to be. Lucanish cannot contend that the adjustment was wrongful where
it elected to rest and not pursue its burden to show wrongdoing in connection
with that adjustment. Hence, his argument in opposition to the motion that he
has proven wrongdoing or misstatement fails because Lucanish gave up making
that claim.[12] Lucanish
also did not show that ODS had not established its net profits as adjusted: 
          Lucanish’s argument boils down to contending
that what evidence ODS put on was hearsay and required expert testimony. The
Court finds, however, that while the Court sustained some hearsay objections
(primarily to what the ODS salesperson and or CVS may have stated), there was still
sufficient other evidence as to ODS’ business records and decisions to
establish the foundation for the adjustment. Further, ODS was not required to present
an expert witness. Again, ODS had no burden to show its financial statements
complied with GAAP to set forth what it was contending its BOI to be. Kumamoto
had the necessary knowledge and experience as a percipient witness to testify
to the foundation for receiving ODS’ financial statements and the basis for ODS
having corrected its 2016 statement. The Court was not hearing Kumamoto’s
testimony for his “opinion” as an expert, but rather as to why ODS did what it
did (and which he could testify to as a percipient witness as ODS’ CFO with his
substantial experience in financial matters.) Moreover, to the extent any of
his testimony might be viewed as an opinion, it fell within the confines of
Evid. Code sec. 800. 
          More fundamentally, the Court finds
ODS met its initial requirement to present its statement of ODS’ BOI (to which
Lucanish could have then objected).[13]
It appears Deloitte found the statements the Court received only to be “fairly
stated” if they included a $675,000 write-down for income from CVS that was
uncollectable. In turn, ODS presented evidence that Deloitte properly reached
that opinion where ODS was essentially billing a customer for what should have
been overhead it was providing and as to which it had in any event not yet fully
accrued the expense (which Lucanish does not contest.) In the context of this
case, it was not unfair to Lucanish for ODS to include this write-down where he
was in any event involved in that discussion and ultimately responsible for it as
the then President. Where the burden was on ODS to prove the validity of the
corrections to its statements, ODS was not bound to rely only on its financial
statements to show what it contended was its BOI. In turn, Lucanish did not
object at trial to ODS putting on evidence to show what finally it believed was
the correct amount of BOI. 
          The Court does not need to depend on or
apply GAAP to draw these factual conclusions and indeed Lucanish’s claims in
this regard in any event did not depend on GAAP. 
           Ultimately, in reaching this
determination of the amount of ODS’ net profits or BOI, coupled with Lucanish resting
his case without putting on any evidence, Lucanish did not prove ODS was
reducing its statements to lower the BOI for purposes of the FACC. For example,
the Court heard no evidence at all related to purported improper freight charges
for shipping to customers over and above actual costs (that was the subject of
the earlier phase of trial concerning alleged spoliation of that evidence), nor
concerning any of the other specific claims alleged in the FACC, including that
ODS had changed the way it determined net profits to thereby reduce bonuses. What
the Court did hear about at trial – related to allocation of rental amounts as
between related companies – Lucanish did not ultimately choose to pursue. ODS
is entitled to a judgment in its favor as concerns its statement of net
profits. Finally, though ODS did not dispute that its 2016 financial statement
should be corrected by $509,165.68 due to mistake, Lucanish did not put on the
evidence to establish that point (or for the revised 2016 BOI to be
$29,155,022.68) and instead asserted that its sole remaining objection was as
to the write-down of $675,000.[14]
  
          As a result, and as the Court further
emphasized on October 30, the Court rejects Lucanish’s continuing attempt
to avoid the effect of this phase of trial by arguing that he can have a
further opportunity to assert these same claims before a jury, notwithstanding the
Court’s above-referenced order to bifurcate over which the parties litigated
beforehand.[15]
By finding the amount of net profits, the Court is necessarily
determining that Lucanish did not establish any irregularities (whether in the
amount of $10 million (as alleged in the FACC) or in a lesser amount) in
connection with how ODS determined its BOI. Lucanish cannot permissibly seek,
after the fact, to avoid potentially adverse rulings and at the same time
assert that those issues were not before the Court. While Lucanish may still be
able to argue, as he contends, that he had concerns about ODS’ numbers, by the
same token, ODS will be able to argue that those concerns proved unfounded as
the Court has determined ODS’ numbers were correct. [16]

 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these reasons, the Court denies the
motion of Lucanish and grants the motion of ODS as to the above-referenced allegations
in the FACC as to ODS’ net profits. The Court finds ODS’ net profits for 2015
to be $21,938,455.00 and for 2016 to be $28,480,022.68. 
          If timely requested, and the
foregoing does not suffice, the Court will issue a Statement of Decision pursuant
to CCP sec. 632. 
          Lucanish also has ten days from
notice of entry of this ruling on ODS’ motion to advise the court whether he requests
the opportunity to present additional rebuttal evidence or to rehabilitate a
witness whose credibility has been attacked, if any, as provided for in CCP
sec. 631.8(a), subject to any objection ODS may make thereafter.[17]
(See People v. Mobil Oil Co. (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 261)  
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


