


[1] For scheduling reasons unrelated to this case, the
Court was not able to hear the balance of trial until October 30, 2023. 


[2] In view of the withdrawal of Lucanish’s testimony, his
counsel indicated there would then be no need for ODS to cross-examine him. 


[3] In earlier correspondence to counsel to ODS, Lucanish
advised him that he was accepting the Strategic Acceleration Fund (“SAF”)
adjustment for $38,417.33, as well as the insurance adjustment for $470,748. See
Ex. B to Lancaster Decl. in support of ODS’ motion. 


[4] The Court treats the parties’ respective statements
on October 30 that they reserved the right to file a motion for non-suit as an
intent to file the procedurally correct motion for judgment.  


[5] The increase of $509,165.58 (based on apparent
deposition testimony) represents the total of amounts ODS acknowledged were
understated in its original financial statements for overfunding of a
self-insurance fund, as well as for improper charges to the SAF.  


[6] What amounts ODS claimed Lucanish took as an advance that
exceeded what he was entitled to was in 2015. Lucanish already agreed he would
repay this amount. Lucanish points to no claim in the complaint that ODS sought
recovery of any 2016 bonus paid to Lucanish. 


[7] Lucanish had alleged in the FACC and then asserted in
his trial brief he would prove that the statements were inaccurate because of
primarily (1) freight revenue and expenses, as well as (2) transfers between
affiliated entities, (3) rent charged to ODS, (4) intercompany charges,
including related to IT and (5) ODS insurance allocations. 
          In its Final Statement of Decision
referenced above, following the earlier phase of this bifurcated portion of
trial, the Court addressed Lucanish’s claims of spoliation related to ODS’
records related to freight revenue and expenses. 


[8] The Court sustains ODS’ objections to Lucanish’s use
of deposition testimony to prove his case. This deposition testimony was not
lodged, is not the same as testifying in court (subject to cross-examination) and
Lucanish stated in resting that he was relying only on cross-examination of
ODS’ witnesses. Hence, the Court does not consider Lucanish’s citations to the
deposition testimony of Jaime Holmes, whom Lucanish had stated he intended to
call as an expert in his witness list but then decided not to call. 


[9] Therefore, the Court does not need to reach Lucanish’s
argument about whether ODS may offset a reduction of $675,000 against the
alleged increase in NOI by $509,165.58.


[10] See Plaza Home Mortgage v. North
American Title Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 130 (Under statute
allowing a motion for judgment in bench trial, a court acting as trier of fact
may enter judgment in favor of the defendant if the court concludes that the
plaintiff failed to sustain its burden of proof; in making the ruling, the trial
court assesses witness credibility and resolves conflicts in the
evidence.) 
 


[11] Moreover, the Court heard other reasons why making
corrections to earlier statements would not have made sense were there was
question about when the expense for the hardware accrued given that ODS did not
purchase hardware specifically for CVS. Lucanish did not challenge the initial
accrual of these amounts in 2014 - which was not within the scope of this
trial.  


[12] Lucanish did not show any wrongdoing or irregularities
as to the two bases for the adjustment of $509,685. ODS acknowledged these
mistakes as part of its case.   


[13]
Lucanish is correct that ODS had the burden to establish the $675,000
correction. The bifurcation order assumed ODS would be relying in its financial
statements as the basis for its contention as to its BOI. If ODS’ statement of
its BOI consisted of more than its financial statements (that the Court did not
know when making its earlier ruling), then it would properly have been its
burden to explain why the statements were not the only relevant evidence to
support that figure. 
          The Court
does not find Lucanish was “sandbagged” or prejudiced by ODS seeking this
correction to its financial statements. Lucanish (who the contemporaneous
e-mail showed was aware of this issue at the time) had a full opportunity to
and did cross-examine ODS’ witnesses and in turn elected to forego the
opportunity to put on his own case to seek an order disallowing that
correction. In addition, where Lucanish took the deposition of the Deloitte
representative and had its document production, the Court rejects the claim
that Lucanish first was aware of this issue during trial. Moreover, Lucanish
cannot at the same time waive his right to pursue that claim and then still assert
he was prejudiced. Hence, in the same way Lucanish argues ODS cannot
permissibly rely on Exs. 188-192 to claim Lucanish was not on notice of this
correction, so he cannot rely on them to assert he did not appreciate the
significance of their contents. The Court reaches this conclusion without
reference to these exhibits.     


[14] Therefore, Lucanish’s argument that ODS cannot
prevail on its motion because there was a mistake, even if he did not establish
any intentional wrongdoing, fails for lack of evidence. Moreover, the FACC was
not premised upon a mistake. It was alleged expressly that ODS lowered the BOI
to reduce what Lucanish and others received as bonusses; this necessarily
implies action other than a mistake.   


[15] On August 9, 2023, after briefing from both sides, the
Court of Appeal denied Lucanish’s petition for writ of mandate concerning that
order.  


[16] As a further result, the Court seeks input from the
parties at the next FSC concerning what the competing claims will now be on ODS’
complaint and Lucanish’s FACC in the jury trial. The parties’ trial briefs
addressed issues that are likely no longer at issue, including that any breach
of an employment agreement by ODS was based on any intent to pay Lucanish less
than it should have by way of having wrongfully changed its NOI. While Lucanish
can still technically make that claim, he would face a court determination that
ODS had not wrongfully reduced its NOI. A judgment granted under sec. 631.8(c)
“operates as an adjudication upon the merits.” By the same token, the Court is
unclear what impact this ruling has on ODS’ complaint and its allegation that
it properly terminated Lucanish based on his having taken more in advances on
bonuses than that to which he was entitled. As the Court understands it, when
Judge Duffy-Lewis heard the motion for summary judgment, she found these facts
to be in dispute. That is no longer true. 


[17] The Court recognizes that ODS’ position is that
Lucanish has already waived his right to put on such evidence where he elected
to rest instead of putting on the evidence, he had indicated earlier he
intended to present. As stated above, Lucanish determined he wished to proceed
solely based on the alleged insufficiency of the testimony of ODS’ witnesses. Therefore,
in  the same way Lucanish argues that ODS
cannot reopen its case, so it would seem Lucanish may not permissibly reopen
his case. Moreover, this decision does not rest on any witness for Lucanish whose
credibility was put in issue. The Court will consider these arguments if
Lucanish requests the further opportunity. 

