Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV14912
Plaintiff's Name: Doris Speed and The Doris Speed Trust
Defendant's Name: Nationstar Mortgage LLC dba Mr. Cooper
People-Names: Doris Speed
Company-Names: Nationstar Mortgage LLC, Mr. Cooper
Places: Los Angeles, CA, 8901 La Salle Ave
Dates: June 27, 2023, December 14, 2023, February 14, 2014, January 11, 2019, June 27, 2024
Events: Breach of contract, Fraud, Judgment on the pleadings
Money: Monetary award, Damage to plaintiff
Intentions: To rescind Defendant's Instrument No. and return title and possession of residence
Facts: Plaintiffs did not attach any contract, no factual allegations about any contract between Plaintiffs and Defendant
Disputes: Whether Plaintiffs properly alleged breach of contract and fraud
Acts: Defendant's motion for judgment on the pleadings, Plaintiffs' objections to Defendant's request for judicial notice
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, Penal Code
Statutes: Code Civ. Proc., ยง 337, Code Civ. Proc., ยง 339
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendant
Signifcant Statements: "A motion for judgment on the pleadings is the functional equivalent to a general demurrer." "Like demurrers, motions for judgment on the pleadings challenge the legal sufficiency of the allegations, not their veracity."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has granted Defendant Nationstar Mortgage LLC dba Mr. Cooper's motion for judgment on the pleadings. The motion was filed in response to the Plaintiffs' First Amended Complaint (FAC), which alleged breach of contract and fraud. The judge found that the FAC did not properly allege breach of contract because it did not attach any contract, and the allegations were not specific enough to meet the particularity requirement for pleading a fraud claim. The judge also found that the FAC's allegations of fraud were uncertain and lacked specificity. As a result, the judge granted judgment in favor of the Defendant and denied the Plaintiffs' request to amend the FAC. The judge ordered the Defendant to submit a proposed form of judgment within five days and scheduled a Non-Appearance Case Review for July 10, 2024.