 Case Number:  21STCV24038    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LARCHMONT PLACE, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ART WORKS STUDIO & CLASSROOM LLC, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV21532
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS; GRANTING MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 27, 2024



 
On June 29, 2021, Plaintiff Larchmont Place LLC filed this
action against Defendant Temple Weatherly Williams and others.  (Defendant was named via a Doe amendment on March
28, 2023.)  On April 15, 2024, the Court entered
default against Defendant.
On May 6, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
to quash service of summons and a motion to set aside default.
At the May 30, 2024 hearing, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s request to file a sur-reply to address Defendant’s new evidence
submitted with his reply.
On June 13, 2024, Defendant filed an “Offer
of Proof Re: Newly Discovered Evidence.” 
The Court did not authorize this filing, but it also will not strike it.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant’s request for judicial notice
is denied as unnecessary because the documents are already part of this case’s record.

DISCUSSION
Defendant
argues that this Court lacks jurisdiction over him because he was not properly served
with the summons and complaint.
A.        Defendant Was Properly Served Through
Substituted Service.
A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further
time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion
and motion to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of
the court over him or her.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  “[I]f a defendant
is not validly served with a summons and complaint, the court lacks personal jurisdiction
and a default judgment in such action is subject to being set aside as void.”  (Lee v. An (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 558,
564.)
Substituted
service requires leaving a copy of the summons and complaint either at the individual’s
dwelling house or usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)  When the usual mailing address is a private or
commercial post office box, substituted service is authorized at that address.  (Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th
540, 546-547.)  Plaintiff must also mail a
copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person
to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)
According
to the proof of service, after two failed attempts at personal service, Defendant
was served via substituted service on Love “Doe” on April 6, 2023 at 4:00 p.m. at
5062 Lankershim Boulevard #198, North Hollywood, California 91601-4225.  The summons, complaint, and other documents were
mailed via first class mail to Defendant at the same address on April 7, 2023.  Accordingly, substituted service appears proper.
Defendant
argues that the address is the mailing address for Circle W Productions Inc., a
corporation in which he holds an interest. 
(Williams Decl. ¶ 5.)  Defendant contends
that when he lived in California, he “had agree[d] to be listed on the Secretary
of State of California’s website as Circle W’s agent for service of process, “ but
“Circle W inadvertently failed to have [his] name removed from the Secretary of
State’s website when [he] moved to Texas in 2021.”  (Williams Decl. ¶ 5.)  Defendant declares that the mailbox is not his
personal mailbox, he has never used it to receive personal mail, it is not the address
for his personal residence, and it is not the address for his business or office
address.  (Williams Decl. ¶ 6.)  Defendant has not been a California resident since
the beginning (or summer) of 2021, when he moved to Texas.  (Williams Decl. ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff
provides evidence that Defendant continued using the mailbox address longer than
he declared.  Defendant listed the North Hollywood
address as his personal address on June 2021 and October 2021 filings in his divorce
proceedings with co-defendant Cyndi Finkle. 
(Kashfian Decl., Exs. 4-6.)  He also
listed the same address on a stipulation filed on September 1, 2022.  (Kashfian Decl., Ex. 7.)  And as Plaintiff notes, Defendant does not satisfactorily
explain why he signed Circle W’s Statement of Information filed on October 17, 2022,
which lists him as the sole officer, director, and agent for service of process.
Accordingly,
the Court concludes that Defendant was properly served by substituted service at
his usual mailing address, and the Court has acquired jurisdiction over him.
The
motion to quash is DENIED.
B.        Defendant’s Lack of Actual Notice Was
Not Due to Avoidance of Service and Was Excusable.
Defendant
argues that, “even assuming arguendo that the alleged service on Williams was valid,”
Defendant “lacked actual notice of this lawsuit, [and] his lack of actual notice
is not due to any inexcusable neglect or avoidance of service.”  (Vacate Motion at p. 10.)
The Court may set aside a default or default judgment
upon a motion and affidavit attesting that the lack of actual notice in time to
defend the action was not caused by the party’s avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5.)  “If the court has acquired jurisdiction, i.e.,
summons has been served, but service of summons has not resulted in actual notice
to a defendant, although the defendant has acquired actual knowledge of the action
from another source, this does not preclude a defendant from seeking relief under
section 473.5.”  (Olvera v. Olvera
(1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 32, 40.)
Defendant
declares that he never received the summons and complaint and never received communications
from Plaintiff’s counsel.  (Williams Decl.
¶ 9.)  He first learned of this case on April
21, 2024, when his ex-wife forwarded an email chain from her counsel.  (Williams Reply Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. A.)
Plaintiff
argues that the email was clearly not the first time that Defendant learned of the
lawsuit because “Exhibit A shows Williams and Finkle had to have discussed the lawsuit
before Finkle forwarded her communications with her counsel, as 1) Williams reading
the email chain, without knowing about the lawsuit, would have no idea what Finkle
and her attorney were talking about, 2) the email subject line is ‘Update
on Temple Williams,’ and 3) there is no message between Williams and Finkle.”  (Sur-Reply at p. 5.)
The
Court disagrees with Plaintiff’s interpretation of the email.  Reading the messages chronologically, on April
17, 2024, Finkle’s counsel emailed her an update about the proofs of service being
filed and Plaintiff taking Defendant’s default. 
Finkle replied, “They definitely did not serve him.  How can they say they did?”  She also asked counsel to send her “the case against
Temple.”  Counsel replied on April 21, 2024
with a detailed explanation of what documents were served on Defendant and how Does
defendants are used in pleadings.  This email
subject is “RE: Update on Temple Williams [NNLLP-CLIENT_WORK.5115.03].”  Finkle then forwarded the email to Defendant with
no additional text in the body of the message, with the subject now “Fwd: Update
on Temple Williams [NNLLP-CLIENT_WORK.5115.03].”  There is no evidence that Finkle and Defendant
communicated about this action before that.
After
receiving the April 21, 2024 email from Finkle, Defendant called NoHo Mailboxes,
where his mailbox was located, on May 1, 2024. 
(Defendant Suppl. Decl. ¶ 3.)  He did
not hear back from anyone, so he filed his motion to vacate default on May 6, 2024,
to be heard on May 30, 2024 before the then-scheduled trial date of June 3, 2024.  (Defendant Suppl. Decl. ¶ 4.)  He finally spoke with the owner of NoHo mailboxes
on May 30, 2024.  (Defendant Suppl. Decl.
¶ 5.)
The
owner of NoHo Mailboxes declares that Circle W leased the mailbox until August 8,
2023, and its items were then removed.  (Scanlon
Decl. ¶ 3.)  Inside the mailbox was “an unmarked,
unsealed envelop[e] that appeared to contain court papers.”  (Scanlon Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. A.)  She called the phone number listed for Plaintiff’s
counsel and left a voicemail “letting the law offices know that their papers were
at NoHo Mailboxes and offering to shred the papers or forward the papers back to
them.”  (Scanlon Decl. ¶ 4.)  She then filed the papers in the back room and
wrote Defendant’s name on the envelope because it looked important.  (Scanlon Decl. ¶ 4.)  Because this envelope was unmarked and unsealed,
the Court presumes that this is the copy served on Love “Doe.”  There is no mention of another copy of the papers
that should have been sent via first class mail.
Defendant’s
most persuasive evidence was not filed until June 13, 2024, but this evidence was
not available when filing his motion on May 6, 2024 or his reply on May 22, 2024.  Although generally “new evidence is not permitted
with reply papers” (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537), the
law prefers disposition on the merits, and Defendant’s additional evidence shows
his entitlement to defend this action on the merits.
In
sum, Defendant’s evidence shows that he did not have actual notice of this action
before April 21, 2024, and he acted diligently thereafter.
The
motion to vacate entry of default is granted.
CONCLUSION
The
Motion to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED.
The
Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default is GRANTED. 
The April 15, 2024 entry of default against Temple Weatherly Williams is
VACATED.
Defendant
is ordered to file his responsive pleading within 10 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 27th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 