 Case Number:  23STCV09065    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ELIA PAXTOR LOPEZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
KF SUNRAY LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV09065
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR APPROVAL
  OF PAGA SETTLEMENT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 27, 2024



 
On April 24, 2023, Plaintiff Elia Paxtor
Lopez filed this action against Defendant KF Sunray LLC for penalties under the
Private Attorney General Act (“PAGA”).

The parties have agreed on the terms of a settlement.  Under the proposed settlement, Defendant will
pay a Gross Settlement Amount of $150,000.00. 
Of that amount, one-third will be paid as attorney fees ($50,000.00), up
to $15,000.00 will be paid as costs/expenses, $5,000.00 with be paid to Plaintiff
as an incentive payment, and up to $8,865.00 will be paid to a settlement administrator.  (See Young Decl., Ex. B [“Settlement”].)  Of the remaining amount, 75-percent will be paid
to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency (“LWDA”) and 25-percent will be paid
to the aggrieved employees on a pro rata basis. 

A court must review and approve any penalties sought as part of a proposed
settlement agreement pursuant to Labor Code section 2699.  (Lab. Code § 2699, subd. (l).)  “[C]ivil penalties recovered by aggrieved employees
shall be distributed as follows: 75 percent to the Labor and Workforce Development
Agency for enforcement of labor laws and education of employers and employees about
their rights and responsibilities under this code, to be continuously appropriated
to supplement and not supplant the funding to the agency for those purposes; and
25 percent to the aggrieved employees.”  (Lab.
Code, § 2699, subd. (i).) 
A.        Plaintiff Has Provided
Notice of the Settlement to LWDA.
A proposed PAGA settlement must be submitted to LWDA at the same time
that it is submitted to the court for review and approval.  (Lab. Code § 2699, subd. (l)(2).)  Plaintiff’s counsel attaches proof that the settlement
was submitted to the LWDA at the same time the motion was filed.  (Young Decl., Ex. C.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied.
B.        The Settlement is Entitled to a Presumption
of Fairness.
A presumption of fairness¿for a settlement agreement exists where:
(1) the settlement is reached through arm’s-length bargaining; (2) investigation and discovery are
sufficient to allow counsel and the court to act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced
in similar litigation; and (4) the percentage of objectors is small.  (Dunk v. Ford Motor Co.¿(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
1794, 1802.)  The final factor does not apply
to PAGA.  (See Arias v. Superior Court
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 984 [representative actions under PAGA do not violate the
due process rights of “nonparty aggrieved employees who are not given notice of,
and an opportunity to be heard”].)
The settlement was reached after extensive arms’ length negotiations
by experienced counsel on both sides after extensive formal discovery and informal
discovery and recognition of the strengths and weaknesses of each parties’ positions.  (Mahoney Decl. ¶ 5.)
The parties had sufficient information, including Defendant’s policies
and handbooks, payroll data, time records, and had conducted an adequate investigation
to allow them to make an educated and informed analysis and conclusion.  (Mahoney Decl. ¶ 5.)  Accordingly, there
was sufficient investigation to allow counsel and the Court to act intelligently.
Counsel is also very experienced in similar litigation.  (Mahoney Decl. ¶ 4; Young Decl. ¶¶ 25-27.)
The Court finds that the settlement is entitled to a presumption
of fairness.
C.        The
Release is Permissible.
If the Court approves the PAGA settlement, the aggrieved employees
will release “all claims for PAGA penalties that were alleged, or reasonably could
have been alleged, based on the PAGA Period facts stated in the Operative Complaint
and the PAGA Notice.”  (Settlement at pp.
7-8.)
This release
is limited to claims for civil penalties that arise from or relate to allegations
in Plaintiff’s Complaint in this action, and it is permissible.
D.        The Attorney Fees and Costs Are Reasonable.
A prevailing employee is entitled to an award of reasonable attorney
fees and costs incurred in the action.  (Lab.
Code, § 2699, subd. (g)(1).)  Plaintiff’s
counsel will receive up to $50,000.00 in fees and up to $15,000.00 in costs, with
excess funds reverting to the Net Settlement Amount.  (Young Decl. ¶¶ 16, 23.)
The Court finds that the attorney fees and costs are reasonable.
E.        Conclusion
The motion for
approval of PAGA settlement is GRANTED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 27th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 