  Case Number:  22VECV00863    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




CHARLES
  BRONSON, ET AL. 
 
Plaintiffs.
 
   v.
 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY, ET AL.,
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
        22VECV00863         107




 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION AND STAY ACTION
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
[Tentative] Rulings
 
The Court CONTINUES the Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Action to February 22, 2024, 2024, at 8:30 AM, Dept. 107,
Van Nuys Courthouse West. 
 
Defendant American Express National Bank
(erroneously sued as American Express Company) is ordered to file and serve a
supplemental declaration at least ten (10) court days before the next
hearing. 
 
Plaintiffs Charles Bronson and Boulevard
Motorcar Company are ordered to file and serve any opposition to the
supplemental declaration at least five (5) court days before the next
hearing. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a breach of contract case. Plaintiffs
Charles Bronson (“Bronson”) and Boulevard Motorcar Company (“Boulevard”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants American
Express National Bank (erroneously sued as American Express Company) (“American
Express”) and Does 1 to 20, inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1)
breach of oral contract, (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (3) intentional misrepresentation, (4) negligent misrepresentation,
(5) promissory estoppel, and (6) unfair business practices. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following, among
other things. Boulevard is in the business of globally acquiring and selling antique
racing automobiles. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Bronson works for Boulevard and travels extensively
because of his work. (Compl., ¶ 8.) This case concerns Plaintiffs’ Business
Platinum American Express credit card ending in 5006 (the “Business Credit
Card). (Compl., ¶ 8.) Before COVID-19, Plaintiffs always made timely payments on
their Business Credit Card. (Compl., ¶ 9.) Further, as of late 2020, they had
accumulated more than one (1) million reward points from using their credit
card. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Unfortunately, COVID-19 impacted their business, and they
could no longer afford their credit card payments. (Compl., ¶ 11.) In or around
September of 2020, Plaintiffs and the defendants entered into an oral agreement.
(Compl., ¶ 41.) Pursuant to the terms of the oral agreement, the defendants
agreed that (1) they would not cancel the Business Credit Card so long as
Plaintiffs continued to make at least the minimum payments, (2) would reinstate
Plaintiffs’ charging capabilities once Plaintiffs had paid the credit card balance
down to below $9,100, and (3) would reinstate Plaintiffs’ ability to use their
reward points once the balance was paid down below $9,100. (Compl., ¶ 41.) Plaintiffs
did all, or substantially all, of what they were required to do under the
agreement. (Compl., ¶ 42.) However, the defendants breached the contract by (1)
failing to reinstate Plaintiffs’ charging capabilities, (2) canceling the
Business Credit Card, and (3) causing Plaintiffs to lose over one (1) million
reward points. (Compl., ¶ 44.) Due to the breach, Plaintiffs have suffered
damages, including being unable to use the credit card for business purchases
and losing their reward points, which carry substantial value. (Compl., ¶¶ 45, 46.)
 
On October 10, 2023, American Express filed
the instant motion to compel arbitration and stay action. 
 
On December 20, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their
opposition, along with evidentiary objections. 
 
On December 27, 2023, American Express filed
its reply. 
 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
In its moving
papers, American Express argues that Utah law (not California law) governs the
arbitration agreement at issue since the parties’ alleged contract contained a
choice of law provision. 
 
Even if that is
true, “[i]t is well established [under California law] that
while the courts generally enforce the substantive rights created by the laws
of other jurisdictions, the procedural matters are governed by the law of the
forum. [Citations.] [Footnote omitted.] As defined in the case law, the terms’ practice’
and ‘procedure’ include the mode of procedure by which a legal right is
enforced as distinguished from the substantive law which gives or declares the
right.” (World Wide Imports, Inc. v. Bartel (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 1006,
1012.) The same is true under Utah law. (See Federated Capital Corp. v.
Libby (Utah 2016) 384 P.3d 221, 226 [stating that under Utah law, “‘[m]atters
of procedure in a contract action are ... governed by the law of the forum.’ A
choice of law provision, in contrast, selects the substantive law that will
govern a contract dispute” (italics removed)].) 
 
Accordingly, the Court will apply California
law to rule on evidentiary objections. 
 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s objections to the declaration of Keith Herr (“Herr”), which
American Express filed on October 10, 2023, as follows.
 

Objections Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 6: Overruled. 
Objections Nos. 4 and 5: Sustained on grounds
     of hearsay and lack of personal knowledge. Herr does not show he has
     personal knowledge of American Express mailing the documents attached to
     his declaration. In addition, as discussed below, he fails to show any
     American Express records he relies on to make that conclusion fall under
     the business record exception to the hearsay rule. 

 
LEGAL STANDARD
 

General
     Principles that Govern Motions to Compel Arbitration Under the California
     Arbitration Act and Federal Arbitration Act

 
Both the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) and
the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) “are driven by a strong public policy of
enforcing arbitration agreements.” (Weiler v. Marcus & Millichap Real
Estate Investment Services, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 970, 979.) “Thus, a
court generally must compel arbitration in accordance with the agreement when
requested by one of the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; 9 U.S.C. § 2.)” (Ibid.)

 
“The FAA applies to arbitration clauses in
contracts involving interstate commerce and ‘was designed “to overrule the judiciary’s
long-standing refusal to enforce agreements to arbitrate,” [citation], and to
place such agreements “‘upon the same footing as other contracts.’”’
[Citation.]” (Rodriguez v. American Technologies, Inc. (2006) 136
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1117 (“Rodriguez”).)
 
Section 2 of the FAA states that “[a] written
provision in ... a contract ... to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract ... shall be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.)
 
“The court’s role under the [FAA] is …
limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists and,
if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.” (Chiron
Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126,
1130.) “If the response is affirmative on both counts, then the Act requires
the court to enforce the arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms.” (Ibid.)
 
“Section 3 of the FAA mandates that, if suit
is brought in a court ‘of the United States’ upon an issue ‘referable to
arbitration,’ the court must, upon a party’s application, stay the judicial
proceeding until the arbitration is completed.” (Rodriguez, supra,
136 Cal.App.4th at p. 1117.)
 
The CAA “echoing
the FAA’s language and its policy favoring arbitration, likewise provides that
a written arbitration agreement ‘is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save
upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.’” (Rodriguez,
supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at p. 1117 [discussing Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281].)
 
With regard to
staying proceedings pending arbitration, the CAA states that “[i]f a court of
competent jurisdiction, …, has ordered arbitration of a controversy …, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) “If the issue which is the controversy subject to
arbitration is severable, the stay may be with respect to that issue only.” (Ibid.)
 
“In determining the rights of parties to
enforce an arbitration agreement within the FAA’s scope, courts apply state
contract law while giving due regard to the federal policy favoring
arbitration.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower
Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
 
Under California law, “[t]he petitioner
[seeking to compel arbitration] bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group,
Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) “The trial court sits as the trier
of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.” (Ibid.)
 

How
     California Courts Enforce Choice of Law Provisions in Arbitration
     Agreements

 
“California strongly favors enforcement of
choice-of-law provisions [citation], and its courts have upheld application of
other states’ internal statutes, rules and laws to arbitration contracts.” (Harris
v. Bingham McCutchen LLP (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1399, 1404.)
 
“In determining the enforceability of arm’s-length
contractual choice-of-law provisions, California courts shall apply the
principles set forth in Restatement section 187, which reflect a strong policy
favoring enforcement of such provisions.” (Nedlloyd Lines B.V. v. Superior
Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 459, 464–465 (“Nedlloyd”).)
 
“Briefly restated, the proper approach under
Restatement section 187, subdivision (2) is for the court first to determine
either: (1) whether the chosen state has a substantial relationship to the
parties or their transaction, or (2) whether there is any other reasonable
basis for the parties’ choice of law.” (Nedlloyd, supra, 3
Cal.4th at p. 466.) “If neither of these tests is met, that is the end of the
inquiry, and the court need not enforce the parties’ choice of law.” (Ibid.)

 
For example, in Nedlloyd, the
California Supreme Court found that the chosen forum – Hong Kong – had a substantial
relationship with the parties because the plaintiff (Seawinds Limited) and
another party (Red Coconut Trading Co.) were incorporated under the laws of
Hong Kong and had a registered office there. (Nedlloyd, supra, 3
Cal.4th at p. 467.) The Supreme Court also found that since the two parties
were incorporated in Hong Kong, there was a reasonable basis for the
chosen forum. (Ibid. [explaining that “‘[i]f one of the parties resides
in the chosen state, the parties have a reasonable basis for their choice.’
[Citation]”].) 
 
If the chosen state has a substantial
relationship to the parties or there is a reasonable basis for that chosen
state, “the court must next determine whether the chosen state’s law is
contrary to a fundamental policy of California. [Footnote
omitted.] If there is no such conflict, the court shall enforce the parties’
choice of law.” (Nedlloyd, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 466 [italics in
original].) For example, in Nedlloyd, the California Supreme Court “perceive[d]
no fundamental policy of California requiring the application of California law
to [the plaintiff’s] claims [that were] based on the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing,” since “[t]he covenant [was] not a government
regulatory policy designed to restrict freedom of contract, but an implied
promise inserted in an agreement to carry out the presumed intentions of
contracting parties.” (Id. at p. 468.) Therefore, it was proper to apply Hong
Kong law to those claims. 
 
“If … there is a fundamental conflict with
California law, the court must then determine whether California has a ‘materially
greater interest than the chosen state in the determination of the particular
issue....’ (Rest., § 187, subd. (2).)” (Nedlloyd, supra, 3
Cal.4th at p. 466.) 
 
“If California has a materially greater
interest than the chosen state, the choice of law shall not be enforced, for
the obvious reason that in such circumstance we will decline to enforce a law
contrary to this state’s fundamental policy.” (Nedlloyd, supra, 3
Cal.4th at p. 466.)
 

Utah’s
     Arbitration Law 

 
According to the Utah Supreme Court, “[w]hen
parties agree to arbitration, the district court [i.e., a Utah trial court] is
bound to refer the matter to arbitration.” (HITORQ, LLC v. TCC Veterinary
Services, Inc. (Utah 2021) 502 P.3d 281, 285 (“HITORQ”).) 
 
“But if a party challenges the
appropriateness of arbitration, the Utah Uniform Arbitration Act provides that ‘the
court shall proceed summarily to decide the issue and order the parties to
arbitrate unless it finds that there is no enforceable agreement to arbitrate.’”
(HITORQ, supra, 502 P.3d at p. 285 [footnote omitted].)
 
“For a dispute to be subject to arbitration,
an agreement to arbitrate must exist that binds the party whose submission to
arbitration is sought, [citation], and the dispute to be arbitrated must fall
within the scope of the agreement, [citation].” (Bybee v. Abdulla (Utah
2008) 189 P.3d 40, 47.)
 
Like under California law, “[w]hether a claim
falls under an arbitration clause [under Utah law] is a matter of contractual
interpretation ….” (HITORQ, supra, 502 P.3d at p. 285 [footnote
omitted].) “As with any contract, [Utah courts] determine what the parties have
agreed upon by looking first to the plain language within the four corners of
the document.” (Peterson & Simpson v. IHC Health Services, Inc.
(Utah 2009) 217 P.3d 716, 720.) “When interpreting the plain language, ‘[Utah
courts] look for a reading that harmonizes the provisions and avoids rendering
any provision meaningless.’ [Citation.] If [the courts] find the language
unambiguous, [they] interpret the contract as a matter of law. [Citation.]
[They] find ambiguity only where the language of the contract ‘is reasonably
capable of being understood in more than one sense.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
 
“‘[I]t is a basic principle of [Utah’s]
contract law that there can be no contract without the mutual assent of the
parties.’ [Citations.] (‘Generally, a promise is legally enforceable where it
is part of a bargain in which there is a manifestation of mutual assent to the
exchange and a consideration.’ [citation]). A contract results when ‘there is a
manifestation of mutual assent, by words or actions or both, which reasonably
are interpretable as indicating an intention to make a bargain with certain
terms or terms which reasonably may be made certain.’ [Citation.]” (Livingston
v. Finco Holdings Corp. (Utah Ct. App. 2022) 513 P.3d 94, 100, cert. denied
sub nom. Livingston v. Finco Holdings (Utah 2022) 525 P.3d 1263.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
American Express moves to compel Plaintiffs’
claims to arbitration and to stay action, based on (1) a cardmember agreement
the defendant allegedly mailed Plaintiffs on or about July 6, 2011 (the “Governing
Cardmember Agreement”), that included an arbitration provision (the “Original
Arbitration Provision”) and (2) a monthly billing statement the defendant
allegedly mailed to Plaintiffs on or about October 2021, that included an
update to the arbitration provision (the “Updated Arbitration Provision”).
(Motion, pp. 9:1-10:4; Declaration of Keith Herr, filed October 10, 2023 (“Herr
Decl.”), ¶¶ 5-6; Exhibit A – a copy of the Governing Cardmember Agreement;
Exhibit B – a copy of the Updated Arbitration Provision.)
 
According to the Governing Cardmember
Agreement: “Utah law and federal law govern [the] Agreement and the Account.
They govern without regard to internal principles of conflicts of law.
[American Express is] located in Utah. [The defendant] hold[s] the Account in
Utah. [The defendant] entered into [the] Agreement with [Plaintiffs] in Utah.”
(Herr Decl., Exhibit A, Cardmember Agreement: Part 2 of 2, p. 5, the bottom of
the page.)
 
The Original Arbitration Provision states:
            
“Any claim shall be resolved, upon the
election by you or us, by arbitration pursuant to this Arbitration provision
and the code of procedures of the arbitration organization to which the claim
is referred in effect at the time the claim is filed (code), except to the
extent the code conflicts with this Agreement. Claims shall be referred to
either JAMS or the American Arbitration Association (AAA), as selected by the
party electing to use arbitration.” (Herr Decl., Exhibit A, Cardmember
Agreement: Part 2 of 2, p. 6, Initiation of Arbitration section.)
 
“The term claim means any claim, dispute or
controversy between [Plaintiffs] and [American Express] arising from or
relating to [Plaintiffs’ Account], [the Governing Cardmember Agreement], [an]
Electronic Funds Transfer Services Agreement, and any other related or prior
agreement that [Plaintiffs] may have had with [American Express], or the
relationships resulting from any of the above agreements, except for the
validity, enforceability or scope of [the] Arbitration provision.” (Herr Decl.,
Exhibit A, Cardmember Agreement: Part 2 of 2, p. 6, Definitions section [italics
removed].)
 
The Original Arbitration Provision was “made
pursuant to transactions involving interstate commerce and shall be governed by
the FAA.” (Herr Decl., Exhibit A, Cardmember Agreement: Part 2 of 2, p. 6,
Arbitration Procedures section.)
 
In addition, it was meant to “survive
termination of [Plaintiffs’] Account; voluntary payment of the Account balance
in full by [Plaintiffs]; any legal proceeding by [Plaintiffs] or [American
Express] to collect a debt owed by the other; any bankruptcy by [Plaintiffs] or
[American Express]; and any sale by [American Express] of [Plaintiffs’] Account
….” (Herr Decl., Exhibit A, Cardmember Agreement: Part 2 of 2, p. 6,
Continuation section.)
 
The Updated Arbitration Agreement did not
change the above definition of “claim,” scope of arbitration, or governing law
of the arbitration agreement. (See Herr Decl., Exhibit B, p. 10, the top of the
page, Important Changes to Your Account Terms section [“Terms not changed by
[that] notice remain[ed] in full force and effect”].)
 
The updated arbitration provision stated that
Plaintiffs could reject the arbitration provision by sending a written
rejection notice to American Express by February 15, 2013. (Herr Decl., Exhibit
B, p. 9, Summary of New Claims Resolution Provision (including Arbitration)
Effective January 1, 2013 section, the bottom of the page.) 
 
To prove that Plaintiffs received the above
documents, American Express submits Herr’s declaration as evidence. Herr
testifies as follows. 
 
Herr is the Assistant Custodian of Records
for American Express Company and its affiliates and subsidiaries, including
Defendant American Express, a national bank with its main office in Utah. (Herr
Decl., ¶ 1.) He has held that position for approximately ten (10) years. (Herr
Decl., ¶ 1.) 
 
“In connection with [his] duties as Assistant
Custodian of Records, [he has] access to and [has] become generally familiar
with the cardmember account records maintained by American Express, including
account statements provided to cardmembers and the governing account
agreements. The account records and exhibits referred to [in her declaration]
were created and kept in the ordinary course of American Express’s business and
were created at or near the time of the occurrence of the matters set forth in
those records and/or were created based upon information transmitted by a
person with knowledge of the matters set forth in those records.” (Herr Decl.,
¶ 2.) “All American Express card accounts are governed by a written agreement
(the ‘Cardmember Agreement’) setting forth the basic terms and conditions of
the cardmember’s account. Among other things, the Cardmember Agreement provides
that if the cardmember uses the account, he/she agree [sic] to the terms of the
Cardmember Agreement.” (Herr Decl., ¶ 3.) 
 
According to Herr, “[p]ursuant to American Express’s
standard business practices, the current Cardmember Agreement is mailed to each
American Express account holder, together with the cardmember’s physical
American Express card, upon the opening of the account or a change to a new account.”
(Herr Decl., ¶ 3.) In addition, “[m]onthly account statements are sent to
account holders who carry a balance on their American Express account or are
otherwise required to receive a monthly statement. Periodic updates to the
Cardmember Agreement are included in the monthly statements. Cardmembers are
also advised that they may access the most up-to-date version of their
Cardmember Agreement online at www.americanexpress.com.” (Herr Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
Herr reviewed American Express’s records
concerning Plaintiffs’ “account originally ending in 1005, [but] currently
ending in 5006 …, which … [the] records reflect was opened or about January 23,
2006, by American Express (the ‘Account’).” (Herr Decl., ¶ 4.) “After opening
the Account, Plaintiffs proceeded to make purchases on the Account. (Herr
Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
According to American Express records, Herr
further testifies, Plaintiffs did not send a rejection notice of the Updated
Arbitration Provision to American Express. (Herr Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
American Express argues the Court should
compel Plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims because the documents attached to Herr’s
declaration show that (1) Plaintiffs agreed to arbitrate their claims, (2) the
FAA and Utah law govern the arbitration agreement, (3) the arbitration
agreement is valid and enforceable under those laws, and (4) Plaintiffs’ claims
fall within the scope of the arbitration agreement. (Motion, pp. 12:1-18:2.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs do not deny that
they received the documents Herr has attached or that the FAA and Utah law
apply to those documents. 
 
Instead, Plaintiffs’ main argument is that
American Express has not proved that it mailed Plaintiffs the documents
attached to Herr’s declaration or that Plaintiffs received those
documents.  
 
Plaintiffs mainly rely on a California Court
of Appeal case, Chambers v. Crown Asset Management, LLC (2021) 71
Cal.App.5th 583 (“Chambers”), for that argument. 
 
In reply, American Express argues (among
other things) that Chambers is distinguishable because, there, “the
declarant provided no information regarding the regular business practices or
procedures of the bank in regards to the mailing of credit card agreements,
including whether they were prepared near or at the time of the alleged
mailing, and thus the affidavit did not qualify under the business records
exception to hearsay.” (Reply, p. 6:18-21.) “Additionally, … the declarant did
not describe the specific records she relied upon to state that the bank had
mailed the account agreements.” (Reply, p. 6:25-26.) Here, on the other hand, “Mr.
Herr provided details regarding the American Express’s business practices with
respect to creating and keeping the records in the ordinary course of its
business, and testified the records of mailing were prepared near or at the
time of the occurrence of the matters set forth in those records.” (Reply, p.
6:21-24.) “Mr. Herr [also] cited and attached the Cardmember Agreement and
updates sent to Plaintiffs, including citing the date they were mailed and that
they were sent with their physical American Express credit card and monthly
billing statement.” (Reply, pp. 6:25-7:1.)
 
Contrary to American Express’s arguments, the
Court does not find Herr’s declaration that much different from the affidavit
at issue in Chambers with regard to the mailing issue.  
 
In Chambers,
plaintiff Pamela Sheree Chambers (“Chambers”) filed a putative class action
lawsuit against Crown Asset Management, LLC (“Crown”), based on alleged
violations of the California Fair Debt Buying Practices Act (“CFDBPA”). (Chambers,
supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 587.)
 
Chambers allegedly
incurred debt because of a consumer credit account issued by Synchrony Bank (“Synchrony”),
and Synchrony allegedly sold the debt to Crown for collection purposes. (Chambers,
supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 587.) 
 
“In her complaint,
Chambers alleged that she received a written communication from a debt
collector contracted by Crown that failed to comply with the CFDBPA’s notice
formatting requirement. [Citation.] …. [In her lawsuit] Chambers sought
statutory damages [citation] and other relief.” (Chambers, supra,
71 Cal.App.5th at p. 587.) 
 
Crown moved to
compel arbitration, arguing that Synchrony had sent Chambers a credit card
account agreement containing an arbitration clause when Chambers opened her
account and subsequently received a replacement card a few years later. (Chambers,
supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at pp. 587-588.) According to Crown, “[t]he
agreement allowed Chambers to reject the arbitration clause by written notice
within 60 days, but Synchrony did not receive any such notice. Based on these
and other facts, Crown argued that Chambers agreed to the arbitration clause,
the clause covered her CFDBPA claim, and the dispute should be ordered to
arbitration.” (Chambers, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 588.)
 
To support its
contentions, including that Synchrony sent Chambers a credit account agreement
with an arbitration clause, Crown submitted an affidavit from Synchrony’s
employee, Jody Anderson (“Anderson”). (Chambers, supra, 71
Cal.App.5th at p. 588.) 
 
In her affidavit,
Anderson testified, among other things, that “‘Synchrony’s records show[ed]
that on or around December 13, 2012, [a credit] card and a copy of the [account
agreement] were mailed to [Chambers] at the address of record on [the plaintiff’s
account] …. Synchrony ha[d] no record that the card or the [agreement] were
returned as underivable.’ In
essentially the same language, Anderson described Synchrony’s mailing of a
replacement card and another account agreement a few years later. Anderson
attached copies of both account agreements to her affidavit. She did not
attach any documentation regarding mailing.” (Ibid. [emphasis
added].)
 
Chambers objected
to portions of the affidavit on several grounds, including hearsay. (Chambers,
supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 589.)
 
After the trial
court sustained the objections and denied Crown’s motion to compel arbitration,
Crown appealed, “contend[ing] [that] the [trial] court erred by excluding the
Anderson affidavit because it was admissible under the secondary evidence rule
(Evid. Code, §§ 1521, 1523) and the underlying … documents qualified as
business records (§ 1271).” (Chambers, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at
p. 593 [footnote omitted].)
 
The Court of Appeal
noted that while Evidence Code “‘[s]ection 1521 permits the introduction of “otherwise
admissible secondary evidence” to prove the contents of a writing,” “[i]t does
not excuse the proponent from complying with other rules of evidence, most
notably, the hearsay rule.” (Chambers, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at
p. 594.) 
 
Therefore, since
Anderson relied on Synchrony’s records to testify that a credit card
account agreement had been mailed to Chambers, those underlying records had to
be admissible. (Chambers, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 595.) 
 
“The business
records exception to the hearsay rule provides, ‘Evidence of a writing made as
a record of an act, condition, or event is not made inadmissible by the hearsay
rule when offered to prove the act, condition, or event if: [¶] (a) The writing
was made in the regular course of a business; [¶] (b) The writing was made at
or near the time of the act, condition, or event; [¶] (c) The custodian or
other qualified witness testifies to its identity and the mode of its
preparation; and [¶] (d) The sources of information and method and time of
preparation were such as to indicate its trustworthiness.’ [Citation.]” (Chambers,
supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 594.)
 
The Court of Appeal
disagreed with Crown that the underlying Synchrony’s records were admissible as
business records under Evidence Code section 1271. 
 
“While Anderson
state[d] she regularly review[ed] and analyze[d] the records, she [did] not say
anything about their preparation. Nor [did] she describe the specific ‘Synchrony
records’ she relied upon to state that Chambers had been mailed the account
agreement. [Therefore] [t]he trial court could reasonably [have found] that
Anderson had not shown those specific records—whatever they were—were made in
the regular course of Synchrony’s business.” (Chambers, supra, 71
Cal.App.5th at p. 595.)
 
In addition, “the
trial court could reasonably [have found] that Anderson’s affidavit was
insufficient to establish that the unspecified records were ‘made at or near
the time of the act, condition, or event’ and ‘[t]he sources of information and
method and time of preparation were such as to indicate its trustworthiness.’
(§ 1271, subds. (b), (d).) Information about the sources of information and the
method and time of preparation of the records, including whether they were
prepared at or near the time of alleged mailing, [was] completely absent from Anderson’s
affidavit.” (Chambers, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 595.) 
 
Therefore, Chambers
stands for the proposition that to the extent an affiant or declarant relies on
business records to testify that their company mailed plaintiffs an arbitration
agreement, the affiant must (1) describe with specificity the business records
they are relying on to make that statement, and (2) provide information about
method and time of preparation of those records, including whether they were
prepared at or near the time of alleged mailing. 
 
Notably, Utah law
is consistent with the California Court of Appeal’s decision in Chambers.
McCoy v. Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Utah (Utah 2001) 20 P.3d 901 (“McCoy”)
is a Supreme Court of Utah case involving a dispute between a health insurance
policyholder (Gerald McCoy (“McCoy”)) and the insurance companies (Blue Cross
and Blue Shield of Utah, collectively, “Blue Cross”). 
 
In McCoy, Blue
Cross petitioned the state’s high court to reverse the state’s Court of Appeals’
decision, affirming the trial court’s denial of the defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration. (McCoy, supra, 20 P.3d at p. 902.)
 
Like the plaintiff
in Chambers, McCoy argued that Blue Cross (in moving to compel
arbitration) failed to present sufficient evidence that they had mailed him an
insurance policy amendment containing the alleged arbitration provision. Apparently,
“[w]hen McCoy purchased the policy from Blue Cross it did not contain an
arbitration provision. Blue Cross amended its policies to add an arbitration
clause effective January 1, 1986.” (McCoy, supra, 20 P.3d at p. 903.)
“Blue Cross [then] prepared a magnetic tape containing the names and addresses
of over 30,000 affected policyholders who were to receive a copy of the policy
amendment notification that contained the arbitration provision. The magnetic
tape was sent to a printing company, which printed a cover letter to be mailed
along with the arbitration notification. These were then forwarded to a mailing
service with instructions to insert the materials into envelopes and deliver
the mailings to the post office. Blue Cross did not retain a copy of the
magnetic tape, nor did it obtain a verification list of affected policyholders
from either the printer or the mailing service. McCoy denie[d] ever having
received an actual notice of the binding arbitration amendment.” (Ibid.
[emphasis added].)
 
The Supreme Court
of Utah affirmed the state’s appellate court because (among other things) that “Blue
Cross’s evidence failed to meet the minimum threshold of specificity [of
showing that an agreement to arbitrate existed between the parties].” (McCoy,
supra, 20 P.3d at p. 905.)
 
Specifically, “Blue
Cross presented testimony that described the process by which a policyholder
list was prepared and by which mailings were purportedly sent to persons on
that list but was unable to produce a copy of the list itself. [In addition,
although] [i]ts evidence described general procedures [it] did not establish
any actual mailing, or even an attempt to mail, that was directed to McCoy
personally. [T]herefore [the state’s high court held] that the court of
appeals correctly affirmed the trial court on that ground.” (McCoy, supra,
20 P.3d at p. 905 [emphasis added].)
 
Here, Herr only
testifies that he reviewed American Express records and that American Express
mailed Plaintiffs the Governing Cardmember Agreement and Updated Arbitration
Provision.
 
However, like the
defendant in Chambers, Herr does not describe with specificity the
business records (if any) he is relying on to claim that American Express
mailed Plaintiffs those documents, or even provide information about the method
and time of preparation of those records, including whether they were prepared
at or near the time of alleged mailing. Indeed, the documents attached to his
declaration do not contain Plaintiffs’ mailing address to allow an inference
that they were “mailed letters.” In addition, although Herr claims that
American Express sent Plaintiffs their credit card along with a copy of the
original cardmember agreement when they opened their account, that original
cardmember agreement is not before the Court and is not the one American
Express is relying on to move for an order compelling arbitration. Finally,
while Herr also testifies that cardmembers could access their most current
cardmember agreement online, he does not testify that the Governing Cardmember
Agreement and Updated Arbitration Provision were accessible to Plaintiffs
online. 
 
Notwithstanding the
findings above, the defects in Herr’s declaration are not fatal to American Express’s
motion to compel arbitration. 
 
In several cases,
the California Court of Appeal has suggested the moving party could correct the
abovementioned issues. (Chambers, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at pp.
596-598 [discussing on People v. Dorsey (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 953 (“Dorsey”)];
see Dorsey, supra, 43 Cal.App.3d at p. 960 [discussing a
declaration and finding the only apparent defect in the foundation required by
Evidence Code section 1271 was in the failure of the declarant to testify as to
the mode and time of preparation of the bank statements, but concluding that
such “oversight obviously could have been remedied if appellant’s
counsel had objected on that specific ground…” (emphasis added)]; see also People
v. Tolmachoff (1943) 58 Cal.App.2d 815, 826 [“Where, as here, the proffered
evidence is allegedly imperfect because of the lack of preliminary proof, which
might or might not have been supplied by the party offering such evidence,
the objection must be specific and it must point out the alleged defect. If
this is not done, the objection cannot be urged on appeal” (emphasis added)]; People
v. Owens (1899) 123 Cal. 482, 490 [same].)
 
Accordingly, the
Court will continue the motion and ask American Express to submit a
supplemental declaration correcting the deficiencies in Herr’s declaration. The
Court will also allow Plaintiffs to oppose that declaration. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Court CONTINUES the Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Action to February 22, 2024, at 8:30 AM, Dept. 107, Van
Nuys Courthouse West. 
 
Defendant American Express National Bank
(erroneously sued as American Express Company) is ordered to file and serve a
supplemental declaration at least ten (10) court days before the next
hearing. 
 
Plaintiffs Charles Bronson and Boulevard
Motorcar Company are ordered to file and serve any opposition to the
supplemental declaration at least five (5) court days before the next
hearing.