 Case Number:  23VECV01818    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




BENYAMIN
  CABIR,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
MERCEDES-BENZ USA
  LLC, et al.,
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV01818                      107




 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Motion for Attorney’s Fees for Time Actually Expended
  and Reasonably Incurred
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
            Motion is GRANTED and judgment is entered for
Plaintiff and against Defendant for $11,720.81, plus costs according to a
detailed memorandum to be produced by Plaintiff.
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 25, 2023, Plaintiff
Benyamin Cabir (“Plaintiff”) commenced this action against multiple defendants,
including Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“Defendant”), alleging negligent repair and
causes of action under the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
On June 15, 2023,
Defendant extended a repurchase offer to Plaintiff through Plaintiff’s counsel.
Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to this offer. (Hooper Decl. ¶5, Exh. C.)
 
On September 19,
2023, Plaintiff accepted a Section 998 settlement offer made by Defendant in
the amount of $50,500.00. In addition to this amount, Defendants agreed in the
offer that Plaintiff will surrender the subject vehicle and thereafter, should
Plaintiff’s counsel and Defendants not agree on an attorney’s fees amount, Plaintiff
will have the right to petition this Court for an award of the reasonable fees,
costs, and expenses reasonably earned and incurred during this litigation,
thereafter. (Saeedian Decl. ¶¶ 16-18, Hooper Decl. ¶9, Exh. D.). 
 
Plaintiff filed the
instant motion on October 17, 2023, seeking $17,065.50 in attorney’s fees and
costs in the amount of $1,131.53. Defendant opposes this motion and submits
evidentiary objections to Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration. Plaintiff replied
on December 27, 2023. 
            
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
Plaintiff seeks attorney’s
fees for 36.4 hours of work by attorneys and legal staff with hourly billing
rates of $695, $525, and $250, amounting to a total of $17,065.50 in attorney’s
fees (Saeedian Decl. ¶ 20, see Exh. A). Plaintiff also seeks an award for costs
totaling $1,131.53 (Saeedian Decl. Exh. B.) Plaintiff argues that he is
entitled to an award of attorney’s fees and costs as the prevailing party in
the suit, and that the requested fees were reasonably incurred.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            Defendant does not dispute that
Plaintiff is the prevailing party, but requests the following adjustments:
 

No recovery for clerical tasks, for work not
     actually performed or not reasonable;
Reduction of Mr. Saeedian’s rate from $695 to
     $400/hour or less;
Reduction of Plaintiff’s counsel’s billing
     entries pursuant to Exhibit A to the Hooper Declaration;
Cost should not be awarded without affording Defendant
     the opportunity to review a complete memorandum of costs.

 
Based on the above,
Defendant requests that the Court reduce Plaintiff’s requested award
to no more than
$7,690.00 and costs to be determined upon a completed memorandum of costs.
(Opposition, 10.)
 
REPLY
 
            In reply, Plaintiff’s counsel
opposes Defendant’s characterization of some billing entries as clerical or
duplicative, and therefore unrecoverable. Plaintiff maintains that time related
to client intake is recoverable. Lastly, Plaintiff modifies the recovery it seeks
for fees incurred as a result of this motion from an anticipated 3 hours to 3.7
actual hours spent, plus future time to attend the hearing, the exact length
to  be provided by Plaintiff’s counsel.
(Reply, 6:8-21.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard 
            Parties to litigation must generally
bear their own attorney’s fees, unless they otherwise agree. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1021.) However, the Song-Beverly Act provides for the award of attorneys’ fees
to prevailing plaintiffs as follows: 
 
If the buyer
prevails in an action under this section, the buyer shall be allowed by the
court to recover as part of the judgment a sum equal to the aggregate amount of
costs and expenses, including attorney's fees based on actual time expended,
determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred by the buyer in
connection with the commencement and prosecution of such action. 
 
(Civ. Code § 1794,
subd. (d).) 
 
            “It is well established that the
determination of what constitutes reasonable attorney fees is committed to the
discretion of the trial court, whose decision cannot be reversed in the absence
of an abuse of discretion.”  (Melnyk
v. Robledo (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623.) 
In exercising its discretion, the court should consider a number of
factors, including the nature of the litigation, its difficulty, the amount
involved, the skill required in handling the matter, the attention given, the
success or failure, and the resulting judgment. 
(See id.)  
 
            In determining the proper amount of
fees to award, courts use the lodestar method. 
The lodestar figure is calculated by multiplying the total number of
reasonable hours expended by the reasonable hourly rate.  “Fundamental to its determination . . . [is]
a careful compilation of the time spent and reasonable hourly compensation of
each attorney . . . in the presentation of the case.”  (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d
25, 48 (Serrano III).)  A reasonable
hourly rate must reflect the skill and experience of the attorney.  (Id. at p. 49.)  “Prevailing parties are compensated for hours
reasonably spent on fee-related issues. 
A fee request that appears unreasonably inflated is a special
circumstance permitting the trial court to reduce the award or deny one
altogether.”  (Serrano v. Unruh
(1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635 (Serrano IV).) 
The Court in Serrano IV also stated that fees associated with preparing
the motion to recover attorneys’ fees are recoverable.  (See id. at p. 624.)
            
            If a court determines that some
hours billed are not reasonable, it may exclude them using one of two methods:
the court may either conduct an “hour-by-hour analysis” of the fee request and
exclude those hours for which it would be unreasonable to compensate the
prevailing party, or make an “across the board percentage cut” (Gonzalez v.
City of Maywood (9th Cir. 2013) 729 F.3d 1196, 1203.)
 
II.                    Discussion

 
Hourly Rates
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
attorneys and their staff overcharged for fees in various ways, first of all by
excessive hourly rates, which range from $250 to $695 per hour. (Opposition,
9:11-10:7.) There is no cause to reduce the hourly rates sought in this case.
The range of rates charged in this matter by Plaintiff’s counsel is reasonable
for attorneys of similar experience, in the same area, dealing with the same
subject matter. (See Goglin v. BMW of North America, LLC (2016) 4
Cal.App.5th 462, 473–74 [approving $625 per hour fee on lemon law action].)
This conclusion is corroborated by evidence that the rates charged by the
attorneys in this case are below the contingency rates reflected in the Laffey
Matrix. The Laffey Matrix is a summary of rates charged by contingency
attorneys, which has been cited as a reasonable source of attorney lodestar
fees in multiple cases. (Saeedian Decl., ¶12.) 
            
            Thus, Plaintiff has provided support
for the hourly rates charged here.
 
Billable Hours
 
Defendant argues
that the number of hours is excessive. The Court agrees: 37 hours is excessive
when considering that this litigation commenced on April 25, 2023 and the Section
998 offer was accepted on September 19, 2023. Further, this case was not
unusually complex, and no motions were filed during the pendency of the
case.  
“When a ‘voluminous
fee application’ is made, the court may, as it did here, ‘make across-the-board
percentage cuts either in the number of hours claimed or in the final lodestar
figure.’ These percentage cuts to large fee requests are, however, ‘subject to
heightened scrutiny and the use of percentages, in any case, neither discharges
the district court from its responsibility to set forth a ‘concise but clear’
explanation of its reasons for choosing a given percentage reduction nor from
its duty to independently review the applicant's fee request.’” (Kerkeles v.
City of San Jose (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 88, 102, quoting Gates v.
Deukmejian (9th Cir. 1992) 987 F.2d 1392, 1399.)¿¿ 
 
The Court adopts
that approach here and applies a one-third across-the-board cut to the number
of hours claimed. The reason for this is three-fold: (1) the number of hours
spent before the settlement appears to be excessive considering that no motions
were filed in this matter, this case settled within six months of being filed,
and this case did not involve any particularly complex issues; (2) the vast
majority of Plaintiff’s counsel’s claimed hours spent after the settlement were
excessive, particularly when considering that the Motion and Reply are mostly
routine filings; and (3) Defendant provided specific objections to each billing
entry. (See Hooper Decl., Exh. A.).
Consequently, the
Court awards monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant for
25 billable hours at the requested hourly rates, which constitutes $11,720.81
in attorney’s fees.
 
Costs
 
Defendant finally
objects to Plaintiff’s request for an award of costs on the grounds that
Plaintiff only provided a summary of their memorandum of costs. (Opposition,
10:8-12.) The summary indicates $672.89 in “fees for electronic filing or
service” and $266.99 in “other” fees. (Seedian Decl., Exh. B.) Due to the broad
nature of these categories, the Court orders Plaintiff to produce a detailed
memorandum of costs.
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Michael Saeedian:
  

Sustained:  n/a
Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11

                        
III.       Conclusion

            
            Motion is GRANTED and judgment is entered for
Plaintiff and against Defendant for $11,720.81, plus costs according to a
detailed memorandum to be produced by Plaintiff.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.