 Case Number:  23SMCV05748    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant Regents of the University of California’s Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff, Michael Edwards to Respond Without Objection to Defendant, Regents of the University of California’s Special Interrogatories, within 10 Days is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff Michael L. Edwards shall serve code-compliant responses to Defendant Regents of the University of California’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Defendant Regents of the University of California’s Motion to Deem Admitted the Responses of Plaintiff, Michael Edwards to Defendant’s Requests for Admission, Set One is GRANTED. The matters identified in Defendant Regents of the University of California’s Request for Admissions, Set One, are deemed admitted against Plaintiff Michael L. Edwards as of the date of entry of this order.Defendant Regents of the University of California’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,250, payable by Plaintiff Michael L. Edwards to Defendant Regents of the University of California and defense counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Defendant Regents of the University of California to give notice. REASONINGIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)Further, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), a “party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.” The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)Defendant Regents of the University of California (“Defendant”) served Plaintiff Michael L. Edwards (“Plaintiff”) with its Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Admissions, Set One, on May 23, 2024. (Mots., Tomlinson Decls. ¶ 4.) Responses were due on or before June 23, 2024, and defense counsel also communicated with individuals associated with Plaintiff in an attempt to obtain the responses. (Mots., Tomlinson Decls. ¶ 6.) To date, no responses have been received. (Mots., Tomlinson Decls. ¶ 7.)Accordingly, Defendant Regents of the University of California’s Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff, Michael Edwards to Respond Without Objection to Defendant, Regents of the University of California’s Special Interrogatories, within 10 Days is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff Michael L. Edwards shall serve code-compliant responses to Defendant Regents of the University of California’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, within thirty (30) days of entry of this order. Defendant Regents of the University of California’s Motion to Deem Admitted the Responses of Plaintiff, Michael Edwards to Defendant’s Requests for Admission, Set One is also GRANTED. The matters identified in Defendant Regents of the University of California’s Request for Admissions, Set One, are deemed admitted against Plaintiff Michael L. Edwards as of the date of entry of this order.If a motion to compel responses to interrogatories is filed, the Court may impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c).) If a motion to have requests for admission deemed admitted is filed, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)Defendant requests $1,000 in monetary sanctions for each motion. The Court finds that monetary sanctions are proper, but the Court reduces the amount to $1,250, representing two hours spent preparing each motion and one hour spent appearing at the hearing on the motions, totaling five hours at the rate of $250 per hour. Thus, Defendant Regents of the University of California’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,250, payable by Plaintiff Michael L. Edwards to Defendant Regents of the University of California and defense counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.