  Case Number:  20STCV43004    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s Counsel
Mario M De La Rosa.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
 Background
On November 10, 2020, Rafael H. Salgado and
William Salgado (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed their complaint against
Memo’s Scaffolding Norwalk, Inc., and Does 1 to 30 for Strict Liability and
Negligence / Negligence Per Se causes of action arising from a fall on November
19, 2019.
On January 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an
amendment to complaint adding Gordon S. Gibson, Inc as Doe 1. On June 9, Memo’s
Scaffolding Norwalk, Inc. filed its cross-complaint against Gordon Gibson
Construction, Inc. for (1) Express Indemnity, (2) Breach of Contract – Failure
to Defend, (3) Equitable Indemnity, (4) Contribution/Comparative Fault, and (5)
Declaratory Relief.
On January 30, 2024, Mario M De La Rosa (“Counsel”) filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff. No opposition has been filed. 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other. (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration and Order to be Relieved as Counsel. On the
Declaration, Counsel states there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship. Counsel was unable to confirm Plaintiff’s address but took the
steps of sending the motion papers to client’s last known address, calling the
client’s last known telephone numbers, and contacting Ms. Luz Bonilla,
Plaintiff Rafael’s ex-sister-in-law.  
Counsel has
filed and served documents on opposing counsel as well. 
The Court finds
that all substantive and procedural requirements for the requested relief are
satisfied.
The Court notes,
however, that the FSC and trial dates have been continued.  The Court GRANTS the motion conditioned on
the submission of an amended proposed order that identifies the current FSC and
trial dates.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
The order is
effective upon the submission of an amended proposed order AND the filing with
the Court of a proof of service showing service of the signed order on the
client.
Moving counsel to
give notice.