 Case Number:  21STCV47187    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendant’s Motion to Reopen Discovery 
 
Tentative
The motion is granted as to Case No.
21STCV47187.
The motion is denied without prejudice as
to Case No. 21STCV47478.
BACKGROUND
Two related cases arise out of a motor vehicle accident on
January 3, 2020, on the 10 Freeway in Santa Monica.
In this case, Case No. 21STCV47187, Plaintiffs Margarita
Marquez, Maria Marquez, and Primitiva Estrada (collectively, the “Marquez
Plaintiffs”) filed their complaint on December 28, 2021, asserting one cause of
action for negligence against Jason Adam Overlander and Does 1 through 50 (the “Marquez
Action”).   
In the other case, Case No. 21STCV47478, Plaintiffs Jennie
Journo Weingarten and Lishai Weingarten (collectively, the “Weingarten
Plaintiffs”) filed their complaint on December 30, 2021, asserting causes of
action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against Jason Adam
Oberlander, Margarita Marquez, and Does 1 through 50 (the “Weingarten Action”).
Defendant Jason Adam Oberlander (erroneously named as Jason
Adam Overlander in this case) (“Defendant”) filed his answers to the two
complaints on July 27, 2022.
On November 2, 2022, the Marquez Action and the Weingarten
Action were related.  A motion to
consolidate the two actions is pending and set for hearing on April 16, 2024.
On June 27, 2023, the Weingarten Plaintiffs filed a request to
dismiss, without prejudice,  their claims
against Margarita Marquez.
On June 5 and 6, 2023, the Court continued the trial date in each
of the two cases to February 5, 2024, with the discovery deadlines reset based
on the new trial date.
On February 5, 2024, the Court continued the trial date in each
of the two cases to July 24, 2024.  The
Court did not extend discovery deadlines in either case, subject to the filing
of any motion to extend.
On February 9, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to reopen
discovery in the Marquez Action. 
Defendant seeks to extend the deadline for all discovery and motions but
states that the motion is primarily is for the purposes of (1) taking the
deposition of each of the Marquez Plaintiffs; (2) obtaining independent medical
examination of each of the Marquez Plaintiffs; (3) conducting third-party discovery
relating to the Marquez Plaintiffs “if necessary; (4) supplemental discovery by
all parties to all parties in both cases “if they desire”; (5) expert discovery
in both cases; and (6) motion practice relating to the discovery if necessary.
No party in this action filed an opposition.  The Weingarten Plaintiffs, who are not
parties in this action, filed a limited opposition on February 28, 2024.  Defendant filed his reply on March 5, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD 
 “On motion of any
party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have
a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to
reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.¿ This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or
deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant
to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿  
DISCUSSION
The two cases before the Court (the Marquez Action and the
Weingarten Action) are related but not consolidated.  They are separate, individual cases – at least
at this point – until and unless the Court makes an order consolidating them.  Accordingly, Defendant may not obtain relief
in the Weingarten Action through a motion filed only in the Marquez Action.
As it relates to the Marquez action, the motion is not
opposed.  After considering each of the
factors set forth in the applicable statute, the Court finds that the motion is
supported by a showing of good cause. 
The motion is granted.
As it relates to the Weingarten Action, no relief has been
properly sought, and no relief is granted. 
The request for relief in the Weingarten Action is denied without
prejudice. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion as
to the Marquez Action.
The Court ORDERS that all deadlines in the Marquez Action are
reset based on the new trial date.
The Court DENIES without prejudice Defendant’s motion as to
the Weingarten Action. 
Moving Party to provide notice.