 Case Number:  BC703112    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant
Gregory K. Walker’s Motion to Tax Costs GRANTED in part. Plaintiff Reymond
Ohanian is entitled to post-judgment interest from the date of entry of the
judgment to June 2, 2021.
 
I.                  
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s objections to the
declaration of Pamela Ward are SUSTAINED as to Objection No. 3, concerning a
Fedex tracking number, which is hearsay being offered for the truth of the
progress of the package in question. The other objections are OVERRULED.
Defendant’s objection to the Ohanian
declaration concerning the Fedex tracking number is likewise SUSTAINED for the
same reason.
II.               
MOTION
TO TAX COSTS
The
judgment creditor is entitled to the reasonable and necessary costs of
enforcing a judgment. Attorney's fees incurred in enforcing a judgment are not
included in costs collectible under this title unless otherwise provided by
law. Attorney's fees incurred in enforcing a judgment are included as costs
collectible under this title if the underlying judgment includes an award of
attorney's fees to the judgment creditor pursuant to subparagraph (A) of
paragraph (10) of subdivision (a) of Section 1033.5.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. §
685.040.) 
 
Judgement creditors are
generally entitled to postjudgment interest at a rate of 10 percent per annum.
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 685.010, 685.020.) 
 
Plaintiff Raymond K.
Ohanian (Plaintiff) has filed an application for renewal of judgment seeking
$31,818.45 in post-judgment interest dating from the entry of judgment on
September 14, 2023. Defendant Gregory W. Walker seeks to strike this item from
the memorandum of costs after judgment (attached to the application for
renewal), on the grounds that such interest is not a cost, if a cost is
untimely sought, and further because Defendant tendered the amount owed shortly
after judgment, but Plaintiff needlessly delayed receipt of the payment (and
increased the amount of interest) by prosecuting a fruitless appeal. (Motion at
pp. 3–6.)
 
Plaintiff in opposition
argues that post-judgment interest is not a cost which can be targeted by a
motion to tax, and further that Defendant did not actually tender the amount
owed, as the tender was conditioned on Plaintiff’s abandoning of the appeal. (Opposition
at pp. 11–14.)
 
Both parties are correct
that post-judgment interest is not a cost enumerated in Code of Ciivl Procedure
§ 1033.5, collectable under Code of Civil Procedure § 685.040. This motion is
properly construed as one to vacate the renewal of judgment on the grounds that
the amount entered is incorrect, as provided for in Code of Civil Procedure §
683.170, subd. (a).
 
“An appeal does not stop the
running of interest, and to obtain such result the obligor must make a
sufficient tender.” (Beeler v. American Trust Co. (1946) 28 Cal.2d 435, 438.)
A tender of performance “must
be free from any conditions which the creditor is not bound, on his part, to
perform.” (Civ. Code § 1494.)
 
Defendant claims to have tendered the amount owed on October 2, 2020, by
mailing checks in the amount owed to Plaintiff. (Ward Decl. ¶¶ 5–6.) Plaintiff
denies receiving the checks. (Ohanian Decl. ¶ 4.) Other checks, however, were
sent again on June 2, 2021. (Ward Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
On August 28, 2021, Defendant’s counsel emailed Plaintiff stating that
Plaintiff could cash the checks upon dismissing the appeal. (Ward Decl. ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff returned the checks, and his appeal was reversed. (Ward Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
The case of Montano v. City of South Gate (1970) 13 Cal.App.3d
446, is instructive. There, after a verdict was entered against a defendant,
the defendant tendered the amount of the judgment, but the plaintiff declined
the payment in order to bring a motion for new trial to obtain enhanced
damages. (Id. at p. 448.) When the motion was denied, the plaintiff
sought entry of an order seeking post-judgment interest on the amounts owed,
which the trial court denied. (Id. at p. 448.) The appellate court
affirmed the decision, reasoning that the tender had stopped the accrual of
interest, notwithstanding that accepting the tender would prevent the
plaintiffs from seeking a new trial. (Id. at p. 449.) The court quoted
language from the case Ferrea v. Tubbs (1899) 125 Cal.687, 692:
 
By the affirmance of the judgment in this
court it was declared that plaintiff should not have appealed the case. It was
further declared that defendants' tender in effect was sufficient in amount to
cover all plaintiff's just claims, and therefore should have been accepted when
made. Plaintiff could refuse to accept the tender, and prosecute his appeal,
but he thereby assumed the risk of losing the use of this money pending the
appeal in case of an affirmance of the judgment.
 
(Montano, supra, 13 Cal.App.3d at p. 449, quoting Ferrea,
supra, 125 Cal. at p. 692.)
 
The Montano court reasoned that although the defendant’s “tender
was not unconditional, it contained no improper conditions.” (Id. at p.
449.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff may only obtain post-judgment interest up until the
tendering of the judgment amount on June 2, 2021. This tender was made without
any conditions when Plaintiff received the checks, and the subsequent condition
imposed in August 2021 — that Plaintiff abandon his appeal — was not improper,
as Plaintiff could only hope to collect upon the amount for which he now claims
interest if his appeal was accepted. But that appeal, like the motion for new
trial in Montano and the appeal in Ferrea, was rejected.
Plaintiff “assumed the risk of losing the use of this money pending the
appeal.” (Ferrea, supra, 125 Cal. at p. 692.) 
 
The motion to tax costs is therefore GRANTED in part. Plaintiff is
entitled to post-judgment interest from the date of entry of the judgment to
June 2, 2021, the date tender was made.
 