 Case Number:  23STCV12802    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant
Oakwood Construction and Restoration Services, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint
is SUSTAINED as to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action, with leave to
amend. The motion to strike is DENIED as moot.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Defendant Oakwood Construction and Restoration Services,
Inc. (Oakwood) demurrers to the Complaint of Plaintiff Tom Provost (Plaintiff),
particularly the fourth and sixth causes of action for intentional interference
with contract and civil conspiracy, respectively, because Oakwood cannot be
held liable in tort or contract for acts committed in its official capacity as
an agent for Defendant Allstate Insurance Company (Allstate). (Demurrer at pp.
7–9.) Oakwood also argues that Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for violation
of California’s Unfair Competition Law (UCL) is substantively ill-pleaded.
(Demurrer at pp. 10–14.) 
 
Nonparties to an insurance
contract cannot be liable for either breach of that contract or for breach of
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. (See Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins.
Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566, 576.) “California courts have refused to extend
liability for bad faith, the predominant insurer tort, to agents and
employees of the insurer.” (Sanchez v. Lindsey Morden Claims Services, Inc.
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 249, 254–255.) By the same token, only a “stranger” to a
contract may be liable for intentionally interfering with that contract, and “a
defendant who is not a party to the contract or an agent of a party to the
contract is not immune from liability for intentional interference with
contract by virtue of having an economic or social interest in the contract.” (Caliber
Paving Company, Inc. v. Rexford Industrial Realty and Management, Inc.
(2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 175, 187.) 
Oakwood argues that, both for the intentional interference
claim and the civil conspiracy claim (which rests upon a conspiracy to
interfere with the insurance policy at issue), Oakwood is alleged to be an
agent for Allstate, a party to the contract. (Demurrer at p. 8.) This argument
is based on a number of allegations in the Complaint:
·        
“Defendant Oakwood
generated and drafted repair estimates for Defendant Allstate.” (Complaint ¶
6);
·        
A generic allegation
that all defendants “were the agents, servants, and employees of the other
Defendant, and each of them” (Complaint ¶ 8);
·        
Allstate’s repair
estimates were the products, not of genuine analysis, but “rather Oakwood
plugging numbers into software” (Complaint ¶ 32);
·        
Oakwood is alleged to
have known of the insurance policy “by virtue of Allstate’s retention of
Oakwood and Smith to generate and draft repair estimates for the claim, and for
submission to the appraisal process” (Complaint ¶ 57);
·        
Oakwood prepares
fraudulent repair estimates “to maintain a financial relationship with Allstate
whereby they were either paid for such lowball offers directly by Allstate or
retained a relationship with Allstate whereby they received work and
supplemental payments from Allstate and these supplemental payments would not
be received by other contractors as a direct result of Oakwood and Smith’s
lowball estimates.” (Complaint ¶ 59.)
Plaintiff in opposition argues that there is no direct
allegation in the Complaint that Oakwood was Allstate’s agent, but only an
allegation that it was “an independent contractor providing a service of
Allstate’s behalf.” (Opposition at pp. 2–3.)
Even Plaintiff’s framing of the facts is sufficient to
establish the absence of any liability against Oakwood, since the agent’s
immunity rule applies to independent contractors providing services on
Allstate’s behalf. The rule indeed precludes “claims against the principal's
subordinate employees and against agents retained by the principal to act as
independent contractors . . . for conspiring to violate a duty peculiar to the
principal.” (Doctors' Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 39, 48.)
The demurrer to these claims is therefore proper.
This leaves Plaintiff’s fifth
cause of action for violation of the UCL, which is not subject to the agent’s
immunity rule because it is not founded upon a contract with Allstate. Business
& Professions Code § 17200 permits claims for “unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising.” 
 
The “unlawful” prong of the UCL “‘borrows’ violations of
other laws and treats them as unlawful practices' that the [UCL] makes independently actionable.” (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1361.) Here, although
Plaintiff alleges a violation of Penal Code § 550, subd. (b), which prohibits
the presenting or preparing of false statements for insurance claims, it has
been held that “insurance companies and insurance company agents, affiliates,
and exchanges—were not subject to criminal liability under Penal Code section
550.” (People ex rel. Alzayat v. Hebb (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 801, 814.) 
Plaintiff also cannot prevail on a claim for unfair
practices under the UCL, which requires allegations that the wrongdoing alleged
is “tethered to any underlying constitutional, statutory or regulatory
provision, or that it threatens an incipient violation of an antitrust law, or
violates the policy or spirit of an antitrust law.” (Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1366.) Plaintiff makes no attempt
to allege or argue that Oakwood’s conduct fit within this definition.
Finally, no claim for a UCL
violation based on fraud is alleged here, as a claim for fraudulent business
practices under the UCL requires a showing of “actual reliance” on the alleged
misrepresentation, and the Complaint does not allege that Plaintiff relied on
Oakwood’s representations. (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
217, 228.)
The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED as to the fourth,
fifth, and sixth causes of action, with leave to amend. The court need not
address Oakwood’s motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages, allegations
of fraud, and Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney fees, as the motion is rendered
moot by the sustained demurrer.
 