 Case Number:  24CHCV00588    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 8-19-24
Case #24CHCV00588 , Chinyere
Valerie Ibe vs. Bamboo Insurance Services, Inc., et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Bamboo IDE8 Insurance Services,
LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Chinyere Valerie Ibe
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action for Breach of the
Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
·        
2nd Cause of Action for Bad Faith
Denial of Insurance Claim
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Breach of the
Contractual Duty to Pay a Covered Insurance Claim
·        
4th Cause of Action for Intentional
Misrepresentation
·        
5th Cause of Action for Violation of
California Business & Professional Code
·        
6th Cause of Action for Unjust
Enrichment
·        
7th Cause of Action for Defamation
 
RULING: Defendant’s demurrer is sustained.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiff Chinyere Valerie Ibe (Plaintiff) filed her
First Amended Complaint (FAC), in pro per, on March 25, 2024. Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges seven causes of action for (1) Breach of the Duty of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; (2) Bad Faith Denial of Insurance Claim; (3) Breach of
the Contractual Duty to Pay a Covered Insurance Claim; (4) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (5) Violations of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200, et. seq.; (6)
Unjust Enrichment; and (7) Defamation.
 
The First through Third Causes of Action are only against
Defendant “Bamboo.” Both Bamboo Insurance Services, Inc., and Bamboo IDE8
Insurance Services, LLC, are listed as Defendants in Plaintiff’s FAC. It is not
entirely clear which Bamboo Plaintiff is referring to when Plaintiff just
references “Bamboo,” though the “Parties” section of Plaintiff’s FAC lists
Bamboo Insurance as “Bamboo I” and Bamboo IDE8 Insurance as “Bamboo II.” The
Fourth through Seventh Causes of Action are against all Defendants. Defendant Bamboo
IDE8 Insurance Company, LLC, (Bamboo IDE8) is the demurring Defendant in this
instance. Bamboo IDE8 demurs to all seven of the causes of action.
 
Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that the water heater in the
garage of her home burst. This caused the garage to flood, damaging the drywall
and items that were stored in the garage. Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that
Plaintiff’s insurer denied her claim for the water damage in the garage, and
she mentions a couple different entities throughout her complaint in connection
with her insurance, including “Bamboo” and “Hippo Analytics.” It is unclear
from Plaintiff’s FAC what their exact roles were. 
 
Bamboo IDE8 indicates in its demurrer that it is
Defendant Sutton’s claims administrator and Sutton is Plaintiff’s insurer, but
there is nothing specific in Plaintiff’s FAC that indicates what the
relationship is between Bamboo IDE8 and Sutton and what the relationship is
between Plaintiff and Bamboo IDE8. While just the name “Bamboo” is mentioned
throughout Plaintiff’s FAC, it is difficult to tell what Bamboo’s role was. 
 
Bamboo
IDE8 filed its demurrer on June 27, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on July
12, 2024. On July 15, 2024, Bamboo IDE8 filed its reply.
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition argues that she was not validly served with the demurrer because she
had not consented to service of the demurrer via email, which is how she
claimed she received the demurrer. However, the proof of service filed with
Defendant’s demurrer indicates that Plaintiff was served via U.S. Mail, so it
is unknown why she did not receive the demurrer in the mail. Plaintiff also
argues that Defendant did not meet and confer, but Defendant’s demurrer
indicates that it attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff, but Plaintiff did
not respond to attempts to meet and confer with her. Plaintiff also argues that
Defendant’s demurrer was filed a day late, but Defendant explains in its reply
that its demurrer was filed on time because Plaintiff failed to take into
account the Memorial Day holiday when she calculated Defendant’s time for
filing. 
 
The
Court will address the merits of the demurrer.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice: Defendant requests that the Court take judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s FAC. The Court takes judicial notice of this document.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            First
Cause of Action for Breach of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Defendant Bamboo IDE8 demurs to the First Cause of Action on
the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against Bamboo.
 
“The prerequisite for any action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing is the existence of a contractual
relationship between the parties, since the covenant is an implied term in the
contract.” (Smith v. City and County of San Francisco (1990) 225
Cal.App.3d 38, 49.) “[L]iability for ‘bad faith’ has been strictly tied to the
implied-in-law covenant of good faith and fair dealing arising out of an
underlying contractual relationship. Where no such relationship exists, no
recovery for ‘bad faith’ may be had.” (Austero v. National Cas. Co.
(1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 511, 516-517 [insurer’s “employee acting within the scope
of his employment … is not a party to the insurance contract and, thus, cannot
be held liable for tortious breach of an implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing.”]; Henry v. Associated Indemnity Corp. (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 1405, 1416-1417 [entity contracting with insurer to adjust its
claims was “akin to an agency” relationship, and had no “direct contractual
relationship” with insured “from which either a breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing or a breach of contract action could properly spring.”].)
 
Bamboo IDE8 argues in its demurrer that it has no
contractual relationship with Plaintiff because it is simply Sutton’s
third-party claims administrator, and Sutton is Plaintiff’s insurer and the one
with the contractual relationship with Plaintiff. Because Bamboo has no
contractual relationship with Plaintiff, Bamboo argues that it cannot be held
liable for a breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
Further Bamboo argues that it was acting as Sutton’s agent,
and “California courts have refused to extend liability for bad faith, the
predominant insurer tort, to agents and employees of the insurer.” (Sanchez
v. Lindsey Morden Claims Services, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 249,
254-255.; see also, Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566, 576
[non-insurer agents of the insurer “were not parties to the agreements for
insurance; therefore, they are not, as such, subject to an implied duty of good
faith and fair dealing.”]; Egan v. Mutual of Omaha Ins. Co. (1979) 24
Cal.3d 809, 824 [insurer’s claims manager and field investigator acted as the
insurer’s agents, and “[a]s such, they are not parties to the insurance
contract and not subject to the implied covenant.”]; Iversen v. Superior
Court (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 168, 171 [“Since Iversen is an agent of the
insurer and not a party to the contract of insurance, he is not bound by the
implied covenant and owes no duty to the insured not to breach it.”].)
 
Plaintiff’s opposition only argues that she does have a
contract with Bamboo IDE8, but there is nothing in her FAC to indicate this.
Additionally, Bamboo IDE8 argues in its reply that the “Bamboo Insurance
Services, Inc.” in Plaintiff’s FAC is an unrelated entity and should be
dismissed from the complaint.
 
While Bamboo IDE8 argues that Sutton is Plaintiff’s insurer
and not Bamboo IDE8, there are no allegations in Plaintiff’s FAC to support
this claim, and Plaintiff’s FAC states that she “purchased a homeowners’
insurance policy from Bamboo through their agent, Hippo Analytics, Inc.” (It is
unclear which Bamboo Defendant is being referenced here.) However, attached with
Ex. A to the Strycula Declaration filed with Bamboo’s demurrer is a policy
declarations form that indicates that Sutton is Plaintiff’s insurer, not Bamboo
IDE8. For purposes of demurrer, though, this document is not sufficiently
authenticated to base the demurrer on it alone.
 
The main issue with Plaintiff’s FAC is that it does not
distinguish between Bamboo Insurance Services and Bamboo IDE8. While
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action states that it is against “Bamboo,” it is
unclear which Bamboo Defendant Plaintiff is referring to.
 
Because it is unclear which Bamboo Defendant this cause of
action is against, Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action is sustained
with leave to amend.
 
            Second
Cause of Action for Bad Faith Denial of Insurance Claim
Defendant Bamboo IDE8 demurs to the Second Cause of Action
on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against Bamboo.
 
Similar to the First Cause of Action, it is unclear which
Bamboo Defendant is the subject of this cause of action. Additionally, this
cause of action appears to be duplicative of Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action
because they both involve the breach of the duty of good faith.
 
Accordingly, Bamboo IDE8’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second
Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Third Cause
of Action for Breach of the Contractual Duty to Pay a Covered Insurance Claim
Defendant Bamboo IDE8 demurs to the Third Cause of action on
the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against Bamboo.
 
“An insurance policy is, fundamentally, a contract between
the insurer and the insured.” (Stein v. International Ins. Co. (1990)
217 Cal.App.3d 609, 613.) A plaintiff “cannot assert a claim for breach of
contract against one who is not a party to the contract.” (Tri-Continent
Internat. Corp. v. Paris Savings & Loan Assn. (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
1354, 1359.)
 
Like the previous causes of action, it is unclear which
Bamboo Defendant Plaintiff is alleging breached the contractual duty. 
 
Because this cause of action is unclear, Bamboo IDE8’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for
Intentional Misrepresentation
Defendant Bamboo IDE8 demurs to Plaintiff’s cause of action
for intentional misrepresentation on the basis that it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Bamboo.
 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Aton Center,
Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.)
Notably, “in California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading
facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Id.)
 
There are no specific allegations against Bamboo IDE8 under
this cause of action. Instead, Plaintiff just alleges that “Defendants” made misrepresentations
regarding what would be covered by Plaintiff’s insurance policy. (FAC, ¶ 78.) There
are no allegations under this cause of action for any misrepresentations made
specifically by Bamboo IDE8.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action
is sustained with leave to amend.
 
            Fifth
Cause of Action for Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200 et. seq.
Bamboo IDE8 demurs to this cause of action on the basis that
it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Bamboo.
 
Cal. Business & Professions Code § 17200 et seq. includes
the California Unfair Competition Law and provides consumers with remedies when
businesses engage in unfair or fraudulent practices. The Unfair Competition Law
(UCL) is an equitable action by means of which a plaintiff may recover money or
property obtained from the plaintiff or persons represented by the plaintiff
through unfair or unlawful business practices. (Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1338.) The UCL does not permit recovery of
“damages” but is limited to “injunctive relief and restitution.” (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1995) 20
Cal.4th 163, 179.) Thus, through the UCL, a plaintiff may seek restitution in
money or property taken by means of unfair competition or may seek injunctive
relief. (Troyk, 171 Cal.App.4th at 1339.)
 
Plaintiff’s FAC does not contain any allegations indicating
that Bamboo IDE8 specifically violated the Business and Professions Code. Furthermore,
Plaintiff is not seeking restitution under this cause of action but is instead
seeking damages. Damages are not a permitted form of relief under the UCL.
 
For these reasons, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fifth
Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
            Sixth
Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment
Bamboo demurs to this case of action on the basis that Plaintiff
has not stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Bamboo
and because Plaintiff cannot assert a cause of action for unjust enrichment.
 
The theory of unjust enrichment requires one who acquires a
benefit at the expense of another to either return the thing or its equivalent
to the aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly enriched. (Lyles v.
Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 255 Cal.App. 4th 759.)
 
There is also no cause of action for unjust enrichment in
California. (Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc. (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 779, 785, 793 (“unjust enrichment is not a valid cause of action
under California law”).)
 
Unjust enrichment is not a valid cause of action.
Furthermore, Plaintiff’s FAC contains no allegations indicating how Bamboo IDE8
was unjustly enriched.
 
Because unjust enrichment is not a valid cause of action,
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
            Seventh
Cause of Action for Defamation
Bamboo IDE8 demurs to this cause of action on the basis that
it does not allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for
defamation.
 
Defamation is an intentional tort that requires proof that
the defendant intended to publish the defamatory statement. (Stellar v.
State Farm General Ins. Co. (2007) 157 Cal.App 4th 1498.) California law
requires that any words constituting an alleged defamation must be specifically
identified, if not pleaded verbatim, in the complaint. (ZL Technologies,
Inc. v Does 1 – 17 (2017) 13 Cal.App. 5th 603.)
 
The only allegation that Plaintiff has against “Bamboo”
under this cause of action is that “Bamboo made one or more of the statements
to a person other than Ms. Ibe.” (FAC, ¶ 104.) There is nothing in Plaintiff’s
FAC to indicate how Bamboo IDE8 defamed Plaintiff, as the letter that Plaintiff
alleges was defamatory would have been issued by Plaintiff’s insurance
provider, nor does Plaintiff specifically identify the alleged defamation. Plaintiff
also does not attach the alleged defamatory letter to her FAC, despite identifying
the denial letters as Exhibits A, B, and C.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Seventh Cause of Action
is sustained with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First, Second, Third, Fourth,
Fifth, and Seventh Causes of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.