 Case Number:  24CHCV00106    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 8-19-24
Case # 24CHCV00106, Nathan Andualem vs. Tutor Time, et
al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Tutor Time Learning Centers, LLC,
Katherine Stevens, and Terry Guevara
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Nathan Andualem, a minor by
and through his Guardian Ad Litem Andualem Asaye Shume
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Strike
·        
Claim for Punitive Damages and related
allegations [FAC, ¶¶
11, 24, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, and 43; Page 11 at Line 5; and
Paragraph 6 of the prayer]
 
RULING: Motion to strike is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiff Nathan Andualem, a minor by and through his
Guardian Ad Litem, (Plaintiff) filed this case on January 10, 2024. Plaintiff
has alleged that he suffered injuries while in the care of Defendants.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Guevara, an employee of Defendant Tutor Time,
pulled Plaintiff’s arm and injured him while at the premises. Plaintiff alleges
that Tutor Time, Katherine Stevens, and Guevara were responsible for watching
over Plaintiff at the time of the incident. Additionally, Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants attempted to cover up the incident and denied knowledge of how
Plaintiff was injured, made up lies as to how Plaintiff was injured, withheld
video evidence showing how Plaintiff injured, failed to immediately notify
Plaintiff’s parents about how Plaintiff was injured, and failed to immediately
give Plaintiff medical attention.
 
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint alleges three causes
of action for (1) Premises Liability; (2) Negligent Retention, Hiring, and
Supervision; and (3) Negligence. 
 
After the Court granted Defendants’ previous motion to
strike on April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint (FAC) on
April 25, 2024. Defendants filed their current motion to strike on June 7, 2024.
Plaintiff opposes Defendants’ motion. Defendants have moved to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice: Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s application for
appointment of guardian ad litem. The Court takes judicial notice of this
document.
 
ANALYSIS
A court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.”
 
            Punitive
Damages
Punitive damages are governed by Civ. Code § 3294: “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that Defendants acted with
malice, fraud, or oppression (See FAC, ¶¶ 11, 17, 18, etc.). Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants acted with malice, fraud, and oppression by inuring Plaintiff
and failing to disclose to Plaintiff’s parents the circumstances of Plaintiff’s
injuries. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants acted in this manner by withholding
the video footage of the incident and engaging in an alleged cover up of the
incident.
 
Defendants argue in their motion to strike that Plaintiff’s
allegations are not sufficient to maintain a claim for punitive damages.
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s allegations are conclusory rather than
specific.
 
In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages,
a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in Civ. Code § 3294. (Coll.
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) “Malice is
defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id.
at 725.) Oppression is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).)
 
Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 965, 1004 explained that “punitive damages sometimes may be assessed in
unintentional tort actions.” Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 894-895 noted that “something more than the mere commission of a tort is
always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation or outrage, such as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil motive
on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of
the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.”
Indeed, “punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to
levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent
citizens should not have to tolerate.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210 (internal quotation omitted).)
 
The “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as
intentional, willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of
oppression, fraud or malice…within the meaning of section 3294.” (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)
 
Plaintiff’s FAC appears to allege that both the pulling of
Plaintiff’s arm and the alleged cover up after the incident were the events for
which punitive damages are due. Indeed, as the Court mentioned in its order for
Defendants’ previous motion to strike, Plaintiff seems to be alleging that
Defendants engaged in malice, oppression, and fraud in both instances. (See FAC,
§ 24.) The cover up allegations would go beyond the scope of the causes of
action alleged in the FAC, which were for negligence, negligent hiring and
retention, and premises liability tied to the injuries Plaintiff sustained when
Defendant Guevara allegedly pulled Plaintiff’s arm. Though Plaintiff has
alleged that Defendants acted with malice, oppression, or fraud when causing
Plaintiff injuries, Plaintiff provides no specific factual allegations for why
he is alleging this.
 
The pulling of Plaintiff’s arm alone is not sufficient basis
for punitive damages. Plaintiff has not alleged any specific facts
demonstrating malice, oppression, or fraud; in fact, Plaintiff repeats the
conclusory allegations that Defendant Guevara “inappropriately and violently”
pulled Plaintiff’s arm. (See FAC, ¶¶ 11, 18, 24, 33, 34, 38.) These allegations
do not explain how Defendant Guevara’s actions demonstrated malice, oppression,
or fraud or constituted anything beyond the normal negligence which Plaintiff
has alleged.
 
For Plaintiff to maintain his claim for punitive damages,
Plaintiff must provide specific allegations for how Defendants’ actions go
beyond normal negligence such that Plaintiff would be able to recover punitive
damages.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ motion to strike the requests for punitive
damages and related allegations is granted with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend his complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.Dept. F43Date: 8-19-24Case #24CHCV00106 , Nathan
Andualem vs. Tutor Time, et al.Trial Date: N/A MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Nathan Andualem, a minor by and
through his Guardian Ad Litem, Andualem Asaye ShumeRESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Tutor Time Learning Centers,
LLC, Katherine Stevens, and Terry Guevara RELIEF REQUESTEDPlaintiff is requesting that the trial in this matter be
set within 120 days of the order granting the motion. RULING: The motion is moot. SUMMARY OF ACTION This personal injury action was filed by Plaintiff Nathan
Andualem through his Guardian Ad Litem (Plaintiff) on January 10, 2024. On June
3, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for trial preference pursuant to CCP § 36
because Plaintiff is a minor under the age of 14. On July 2, 2024, Defendants filed
an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. On July 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply
indicating that the parties had met and conferred and agreed to a mediation
date of December 2, 2024, and a trial date of February 18, 2025.  Based on the parties’ agreement for mediation and trial
dates, it appears that Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference is now moot. 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.