 Case Number:  22STCV06232    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  57 Plaintiff
Luis Fernandez sued his former employers Defendants Zebra Technologies
Corporation (“Zebra”) and Stephen Mannion for discrimination on the basis of age
in violation of California’s Fair Employment and Housing Act.   Fernandez was terminated when he was
sixty-five from his position as Manger of Manufacturing at Zebra.  After terminating Fernandez, Zebra hired Michael
Sibigtroth, who was 60 years old to replace Fernandez.   Fernandez contends that Zebra hired Sibgtroth,
whom Fernandez says was not qualified for the position, over more than a dozen younger
applicants for the position, whom Fernandez says were qualified, to cover up
Zebra’s discrimination against Fernandez on the basis of his age.
 
Pending
before the Court is Fernandez’s motion for an order compelling Zebra to provide
further responses to Fernandez’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Three,
Nos. 43-59 (“the Requests”).  The
Requests seek a]ny and all DOCUMENTS which evidence, refer, RELATE TO and/or
otherwise pertain to” each of the sixteen individuals’ “submission for the
Manager Manufacturing role for [Zebra], including, but not limited to, resumes,
curriculum vitae, job applications and/or the complete talent acquisition file.”
(Separate Statement; Berry Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. A.) The names of these applicants
were obtained through prior discovery. (Id., ¶ 5.)  (The Court notes that Request Nos. 44 and 58
are duplicates as both seek the application documents submitted by Daniel
Darby.)   Fernandez also requests in the
motion an order awarding monetary sanctions against Zebra and its counsel, Yesenia
Gallegos of McDermott, Will & Emery, LLP, jointly and severally, in the
amount of $3,850.00 for misuse of the discovery process. 
 
The Court is
granting the motion to the extent it seeks an order compelling further responses
to the Requests. The Court is denying the motion to the extent it seeks an
order awarding sanctions against Zebra and its counsel.
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is
regarded as relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the
case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  A motion
to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of
documents may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2)
inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) 
If the moving party has shown good cause for the requests for
production, the burden is on the objecting party to justify the objections.  (Kirkland
v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.)
 
The Court finds
that Fernandez has demonstrated good cause for the Requests and that Zebra has
not carried its burden to justify its objections to the Requests.  In the Court’s view, the requests are
relevant to Fernandez’s contention that Zebra hired Sibigtroth to cover up its age
discrimination against Fernandez.  Correspondingly, the requests also are relevant
to Zebra’s affirmative defenses, which relate to its termination of Fernandez
for poor performance.  And the requests
are relevant to Fernandez’s request for an award of punitive damages against
Zebra for malicious, oppressive, and fraudulent conduct in terminating Fernandez.
  
 
Zebra’s
objections largely center on the notion that Fernandez’s theory as to why Zebra
hired Sibigtroth is far-fetched.  That
may be so.  But in ruling on discovery
motions, courts do not assess the strength or weaknesses of litigation theories.  That is for a jury, down the road.  Zebra’s objections on the ground that the Requests
invade the privacy of the more than a dozen non-party applicants to replace
Fernandez are insufficient to overcome Fernandez’s need for the information that
he is seeking.  Of note here, Fernandez
has stated that he is not seeking to depose those individuals, but rather, will
inquire about their applications during his forthcoming deposition of Zebra’s
person most knowledgeable. 
 
The Court is
denying Fernandez’s request for sanctions because Zebra’s position in this
discovery dispute was substantially justified. 
Put another way, Zebra’s arguments that Fernandez lacks good cause and
that privacy interests are implicated were well-taken.
 