 Case Number:  24STCV12647    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 



 
KUEI
  SHEN,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
EVER
  PROSPEROUS REALTY INC., et al.,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  24STCV12647
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  05/17/2024
Trial
  Date:  N/A



 
Hearing date:              November 20, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendant Nikolay N. Katanov
Responding
Party:       None
 
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
The Court considered the moving papers.
            The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on the Motion to Quash Service of Summons
filed by Defendant Nikolay N. Katanov to ___________ at ______ a.m. in
Department 45 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Defendant is ordered to properly serve Plaintiff with the moving papers at
least 16 court days before the next scheduled hearing and file proof of service
with the Court.  Failure to do so will
result in the Motion being placed off calendar or denied.

 
Background
            On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff Kuei Shen
(“Plaintiff”), in propria persona, filed an action against Defendants Ever
Prosperous Realty Inc., Paul Blair Hazan, Isaac Louz, Ibrahim Louz, Rachmon A.
Louz aka Louz Rachmon, Victor S. Hazan, Laura A. Hazan, Brian David Squibb aka
alter ego of Proventure Capital, Proventure Capital, LLC, Optimum Bank, Nikolay
N. Katanov aka alter ego of Bridge View, JP Morgan Chase Bank National
Association, Ed Castillo, Vin Cascio, and Does 1 through 20, for the following ten
different causes of action:
(1)   Financial elder abuse;
(2)   Fraud by intentional misrepresentation;
(3)   Fraud by false promise (promissory fraud);
(4)   Conversion;
(5)   Intentional infliction of emotional distress;
(6)   Violation of Rico Act;
(7)   Conspiracy to violate Rico Act;
(8)   Civil conspiracy;
(9)   Negligence;
(10)          
Negligence
respondeat superior (vicarious liability).
The Complaint alleges that around July 13, 2022,
Defendant Paul Hazan telephoned Plaintiff, an elderly man over the age of 65, and
represented that he was a Loan Broker specializing in assisting elderly
individuals obtain business lines of credit and money loans.  Defendant Hazan then added Defendants Isaac
Louz, Ibrahim Louz, and Victor Hazan to the call, who promised to assist
Plaintiff obtain a $100,000 loan. 
Defendants deceived Plaintiff into providing personal and financial
information, including his social security number and Business Tax I.D. Number.  Between July 2022 and June 2023, Defendants
continued to use undue influence and fraud to deceive Plaintiff into paying
fees and forwarding additional personal information, including to Defendants
Proventure Capital and Bridge View Advance. 
They also withdrew funds from Plaintiff’s accounts without his consent
on numerous occasions.  As a result of
Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff was harmed and is seeking monetary damages in
the amount of $75,001 and punitive damages in the amount of $10,000,000.
            On October 3, 2024, Defendant
Nikolay N. Katanov filed the instant Motion to Quash Service of Summons
(“Motion”).  No opposition was
filed.  On November 14, 2024, Defendant
filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to the Motion.
 
Legal
Standard
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to
plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow” may
move “to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the
court over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 418.10, subd. (a)(1)).  A defendant has
30 days after the service of the summons to file a responsive pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20, subd. (a)(3).)
“The Due Process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment constrains a
State’s authority to bind a nonresident defendant to a judgment of its courts.  [Citation.] [A] nonresident generally must
have ‘certain minimum contacts . . . such that the maintenance of the suit does
not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” ’ ”  (Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277,
283.)  Personal jurisdiction may be
either general or specific.  For general
jurisdiction, a defendant’s forum contacts must be “so ‘continuous and
systematic’ as to render [the defendant] essentially at home in the forum
State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman
(2014) 571 U.S. 117, 139.)  The paradigm
of general jurisdiction for a corporation is its state of incorporation or
principal place of business.  (Id.
at p. 137.)
Specific or case-linked jurisdiction “‘focuses on ‘the
relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.’’”  (Walden, supra, 571 U.S. at
283-284.)  In particular, “the
defendant’s suit-related conduct must create a substantial connection with the
forum State.”  (Id. at 284.)  There are three requirements for a court to
exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant:
First, the defendant must have purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits or purposefully directed activities at forum
residents.  Second, the controversy must
relate to or arise out of the defendant’s forum-related activities.  Third, the exercise of jurisdiction must
comport with traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.”
(David L.
v. Superior Court (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 359, 366.)  The plaintiff has the initial burden to
establish the first two requirements.  Only
after doing so does the burden shift to the defendant to show that exercising
jurisdiction would be unreas onable.  (Id.
at 367.) The plaintiff must do more than merely allege jurisdictional facts.
“‘It must present evidence sufficient to justify a finding that California may
properly exercise jurisdiction over the defendant.’”  (Zehia v. Superior Court (2020) 45
Cal.App.5th 543, 552.)
“‘[P]urposeful availment occurs where a nonresident defendant
‘‘purposefully direct[s]’ ‘[its] activities at residents of the forum”
[citation], “‘purposefully derive[s] benefit’ from” its activities in the forum
[citation], “create[s] a ‘substantial connection’ with the forum” [citation],
“‘deliberately’ has engaged in significant activities within” the forum
[citation], or “has created ‘continuing obligations’ between [itself] and
residents of the forum” [citation]. By limiting the scope of a forum’s jurisdiction
in this manner, the “‘purposeful availment’ requirement ensures that a
defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a result of ‘random,’
‘fortuitous,’ or ‘attenuated’ contacts … .” [Citation.]  Instead, the defendant will be subject to
personal jurisdiction only if “‘it has clear notice that it is subject to suit
there, and can act to alleviate the risk of burdensome litigation by procuring
insurance, passing the expected costs on to customers, or, if the risks are too
great, severing its connection with the state.’” [Citations.]’”  (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1168.)
In Walden, the U.S. Supreme Court emphasized two important
principles underlying the jurisdictional inquiry: “First, the relationship must
arise out of contacts that the ‘defendant himself’ creates with the forum
State. [Citation.] Due process limits on the State’s adjudicative authority
principally protect the liberty of the nonresident defendant – not the
convenience of plaintiffs or third parties.”  (Walden, supra, 571 U.S. at
284.)  “Second, our ‘minimum contacts’
analysis looks to the defendant’s contacts with the forum State itself, not the
defendant’s contacts with persons who reside there.”  (Id. at 285.)  “[T]he plaintiff cannot be the only link
between the defendant and the forum. Rather, it is the defendant’s conduct that
must form the necessary connection with the forum State that is the basis for
its jurisdiction over him.”  (Id.)
 Therefore, “mere injury to a forum
resident is not a sufficient connection to the forum.”  (Id. at 290.)  “The proper question is not where the
plaintiff experienced a particular injury or effect but whether the defendant’s
conduct connects him to the forum in a meaningful way.”  (Id.)
 
Discussion
Defendant Nikolay N. Katanov (“Katanov”) specially appears to quash
service of summons on the basis that the Court lacks personal jurisdiction over
him.
Defendant Katanov declares that he currently resides in the State
of New York and has been residing there for over 30 years.  (Katanov Decl., ¶ 2.)  He has never resided, conducted any personal
or business activities, vacationed, or owned or leased any property in the State
of California.  (Id. at ¶¶
3-4.)  On August 3, 2024, he was
personally served with the instant lawsuit in his home in New York City.  (Id. at ¶ 5.)  The Complaint alleges that he is the alter
ego of a business called “Bridge View,” however, he is not familiar with this
company.  (Id. at ¶ 6.)  His son Jonathan is affiliated with a company
called Bridgeview Advance, Inc. and is the agent for service of process for
this company, which has used Defendant Katanov’s home address for service of
process.  (Ibid.)  Katanov does not own any shares in the
company, has never been employed by the company, or been an officer, director,
or agent of the company.  (Ibid.)  Katanov denies ever speaking to Plaintiff or engaging
in a conspiracy to defraud Plaintiff with the other Defendants.  (Id. at ¶¶ 7-9.)
Defendant has also submitted the declaration of Joshua Naz, who
declares that he is the CEO of Bridgeview Advance, Inc. and Jonathan Katanov is
his business partner.  (Naz Decl., ¶
2.)  Naz reviewed the Complaint and
states that he is not familiar with the company “Bridge View.”  (Id. at ¶ 3.)  Upon conducting an online search, he
discovered another company “Bridge View Advance, LLC.”  (Id. at ¶ 4.)  Naz states that when he first registered his
company in the State of New York, he designated Nikolay Katanov’s address home
address as the address for service of process because Jonathan Katanov resided
at the address.  (Id. at ¶
5.)  However, Nikolay Katanov has never
owned any shares in the company, has never been employed by the company, or
been an officer, director, or agent of the company.  (Ibid.)  Naz also states that he does not know any of
the other named Defendants and has never conspired with any of them to defraud
Plaintiff.  (Id. at ¶ 6.)  Moreover, Naz believes that Plaintiff
intended to sue and serve “Bridge View Advance, LLC” instead of “Bridgeview
Advance, Inc.”  (Id. at ¶ 7.)
Defense counsel states that he has attempted to meet and confer
with Plaintiff via telephone several times; however, Plaintiff has not
contacted him.  (Gilchrest Decl., ¶ 4.)
Defendant Katanov argues that the Court does not have general or
specific personal jurisdiction over him because he “does not have the
substantial, continuous, and systemic contacts with California” and has not “purposefully
directed any activities towards California.” 
(Motion, pp. 6-7.)
As a preliminary matter, the Court finds that Defendant Katanov
has not properly served Plaintiff with the moving papers.  The Proof of Service filed with the Motion
indicates that Plaintiff was served with the moving papers by electronic
service on October 3, 2024.  (Motion, pp.
10-11.)
Electronic
service is authorized with conditions, such as express consent or court order.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.6; Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.251(a).)  According to
Rules of Court, rule 2.251, documents may be served by electronic service by
express consent or, if electronic service is required by local rules or court
order, then self-represented parties are to be served by non-electronic methods,
unless they affirmatively consent to electronic service.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.251(b), 2.251(c)(3)(B)).
 A self-represented party may expressly
consent to be served by electronic service by:
(i)                
Serving a notice on all parties and filing
the notice with the court.
(ii)             
Manifesting affirmative consent through
electronic means with the court or the court’s electronic filing service
provider, and concurrently providing the party’s electronic address with that
consent for the purpose of receiving electronic service. The act of electronic
filing shall not be construed as express consent.
(Code Civ. Proc. §
1010.6, subd. (c).)  Here, there is no
evidence that self-represented Plaintiff has consented to electronic service
and no opposition has been filed.
For the reasons discussed herein, the
Court CONTINUES the hearing on the Motion to Quash Service of Summons
filed by Defendant Nikolay N. Katanov to ___________ at ______ a.m. in
Department 45 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Defendant is ordered to properly serve Plaintiff with the moving papers
at least 16 court days before the next scheduled hearing and file proof of
service with the Court.  Failure to do so
will result in the Motion being placed off calendar or denied.
            It is
so ordered.
 
Dated: November 20, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 