 Case Number:  23CHCV00614    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 1/17/25                                                        
TRIAL DATE: 6/16/25
Case #23CHCV00614
 
 
MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO FILE LATE MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Motion filed on 12/16/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Deborah Lopez Nacisvalencia 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Herlin Martinez Osorio
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
granting Defendant Deborah Lopez Nacisvalencia leave to file a late Motion to
Strike General Damages from the complaint as to Plaintiff Herlin Martinez
Osorio only.

 
RULING: The motion is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle collision that
occurred on 9/19/21.  On 3/2/23,
Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendant Deborah Lopez Nacisvalencia
(Defendant) for: (1) Motor Vehicle and (2) General Negligence.  On 4/3/23, Defendant answered the
complaint.  
 
On 12/16/24, Defendant filed and served the instant
motion seeking an order granting Defendant leave to file a late Motion to
Strike General Damages from the complaint as to Plaintiff Herlin Martinez
Osorio (Osorio) only.  Osorio has opposed
the motion and Defendant has filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant makes this motion pursuant to CCP 473(a)(1).  (See Notice of Motion, p.2:1).  However, CCP 473(a)(1) does not provide
authority for granting leave to file a late motion to strike.  Rather, CCP 473(a)(1) provides: 
 
“The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
  
The only other authority cited in the motion relates to
evidence at trial.  (See Motion,
p.3:25-p.4:19).  As such, Defendant has
failed to provide any authority for the relief requested.
 
Even if Defendant had provided authority to support
granting Defendant leave to file a late motion to strike, Defendant has failed
to provide a justifiable reason why Defendant did not seek to strike Osorio’s
claim for general damages within the time limit set forth in CCP 435(b)(1),
especially considering the evidence submitted with the opposition which
indicates that Osorio’s insurer declined coverage for the incident as early as
11/11/21, more than a year before this action was filed.  (See Ekmekchyan Decl. ¶3, Ex.1).
 
Moreover, it does not appear that a motion to strike would
have been the proper vehicle to address Defendant’s contention that Osorio may
not claim general damages in this action. 
The grounds for a motion to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matter which the court may judicially notice.  See CCP 437(a).  It is not clear how the correspondence from Osorio’s
insurance carrier, which is not attached to the complaint and on which the
motion to strike would seemingly be based, would be the proper subject of
judicial notice.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 
  