  Case Number:  21STCV29644    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  73 January 21, 2025
Dept. 73
Rolf M. Treu, Judge
presiding
 
The Machine Group, Inc. v. NC
Dynamics, LLC (21STCV29644)
 
Counsel for Cross-Defendant/moving
party Nidec OKK USA Corporation (f/k/a OKK USA Corporation): Masuda, Funai,
Eifert & Mitchell, LTD
Counsel for Cross-Complainant
NC Dynamics, LLC: Saul Ewing, LLP
 
[Demurrer w/ motion to strike] (filed January 3, 2025) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Cross-Defendant
Nidec OKK USA Corporation’s demurrer and motion to strike are DENIED AS MOOT.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 11, 2021, Plaintiff The Machine Group (“TMG”) filed this action
against Defendant NC Dynamics (“NC”). 
 
TMG’s Complaint alleges causes of action for breach of contract and recission.
On June 3, 2024, NC Dynamics filed a Second Amended Cross Complaint (“SACC”)
against TMG and Nidec OKK USA Corporation, f/k/a OKK USA Corporation (“OKK”).
NC Dynamics alleges the following causes of action in its SACC: (1) breach of
contract; (2) fraud in the inducement; (3) negligence; (4) intentional
interference with contractual relations; (5) intentional interference with
prospective economic relations; (6) negligent interference with prospective
economic relations; and (7) breach of warranty of fitness for particular
purpose. 
 
This case concerns a contract dispute for the sale and underperformance
of specialized machinery. NC alleges the following in its SACC. NC, the
Defendant/Cross-Complainant, is a full-service manufacturing facility that
manufactures products for aerospace companies. According to NC, NC took steps
to upgrade the manufacturing process regarding an existing contract it had with
Bombardier Aerostructures (“Bombardier”). As part of that process, NC requested
bids from three companies to sell manufacturing equipment to NC. NC also
requested the companies to conduct time studies to establish the running time
for the construction of specific titanium parts for the Bombardier contract. 
 
TMG, the Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant in this case, was one of the three
companies to submit a bid, but the only company that offered to sell an
upcoming machine from another company called OKK conducted the time study. NC
contend that TMG ultimately won the bid based on a guarantee made by TMG
President Richard Wackeen (“Wackeen”) that the parts would be manufactured in
ten hours with the OKK machine and also upon the misrepresentation that OKK was
aware that Wackeen was guaranteeing a ten hour running time. NC and TMG entered
into two contracts for the purchase of two OKK machines. The machines failed to
construct the parts in the contracted ten-hour running time, and multiple
attempts were made to reduce the running time. 
 
Because of the slow running time, NC contend that they were forced to
purchase a third machine from TMG to meet its production needs for the
Bombardier contract. NC further allege that TMG continued to guarantee that the
OKK machines would achieve the ten-hour running time despite knowing the OKK
machine could do so. NC later learned that six weeks before the parties entered
into the third contract, a TMG manager named Jim McCulloch (“McCulloch”)
admitted in an email that the OKK machines would never achieve a running time.
McCulloch was present to witness the final run of the OKK machines, which at
the lowest point exceeded 24 hours. As a result of the running time, NC contend
that they lost Bombardier, and others, as a current and future customer. 
 
In TMG’s Complaint, TMG alleges that NC has an unpaid balance in the
amount of $1,895,150.13 on the Second Machine and Third Machine and has refused
to make any further payments on these machines despite TMG’s demands.
 
On January 3,
2025, OKK filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike as to NC’s SACC. 
 
No opposition
has been filed, but NC has filed a Third Amended Cross-Complaint (3ACC) on
January 9, 2025. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Legal Standard 
 
1.     
Demurrer
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “‘treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..’” (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) 

 
When
a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis v.
YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)
 
2.     
Motion to Strike 
 
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part thereof.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
435, subd. (b)(1).)¿ The court¿may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(a).)¿ The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the
court.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)¿ An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense;
or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of
the complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)¿ The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿¿ 
 
B.     
Discussion
 
OKK’s instant demurrer and motion to strike
was filed in response to NC’s SACC. However, NC has now filed a 3ACC in
response. 
 
“A party may amend its pleading once without
leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike
is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the
demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and
served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or
motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472(a).) 
 
Thus, the instant demurrer and motion to strike
are denied as moot. 
 

III.
DISPOSITION
 
Based on
the foregoing, Cross-Defendant
Nidec OKK USA Corporation’s demurrer and motion to strike are DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
Moving party is to give notice. 