 Case Number:  22STCV09659    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV09659




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Alpha Beta Company dba Food 4
  Less




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Maria Barraza



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
3.      Defendant’s Compendium of Evidence in Support
4.      Notice of Lodging Exhibit C
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Support of Opposition
2.      Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement; Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts 
3.      Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence 
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.      Defendant’s Reply 
2.      Defendant’s Response to Plaintiff’s
Additional Separate Statement
3.      Declaration of Abraham S. Odabachian
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 18, 2022, Plaintiff Maria
Barraza (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant The Kroger Co., Food
4 Less of California, Inc., Food 4 Less GM, Inc., and Does 1-50 for negligence
and premises liability.  Plaintiff
alleges that on July 12, 2021, she slipped and fell on a transient substance on
defendant’s premises at 1329 N. Lake Avenue, Pasadena, California. (Complaint ¶
13.) She alleges the substance was hidden and bereft of any warning signs. (Ibid.)
 
 
Defendant Alpha Beta
Company dba Food 4 Less (“Defendant”)
now moves for summary judgment, arguing that no triable issue of material fact
exists and that Defendant did not have actual or constructive notice of the
dangerous condition. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no
triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay
Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)            
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence­–Premises
Liability
 
Legal Principles
 
The elements of a cause of action
for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach,
causation, and damages.  (McIntyre v.
The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671; Civ. Code, §
1714, subd. (a).)  Therefore, to prevail
on a claim for premises liability, the plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant
owned or controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the
use or maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4)
defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s
harm.  (See CACI No. 1000; Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d
108.)  
 
A defendant may be negligent in the use or maintenance of the property if
(1) a condition on the property created an unreasonable risk of harm; (2) the
defendant knew or, through the exercise of reasonable care, should have known
about it; and (3) the defendant failed to repair the condition, protect against
harm from the condition, or give adequate warning of the condition.  (CACI No. 1003.)  
 
“A plaintiff alleging injuries based on a dangerous condition must prove
the defendant either: (1) created the dangerous condition, or (2) knew or
should have known of the dangerous condition.  (See Peralta v. Vons Companies,
Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1030, 1036; see also Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206.)  If a dangerous condition exists, the property
owner is “under a duty to exercise ordinary care either to make the condition
reasonably safe for [visitors’] use or to give a warning adequate to enable
them to avoid the harm.”  (Bridgman v.
Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.)  The
existence and scope of a property owner’s duty are legal questions for the
court.  (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 36.)

 
A property owner is not the insurer
of the safety of its guests. (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p
1205.)  The owner’s actual or
constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition is key to establishing
liability.  (Hall v. Rockcliff Realtors (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
1134, 1139-40.)  Whether a defendant had
constructive notice of the condition that created the risk of harm depends on
whether, under all the circumstances, the condition was of such a nature and
existed long enough that defendant had sufficient time to discover it and,
using reasonable care: (1) repair the condition; or (2) protect against harm
from the condition; or adequately warn of the condition.  A defendant must make reasonable inspections
of the property to discover unsafe conditions. 
If an inspection was not made within a reasonable time before the
accident, this may show that the condition existed long enough so that the
owner using reasonable care would have discovered it.  (CACI No. 1011.)  It is
generally a question of fact for the jury as to whether, under all the
circumstances, a defective condition existed long enough such that a reasonable
person, exercising reasonable care, would have discovered it.  (Hale v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1954)
129 Cal.App.2d 124, 128-129 (Hale).) 
 
            In Girvetz v. Boys’ Market (1949) 91 Cal.App.2d 827, 829 (Girvetz),
the Court of Appeal stated: 
The defendant market owner was not an insurer
of the safety of his patrons, but owed them the duty to exercise reasonable
care in keeping the premises safe for his invitees. To impose liability for
injuries suffered by an invitee due to the defective condition of the premises,
the owner or occupier must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition or have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to
discover the condition, which if known to him, he should realize as involving
an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises. His negligence in such cases
is founded upon his failure to exercise ordinary care in remedying the defect
after he has discovered it.  Whether,
under all the circumstances, the defective condition had existed long enough so
that a reasonable man exercising reasonable care would have discovered it, is
ordinarily a question of fact to be decided by the jury. The fact alone that a
dangerous condition existed at the time the accident occurred will not warrant
an inference that the defendant was negligent. There must be some evidence,
direct or circumstantial, to support the conclusion that the condition had
existed long enough for the proprietor, in the exercise of reasonable care, to
have discovered and remedied it.  
 
And “[w]here the
only evidence is that the foreign object has been on the floor of the market
for a minute and a half, it must be held that it is insufficient to support an
inference that the defendant proprietor failed to exercise the care required of
him.”  (Id. at p. 831.)  On the other hand, where the evidence
fails to show how long the dangerous condition existed prior to the injury,
“evidence of the owner’s failure to inspect the premises within a reasonable
period of time is sufficient to allow an inference that the condition was on
the floor long enough to give the owner the opportunity to discover and remedy
it. [Citation.]” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1203; Sapp
v. W.T. Grant Co. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 89, 91-92 (Sapp) [whether 15
to 25 minute interval between inspections was commensurate with the exercise of
reasonable care was a question properly left to the trier of fact].)
 
A review of relevant California
case law provides a helpful spectrum to determine whether there was sufficient
time for a defendant to conduct a reasonable inspection of the area. On one end
of the spectrum is Girvetz, supra, where the Court of Appeal
found one and one-half minutes is, as a matter of law, too short a period of
time to establish constructive notice.  (Girvetz,
91 Cal.App.2d at p. 832.)  Towards
the other end of the spectrum are cases holding that fifteen to twenty minutes
between the inspection and the fall requires a jury’s determination of the
reasonableness of the inspection. For example, in Louie v. Hagstrom’s Food
Stores, Inc., 81 Cal.App.2d 601, 607 (Louie), the plaintiff slipped
in a pool of syrup spilled on the floor of defendant’s grocery store. No
employee examined the relevant area for fifteen to twenty-five minutes before
the accident.  The court held that whether
the dangerous condition existed long enough so that a person exercising
ordinary care would have discovered it was a question for the jury.  Similarly, in Hale, supra,
plaintiff while shopping in defendant’s store slipped on a banana.  The banana may have been on the floor for 30
to 45 minutes.  Again it was held that
whether defendant should have discovered and removed the banana within this
time was a jury question.  In Sapp,
supra, 172 Cal.App.2d at p. 94, the court asked: “Was a twenty minute
interval between inspections of the aisles commensurate with the exercise of
ordinary care by defendant?”  The court
answered: “This is a question that was properly left with the jury to
decide.”  
 
However, in Louie, which
considered a time period of fifteen to twenty-five minutes, the court
considered the time period along with other factors including that the glass
jar which created the condition would have made an appreciable noise when it
fell and broke, a cashier was close enough to have heard it, and that the
puddle of syrup was big enough to support an inference that it was actually on
the floor for a substantial period of time. (Louie, supra, 81 Cal.App.2d
at 608-09.) The Court considers “[w]hether, under all the circumstances,
the defective condition had existed long enough so that a reasonable man
exercising reasonable care would have discovered it, is ordinarily a question
of fact to be decided by the jury.” (Girvetz, supra, 91 Cal.App.2d at
829 (emphasis added).)
 
Application
 
            Here, Defendant argues it had no
actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition, and that Plaintiff
lacks evidence of the alleged notice. Defendant offers the following facts: 
 
-         
 Defendant's
store policy requires employees to sweep and inspect the entire store at least
once every (60) sixty minutes. (UMF 2.) 
-         
Defendant's employees are also trained to clean
a spill anytime a customer informs them that an aisle needs care. (UMF 3.) 
-         
No customers or employee informed Defendant that
the aisle needed care between the time swept and Plaintiff's fall. (UMF 4.) 
-         
Defendant's employee, Albert Ramirez, conducted
inspections and sweeps of the back aisle, near the meat department, from
7:03:06 to 7:03:21 p.m., 7:07:44 to 7:08:22 p.m., and 7:10:34 to 7:10:37 p.m.
The employee's sweep was twenty-eight minutes prior to Plaintiff's fall at
7:38:51 p.m., and twenty-six minutes before the spill which occurred at 7:36:09
p.m. (UMF 5.) 
-         
Creation of the spill is seen at 7:36:09 p.m. A
customer picks out a canned drink from the display. She drops a can that causes
the leak. She places the punctured can on the shelf. (UMF 6.) 
-         
Plaintiff entered the back aisle of Defendant's
store at 7:38:42 pm. Plaintiff did so twenty-eight (28) minutes after
Defendant's employee had inspected and swept the floor. (UMF 7.) 
-         
Between the spill at 7:36:09 p.m. and
Plaintiff's fall at 7:38:51 p.m., no employee walks over the area on which
Plaintiff slipped and fell. (UMF 9.) 
 
Plaintiff disputes that the creation
of the spill is seen at 7:36:09 p.m., arguing that the video does not
indisputably show creation of the spill. (See Pl.’s Resp. Sep. St. UMF 6.)
Plaintiff further asserts that the video shows the condition of the floor that
looks the same as it did before the customer drops the soda can, which is
undisputed by Defendant. (PUMF 20.) Plaintiff further asserts that there is an
employee in the area prior to Plaintiff’s fall. (PUMF 26.)
 
Here, the surveillance video does
not clearly demonstrate that the slippery substance was placed on the floor at
7:36:09 p.m., and therefore is not dispositive as to when the defective
condition was created. (Kasparian v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 11, 14 (“We find the photographs before the trial court in this
case are not conclusive on this issue and thus triable issues remain, requiring
a reversal of the summary judgment.”).) There is a triable issue of fact as to
how long the substance (if any) was on the floor prior to Plaintiff’s fall.
Because the employee’s last sweep prior to Plaintiff’s fall was twenty-eight
minutes prior to the fall, there remains a triable issue of fact as to whether
the defective condition existed long enough so that a reasonable person
exercising reasonable care would have discovered it.
 
 Alternatively,
Defendant has not presented enough evidence to meet its burden that Plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence. “The defendant may […] present evidence
that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admission by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to
the effect that he has discovered nothing.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855.) Here, Defendant only presents evidence of
Plaintiff’s response to Special Interrogatories, numbers 16 and 18, which asked
for facts and witnesses to support that Defendant had actual or constructive
notice. (Motion, 15.) Plaintiff responded, “Unknown at this time.” (Odabachian
Decl., Exh. E.) Defendant also points to Plaintiff’s deposition testimony where
she testified that she did not know how long the liquid was present on the
floor. (Id., Exh. D.) This alone is not enough to show that Plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain evidence, particularly in light of Plaintiff’s
evidence of Defendant’s employee in the area prior to Plaintiff’s fall. 
 
To the extent Defendant argues in reply
that there is no triable issue of fact as to the element of causation, this
argument was not set forth in the notice of motion or in the motion itself. The
motion argued that Defendant did not have actual or constructive notice of any
dangerous condition. Accordingly, the Court does not reach Defendant’s
alternative argument regarding causation.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant Alpha
Beta Company dba Food 4 Less’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


