 Case Number:  21STCV20803    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV20803




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(2)  
  Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(3)  
  Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Medcove Urgent Care, APC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Medcove Urgent Care,
APC (“Defendant”) moves to compel responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One,
propounded on Manuel Lopez, as guardian ad litem for Plaintiffs Brianna Sky
Lopez, Bella Rose Lopez, and “Individually and Successor-In-Interest to the
Estate of Claudia Lorena Mejia.” Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. No
opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall
impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, Defendant brings three motions against Manuel
Lopez, attaching discovery propounded on Manuel Lopez in various capacities.
However, Manuel Lopez is not a plaintiff in this matter. According to the
complaint, Manuel Lopez is appearing as guardian ad litem for “Brianna Sky
Lopez, Individually and Successor-in-Interest to the Estate of Claudia Lorena
Mejia,” and as guardian ad litem for “Bella Rose Lopez, Individually and
Successor-in-Interest to the Estate of Claudia Lorena Mejia.” (Complaint at p.
1.) Accordingly, Manuel Lopez is not the proper party upon whom to serve
discovery requests, but rather is an individual who can verify responses to
discovery propounded on a party. (See generally Regency Health Services,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1496, 1504-05 [“We hold,
therefore, that a ward has no general right to evade discovery and that a
guardian ad litem has the authority, subject to the court’s ultimate
supervision, to verify proper responses to interrogatories on behalf of the
ward.”].) Accordingly, the motions to compel are denied as procedurally
defective.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motions to compel responses from Manuel Lopez
are denied. 
 
Defendant
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 