  Case Number:  20STCV01009    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV01009




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Jasmine Bledsoe




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on February 15, 2024 by Petitioner Jasmine Bledsoe (Petitioner) on behalf
of Claimant Jayden Coleman, age 15. The Court denies the petition without prejudice. 
 
Petitioner indicates Claimant is not fully recovered and
experiences scarring with occasional headaches. In this revised petition, Petitioner
includes a medical record which shows an MRI took place on August 20, 2019 and
that there were no abnormalities. 
 
Petitioner requests $6,250 in attorney fees which represents
25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this amount to be reasonable. 
 
However, in MC-351, Petitioner checked attachment 8a(3)
but did not include it. Petitioner must also complete item 9a. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
 