  Case Number:  23STCV19401    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  57 .DemurrerThe Defendants' demurrer to the Plaintiffs' fraud claim in the Second Amended Complaint ("SAC") is overruled.   The Defendants contend that, on the face of the allegations in the SAC, the fraud claim is barred by the applicable three-year statute of limitations  because the Plaintiffs allege that purported fraudulent representations on which the claim rests were made in 2019 and the Plaintiffs did not file suit until four years later, in 2023.  Defendants' contention misapprehends the principles governing accrual of a fraud claim.  A cause of action for fraud “is not deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud” including injury. (Code Civ. Proc., § 338(d).  The statute incorporates the "discovery rule" for accrual of a fraud claim.  That rule “postpones accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff
discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.” (Fox v. Ethicon EndoSurgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807.) Put another way, “[t]he discovery rule . . . delays accrual until the plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry notice of the cause of
action.” (Ibid.)   The SAC alleges that, while the representations at issue were made in 2019, the Plaintiffs did not discover the alleged until at least late 2021 when two retail stores opened and Plaintiffs obtained financial reports and statements that Defendants previously had refused to provide.  In the Court's view, these allegations are sufficient to avoid the statute of limitations.  In sum, the Plaintiffs' fraud claim accrued in 2021.  The Plaintiffs' filing of the lawsuit in 2023 thus was within the three-year statute of limitations for fraud claims. Motion to StrikeThe Defendants' motion to strike is denied.The Defendants' move to strike the entire SAC on the ground that it was not timely filed -- in particular, Defendants say that the SAC was not filed within the time the Court set when it sustained in part, with leave to amend, Defendants' demurrer to the Plaintiffs' First Amended Complaint.  The problem for the Defendants is that the minute order setting forth the Court's ruling on that demurrer does not specify a due date for the SAC.  In any event, even if the Court did set the date as April 3, 2024, which is what the  Defendants assert the Court did at the hearing on the demurrer, the Court is exercising its discretion to allow the SAC to proceed because that pleading was filed just a few days thereafter, on April 8, 2024.Alternatively, the Defendants move to strike the allegations in Paragraphs 109 and 110 regarding Plaintiffs' request for an award of punitive damages against Defendant SGI Management on the Plaintiffs' claim that SGI Management breached its fiduciary duty to the entities that are the Nominal Defendants in the case.   According to the Defendants, the SAC fails to allege conduct by SGI Management that would support an award of punitive damages against it.  The Court disagrees.  In the Court's view, the allegations in Paragraphs 105 and 106 of the SAC allege intentional conduct by SGI Management, which, if true, would support an award of punitive damages against SGI Management for its breach of fiduciary duty to the Nominal Defendants.