  Case Number:  23VECV01523    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT




Maribel Greenidge,
 
Plaintiff,
 
       
   v.
 
Alfred Igbokwe Obichukwu et al.,
 
Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
  
  23VECV01523           107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
Motion to Quash Subpoena Duces Tecum
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 7, 2023, plaintiff Maribell
Greenidge (plaintiff) filed suit against defendants Alfred Igbokwe Obichukwu (defendant),
Kristofer Barton (Barton), and Turo Inc. (Turo; collectively defendants). Plaintiff
alleged that on August 28, 2021, she was traveling southbound on the US-101. Defendant,
also heading southbound on the US-101, was operating a motor vehicle in a
negligent and careless manner. He rear-ended and struck plaintiff’s vehicle. Immediately
after the collision, defendant approached plaintiff in a hostile and menacing
manner. He then engaged in offensive touching including, but not limited to,
kissing plaintiff, biting her, forcing himself upon her, pulling down plaintiff’s
pants, and licking her naval area. 
 
On July 17, 2024, plaintiff issued a
deposition subpoena for production of business records to the custodian of
records for Encino Hospital Medical center. Defendant moves to quash the
deposition subpoena for production of records on the grounds of privilege. Plaintiff
opposes. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Deposition Subpoena For Production Of Business Records served
upon Encino Medical Center’s custodian of records Sherman Oaks Hospital is
quashed in part. Deponent is ordered to provide the applicable medical records
for the period from August 28, 2021, until the present. 
 
DISCUSSION
Legal
Standard: 
A
subpoena for the production of personal consumer records may be issued pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3. Personal records means “the
original, any copy of books, documents, other writings, or electronically
stored information pertaining to a consumer and which are maintained by any
‘witness’ which is a. . . state or national bank, [or] accountant. . . .” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (a).) “Consumer” means any individual that has
transacted business with, or has used the services of, the witness. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (b).) Any consumer whose personal records are sought by
a subpoena and who is a party to the action may file a motion to quash or
modify the subpoena under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (g).)  
Meet
and Confer
Plaintiff
contends defendant failed to meet and confer prior to filing this motion as
required under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410 (Section 2025.410).  
Section
2025.410 provides that a motion to quash a deposition notice  “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. . .”. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.410, subd. (c).) However, Section
2025.410 deals with deposition notices that do not comply with notices served under
Article 2 of Chapter 9 of the Civil Discovery Act. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.410,
subd. (a).) This section deals with oral depositions inside California but not
deposition subpoenas duces tecum. Instead, Code Civil Procedure section 1985.2
applies. Section 1985.2 does not include a meet and confer requirement prior to
filing a motion to quash. 
Accordingly,
the court does not find the lack of meet and confer grounds to deny the motion.

Analysis
The
issue is whether plaintiff’s interest in favor of disclosure outweighs defendant’s
right to privacy.
California
has codified a person’s unalienable right to privacy in its Constitution. (See
Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) When determining whether a discovery order would
violate state constitutional privacy rights, the party asserting a privacy
right and objecting to discovery must establish a “(1) a legally protected
privacy interest; (2) a reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances;
and (3) conduct by defendant constituting a serious invasion of privacy” (See County
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 621, 640 [applying
the framework laid out in Hill v National Collegiate Athletic Assn
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 26].) If the party asserting the right meets this burden,
then the party seeking discovery must identify an interest in favor of
disclosure that outweighs the serious invasion of privacy. (Id. at p. 653.) The
court finds the Hill case articulating the burdens of proof is still good law. 
Here, on
July 17, 2024, plaintiff properly issued a deposition subpoena for the
production of records to Encino Hospital Medical Center’s custodian of Records
Sherman Oaks Hospital. (Morales Decl., ¶12, Ex. 3.) Plaintiff requested:
Any
and all documents and records pertaining to the care, treatment and examination
of Obichukwu Alfred-Igbokwe, aka Obichukwu Isaiah Alfred and Obi Alfred, born
on October 26, 1998, with SS#UNK, including, but not limited to all office,
emergency room, inpatient and outpatient charts, laboratory tests and results,
and all medical records, FOR THE ONE (1) YEAR PRIOR TO THE DATE OF LOSS OF
8/28/2021 AND UP TO THE PRESENT DATE, including all electronic communications
from and to the patient.
(Ibid.)
Plaintiff also served the appropriate consumer notice upon defendant. (Ibid.) 
The
records themselves fall under a legally protected privacy interest. (See Grafilo
v. Soorani (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 497, 507 [“It is well established
that the right to privacy extends to medical records”].) Defendant contends his medical records
are not at issue given the subject matter of the suit, and thus, a production
of records from 8/28/2020 (one year prior to the incident) until the present is
a serious invasion of privacy. Defendant has met his threshold burden to
establish a serious invasion of privacy given the intrusion compared against
the lack of apparent need for his medical records given plaintiff’s allegations
of a motor vehicle incident and subsequent assault. 
Plaintiff,
in turn, argues that there is an identified interest in favor of disclosure
which outweighs the serious invasion of privacy, e.g., relevant discoverable
information. First, Encino Hospital Medical Center is where defendant was taken
immediately following the incident on August 28, 2021. (Morales Decl., Ex. 1.)
In response to form interrogatory 6.4 which asks if defendant has received
treatment since the incident, defendant responded that he had received some
treatment on various dates since the incident from Encino Hospital Medical
Center. Plaintiff also has separately requested the medical documents from
defendant. (Ibid)
Plaintiff
also credibly argues that the medical records may reveal information including any
mental or emotional factors that could have influenced defendant’s actions on
August 28, 2021, and whether he was under the influence of any substance which
impaired his judgment or behavior. Given the alarming nature of the allegations
(an unprompted motor vehicle accident followed by a sexual assault) the court
agrees that plaintiff has a credible argument that a narrowly tailored request
for medical documents supports the discovery. 
Plaintiff
also argues that “if the records indicate a history of mental health issues, it
could be relevant to understanding the Defendant’s actions during the subject
incident”. (Opp., at p. 5:25-26.) However, this second justification appears to
be fishing expedition for information plaintiff has not basis for, which is not
directly tied to discovery already produced, and thus, does not justify a
backlog of medical information prior to August 28, 2021, when weight against defendant’s
privacy interests. 
Accordingly,
the motion to quash is granted in part. 
CONCLUSION
 
The Deposition Subpoena For Production Of Business Records served
upon Encino Medical Center’s custodian of records Sherman Oaks Hospital is
quashed in part. Deponent is ordered to provide the applicable medical records
for the period from August 28, 2021, until the present. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
                                                                        
__________________________________
                                                  Judge Eric Harmon,
Department 107, Van Nuys
September 13, 2024                                       Los Angeles County Superior Court