 Case Number:  23STCV11886    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  24, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23STCV11886




MOTION


Demurrer
  to Complaint & Motion to Strike




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  DK Connections, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed



 
MOTION
 
On May 25, 2023, Plaintiff Folorans Ozeri (Plaintiff) filed a form complaint
against DK Connections, LLC, Otis Elevator Company LLC, Ashkenazy Acquisition Corporation,
DK Connections Lease, LLC, and Does 1 to 10 for injuries allegedly sustained
from a defective elevator. The Complaint asserts causes of action for general
negligence, premises liability, and products liability. Plaintiff also seeks
exemplary damages. 
 
Defendant DK Connections, LLC (Defendant) now demurs on the following
grounds: 
 

The First Cause of Action for General Negligence
     is uncertain.
The Second Cause of Action for Premises Liability
     is uncertain.
The Second Cause of Action for Premises Liability,
     ¶ Prem.L-3 fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
     action.
The Second Cause of Action for Premises
     Liability, ¶ Prem.L-4 fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
     cause of action.
The Second Cause of Action for Premises
     Liability, ¶ Prem.L-5.b fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
     cause of action and is uncertain.
The Third Cause of Action for Products Liability
     is uncertain.
The Third Cause of Action for Products Liability,
     ¶ Prod.L-7 fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
     and is uncertain. 

 
Defendant also moves to strike the prayer for relief for exemplary
damages. No opposition was filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. 
It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the
opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)
 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set
forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149,
156-157.) 
 
On demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to
“determine whether or not the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a
cause of action under any legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes
of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an entire
cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
            Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Defendant’s counsel declares that on July 25, 2023, he sent an email
to Plaintiff’s counsel asking that they speak over the telephone to meet and
confer about this demurrer. (Soll Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant’s counsel then called
Plaintiff’s counsel on July 25 and 26th, 2023 and August 1, 2023,
but was unable to confer. Defendant did not receive a response to his email or
prior telephone calls. (Id. ¶ 5.) Therefore, Defendant has satisfied the meet
and confer requirement. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
First, Defendant demurs to the
entire, first, second, and third causes of action because they are uncertain. Demurrers
for uncertainty are disfavored and strictly construed because ambiguities in a
complaint can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 677, 695.)  When a complaint “contains
substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues
it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or
plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Id. [quoting Williams v. Beechnut
Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2].) 
 
Here,
the first and second causes of action are not uncertain because the general
issues are ascertainable. The general negligence and premises liability causes
of action each discuss a dangerous condition on the premises of the Beverly
Connection that took place on January 3, 2022. Plaintiff’s allegations that an
elevator on the premises continuously malfunctioned and that the premises were
dangerous due to a condition on the floor could pertain to the same issue or
different conditions. However, this ambiguity is something that can be
clarified in discovery. Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second
causes of action on the basis of uncertainty is overruled. 
 
However,
the third cause of action alleges products liability. “The elements of a strict
products liability cause of action are a defect in the manufacture or design of
the product or a failure to warn, causation, and injury. [Citations omitted.]
More specifically, plaintiff must ordinarily show: (1) the product is placed on
the market; (2) there is knowledge that it will be used without
inspection for defect; (3) the product proves to be defective; and (4) the defect
causes injury.” (Nelson v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 689,
695 [citations omitted, emphasis in original].) “As with an action asserted
under a strict liability theory, under a negligence theory the plaintiff must
prove a defect caused injury. [Citation omitted.] However, under a negligence
theory, a plaintiff must also prove an additional element, namely, that the defect
in the product was due to negligence of the defendant.” (Chavez v. Glock,
Inc. (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 1283, 1304-05 [citations and alterations
omitted].) Here, the complaint alleges that on or about “January 3, 2022,” “the
elevator on the premises continuously malfunctioned causing injury to Plaintiff.”
(See Complaint at Prod. L-1.) It is unclear whether the complaint is alleging a
warning defect, manufacturing defect, design defect, or something else.
Accordingly, the Court grants the demurrer as to the third cause of action.
 
Next,
Defendant demurs to three paragraphs in the premises liability cause of action.
The first is Prem.
L.3: Willful failure to warn under Civil Code section 846. Civil Code section
846 states that the owner of real property owes no duty of care to keep the
premises safe for any recreational purpose except for, among others, a willful
or malicious failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition, use,
structure or activity. (Civil Code § 846 (a), (d)(1).) Therefore, the exception
for willful failure to warn applies if it is established that “(1) the
defendant must be the owner of an ‘estate or any other interest in real
property, whether possessory or nonpossessory;’ and (2) the plaintiff's injury
must result from the ‘entry or use [of the ‘premises'] for any recreational
purpose.’” (Ornelas v. Randolph (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1095, 1100.) 
Here, the Complaint
does not allege facts that Plaintiff was entering the premises for a
recreational purpose. Therefore, the demurrer to Prem. L.3 is sustained because
the recreational purpose is a prerequisite to the failure to warn exception. 
 
Next, Defendant demurs to Prem.L-4
which alleges there is a dangerous condition of public property. To hold a
public entity liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition, a plaintiff
must prove (1) that the property was a dangerous condition at the time of the
injury, (2) that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition,
(3) that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the
kind of injury which was incurred, and (4) that either a negligent or wrongful
act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his
employment created the dangerous condition or the public entity had actual or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition and sufficient time prior to the
injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.  (Gov. Code § 835.)  
Plaintiff
did not allege that Defendant was a public entity in the Complaint. On item
5a(2), Plaintiff checked that Defendant was a corporation and did not check item
5a(4) for public entities. Therefore, since Defendant must be a public entity
to state a cause of action under section 835, the demurrer to Prem.L-4 is sustained.

 
Next, Defendant demurs to Prem.L-5.b
for failing to constitute a cause of action. This section on the form complaint
alleges that Defendant is liable to Plaintiff for other reasons to be specified
in attachment Prem.L-5b. However, the box for Prem.L-5b is not checked and no
attachment is provided. Therefore, Plaintiff has not alleged any facts about
the other reasons why Defendant is liable. As a result, the demurrer to Prem.L-5.b
is sustained. 
 
The burden is on Plaintiff to establish that the pleading can be
amended. Since Plaintiff does not oppose, the burden is not met. Therefore, the
Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.  
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike             
 
            Defendant also moves to strike the exemplary
damages attachment.[1]
 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an
opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 435; 436(a).)  Motions may also target pleadings or parts of
pleadings which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws,
rules or orders.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike is
used to address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from
judicially noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson
v Sharp Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City
& County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911, 1913
(motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual representations
made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a motion to strike
can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof – in other words,
a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike demurrers.  (Warren
v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24,
40.)  
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
“‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of
extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens
should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]”  (Lackner v. North
(2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)    
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294]
plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’
requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’
interests.  The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be
found.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.)  The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a
“new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (Ibid.) 
Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people.  Such conduct has been described as ‘having the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’”  (Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)  Further,
“[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable
dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid
these consequences.”  (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor
Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.) 
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a
plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including
allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman
v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53,
63.)  “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to
justify such an award” for punitive damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v.
United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory
allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) 
 
Here, the Complaint does not set forth facts that Defendant acted with
oppression, fraud, or malice. Instead, Plaintiff alleges facts sounding in negligence,
which, as discussed above, is not sufficient to justify an award for punitive
damages. Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to strike the exemplary
damages attachment. As Plaintiff has not opposed the motion and therefore has
not established how the pleading can be properly amended, the Court grants the
motion without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the first and
second causes of action.
 
The Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of
Action for Premises Liability ¶ Prem.L-3, Prem.L-4, Prem.L-5b, and Plaintiff’s
Third Cause of Action without leave to amend.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


