 Case Number:  22STCV03154    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  24, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV03154




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Powerhouse Grading Inc., Caesar
  Alexander Lopez, and JDP Equipment Rental Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On January 26, 2022 Plaintiff
Pedro Pizano (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Powerhouse
Grading Inc., Caesar Alexander Lopez, JDP Equipment Rental Inc., James Leo
McDermott, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a motor vehicle accident.

 
            Defendants
Powerhouse Grading Inc., Caesar Alexander Lopez, and JDP Equipment Rental Inc.
(Defendants) now move to compel Plaintiff’s deposition. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion
under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Rayelle Sabo states she has met and conferred with
Plaintiff’s counsel via telephone and email. (Sabo Decl. ¶ 13.)  Based on the representations in the
declaration, and the attached “Exhibit I” of correspondence, it appears
Defendants have made a good faith attempt to resolve this issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants have noticed Plaintiff’s deposition seven times. Each time,
Plaintiff has objected to the depositions due to unavailability. However,
Plaintiff has not worked with Defendants to schedule a mutually beneficial
time. According to Defendants, Plaintiff has been unresponsive. Most recently,
Plaintiff agreed to a deposition on July 24, 2023 at 10am. (Sabo Decl. ¶13,
Exh. I.) Defendants produced a notice of deposition for that date. (Id. ¶ 12,
Exh. H.) However, it appears Plaintiff has not appeared. Based on this, the
Court grants Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition. 
 
Defendants seek $2,260.00 in monetary sanctions representing a $275
hourly rate and eight hours, plus the $60 filing fee. However, the notice of
motion did not seek sanctions and did not specify against whom sanctions were
sought and in what amount. Accordingly, the Court denies the request for
sanctions as procedurally defective. (See, e.g., Sole Energy Co. v. Hodges
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207-08.)
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants
Powerhouse Grading Inc., Caesar Alexander Lopez, and JDP Equipment Rental Inc.
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED.  Plaintiff shall appear for deposition within
30 days.
 
            The Court denies the request for
sanctions.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 