  Case Number:  21STCV29630    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  24, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV29630




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Hold Non-Party in Contempt of Subpoenas




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Quick Silver Towing, Inc. and
  Javier Espinoza




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 14, 2023, Defendants
Quick Silver Towing, Inc. and Javier Espinoza (Defendants) filed this motion to
compel subpoenas for records sent to non-party Diagnostic Imaging Networks
(DIN). No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena
must be made within 60 days after completion of the deposition record, the date
objections are served, or the date specified for production, and be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b); Board
of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th
1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
A “written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion
to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a
document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail¿or electronic service¿at an address¿or electronic service
address¿specified on the deposition record.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1346.) 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            Defendants characterize the letters
that their legal copy service company sent to DIN as a “meet and confer.”
(Dorenfeld Decl. ¶ 20.) These efforts were insufficient, but the Court excuses
the procedural defect. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants represent that the
subject subpoenas served on DIN had a production date of July 25, 2022.
Therefore, the last day to bring a motion under section 2025.480 to compel
production was September 23, 2022. Since this motion was filed on February 14,
2023, it is untimely. The Court further notes that the motion was not
personally served on the nonparty. The motion is denied pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.480(b). 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to compel compliance with
the subpoenas.   
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 