 Case Number:  23TRCV01317    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Thursday, October 24, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 18  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Epps
& Coulson, LLP v. Stuart Lee Zubrick, et al.    
23TRCV01317
1.     
Stuart Lee
Zubrick’s Motion to Expunge Notice of Attorney’s Lien     
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Stuart Lee Zubrick’s Motion to Expunge Notice of
Attorney’s Lien is denied.
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 26, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Defendant owes Plaintiff for legal services
rendered. On July 13, 2023, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint.
Cross-Complainant alleged the following causes of action based on
Cross-Defendant’s representation of Cross-Complainant in the prior legal action:
1. Fraud; 2. Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 3. Breach of Contract; 4. Slander of
Title; 5. Cancellation/Expungement of Lien and Quiet Title/Injunctive Relief. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant and Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice
are granted.
 
Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens 
 
“At any time after notice of pendency of action has
been recorded, any party, or any nonparty with an interest in the real property
affected thereby, may apply to the court in which the action is pending to
expunge the notice. . . Evidence or declarations may be filed with the motion
to expunge the notice. The court may permit evidence to be received in the form
of oral testimony, and may make any orders it deems just to provide for
discovery by any party affected by a motion to expunge the notice. The claimant
shall have the burden of proof under Sections 405.31 and 405.32.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 405.30.
 
“In proceedings under this chapter, the court shall
order the notice expunged if the court finds that the pleading on which the
notice is based does not contain a real property claim. The court shall not
order an undertaking to be given as a condition of expunging the notice where
the court finds the pleading does not contain a real property claim.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 405.31.  “In proceedings under this chapter, the court
shall order that the notice be expunged if the court finds that the claimant
has not established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of
the real property claim.”   Code Civ.
Proc., § 405.32.
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 405.4 states: “‘Real property
claim’ means the cause or causes of action in a pleading which would, if
meritorious, affect (a) title to, or the right to possession of, specific real
property or (b) the use of an easement identified in the pleading, other than
an easement obtained pursuant to statute by any regulated public utility.” An
action for money on a contract is not a real property claim even if it has some
relation to real property. Ziello v.
Superior Court (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 321, 332.
 
“The court shall direct that the party prevailing on
any motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable attorney's fees and
costs of making or opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other
party acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of attorney's fees and costs unjust.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 405.38.
 
The Court has presented the legal authorities listed
above only because Defendant’s motion is purportedly based on the authority set
forth in CCP § 405.30 et seq. (Notice of Motion, page 1, line 27 to page 2,
line 5.)  Defendant then proceeded to
list two real properties at issue on page 2 of the notice of motion. However,
the motion itself does not appear to be a motion to expunge a notice of
pendency of action (lis pendens), but, instead, a purported motion to expunge
an attorney’s lien. In fact, moving party does not even attempt to claim that a
notice of pendency of action was filed by Plaintiff, but apparently (although
the Court can only speculate) set forth the authorities stated above dealing
with notices of pendency of action in the event that Plaintiff contends
that the attorney’s lien is a lis pendens. (Memorandum of Points and
Authorities, page 4, line 28.)  However,
Plaintiff does not state that this is the case at all specifically stating: “Coulson
didn’t file a lis pendens.” (Opposition, page 2, line 3.)
 
Thus, there is no proper procedural authority set
forth that would act as a procedural mechanism to expunge an “attorney lien.”
Instead, it appears that Defendant filed a motion utilizing inappropriate
authority to attempt to obtain a speedy adjudication of this action without a
proper adjudicative motion, such as a motion for summary judgment, or without
the most well-known method to adjudicate cases on the merits – a trial. Defendant
sets forth arguments why he believes that an attorney’s lien is not proper but,
of course, Defendant will have the ability to fully present his defenses at the
time that the action is adjudicated to conclusion. 
 
The Court notes that Defendant primarily relied upon
two cases to support his substantive argument that Plaintiff must file and
prevail in a separate independent action: Valenta v. Regents of University
of California (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1465 and Hansen v. Jacobsen
(1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 350. In Valenta, the moving party proceeded on
what the Court termed a “motion to terminate the liens.” The Court of Appeal
did not provide any explanation as the specific procedural mechanism that would
authorize such a motion. The instant Court is not aware of any such procedural
mechanism and cannot proceed to rule on such a motion without a showing that
there is a specific mechanism that would authorize a “termination of an
attorney’s lien.” In Hansen, the party seeking an adjudicative ruling on
the lien proceeded under a very familiar motion – a motion to strike. 
 
In any event, the substantive arguments made by Defendant
also appear to be misplaced. The arguments made by Defendant would perhaps have
been appropriately made by Defendant in the underlying action in which the
attorney lien was filed. However, the instant action itself is the independent
and separate action that Defendant believes must be filed prior to enforcing
the lien. Of course, the instant independent action, according to Plaintiff’s
argument, must be adjudicated on the merits to its conclusion prior to a
determination as to whether the attorney’s lien can be enforced. Presumably, this
is exactly why Plaintiff filed the instant independent action.
 
Thus, for the foregoing reasons, the motion to expunge
attorney’s lien is denied. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.