  Case Number:  SP007923    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
PETITION OF GUARDIAN AD LITEM FOR MINOR BENEFICIARY CAROLINE CORMAN FOR AN
ACCOUNTING AND FOR INSTRUCTIONS TO TRUSTEE TO MAKE DISTRIBUTIONS FOR MINOR’S
BENEFIT   
 
In the
Matter of the Pacific Trust, Case No. SP007923
Hearing
Date: November 2, 2023, Time: 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
BACKGROUND / CONTENTIONS 
 
          On February 21, 2019, the Court in
this case appointed David Friedman (“Friedman”) as Guardian Ad Litem for
Caroline Corman (“Caroline”) “for the purpose of addressing the minor’s
distribution rights from the Pacific Trust. The Guardian ad Litem is not
authorized to waive or disclaim any substantive rights of the representative
party without further order of this Court.”[1]

          On August 2, 2019, judgment was
entered establishing that Caroline is the daughter of Brian Corman (“Brian”)
and Elizabeth Weaver (“Elizabeth), LASC Case No. 17STPT01834 (“the parentage
action”). The judgment in the parentage action ordered Brian to pay child
support to Elizabeth of $2,000 per month, as well as 50% of health insurance
premiums and of uninsured health expenses. 
          On February 9, 2021, the Court in
this case approved modifications to the Pacific Trust as relates to Brian’s
sub-trust only. Relevant here, the special trustees shall pay for any child of
Brian such sums as they “in their sole discretion shall determine and direct.” “In
exercising their discretionary power to make distributions…the special trustees
shall take into account other assets (excluding those which cannot be readily
liquidated) and income from other sources of the beneficiary…It is the Trustor’s
intention not to limit distributions to amounts required for the necessities of
life, but he intends that distributions shall be made for luxuries as well…and
similar items appropriate to the station in life of the child or beneficiary.”  
          On August 16, 2023, Friedman filed a
petition herein to compel an accounting of the Trust and for authority and
instructions for the Trust to either purchase property for Caroline or make
distributions for Caroline’s benefit, supported by a Declaration of Elizabeth. Friedman
asserts there is a monthly $5,000 shortfall between Elizabeth’s income (inclusive
of child support) and Caroline’s expenses. He also contends that the Trust
should pay tuition for Caroline to attend a private school, notwithstanding
Brian allegedly requiring Elizabeth to enroll Caroline in a public school. 
          On October 12, 2023, Crawford Trust
Company (“Crawford”), as trustee of Brian’s sub-trust of the Pacific Trust,
filed objection to the petition and made a demand for an evidentiary hearing.[2]
The objection was supported by a Request for Judicial Notice of a stipulation
and order in the parentage action as to modification of child custody, filed
December 12, 2019. The objection was not supported by any declaration from
Crawford (though the objection was verified by Crawford). 
          The Objection includes certain claims
discussed below that are worthy of emphasis: 
 
          “It is not the Trustee’s obligation
to support Elizabeth. If Elizabeth cannot afford housing, then perhaps Brian
could take full legal custody of Caroline to give Elizabeth the time and
opportunity to meet her financial legal obligations as a parent.”
          “It is not Caroline’s obligation to
support Elizabeth. It is not Caroline’s obligation to pay …for her mother’s mismanagement
of her finances.”   
           
          Crawford asserts that the Court
should deny the petition on several bases: 
1.       Elizabeth may
seek a modification of child support in the parentage action. 
2.       It is not
his obligation as trustee to pay Elizabeth’s rent, country club membership or
travel expenses. 
3.       Friedman
does not have authority to file this petition.
4.       All trust
distributions shall be paid to Brian, not Elizabeth.
 
          On October 26, 2023, Crawford also filed
an objection to a notice to appear and produce documents in lieu of subpoena. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          The Court grants Crawford’s Request
for Judicial Notice. Para. 4 of the stipulation in the parentage action provides
that Brian shall have sole legal custody over representing Caroline in relation
to any beneficial interest she may have in any trust, separate and apart from child
support owed to Elizabeth for Caroline, including control over any payments
from a trust.  Further, it provides for
Brian to represent Caroline in any legal proceeding involving this Trust “or any
legal proceeding involving the guardian ad litem appointed to represent unborn
beneficiaries” concerning the Trust. 
          The stipulation was, however, not
signed by Friedman or any attorney for Elizabeth.[3]
The order also does not address the terms of this Court’s order of February 21,
2019. Contrary to what Crawford contends, this stipulation and order is not a
child support order; it is misleadingly labeled as one to modify child custody
and in fact specifically excludes child support. Given the prior litigation
concerning the order appointing Friedman, it appears this stipulation was an
attempt to circumvent this Court’s order. 
          As discussed below, the objection is wholly
without merit. None of these largely legal issues likely require an evidentiary
hearing. The Objection also does not state why an evidentiary hearing would be
needed on these issues or what facts are in dispute. The court questions
whether this request is made for purpose of delay to maintain the status quo and
to make this case unduly expensive, or for legitimate purpose. 
1.       Whether
Elizabeth seeks modification of child support is irrelevant to this petition. Elizabeth’s
right to child support is separate to Caroline’s rights as a Trust beneficiary.
Crawford’s attempt to equate the two is unavailing. If Caroline receives income
from the Trust this may serve to reduce the amount of Elizabeth’s child
support, or vice-versa. However, that Elizabeth receives child support does not
necessarily eliminate Caroline’s rights under the Trust. 
2.       It is
obviously not Crawford’s obligation as trustee to pay Elizabeth’s rent, country
club membership or travel expenses but Friedman did not contend it was his
obligation. If what Crawford is implying is that Elizabeth is leading a life
beyond her means or enjoys a high standard of living, then Crawford needs to
take that standard of living into account in determining what Caroline is
entitled to under the Trust.[4]
The Trust specifically provides for Caroline to enjoy luxuries, consistent with
the “station in life” of her parents. In this regard, also relevant is what Brian
receives from the Trust: This court is aware that Brian has been incurring very
significant legal fees in other Trust proceedings, including seeking the
eviction of his elderly parents, many of which have been without merit. Crawford
should address the propriety of the Trust incurring significant legal fees for
Brian (whether directly or indirectly) versus Caroline’s rights to a likely
superior private school education, for example, as Friedman requests. This
Probate proceeding is not about Family Law issues between mother and father. 
3.       Friedman
does have the right to bring this petition, pursuant to the above referenced
order, notwithstanding Crawford’s claim otherwise. He was appointed by this
Court to represent Caroline’s interests – in part to avoid the exact issues
presented here where a dispute between the parents is flowing into this Probate
court. 
          Crawford is improperly seeking to use
a Family Law court order in this Probate case – which order was obtained
without securing Friedman’s stipulation – to bar Friedman acting as GAL. The
order is not binding on this Probate Court to the extent it concerns the
Pacific Trust. Moreover, Elizabeth had no power to relinquish rights of
Caroline as concerns the Pacific Trust – which are under the control of
Friedman as GAL or to agree that Brian had control over Caroline’s interests
under the Trust. The Family Court also has no jurisdiction over trust proceedings
– which are under the exclusive supervision of the Probate courts – in the same
way child support issues are the exclusive domain of the Family Courts. The
order appointing Friedman remains in effect and Crawford has presented no basis
to indicate otherwise. 
          The Court further questions the
validity of that order premised upon a seeming stipulation.[5]
Friedman should report to this Court whether he was consulted concerning that
agreement. 
          Crawford professes concern about
opening a “Pandora’ box to the Trustee becoming the intermediary between Brian
and Elizabeth as it relates to child support.” However, Crawford has no need to
be involved as to child support per se and moreover is not acting as an
intermediary where he is already seemingly acting for Brian. Crawford’s only
concern should be to comply with the terms of the Trust. It is this Court that
will have to address these overlapping issues. Again, what Elizabeth is
entitled to in child support is not equivalent to what Caroline is entitled to
under the Trust. This Court previously rejected that argument when Brian made
it in opposing Friedman’s appointment. 
4.       That the
Trust provides for Brian to receive distributions, not Elizabeth, may be
inconsistent with assuring that Caroline receives her rightful interests as
beneficiary of the Pacific Trust. Crawford, as ostensibly impartial trustee,
should report to the Court whether payments should instead be made care of Friedman,
to avoid parental disputes, or if the Trust should be further amended to
address this concern.  
 
          The Court will hold an evidentiary
hearing, if necessary, after Crawford has filed with this Court an accounting
and declaration of Gregory Crawford, as Crawford’s President, showing how he
has exercised his discretion consistent with the terms of the Trust. No such
evidence has been filed to date. Said accounting and declaration shall be filed
by November 30, 2023.[6]
Friedman shall file a response to said filing by December 14, 2023. Any
response of Crawford thereto shall be filed by December 22, 2023. 
          As alluded to above, the objection seems
to reflect concerning bias of Crawford, a trustee, in favor of Brian, one
beneficiary, and against Caroline, another beneficiary of the Pacific Trust. While
Crawford claims he has “deep concerns about the long-term consequences of
granting this petition,” he does not address what long-term consequences may
arise from Caroline not receiving the level of education she may be entitled
to, nor is it his business to meddle in the Family Law dispute related to the
respective obligations of her parents. The Court seeks the parties’ input as to
how to best address. It is almost as if the objection were drafted by a lawyer
for Brian (who presumably selected Crawford as trustee of his sub-trust.)  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these reasons, the Court grants
the petition for an accounting, sets the balance of the petition for further
hearing on January 9, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. and overrules the objections. 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


