 Case Number:  23BBCV01414    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
David Marcus
  King,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
Robin Ramon Ha
  Rivera,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


  Case No.: 23BBCV01414
 
  Hearing Date:  January 26, 2024 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:
motion to quash subpoenas



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff David Marcus King (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on March 24, 2022, Plaintiff was fully stopped at a red light facing
southbound on Laurel Canyon Boulevard at the intersection of Oxnard Street when
Defendant driver Robin Ramon Ha Rivera’s negligence and unsafe speed caused
Defendants Rivera and Douglas Kinzley’s vehicle to rear-end Plaintiff’s vehicle
causing the collision and Plaintiff’s injuries and damages.  
The complaint, filed June 23, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle; and (2) general negligence.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar
On December 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion to quash subpoenas for records. 
On January 12, 2024, Defendants filed an
opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff
moves to quash the deposition subpoenas for production of business records
dated November 30, 2023 served on LA City Fire Department/EMS Records Unit,
Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center/Medical Records, Providence Saint Joseph
Medical Center/Billing, Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center/Radiology
Department, and Synergistic Systems, LLC. 
(Mot. at Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff
objects on the grounds that the subpoenas: (1) violate Plaintiff’ right to
privacy in his medical records and
seek records unrelated to his injuries, conditions, and body parts at issue in
the case; (2) violate the physician-patient privilege and/or
psychotherapist-patient privilege and the subpoenas are not narrowly tailored
to address the documents pertinent to this case; (3) violate his right of
privacy in financial information and documentation, as they seek billing,
financial, and insurance records unrelated to this case; (4) are overbroad in scope and time; (5) violate the collateral source
rule; and (6) fail to comply with the timing and notice requirements of CCP §§
2020.410 and 1985.3(b). 
            The subpoenas seek the following
information and documents: 
·        
LA City Fire Department/EMS Records
Unit:
Any and all documents, paper, and digital records pertaining to the case,
treatment, and examination of Plaintiff including but not limited to all
transport records, call-in logs, notes, correspondence, medical and medication
records, and itemized billing charges for records 10 years prior to the
present. 
·        
Providence Saint Joseph Medical
Center/Medical Records: Any and all documents, paper, and
digital records pertaining to the case, treatment, and examination of Plaintiff
including but not limited to all office, ER, inpatient, and outpatient
charts/records, as well as electronic communications from and to Plaintiff,
intake forms, and diagnostics reports, from 10 years prior to the present. 
·        
Providence Saint Joseph Medical
Center/Billing: Any and all paper/digital records of
payments and/or discounts regarding any medical billing, etc. for Plaintiff
from 10 years prior to the present.  
·        
Providence Saint Joseph Medical
Center/Radiology Department: Any and all x-ray films, MRI films,
CAT scans, etc. specific to Plaintiff from 10 years prior to the present.  
·        
Synergistic Systems, LLC:
Any and all documents pertaining to the care, treatment, and examination of
Plaintiff, including billing information and payments, etc. for Plaintiff from
10 years prior to the present.  
(See Mot. at Ex. 1.)  
            Plaintiff
argues that the subpoenas seek information that is unrelated to Plaintiff’s
injuries, conditions, and body parts at issue in this present case and that the
subpoena requests are not narrowly tailored in scope or time.  Plaintiff argues that he has identified in
FROG No. 6.2 the specific body parts that were injured as a result of the
accident, which include the head, face, neck, upper back, mid back, low back
pain radiating to bilateral hips, bilateral shoulders, and TBI.  (John Ksajikian Decl., ¶¶6-7.)  
            In
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has essentially claimed that his
entire body is at issue in this action as a result of the subject
accident.  Defendants argue that they
agreed to limit the subpoenas to Plaintiff’s musculoskeletal and neurological
systems, excluding his internal medicine records and limiting the subpoenas to
5 years.  Defendants argue that Plaintiff
filed this motion though Defendants have been trying to informally resolve the
matter.  
The Court
has summarized and reviewed the subpoenas for records and finds that they are unreasonably
broad in scope as currently requested.  While a plaintiff
is not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific
physical, mental, or emotional injury, “they may not withhold information which
relates to any physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by
bringing this lawsuit.”  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d
844, 864; City & County of San
Francisco v. Superior Court (1951) 37 Cal.2d 227, 232.)  A plaintiff suing for personal injuries
waives the physician-patient privilege to some extent, but this does not make
discoverable all of a plaintiff’s lifetime medical history.  (Britt,
supra, 20 Cal.3d at 863-64.)    
The Court agrees that the documents sought
regarding the accident and Plaintiff’s purported injuries therefrom are
relevant to this action in order for Defendants to ascertain and evaluate the
extent of Plaintiff’s injuries and Defendants’ liability.  In this motor vehicle accident lawsuit,
Plaintiff claims various injuries to his head,
face, neck, upper back, mid back, low back pain radiating to bilateral hips,
and bilateral shoulders, as well as TBI.  While Plaintiff’s claimed injuries appear to extend
over the body, the entirety of all of Plaintiff’s medical history and billing
information are not necessarily at issue and thus the subpoenas are overly
broad in time and in scope.  (For
example, Plaintiff does not claim any injuries to his arms or legs.)  
As such, the subpoenas will be modified
and restricted in time. As offered by Defendants, the subpoenas shall be
limited to Plaintiff’s musculoskeletal and neurological
systems, excluding his internal medicine records from 5 years prior to the accident
to the present.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Plaintiff
David Marcus King’s motion to quash subpoenas for records is granted in part
and denied in part.  The Court will
modify the subpoenas so that they are limited in scope and time.  Defendants are ordered to re-serve the
subpoenas for records on LA City Fire Department/EMS Records Unit, Providence
Saint Joseph Medical Center/Medical Records, Providence Saint Joseph Medical
Center/Billing, Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center/Radiology Department,
and Synergistic Systems, LLC such that they limited to Plaintiff’s musculoskeletal and neurological systems, excluding his
internal medicine records, and the production shall be limited to a period no
more than 5 years from the date of the incident.  
            Plaintiff
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: January 26, 2024                                         ______________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court   