 Case Number:  23BBCV01770    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
haykgohi
  zargarian, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
walmart inc., et al.,  
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV01770
    
  Hearing Date:  January 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for trial setting preference
  pursuant to CCP § 36



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Haykgohi Zargarian (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that she was a patron of Walmart Supercenter in Burbank on February 11,
2023.  Plaintiff alleges that she stepped
on grapes that were on the floor in or near the self-checkout area, slipped,
and fell, causing severe injuries and damages to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Walmart
Inc. (“Walmart”) and Defendant Hal Halmon (“Halmon”) carelessly and negligently
owned, controlled, maintained, and inspected the premises so as to allow the
area where the subject incident occurred to become dangerous and unsafe for
patrons to use.  
The complaint, filed August 2, 2023,
alleges a single cause of action for negligence.    
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion for trial preference pursuant to CCP § 36.  
            On January 12, 2024, Walmart filed
an opposition brief. 
            On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a reply brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
According to CCP §
36(a), a party to a civil action who is over the age of 70 must be given
preference if the party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole and
the health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.  To make the findings required by CCP § 36(a),
evidence must be provided with the motion for preference establishing
Plaintiff’s age and the relevant conditions of his health warranting a
preference.  Pursuant to CCP § 36.5, an
attorney affidavit offered in support of a motion for preference may be based
on information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of a
party.  If a motion for preference based
on a party’s age is granted, the matter must be set for trial not more than 120
days from the date the motion is granted. 
(CCP § 36(f).) 
Pursuant to CCP § 36(e), in its
discretion, the court may grant a motion for preference that is supported by a
showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served
by granting preference.  
Finally, CCP § 36(c)(1) requires that all
essential parties be served with process or have appeared in the action in
order to grant a motion for preference. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff moves for trial preference based
on her age and current medical condition. 
Plaintiff seeks a trial preference within 120 days of this hearing date.  
In support of the motion, Plaintiff
provides the declaration of her counsel Sedrak Yenikomshuyan and physician
Glenna Tolbert, M.D.  
Dr. Tolbert states that she has reviewed Plaintiff’s
medical records.  (Tolbert Decl.,
¶4.)  She states that according to her
medical records, on February 12, 2023, Plaintiff only recently underwent a
serious medical procedure to treat her hip fracture.  (Id., ¶5.)  She states that upon further review of the
records, it became apparent that in addition to her advanced age, Plaintiff has
been diagnosed with “major depressive disorder, hard of hearing, struggles with
cardiovascular issues such as hyperlipidermia, and needs assistance in all activities,
which includes, the use of a walker for weakness and limited range of
motion.”  (Id., ¶5.)  
Mr. Yenikomshuyan states that Plaintiff is
82 years old (date of birth: December 6, 1941). 
(Yenikomshuyan Decl., ¶3; Ex. 1 [Medical Record indicating date of
birth].)  He states that based on his
review of the medical records and communications with Dr. Tolbert, he is
informed and believes that if a trial date is not set within 120 days,
Plaintiff’s availability for trial will be severely prejudiced.  (Id., ¶4.)  He states that he has been informed that
Plaintiff’s physical condition has deteriorated in the past 6 months, she tires
easily and quickly, and her hip and leg pain make it difficult for her to move
and focus for extended periods of time. 
(Id.)  Counsel states that
the case is a straightforward case with a single cause of action, no significant
amendments to the pleadings are anticipated before trial, there are no complex
issues, and the parties have been engaging in discovery, subpoena practice, and
depositions such that discovery is anticipated to be completed by April 2024 and
expert discovery by May 2024.  (Id.,
¶¶5-8.)  Counsel anticipates the jury
trial to take approximately 7-10 days.  (Id.,
¶9.)  Mr. Yenikomshuyan states that in
light of Plaintiff’s age, medical diagnosis and prognoses, a preferential trial
date is necessary to prevent prejudicing Plaintiff’s interests and he is concerned
that if a trial date is not set within 120 days, Plaintiff’s medical issues
will severely jeopardize her ability to participate in the litigation.  (Id., ¶10.)  
Section 36(a) requires that: (1) Plaintiff
be over the age of 70; (2) Plaintiff have a substantial interest in the action
as a whole; and (3) Plaintiff’s health is such that a preference is necessary
to prevent prejudicing her interest in the litigation.  First, Plaintiff has established that she is
over the age of 70.  Second, since
Plaintiff was involved in the slip and fall accident at issue in this action,
she can establish that she has a substantial interest in the action as a
whole.  
The evidence supporting the third factor
regarding Plaintiff’s health is sparse. 
Plaintiff provides the declarations of her counsel and a physician.  It is unclear what relationship Dr. Tolbet
has with Plaintiff.  In her declaration,
Dr. Tolbert states that she reviewed Plaintiff’s records, but there are no
statements that she is Plaintiff’s treating physician.  According to the medical records attached to
Mr. Yenikomshuyan’s declaration, the only doctors identified are Surgeon Shahan
Yacoubian V., MD for the hip fracture surgery (Megan Johnson, MD for
physician’s notes provider) (Yenikomshuyan Decl., Ex. 1) and a medical record
by Central Home Health Agency (no doctors identified) (id, Ex. 2).  Dr. Tolbert’s declaration does not show that
Plaintiff’s health is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing her interest in the case. 
Mr. Yenikomshuyan also provides his declaration, wherein he states that
Plaintiff’s condition has deteriorated, she tires quickly, and she has
difficulty moving and focusing.  Other
than a conclusory statement that he is concerned that Plaintiff’s interests
will be prejudiced if trial is not sets within 120 days, counsel has not shown
that a medical diagnosis or prognosis of Plaintiff is such that a preference is
necessary to prevent prejudicing her interest in the litigation.  
            As Plaintiff has not made this
requisite showing through her moving papers, the motion for a trial preference is
denied.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER  
Plaintiff’s
motion for trial preference is denied without prejudice. 
The Court notes
that this action will be transferred to Department V of the Alhambra Courthouse
on February 5, 2024.  Thus, Plaintiff may
re-file the motion in the Alhambra Courthouse when they develop more compelling
evidence to support their motion.  
The Case
Management Conference is continued to March 12, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department
V. 
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: January 26, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 