 Case Number:  23BBCV01301    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
andreas george, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
jia lun shao, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


  Case No.: 23BBCV01301
 
  Hearing Date:  January 26, 2024 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:
demurrer; motion to strike



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Andreas George, McKenna Warde,
and Jaxon Eddy (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege that they were tenants of
6173 Cleon Ave., North Hollywood, CA 91606 beginning on December 1, 2022
pursuant to a written lease agreement with Defendant Jia Lun Shao (“Shao”)
and/or his predecessors/successors-in-interest. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Shao and Eya “Rei” Hua (“Rei”) are the
landlords and/or owners of the subject property.  
Plaintiffs allege that there were
defective conditions on the property including mold/mildew, pest infestation,
faulty plumbing structures, lack of/improper waterproofing, lack of/faulty
insulation and heating apparatuses, inoperable stove and appliances, lack of
hot and cold running water, lack of/faulty HVAC equipment, missing/faulty
carbon monoxide detectors, faulty broken kitchen and bathroom fixtures, and
unsafe common areas.  (Compl., ¶25.)  They allege that they notified and
followed-up with Defendants on multiple occasions from December 11, 2022 to
April 9, 2023 about different issues with the premise, but Defendants addressed
only some issues but not others and/or delayed providing repair/remedial
services.  (See Compl., ¶¶26-56.) 
The complaint, filed June 9, 2023, alleges
causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) statutory breach of the
warranty of habitability (Civ. Code, §§ 1941 and 1941.1); (3) tortious breach
of the warranty of habitability; (4) violation of Business & Professions
Code, § 17200 et seq.: (5) private nuisance; (6) negligence; (7) breach
of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (8) IIED; (9) NIED; (10) breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing; (11) violation of LAMC § 45.33; and (12)
constructive eviction.   
B.    
Cross-Complaint
On August 22, 2023, Cross-Complainant Jia
Lun Shao (a self-represented litigant) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Andreas George and McKenna Warde for: (1) breach of contract; (2) negligence;
(3) IIED; and (4) nonpayment of rent.  This
cross-complaint was ordered void on October 3, 2023.  
On October 5, 2023, Shao filed another
cross-complaint against George and Warde for the same causes of action.  
C.    
Motions on Calendar
On October 25, 2023, Cross-Defendants
George and Warde filed a motion to strike portions of Shao’s
cross-complaint.  On October 26, 2023,
they filed a demurrer to the cross-complaint. 
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
            Cross-Defendants George and Warde
demur to the 1st to 4th causes of action alleged in Shao’s
cross-complaint.   
A.   
1st cause of action for breach of contract
The essential
elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)  
      In the 1st cause of action, Cross-Complainant
alleges that Cross-Defendants had the responsibility to but failed to inform
landlord or his agent about the conditions of the property and unsuccessful
repairs, which caused further damage to the premises.  (XC, ¶18.) 
He alleges that Cross-Complainants/Plaintiffs allege in their own
complaint that they informed Rei about issues to the property, but they did not
inform him about issues, which amounts to a breach of the lease agreement.  (Id., ¶19.)  He also alleges that Cross-Defendants were
aware of the failed repairs but did not inform Shao or his agent and that they
did not accept the repairs that were done on the property.  (Id., ¶¶20-21.)  
            Cross-Defendants
George and Warde demur to the 1st cause of action, arguing that Shao
failed to attach a copy of the lease agreement to the cross-complaint.  However, a copy of the lease agreement is
attached to their complaint, such that the Court is in receipt of the lease
agreement and may take judicial notice of the complaint and its exhibits.  
            Next, Cross-Defendants argue that
the cross-complaint includes inconsistencies because Shao alleges that they
were neglectful and failed to inform Shao of issues with the property, but then
also alleges facts that Cross-Defendants notified Rei about certain
issues.  While it may be that in some
instances Cross-Defendants communicated issues with the property to Shao and/or
his agent Rei and may have chosen not to do so in other instances, the
allegations are somewhat confusing in how they are alleged.  For example, Shao alleges that he was never
informed about a faulty outlet in the bathroom though Rei was notified, which
he alleges amounts to a breach (XC, ¶19), but then it appears that notification
could be made to both Shao (landlord) or his agent (XC, ¶20).  Shao should clarify the pleadings so as to
allege the contractual term regarding notice (or cite to the lease agreement) and
how Cross-Defendants breached this term by failing to provide Shao notice (as
opposed to providing notice to his agent Rei). 
            The demurrer to the 1st
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
B.    
2nd cause of action for negligence
The elements of a negligence cause of
action are “duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.”  (Carlsen
v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 892.)  
In the 2nd cause of action,
Cross-Complainant Shao alleges that Cross-Defendants occupied, operated, took
care of, and maintained the property during their tenancy and that they owed a
duty of care of the subject property to pay monthly rent and perform routine maintenance,
such as taking care of the landscaping and immediately reporting issues and
repair requests to the owner.  (XC,
¶¶27-28.)  Shao alleges that in early
2023, Cross-Defendants were aware of roof leaks and potential signs of mold but
did not immediately disclose the issues and the substandard repair attempts to
Shao, which caused further damage.  (Id.,
¶29.)  
Cross-Defendants argue that they timely
and promptly disclosed issues regarding the property.  They cited to paragraphs 3, 6, 7, and 10-12
in the cross-complaint.  In the general
allegations, Shao alleges that Cross-Defendants notified him about a leaky
light fixture on December 11, 2022 and he spoke with a contractor named Rei the
same day to schedule a repair.  (XC.,
¶3.)  Shao alleges he called Rei to
follow up about the repair status on December 20, 2022 and told it was
completed. (Id., ¶5.)  He alleges
that Cross-Defendants contacted him and Rei on January 5, 2023 about a leaky
light fixture, Shao contacted Rei the same day to ask about repairs, and Rei
responded that she would schedule a time for a repair.  (Id., ¶6.)  On February 13, 2023, Cross-Defendants texted
Rei thanking her for the roof repair, but reminding her about the mold in the
bathroom; Shao also reached out to Rei to schedule repairs.  (Id., ¶7.)  On April 5, 2023, Rei informed Shao that
Cross-Defendants wanted a mold inspection, he retained a mold specialist who
came on April 8, 2023, and had the premises repaired.  (Id., ¶¶10-12.)  The cross-complaint alleges facts showing
that Cross-Defendants informed Shao about issues with the property.  Shao has not alleged facts that the issues on
the property persisted for a long time period before they contacted him for
repairs.  The allegations are also devoid
of facts showing that Cross-Defendants undertook actions to do repairs
themselves that caused further damage to the property. 
Cross-Complainant Shao should provide
further allegations to support the cause of action for negligence.  The demurrer to the 2nd cause of
action is sustained with leave to amend. 
C.    
3rd cause of action for IIED
The elements of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the
defendant’s intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff suffered severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (4) the plaintiff’s injuries were actually and
proximately caused by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  (Vasquez
v. Franklin Mgmt. Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.)  In order to avoid a demurrer, the
plaintiff must allege with great specificity, the acts which she believes are
so extreme as to exceed all bounds of behavior usually tolerated in a civilized
community.  (Id.) 
Conduct to be outrageous must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of behavior usually tolerated in a civilized
community.  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)  In addition, the outrageous conduct must be
of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental
distress of a very serious kind.  (Id.) 
“Although emotional distress may consist of
any highly unpleasant mental reaction such as fright, grief, shame,
humiliation, embarrassment, anger, chagrin, disappointment or worry [citation],
to make out a claim, the plaintiff must prove that emotional distress was
severe and not trivial or transient.”  (Wong v. Tai Jing (2010)
189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1376.)  Such distress must be “of such
substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable person in civilized
society should be expected to endure it.”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire
& Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1004.)
In the 3rd cause of action,
Shao alleges that other than the December 2022 reporting of the roof leak,
Cross-Defendants never fulfilled their responsibility to immediately report
damages and repair requests to Shao. 
(XC, ¶32.)  He alleges that he
discovered issues himself in April 2023 and attempted to fix a leaky wall,
which resulted in having the entire wall replaced.  (Id., ¶33.)  He alleges that due to Cross-Defendants’
failure to act immediately and notify Shao of issues, their failure to pay
monthly rent, and their destruction of landscaping, he has suffered emotional
and financial distress and losses.  (Id.,
¶¶35-36.) 
Cross-Defendants argue that Shao has not
alleged sufficient facts regarding outrageous conduct.  Indeed, the alleged failure to report issues
or repair requests does not rise to the level of outrageous conduct necessary
for an IIED cause of action.  He has not
alleged facts that the acts that Cross-Defendants engaged in are so extreme as
to exceed all bounds of behavior usually tolerated in a civilized community.
As such, the demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
D.   
4th cause of action for nonpayment of rent 
In the 4th cause of action,
Shao alleges that Cross-Defendants were under a lease agreement and had a
responsibility to pay rent.  (XC,
¶38.)  He alleges that more than $15,000
is due for repairs to the walls and landscaping and missing rent.  (Id.) 

            Cross-Defendants argue that this
cause of action is superfluous and duplicative of the other causes of
action.  
            The 4th cause of action
is essentially a claim for breach of contract for failure to pay rent, which is
a term of the lease agreement.  As such,
this cause of action is duplicative and should be alleged in the 1st
cause of action.  
            The demurrer to the 4th
cause of action.  The Court will allow
limited leave such that Shao may allege the facts regarding nonpayment of rent
in the 1st cause of action for breach of the lease agreement.  
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO STRIKE 
Cross-Defendants move to strike the prayer
for damages at page 9, paragraphs 1 and 2. 

Paragraph 1 of the prayer for damages asks
that Cross-Defendants take nothing by way of their original complaint.  The motion to strike this request is
granted.  The cross-complaint should only
seek relief with respect to the cross-claims and not seek relief regarding
Cross-Defendants/Plaintiff’s initial complaint. 
The motion to strike paragraph 1 is granted without leave to amend. 
Paragraph 2 of the prayer for damages
requests attorney’s fees and costs.  Cross-Defendants
argue that Shao has not pled any contractual or statutory basis for attorney’s
fees.  However, the lease agreement on
page 3 (in the first full paragraph entitled, “ATTORNEY’S FEES”) includes an
attorney’s fees provision for reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.  (See Compl., Ex. Residential Lease.)  Thus, the motion to strike is denied as to
paragraph 2.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Cross-Defendants Andreas
George and McKenna Warde’s demurrer to the cross-complaint is sustained with 20
days leave to amend. 
            Cross-Defendants
Andreas George and McKenna Warde’s motion to strike portions of the
cross-complaint is granted without leave to amend as to the prayer for damages
at paragraph 1 and denied as to the prayer for damages at paragraph 2.   
            Cross-Defendants
shall provide notice. 
 
 
DATED: January 26, 2024                                         ______________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court   