 Case Number:  23NWCV01354    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  C Joseph Moy, et al. vs Ford Motor Company, et
al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01354
Hearing Date: 12/12/23 @ 10:30 a.m.
 
#11
Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant
Ford Motor Company’s Motion for Change of Venue is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are ordered
to pay the transfer fee within five (5) days of notice of this
order.   
 
Moving
party to give notice.  
 
No
Opposition as of December 11, 2023.
 
 
Background 
This case involves an express breach of warranty claim
brought pursuant to the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act against Defendant
Ford Motor Company (“Ford”). Plaintiffs brought a claim for negligent repairs
against Defendant Semper Fi Automotive, Inc dba Fullerton Ford (“Fullerton
Ford”). Plaintiffs are residents of Anaheim in Orange County. (Complaint ¶2.)
Defendant Fullerton Ford, who is located in Fullerton, is a resident of Orange
County. (Complaint ¶ 4.) The repairs to Plaintiffs’ used 2018 Ford Mustang were
performed by Fullerton Ford in Orange County. (Complaint ¶¶ 4, 30, 31.)
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on May 5, 2023 in the above entitled Court.
Defendants have now filed a motion to transfer venue to the
Superior Court of California, Orange County. 
There is no opposition. 
Legal
Standard 
 
If the plaintiff files an action with an improper
court, that court must transfer the action to a proper court, either upon the
defendant’s motion or on its own motion. (Code of Civ. Proc. §§¿396a(b),
396b.)  Defendant’s motion must be made within 30 days after service,
unless extended by stipulation or court order.  (Code of Civ. Proc. §
396b.) 
 
A court may, on motion, transfer an action if (a)
the action was filed in the improper court; (b)¿an impartial trial cannot be
held therein; (c) for the convenience of witnesses and to promote justice; (d)
where no judge therein is qualified to act; or (e) where a dissolution of
marriage action has been filed in the county in which the defendant has resided
for three months.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 397(a)-(d).) 
 
Here,
the
Plaintiffs reside in Orange County and Defendant Fullerton Ford who performed
the repairs on Plaintiffs’ Mustang is located in Orange County. The alleged
negligent repairs that were performed on Plaintiffs’ Mustang occurred in Orange
County. The automotive technicians that performed the repairs on Plaintiffs’
Mustang worked in Orange County. 
 
The Court finds that venue is not proper in Los
Angeles County because neither  Defendant
nor Plaintiff are located in Los Angeles County and the alleged injuries did
not take place in Los Angeles County.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition demonstrating any grounds that venue is proper in Los Angeles
County.  
 
Based on the parties’ residence in Orange County
and the convenience of witnesses, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Change
Venue to Orange County. 
 
The prevailing party shall recover the “costs and
fees of the transfer, and of filing the papers…” for an action brought under
CCP §§ 397(b)-(e).  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 399(a).) 
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to pay the transfer fee within five days of notice of this
order.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 399(a).)  
 
 
 
 