 Case Number:  23NWCV02359    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  C CYNTHIA LEDEZMA vs SANDRA CARRILLO
Case No.: 23NWCV02359
Hearing Date: 12/12/23 @ 9:30am
 
#6
Tentative Ruling
Defendant Sandra Carillo’s
(Defendant) Motion to Set Aside Dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure §
473(d) is GRANTED. Defendant is permitted to file responsive pleading within 30
days of this signed order. 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
No Opposition filed as of December 8, 2023.
 
Background
This case arises out of a premises liability issue
occurring at 6500 ½ Cottage Street, Huntington Park, CA 90255. Plaintiff
Cynthia Ledezma (Plaintiff) alleges that she slipped and fell and then was
wrongfully evicted.
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on July 28, 2023 without a
Statement of Damages. Plaintiff filed her proof of service on September 13,
2023. The proof of service was not legible, and the document appeared to be
corrupt. (See Katiraie Decl. Ex. A). As such, Defendant’s counsel contacted
plaintiff’s counsel requesting an extension of time to file a responsive
pleading and to meet and confer about the Complaint. 
On October 12, 2023, Defendant’s counsel (“Ms. Katiraie”)
contacted Plaintiff’s counsel (“Mr. Martinez”) and left a voicemail for Mr.
Martinez requesting additional time to file the answer as defense counsel had
just received the case and was attempting to file the proper responsive
pleading. Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to Defense counsel’s voicemail. 
On October 17, 2023, at 8:52 a.m., Ms. Katiraie emailed
Plaintiff’s counsel and asked if they would agree to the extension as there are
flaws within the Complaint that will warrant a demurrer and motion to strike,
and if they do not agree to an extension of time, Ms. Katiraie will be filing
an Ex Parte Application requesting an extension of time. (Katiraie Decl., Ex.
B). Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond. Thereafter, Defense sent Plaintiff the
Ex Parte application with proper notice on October 17, 2023 at 12:49 p.m.
(Katiraie Decl., Ex. C.) After receiving the Ex Parte application request for
additional time, Defense Counsel argues that Plaintiff sought a “secret”
default on the same date within one hour of receiving the ex parte application,
specifically at 2:00 p.m.
On November 10, 2023, Ms. Katiraie sent a stipulation to
set aside the Plaintiff’s request for Default Judgment, to which Mr. Martinez
stated that he doesn’t have time to review the Stipulation and stated that
Defendant should proceed with the Motion to Set Aside. (Katiraie Decl., Ex. E.)
Defense Counsel ultimately filed the instant motion. 
The instant motion is unopposed. 
 
Legal
Standard  
¿ 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (d), a court may, upon
motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in
its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order
directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party,
set aside any void judgment or order. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (d).)¿ 
 
“It
is the policy of the law to favor, wherever possible, a hearing on the merits,
and appellate courts are much more disposed to affirm an order where the result
is to compel a trial upon the merits than they are when the judgment by default
is allowed to stand and it appears that a substantial defense could be made.
Stated another way, the policy of the law is to have every litigated case tried
upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a party, who, regardless of
the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of the mistake, surprise,
inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.” (Weitz v. Yankosky (1966) 63
Cal.2d 849, 854–855.)¿ 
 
Discussion    
 
Defendant offers that a statement of damages required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.11 was not properly served on Defendant and
therefore the default is should be vacated. 
Defendant cites Plotitsa v. Superior Court, (1983)
140 Cal. App. 3d 755, 759-761, for the proposition that where defendant has not
appeared in the action, the statement of damages must be served in the same
manner as the summons and complaint. The Plotitsa court stated that Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.11 exists “to give defendant one ‘last clear
chance’ to respond to the allegations of the complaint and to avoid the precise
consequences [of] …: a judgment for a substantial sum, [without] any actual notice
of…potential liability.” (Id. at
760.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s failure to serve a statement of
damages deprived the moving party of actual notice and thus the ‘last clear
chance’ to respond to the allegations in the complaint.
Defendant also points to the fact that Opposing counsel
failed to extend to the defendant, her attorney or her representative, the
courtesy of a warning before taking the default. Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s counsel refused to meet and confer about the pending demurrer and
motion to strike, and instead chose to pursue a default through an ex parte
motion, which did not allow Defense counsel to oppose the default. Defense
counsel argues that Plaintiff’s counsel was attempting to take advantage of Defense
counsel’s mistake in not filing the request for additional time on the date she
left a voicemail for Plaintiff’s counsel and waited for his return call.
The declaration includes evidence that Defendant’s counsel
contacted Plaintiff’s counsel before the answer was due, and left a voicemail,
to which Mr. Martinez has agreed that he has received and was too busy to
respond.  (Katiraie Decl, Ex. D). Defense
counsel attempted to enter into a stipulation to allow Defendant 15 days to
answer the pleadings, but Plaintiff’s counsel told Defense counsel to file the
instant motion as Plaintiff’s counsel was in trial and did not have time to
speak. (Katiraie Decl, Ex. E).
Based on the foregoing,
Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure §
473(d) is GRANTED.