 Case Number:  22NWCV00977    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  C JOSEPH CONSTRUCTION v. ANDY TRAN
CASE No.: 22NWCV00977
Hearing: 12/12/23 @ 10:30am
 
#9
Defendant Andy Tran’s Motion to Deem Request
for Admission Admitted is deemed MOOT. 
Defendant Tran’s Sanctions request is DENIED. 
Plaintiff’s Sanctions request is DENIED. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Background 
Plaintiff Joseph Construction (“Plaintiff”) is a licensed
general contractor. Defendant Andy Tran (“Defendant”) owns the home located at
5222 Carfax Avenue in Lakewood. Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a written
contract on May 21, 2022 for work that included a garage addition, front porch
extension and front concrete work (the “Project”). The Contract price was
$40,000.00, plus additional work as agreed upon by the parties.
On October 12, 2022, Plaintiff filed this lawsuit for (1)
breach of contract, (2) quantum meruit, (3) to enforce mechanics lien, and (4)
prompt payment penalties seeking recovery of monies due and owing after
nonpayment.  On November 14, 2022,
Defendant Tran filed a cross-complaint against the owner of Joseph
Construction, Joseph Machul (“Cross-Defendant”), and insurers alleging breach
of contract among other causes of action.
 
Motion to Deem Matters Admitted
“If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply … (b) The
requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents
and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted … (c)
The court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the
requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the
motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.” (CCP § 2033.280.)
Defendant Tran served his Requests for
Admission (set one) on Cross-Defendant Machul on August 2, 2023. Cross-Defendant
Machul’s responses were due on September 4, 2023. However, Cross-Defendant
Machul did not respond until November 3, 2023. 

In Opposition, Cross-Defendant Machul argues
that the motion must be denied because the RFAs were not properly served and,
after receiving this Motion, responses were served in substantial compliance
with the Code of Civil Procedure.  Per
CCP § 2033.280(c) “a responding party's service of a tardy proposed RFA
response that is substantially code-compliant will defeat a deemed admitted
motion.” (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778.)
Because Cross-Defendant served responses in substantial compliance with the
Code of Civil Procedure before the hearing (Brunner Dec. ¶7, Exhibit 5.), the
instant motion is DENIED as MOOT.
Sanctions
Sanctions are mandatory against any party,
person, or attorney who fails to timely serve responses to requests for
admission or who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response
to interrogatories unless the one subject to sanctions acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.
(CCP §§ 2031.320(b), 2033.280(c).) 
Sanctions may be awarded, even though no opposition is filed pursuant to
CRC 3.1348(a).
As to Defendant Tran’s request for sanctions, the
Court finds Cross-Defendant Machul’s counsel acted with substantial
justification because counsel made clear that his paralegal, Ms. Rollins, should
be included in all servings. (Brunner Dec. ¶ 3, Exhibit 2.) Defendant Tran’s counsel
seemingly copied Ms. Rollins in other email service, including the one for the
instant motion. (Brunner Dec. ¶4; Ex. 4.) 
Cross-Defendant Machul’s counsel then sent responses to the request for
admissions. Because Cross-Defendant Machul’s counsel attests that the failure
to properly calendar the response date was due to Defendant Tran’s counsel not
copying Ms. Rollins, and the requests for admissions were properly answered
once Cross-Defendant’s counsel was made aware, the Court finds that there was
substantial justification for the initial lack of responses. Accordingly,
Defendant Tran’s request for sanctions is DENIED. 
Cross-Defendant’s counsel also requests
sanctions, arguing that by not including Ms. Rollins, there was a misuse of
discovery. However, Cross-Defendant Machul’s counsel does not deny that he was
served a copy of the discovery request.  Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant Machul’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 