 Case Number:  24STCV05798    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling
            Defendant Michael Niro’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons
            Defendant
Michael Niro moves to quash service of summons in this unlawful detainer action
by plaintiff WF Chateau Partners LLC.  “[O]nce a defendant files a motion to
quash the burden is on the plaintiff to prove by a preponderance of the
evidence the validity of the service and the court’s jurisdiction over the
defendant.”  (Bolkiah v. Superior
Court (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 984, 991.) 

When defendant filed this motion, plaintiff had not yet filed proof of
service.  On April 26, 2024, plaintiff
filed a proof of service of summons by posting. 
On May 1, 2024, defendant filed a supplemental declaration in support of
this motion.  He states, “After I filed
my latest motion to quash, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of the summons
and complaint, wherein the process server claims to have posted the summons and
complaint with other documents on April 4, 2024 at 8:03 PM.  However, on that date, he ONLY posted the
application and order to post and mail, two double-sided pages, which I
discovered the next morning.  There was
no summons and complaint or any of the other papers claimed to have been
simultaneously served.  It is simply a
fabrication back-dated and filed after I challenged the service in my motion to
quash.”  (Supp. Niro Decl., p. 1.)
Plaintiff’s evidence, meanwhile, consists of the proof of service
itself.  The proof of service is signed
under penalty of perjury by registered process server Mohammad
Rafiquzzaman.  “The return
of a process server registered… upon process or notice establishes a
presumption, affecting the burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated in
the return.”  (Evid. Code, § 647.)  Rafiquzzaman states he
“served copies of: Application and Order to Serve Summons and Complaint by
Posting; Summons; Complaint; Prejudgment Claim of Right to Possession; Fifth
Amended Standing Order; Civil Case Cover Sheet; Notice of Case Assignment;
Plaintiff’s Mandatory Cover Sheet and Supplemental Allegations –Unlawful Detainer;
Notice of Online Dispute Resolution – Unlawful Detainer (29 Pgs).”  That he specified the number of pages of
documents bolsters his credibility and undermines defendant’s testimony that
Rafiquzzaman only posted two pages of documents.
Resolving this factual dispute requires making credibility
determinations.  Under California Rules of Court, rule
3.1306(a), the court finds good cause to require live testimony.  The court will continue this hearing to give
the parties an opportunity to present live witness testimony.  The parties or their attorneys and any
witnesses must appear in person.    
Disposition
            Defendant Michael Niro’s motion to
quash service of summons is continued to May 24,
2024, at 1:30 p.m.  Any witness must
testify in person in the courtroom.  All
arguments must be made in person in the courtroom.  No remote appearances, arguments, or
testimony shall be allowed.  