 Case Number:  23STCV24193    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
            Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan’s 5 Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses     
1 & 2. Requests for Production
and Interrogatories to QTC
            Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan moves to compel defendant QTC Management, Inc. (QTC) to produce
documents, to serve further responses to requests for production, and to serve
further responses to interrogatories.
            QTC
opposes the motions solely on the grounds that plaintiff failed to meet and
confer as required.  “A meet and confer
declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”  (CCP § 2016.040.)  
Plaintiff
shows a sufficient effort to meet and confer. 
On February 22, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent QTC’s counsel a long
email discussing the disputed form interrogatories and requests for production.  (Zilikyan Decl., Ex. 3.)  Plaintiff’s counsel wrote, “If we do not get
supplemental responses by March 4, 2024, we are moving to compel.  We have given your clients enough time to
respond to this discovery with substantive responses.”  (Id., pdf p. 57.)  The same day, QTC’s counsel replied, “We are
happy to review your client’s position as to the discovery responses discussed
below and will respond accordingly.”  (Ibid.)  The record shows no further correspondence
before plaintiff filed the motion on March 6. 
Plaintiff was not required to wait indefinitely.  Plaintiff gave QTC an adequate opportunity to
respond.  
QTC’s
opposition contends the substantive disputes are moot.  The declaration of QTC’s counsel in support
of its opposition states that on April 4, “[t]he parties resolved the issues
raised in the instant Motions to Compel and Defendants began preparing
supplemental responses.  To date there
are no disputes as to any of the discovery that is the subject of Plaintiff’s
four motions against Defendants.” 
(Riordan Decl., ¶ 9.)  The
declaration of plaintiff’s counsel in support of plaintiff’s reply attaches an email
describing “the parties’ final agreement regarding the outstanding discovery
issues.”  (Zilifyan Reply Decl., ¶ 11,
Ex. 8.)  Plaintiff’s counsel further
states, “It is now over a month later and Defendant has yet to supplement any
discovery…  To date no supplemental
responses have been received by Plaintiff’s counsel.”  (Id., ¶¶ 12, 14.)  
Resolving
the issues in the motion requires supplementing the responses, not merely
agreeing to do so.  The record indicates
QTC agreed to supplement its responses but has not done so.  The court therefore will grant the motion and
order QTC to supplement its responses as it agreed and to produce responsive
documents.
Sanctions
On each of
the two motions, plaintiff moves for $7,000 in sanctions against QTC and its counsel.
 Courts must impose sanctions against one
who unsuccessfully opposes a motion to compel further responses, unless the opposing party acted
with substantial justification or other circumstances make sanctions
unjust.  (CCP §§ 2030.300(d)
[interrogatories]; 2031.310(h) [requests for production];
2033.290(d) [requests for admission].)  
QTC acted with substantial
justification.  It agreed to supplement many
of its responses, conditioned on the status of plaintiff’s operative complaint
and QTC’s responsive pleading.  On March
27, 2024, the court sustained demurrers to the second amended complaint and
gave plaintiff 30 days to file an amended complaint.  Plaintiff filed the third amended complaint
on April 26.  It was reasonable for QTC
to await stability in the operative pleadings before supplementing its
discovery responses.   
Disposition 
Plaintiff Gayane
Mkrtchyan’s motion to compel production of documents and to compel further
responses by defendant QTC Management, Inc. to requests for production is granted.  Defendant QTC Management, Inc. is ordered to serve
further verified responses without objections to requests for production Nos.
3-19, 20-23, 25-30, 32-34, 37, and 40-48, within 30 days.  Defendant QTC Management, Inc. shall produce
all additional responsive documents concurrently with its written responses.
Plaintiff Gayane
Mkrtchyan’s motion to compel further responses by defendant QTC Management,
Inc. to form interrogatories is granted. 
Defendant QTC Management, Inc. is ordered to serve further
verified responses without objections to form interrogatories – employment,
Nos.  200.1, 200.4, 204.1, 204.2, 204.7, 207.1, 209.2, 214.1,
216.1, within 30 days.
3 & 4. Requests for Production and Interrogatories to Leidos
            Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan moves to compel defendants Leidos, Inc. and Leidos Holdings,
Inc. (collectively, Leidos) to produce documents, to serve further responses to
requests for production, and to serve further responses to interrogatories.   
The papers
on these motions mirror those on the motions to compel further responses by
defendant QTC.  The same counsel
represents QTC and the Leidos defendants. 
The parties jointly met and conferred regarding the responses by all
these defendants.  The parties make the
same arguments.  The court rejects
Leidos’s arguments for the same reasons discussed above as to QTC’s arguments.  The court will grant both motions and decline
to order any sanctions.    
Disposition 
Plaintiff Gayane
Mkrtchyan’s motion to compel production of documents and to compel further
responses by defendants Leidos, Inc. and Leidos Holdings, Inc. is granted.  Defendants Leidos, Inc. and Leidos Holdings, Inc. are ordered
to serve further verified responses without objections to requests for production Nos. 4-48
within 30 days.  Defendants Leidos,
Inc. and Leidos Holdings, Inc. shall produce all additional responsive documents concurrently with their
written responses.
Plaintiff Gayane
Mkrtchyan’s motion to compel further responses by defendants Leidos, Inc. and
Leidos Holdings, Inc. to form interrogatories is granted.  Defendants Leidos, Inc. and Leidos Holdings,
Inc. are ordered to serve further verified responses without objections
to form interrogatories – employment, Nos. 214.1, 214.2, and 216.1 within 30 days.             
5. Requests for Production to NY
Life
            Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan moves to compel defendants New York Life, New York Life
Insurance, and New York Life Group Benefits Solutions (collectively, NY Life)
to produce documents and to serve further responses to requests for production.
            Plaintiff
did not adequately meet and confer before filing this motion.  A motion to compel further responses to
requests for production “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.”  (CCP §
2031.310(b)(2).)  Section 2016.040
provides, “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state
facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.”
            Plaintiff
does not show a reasonable and good faith attempt to informally resolve each
issue presented by this motion.  This
motion presents three categories of issues: (1) NY Life’s objections to the
requests, (2) failure to identify the documents “with the specific request
number to which the documents respond” (CCP § 2031.280(a)), and (3) failure to
produce responsive documents.  Plaintiff’s
moving papers show only an attempt to resolve the third category.    
The
declaration in support of this motion identifies only one effort to meet and
confer.  Plaintiff’s counsel states, “On
February 23, 2024, I sent defense counsel a letter attempting to meet and confer
in order to obtain this discovery.  In
that letter I discussed the deficiencies with Defendant’s responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production (Set One).  Attached hereto as Exhibit 3 is a true and
correct copy of the February 22, 2024, meet and confer letter I sent to
Defendant.  To date, Defendant has not
responded or provided complete and sufficient responses.”  (Zilifyan Decl., ¶ 4.)  Exhibit 3 is not a meet and confer letter
sent on February 22 or 23.  Plaintiff did
not include any such letter in her papers. 
Exhibit 3 is an email thread beginning with an email serving NY Life’s
supplemental responses on February 23.  (Id.,
pdf p. 68.)
Those
emails do not demonstrate a reasonable effort to informally resolve each
dispute.  In an email dated February 26, plaintiff
raises only two issues with NY Life’s supplemental responses to the requests
for production.  Plaintiff’s counsel
asked, “When will you provide verifications for” the responses and “When will
you produce responsive documents?”  (Zilifyan
Decl., Ex. 3, pdf p. 67.)  Plaintiff’s
counsel sent follow-up emails (not addressing the substance of the dispute) on
March 2 and March 6.  (Id., pp.
66-67.)
On March 6,
NY Life’s counsel replied that he missed the email on March 2 and had reached
out to his client to “get the answers to your questions.”  (Zilifyan Decl., pdf p. 66.)  The next day, NY Life’s counsel wrote that he
sent the verifications to his client to sign. 
(Id., pdf p. 65.)  Plaintiff’s
counsel replied, “Thanks.”  (Ibid.)  On March 12, NY Life’s counsel sent the
verifications to plaintiff.  (Id.,
p. 64.)  Plaintiff’s counsel replied,
“When will you provide responsive documents?” 
(Ibid.)  In the final email
in the thread, NY Life’s counsel wrote, “I have an update regarding our
production.  We received some documents from
NYL that we are reviewing to identify those that are responses per our
supplemental responses to RFP Set 1, Nos. 3, 4, and 9.  I expect we will be able to start producing
documents next week, provided the Court has entered our protective order.”  (Id., p. 63.)  Plaintiff’s moving papers do not show any
reply to that email before she filed the motion on March 21.  
The record thus
shows no effort whatsoever to meet and confer about two of the three categories
of disputes raised in this motion: (1) the objections, and (2) identifying the
documents by request number to which they respond.  The court therefore declines to address the
merits of NY Life’s objections.  As to category
(3), producing documents, plaintiff’s motion is moot.  NY Life’s counsel produced 200 pages of
documents on April 9, 2024. 
(Lichtenstein Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. J.) 
In that email, NY Life’s counsel stated, “The production … relates to
the supplemental responses to RFPs 3, 4, and 9” (id., pdf p. 135), which
constitutes identifying them by request number. 

Sanctions 
In their
opposition, NY Life moves for $7,455 in sanctions.  “Notwithstanding the outcome of the
particular discovery motion, the court shall impose a monetary sanction
ordering that any party or attorney who fails to confer as required pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.”  (CCP § 2023.030.)  Plaintiff did not meet and confer as
required.  
Plaintiff
also moves for sanctions against NY Life. 
NY Life did not timely produce responsive documents in accordance with
their statement of compliance.  (CCP §
2031.320(a).)  Doing so is a misuse of
the discovery process subject to monetary sanctions.  (CCP §§ 2023.010(d), 2031.320(b).)  The court finds that both sides reasonably
incurred equal expenses as a result of one another’s conduct.  The court therefore will not impose monetary
sanctions.
Disposition
            Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan’s motion to compel defendants New York Life, New York Life
Insurance, and New York Life Group Benefits Solutions to produce documents and
to further respond to requests for production is denied.  
 
 
 