  Case Number:  21STCV41849    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling: 
Plaintiff High
Note, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
Plaintiff High
Note, Inc. moves for summary adjudication of four issues.
Evidentiary Objections
            Defendant
makes 11 objections to plaintiff’s evidence. 
All 11 objections are overruled.
Legal Standard for Summary
Adjudication
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(f)(1) provides,
“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
an issue of duty.”  “The court must ‘grant[
]’ the ‘motion’ ‘if all the papers submitted show’ that ‘there is no triable
issue as to any material fact’ [citation]—that is, there is no issue requiring
a trial as to any fact that is necessary under the pleadings and, ultimately, the
law.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)
Issue 1:
Plaintiff moves
for summary adjudication of the following issue: “Defendant … owed a duty to provide
security services and to secure Plaintiff’s location.”  (Notice of Motion, p. 2.)  That is an “issue of duty” subject to summary
adjudication under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(f)(1).  (See Linden Partners v.
Wilshire Linden Associates (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 508, 518-519;
Transamerica Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1705,
1713.)
In their papers, the
parties dispute whether defendant had a duty to provide one or two security
guards at the time of the burglary. 
Plaintiff did not specifically move for summary adjudication on that
issue.  The notice of motion identifies
Issue No. 1 as “Defendant … owed a duty to provide
security services and to secure Plaintiff’s location.”  The court will therefore rule on that issue
of duty, precisely as plaintiff stated it in the notice of motion.
Plaintiff establishes it is entitled to summary adjudication on Issue No.
1.  “The existence of duty is a question of law
for the court to determine.”  (Janice
H. v. 696 North Robertson, LLC (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 586, 593.)  “A ‘ duty may arise through statute,
contract, or the relationship of the parties.’ ”   (Lichtman v. Siemens Industry Inc.
(2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 914, 920.)
There is no genuine
dispute of the following material facts: plaintiff contracted with defendant to
provide at least one armed security guard at a cannabis dispensary.  (UMF Nos. 1, 3.)  While that contract was in effect, burglars
stole a safe and cannabis from the dispensary. 
(UMF No. 9.)  Defendant attempts
to dispute some of the nuances of these facts as stated in plaintiff’s separate
statement, such as the number of guards required.  But defendant shows no genuine dispute or
triable issue as to the material facts that establish the issue of duty.  Based on these undisputed facts, plaintiff shows
that defendant had a duty to provide security services and secure plaintiff’s
location.  There is no issue requiring a
trial as to any fact material to the existence of that duty. 
A security company’s duty to provide
security services and secure a location is about as simple an issue of duty as
possible.  In Mukthar v. Latin
American Security Service (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 284, a customer at a convenience
store attacked the cashier.  (Id.
at p. 286.)  The cashier sued the store’s
security service provider for negligence. 
(Ibid.)  “Under its
contract, [defendant] was required to provide armed, uniformed security guards.”  (Id. at p. 287.)  The court stated, “We note that the harm that
befell [plaintiff] was precisely the kind of harm that [defendant] was there to
prevent, i.e., an assault on a store employee.” 
(Ibid.)
The same
reasoning applies here.  Plaintiff’s harm
was theft.  Theft is a quintessential
form of harm that a security provider is hired to prevent.  Plaintiff meets its burden of establishing Issue
No. 1: that defendant “owed a duty to provide security services and to secure
Plaintiff’s location.”  (Notice of
Motion, p. 2.)  
Issue 2-4:
Plaintiff also
moves for summary adjudication of three more issues.  None of them are issues subject to summary
adjudication.  “A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (CCP § 437c(f)(1).)  Issues 2, 3, and 4 are not affirmative
defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty.  The court therefore can only grant summary
adjudication if the motion would completely dispose of a cause of action.
Issue No. 2
states: “Defendant breached its duty to Plaintiff by failing to provide
security services on the early morning of December 8, 2019 when Plaintiff’s
location was burgled.”  (Notice of
Motion, p. 2.)  The court cannot
summarily adjudicate that issue.  “A
plaintiff may seek summary adjudication on the existence or nonexistence of a
contractual duty [citation], but there is simply no statutory basis for an
order summarily adjudicating that a party breached a duty.”  (Paramount Petroleum Corp. v. Superior
Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 244.) 
This issue is merely one element of some of plaintiff’s causes of
action.  Resolving it in plaintiff’s
favor would not completely dispose of an entire cause of action.
Issue No. 3 states:
“Defendant’s failure to provide said security services was the proximate cause
of Plaintiff’s damage.”  (Notice of
Motion, p. 2.)  That is also not an issue
subject to summary adjudication.  Again,
that is merely one element of a cause of action.  Resolving it in plaintiff’s favor would not
completely dispose of an entire cause of action.
Issue No. 4
states: “Defendant is liable to Plaintiff for breach of contract.”  (Notice of Motion, p. 2.)  The court cannot summarily adjudicate the
issue of liability.  “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c makes no provision for a partial summary judgment as to
liability.”  (Department of Industrial
Relations v. UI Video Stores, Inc. (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1084, 1097.)  When “issues of the calculation of damages …
remain to be determined, it is not appropriate to grant summary judgment” or
summary adjudication.  (Ibid.)  Resolving this issue would not completely
dispose of an entire cause of action. 
Even resolving all
issues in plaintiff’s favor would not completely dispose of an entire cause of
action.  When damages are an element of the cause of action, the
moving plaintiff must establish “both the fact and the amount of
damages.”  (Pajaro Valley Water
Management Agency v. McGrath (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1106.)  Damages are an element of plaintiff’s causes
of action.  Plaintiff’s motion does not
purport to establish the amount of damages. 
The reply brief acknowledges, “This Motion does not seek adjudication of
damages.”  (Reply, p. 6.)
Disposition
            Plaintiff High Note,
Inc.’s motion for summary adjudication is granted in part.  The court hereby grants summary
adjudication of Issue No. 1: Defendant Frontline Protection, Inc. owed a duty to provide security services and to secure Plaintiff’s location.  The
court denies summary adjudication of Issue Nos. 2, 3, and 4.
 
 