  Case Number:  20STCV01544    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




MIKE YESSIAN, et al.
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
GARFIELD BEACH CVS LLC, et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 20STCV01544
  




Hearing Date:


August 5 and 6, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:30 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANTS’
  NON-STATUTORY MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE,
  MOTION IN LIMINE TO BAR EVIDENCE OF DEFAMATION CAUSE OF ACTION BARRED BY
  STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS
 




            
 
Background
Plaintiffs Mike Yessian and Mandi Martinez filed this action on January
13, 2020 against Defendant Garfield Beach CVS LLC. On March 14, 2023, Plaintiffs
Michael Yessian and Mandi Martinez (jointly, “Plaintiffs”)
filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) against Defendants Garfield
Beach CVS LLC dba CVS Pharmacy Store and Deborah Padilla. The TAC alleges causes
of action for (1) discrimination in violation of the Unruh Act; (2) defamation
per se; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (4) negligent
hiring, supervision, or retention of employee. 
Defendants Garfield Beach CVS LLC and Deborah Padilla
(jointly, “Defendants”)
now move for judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiffs’ second
cause of action for defamation per se, on the ground that this cause of
action is barred by the statute of limitations. In the alternative, Defendants
request that the Court bar, in limine, Plaintiffs from introducing evidence of
the second cause of action. Plaintiffs oppose. 
Discussion
A.   
Legal
Standard on a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
Defendants note that “[a] motion for
judgment on the pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or
at the trial itself. Such motion may be made on the same ground as those
supporting a general demurrer, i.e., that the pleading at issue fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a legally cognizable claim or defense.” ((Stoops
v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th
644, 650 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
“Both a demurrer and a motion for judgment
on the pleadings accept as true all material factual allegations of the
challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts of which a court
may take judicial notice. The sole issue is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a
cause of action as a matter of law.” ((Tung v. Chicago Title Co. (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 734, 743-744.)

 
B.   
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the Second Cause of Action for Defamation Per
Se 
In the second cause of
action of the TAC, Plaintiffs allege that “[Padilla] falsely accused
Plaintiffs of stealing from the store. The store Manager, Adam William Pineda
also accused Plaintiffs of stealing from the store. [Padilla’s] defamatory
statements about Plaintiff Mandi Martinez were published to Plaintiff Michael
Yessian. [Padilla] told Michael that [Martinez] had left the store with her
stuff and whatever else she took. [Padilla’s] defamatory statements about
plaintiff Michael Yessian were also published to at least one other customer
who was standing close to [Padilla] and [Yessian] when [Padilla] told [Yessian]
to remove anything he had stolen from his bag as the Cops were on their way.” (TAC, ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs further allege
that “[t]he store Manager’s defamatory statements about Plaintiffs were
published to the District Manager and other CVS employees. Adam William Pineda,
CVS’ employee, told the store’s District Manager, Quyen Diep, that Plaintiffs
were return customers who were confirmed to have stolen from the store in the
past.” (TAC, ¶ 23.) 
Defendants assert that
“Plaintiffs’ cause of action regarding the alleged defamatory statement by
Pineda is barred by the one-year statute of limitations.” (Mot. at p. 2:1-2.) “Code of Civil Procedure
section 340, subdivision (c) establishes a
one-year statute of limitations for defamation actions.” ((Shively v.
Bozanich (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1230,
1240.) Defendants assert that “Plaintiffs
first alleged that Pineda made the statement that Plaintiffs were ‘return
customers who were confirmed to have stolen from the store in the past’ in
their Third Amended Complaint, filed on March 14, 2023. So, to be timely under
the statute of limitations, Plaintiffs must have first discovered the allegedly
defamatory statement by Pineda no earlier than March 14, 2022.” (Mot. at p.
2:5-9.) Defendants assert that “Plaintiffs
were aware of Pineda’s allegedly defamatory statement, at the latest, on June
11, 2020, when CVS produced an internal Salesforce document that states: ‘[Quyen
Diep] spoke to the [Store Manger] Adam (William) Pineda and he stated that the
‘customers’ were return customers who have been confirmed to have stolen in the
past.” (Mot. at p. 2:10-13.) 
In his declaration in support of the motion, Defendants’ counsel
states that “[o]n June 11, 2020, my office served on counsel for Plaintiffs, in
response to requests for production propounded by Plaintiffs, a Salesforce
document Bates labelled CVS – 000019 to CVS - 000028.” (Haeffele Decl., ¶ 2,
Ex. A.) The document labelled “CVS – 000027” provides, inter alia, that “QD
spoke to the SM Adam (William) Pineda and he stated that the ‘customers’ were
return customers who have been confirmed to have stolen in the past.” (Ibid.) 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that Defendants’ statute of
limitations argument relies on Defendants’ counsel’s supporting declaration and
evidence. As set forth above, “[b]oth a demurrer and
a motion for judgment on the pleadings accept as true all material factual
allegations of the challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts
of which a court may take judicial notice. The sole issue is whether the
complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action as a matter of law.” (Tung v. Chicago Title
Co., supra, 63
Cal.App.5th at pp. 743-744 [emphasis added].) The Tung
Court noted that “[a] nonstatutory motion for judgment on the pleadings,
especially when made in the form of an in limine motion, places the trial court
in the position of having to master the facts and theories of a complaint
within a compressed timeframe, usually while under the pressure of having a
jury panel either waiting or on call…As when ruling on a demurrer, the court is required to
consider only allegations contained within the complaint, which are presumed to
be true, or facts of which it may take judicial notice.” (Id. at pp. 758-759.) Here, Defendants did not
file any request for judicial notice in support of the motion for judgment on
the pleadings, and do not appear to cite any legal authority demonstrating that
they may rely on the subject evidence to support their motion for judgment on
the pleadings. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for
judgment on the pleadings. 
C.    Motion in Limine 
Defendants assert that “[a]lternatively, the court may order in limine
that Plaintiffs be barred from introducing evidence of time-barred allegations
at trial.” (Mot. at p. 4:19-20.) 
“Although
not expressly authorized by statute, [a motion in limine] is recognized in decisions as
a proper request which the trial court has inherent power to entertain and
grant. The purpose of the motion is to avoid the obviously futile attempt to
unring the bell in the event a motion to strike is granted in the proceedings
before the jury. The scope of such
motion is any kind of evidence which could be objected to at trial, either as
irrelevant or subject to discretionary exclusion as unduly prejudicial.” ((Clemens v. Am.
Warranty Corp. (1987) 193
Cal.App.3d 444, 451 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) Pursuant
to Evidence Code section 210, “relevant evidence” means “evidence, including
evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having
any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of
consequence to the determination of the action.” 
Defendants
assert that here, “[c]laims barred by the statute of limitations
are irrelevant
because
they cannot be properly pleaded and cannot be in dispute. References to a claim
barred by the statute of limitation have no tendency to prove claims properly
pleaded and actually in dispute.” (Mot. at pp. 4:26-5:3.) As set forth above,
Defendants argue that “to be timely under the statute of limitations,
Plaintiffs must have first discovered the allegedly defamatory statement by
Pineda no earlier than March 14, 2022,” and that “Plaintiffs were aware of
Pineda’s allegedly defamatory statement, at the latest, on June 11, 2020…”
(Mot. at p. 2:7-11.) Defendants also assert that “[g]iven the clear lack of
relevance, Plaintiffs’ intention by admitting such evidence can only be to
prejudice Defendants and cause the jury to look negatively towards Defendants.”
(Mot. at p. 5:4-6.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that “the relation back doctrine
is applicable to statements made by CVS’ [sic] employees…after the filing of
the Complaint.” (Opp’n at p. 1:26-28.) Plaintiffs cite to Honig v.
Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960, 966, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n amended complaint relates
back to the original complaint, and thus avoids the statute of limitations as a
bar…if it: (1) rests on the same general set of facts as the original
complaint; and (2) refers to the same accident and same injuries as the
original complaint. The same general set of facts
includes the same operative facts; a change in legal theory is permissible. A claim for different damages
does not indicate there are different injuries. Rather, injuries may encompass
the same primary rights.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.)  
            In the motion, Defendants assert
that the “the relation-back doctrine does not save Plaintiffs’ time-barred
cause of action.” (Mot. at p. 2:18.) Defendants assert that “the two alleged
defamatory statements Plaintiffs alleged in their first three complaints both
occurred at the CVS store on the day that Yessian and Martinez were here,
November 15, 2019. But the new alleged defamatory statement added in the Third
Amended Complaint did not occur (if it occurred at all – Defendants dispute
this) until later, long after Yessian and Martinez had left and an
investigation into the incident had been launched; the alleged statement is not
memorialized until December 2, 2019… Thus, the new allegations do not arise
from the same general set of facts.” (Mot. at pp. 2:27-3:5.) Defendants’ document
labelled “CVS – 000027” provides, inter alia, “[s]poke to DL Quyen Diep
(QD) regarding this case 12/2/19: - QD spoke to the SM Adam (William)
Pineda and he stated that the ‘customers’ were return customers who have been
confirmed to have stolen in the past.” (Haeffele Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, emphasis
added.) 
            In the original Complaint, the
second cause of action for defamation per se alleges that “DOE 1 falsely
accused Plaintiffs of theft and made this statement to [a person/persons (at
least Mike in this case)] other than Mandi (in the case of Mandi alone). She
also inferred that Mike had stolen and any other person in the store at the
time could have heard this. Mike and all others who heard this reasonably
understood that the statement(s) was/were about Mandi and Mike.” (Compl., ¶
24.) The original Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs visited the subject store
on November 15, 2019. (Compl., ¶ 9.) As discussed, the TAC includes the
additional allegation that “Adam William Pineda, CVS’ employee, told the
store’s District Manager, Quyen Diep, that Plaintiffs were return customers who
were confirmed to have stolen from the store in the past.” (TAC, ¶ 23.)
            Defendants cite to Wiener v.
Superior Court (1976) 58 Cal.App.3d
525, 527, where “[o]n February 6, 1975, petitioners
(hereinafter plaintiffs) filed in the superior court a complaint charging that,
on or about April 23, 1974, defendants had caused a libelous statement to be
published in the Los Angeles Times…On April 24, 1975, the plaintiffs filed…a
notice of motion for leave to amend the complaint. The notice was
accompanied by a copy of a ‘proposed first amended complaint for libel,
slander and invasion of privacy.’ This document restated the allegations of the
original complaint regarding the April 23 statement, and added that on April
25, 1974, defendants had made another allegedly defamatory statement and had
caused it to be published in the Huntington Beach Independent.” “Subsequently a
demurrer to the first amended complaint was sustained with leave to amend.
Plaintiffs then filed a second amended complaint in nine counts. The first
three counts were based upon the April 23 statement. Counts four, five and six
were based upon the April 25 statement…Defendants demurred to counts four, five
and six solely upon the ground each was barred by the one-year statute of
limitations in Code of Civil Procedure, section
340, subdivision 3. On October 2, 1975, that demurrer was sustained without
leave to amend.” (Id. at p. 528.)  
The Court of Appeal in Wiener found
that “[t]he amendment tendered by
plaintiff here was more than a restatement, revision, amplification or
correction of the allegations of the original complaint, or a change of legal
theory. It is essential to distinguish between a new cause of action arising
out of ‘the same general set of facts’ and a new cause arising out of different facts. The allegations
concerning the publication of April 25, 1974, describe a different utterance,
alleged to have a different defamatory meaning and made at a different time,
for publication in a different newspaper. As set out in these pleadings, the
April 25 events were a distinct set of facts. Thus the statute of limitations
runs separately with respect to each.” ((Wiener v.
Superior Court, supra, 58
Cal.App.3d at pp. 528-529.) Defendants assert that here too, “the
newly alleged defamatory statement arises out of a different set of facts, and
was allegedly made by a different person…” (Mot. at p. 3:10-11.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiffs do not
address Wiener v.
Superior Court, supra, 58
Cal.App.3d 525. In addition, Plaintiffs do not appear to address Defendants’
assertion that “the newly alleged defamatory statement arises out
of a different set of facts, and was allegedly made by a different person.”
(Mot. at p. 3:10-11.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants
have the better argument that the relation-back doctrine does not save
Plaintiffs’ claim that Adam William Pineda allegedly “told the store’s District
Manager, Quyen Diep, that Plaintiffs were return customers who were confirmed
to have stolen from the store in the past.” (TAC, ¶ 23.)
            Plaintiffs also assert that “the
defamatory statements have been republished and each time extended the statute
of limitations.” (Opp’n at p. 3:16-17.) Plaintiffs cite to Khawar v.
Globe Internat. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 254,
268, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “[a]t
common law, one who republishes a defamatory statement is deemed thereby to
have adopted it and so may be held liable, together with the person who
originated the statement, for resulting injury to the reputation of the
defamation victim.”  
Plaintiffs contend that “[i]n the present case, Pineda’s statements
have been republished especially since it is foreseeable that additional
employees at CVS saw it in [sic] within one year of the filing of the third
amended complaint. Within one year of the filing of the TAC, Plaintiff’s
Counsel discussed this case with other individuals and as such, the statement
was republished.” (Opp’n at p. 4:17-20.) But as noted by Defendants,
Plaintiffs’ opposition does not cite any evidence of republication. As
Defendants note, Plaintiffs “argue that it is ‘foreseeable’ that Pineda’s
alleged statements would be republished internally at CVS, but they offer not
[sic] evidence that in fact the statements were republished.” (Reply at p.
2:25-27.) In addition, Plaintiffs do not appear to cite any legal authority
supporting the proposition that an “an attorney [may] revive a stale claim
merely by repeating the allegedly defamatory statement in a litigation
context.” (Reply at p. 3:1-2.)
The Court notes that on August 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed declarations
in support of the opposition, after Plaintiffs’ memorandum of points and
authorities in support of the opposition was filed, and after Defendants’ reply
was filed. Plaintiffs submit the Declaration of Michael Yessian, who states, inter
alia, that “I have discussed the statement made by Adam William Pineda in
paragraph 2 above with Scotty Weaver and Andrew Steinline. I discussed it with
them on multiple occasions ever since I became aware of it, including within
one year of the filing of the third amended complaint (‘TAC’) in this matter,
which I know was filed on March 14, 2023.” (Yessian Decl., ¶ 3.) In addition, Defendants
submit the Declaration of Mandi Martinez, who states, inter alia, that “I
recall that I have discussed the statement made by Adam William Pineda in
paragraph 2 above with other individuals. I discussed it with them on multiple
occasions ever since I became aware of it, including within one year of the
filing of the third amended complaint…in this matter, which I know was filed on
March 14, 2023.” (Martinez Decl., ¶ 4.) The Court notes that the TAC does not
appear to contain any allegations of such discussions. 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs also appear to assert that the delayed
discovery rule is applicable here. Plaintiffs cite to Shively v. Bozanich, supra,
31 Cal.4th at pages 1248-1249, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[t]his court and other courts in California and elsewhere
have recognized that in certain circumstances it may be appropriate to apply
the discovery rule to delay the accrual of a cause of action for defamation or
to impose an equitable estoppel against defendants who assert the defense after
the limitations period has expired.” The Shively Court noted that “[w]e
have recognized that in some instances, the accrual of a cause of action in tort
is delayed until the plaintiff discovered (or reasonably should have discovered
or suspected) the factual basis for his or her claim.” (Id.
at p. 1248.) 
            In the opposition, Defendants assert that “[i]t
is on the record in this court that Plaintiffs are felons and have been
involved in theft related crimes. Since there was no way of knowing whether
CVS’ employees knew about this prior to the incident, the statement did not
appear to be immediately defamatory because it also could have meant that the
stores’ employees knew Plaintiffs personally and were recounting that they
might have stolen in the past. However Deborah Padilla filed a declaration in
support of Defendants’ motion for summary Judgment (April 15, 2022, Declaration
(Compendium of Evidence in Support of Motion) Filed by Garfield Beach CVS LLC
(Defendant)), stating in paragraph 4 that ‘At the time, I did not know the
customer’s name. I have since learned that customer’s name is Mike Yessian.’…It
then became clear that nobody inside the store knew Plaintiffs, personally and
as such, made it more convincing that Pineda was accusing Plaintiffs of having
stolen from the store and not elsewhere. Plaintiffs then discovered wioth [sic] certainty
the defamatory nature of the publication and filed the Third Amended Complain [sic]
within one year thereof on March 14, 2023, within one year of Padilla’s
declaration.” (Opp’n at pp. 5:19-6:2.) However, Defendants do not appear to
provide any evidence to support this argument. 
Lastly, Plaintiffs assert that Defendants failed to follow the Court’s
trial orders. Plaintiffs cite to the Court’s August 28, 2020 minute order,
which provides, inter alia, that “[t]he parties are to comply with the
FSC requirements set forth in the courtroom information handout available in
Department 50 and on the court's website.” Plaintiffs note that Department 50’s
Courtroom Information provides, inter alia, that “[a]ll motions in
limine and motions that affect the order of proof, such as motions pursuant to CCP Sections 597 (trial of special defenses), 598
(change in the order of proof or bifurcation of the trial), and 1048
(consolidation or severance), must be filed and served with sufficient
statutory notice under CCP Section 1005 so that
they may be heard no later than at the FSC. Motions in limine must comply with
L.A. Superior Court Rule 3.57 and Kelly v. New West Federal Savings, 49 Cal. App. 4th
659, 670-71 (1996).” 
Plaintiffs assert that “Defendants did not give statutory notice under
CCP Section 1005. The motion was filed today July
31, 2024 which is supposed to be the trial date.” (Opp’n at p. 7:17-18.)
However, the Court discussed the timeliness issue with the parties and because
the statute of limitations issue would have to be determined prior to the
conclusion of the trial, the Court and the parties agreed to address the issue
on a shortened briefing schedule prior to the start of trial.  
Based on the foregoing, but with one exception, the Court grants
Defendants’ motion in limine to bar evidence of the claim that “Adam William
Pineda, CVS’ employee, told the store’s District Manager, Quyen Diep, that
Plaintiffs were return customers who were confirmed to have stolen from the
store in the past.” (TAC, ¶ 23.)  At the
hearing on August 5, 2024, Plaintiffs argued that the evidence of Mr. Pineda’s
statement should not be barred entirely because Plaintiffs should be permitted
to argue to the jury that the statement shows the original discriminatory intent
of Mr. Pineda when he precluded Plaintiff Martinez from using the restroom on
false pretenses. Plaintiffs argued that at the deposition of Mr. Pineda, he
admitted that at the time he made the statement, he did not know of any
evidence that “Plaintiffs were return customers who were confirmed to have
stolen from the store in the past.” Plaintiffs will argue that his false
statement is evidence of his original discriminatory intent to bar Ms. Martinez
from using the restroom because she was Hispanic or perceived to be Hispanic. 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs may present evidence regarding the
Pineda statement for this stated purpose; but for the reasons set forth above, Plaintiffs
may not assert or imply in the opening statement, during questioning or in
closing argument that the statement itself is a separate basis for liability as
to CVS.
 
 
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings is denied. The Court grants Defendants’ alternative motion in limine with
the exception noted above. 
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of
this ruling.
 
DATED:  August 6, 2024                               ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court