  Case Number:  21STCV04401    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



CLAUDIA V. GONZALEZ RUIZ, et al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
NEOMIE F. HERNANDEZ, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 21STCV04401
  




Hearing Date:


September 29, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE: 
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IN THE FORM OF MONETARY SANCTIONS UNDER CODE CIV. PROC. § 128.7 AGAINST CROSS-COMPLAINANT NEOMIE
  F. HERNANDEZ AND HER COUNSEL ANTHONY W. WILLOUGHBY II FOR AN AWARD OF
  EXPENSES AND ATTORNEY’S FEES AGAINST CROSS-COMPLAINANT AND HER COUNSEL ANTHONY
  W. WILLOUGHBY II IN THE FAVOR OF CROSS-DEFENDANTS THE
SUM OF $2,435




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
Plaintiffs Claudia V. Gonzalez Ruiz (“Claudia Ruiz”), Carolina G. Ruiz
(“Carolina Ruiz”), and Diana Gonzalez Ruiz (“Diana Ruiz”) filed this action on February
3, 2021, against Defendant Neomie F. Hernandez, an individual, and dba Exclusive
Tax Service. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) failure to pay
applicable minimum wage, (2) unpaid overtime wages, (3) failure to provide meal
periods, (4) failure to provide rest periods, (5) unreimbursed business
expenses, (6) failure to furnish complete and accurate wage statements, (7)
final wages not timely paid, (8) violation of Labor
Code section 232.5, (9) violation of Labor Code
section 98.6, (10) violation of Labor Code section
1102.5, (11) wrongful termination in violation of public policy, (12) constructive
discharge in violation of public policy, (13) breach of contract, (14) breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (15) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq.

On March 26, 2021, Neomie
F. Hernandez dba Exclusive Tax Service (“Hernandez”) filed a Cross-Complaint
against Claudia V. Gonzalez Ruiz, an individual and dba United Income Tax
Services, Carolina Ruiz, and Diana Ruiz. The Cross-Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) misappropriation of trade secrets, (2) theft of
cross-complainant’s property, (3) breach of contract, (4) unfair competition
under Business and Professions Code section 17200, et
seq., (5) intentional interference with prospective economic relations,
(6) defamation, (7) injunctive relief, and (8) declaratory relief.  
Carolina Ruiz now moves for an order “imposing sanctions in the form of monetary sanctions against plaintiff, Neomie F. Hernandez, and her
counsel Anthony Willoughby
II pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7,
to include reasonable attorney fees and costs in the amount of $3,580.00.” Hernandez opposes. 
Discussion
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (b), “[b]y presenting to the court, whether by
signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition, written
notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is
certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief,
formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the
following conditions are met:
 
(1) It is not being presented
primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary
delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
 
(2) The claims, defenses, and other
legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law.
 
(3) The allegations and other factual contentions
have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have
evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or
discovery.
 
(4) The denials of factual contentions are
warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably
based on a lack of information or belief.”  
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7,
subdivision (c)
provides in pertinent part, “[i]f, after notice and a reasonable opportunity to respond,
the court determines that subdivision (b) has been violated, the court may,
subject to the conditions stated below, impose an appropriate sanction upon the
attorneys, law firms, or parties that have violated subdivision (b) or are
responsible for the violation.” 
Carolina Ruiz indicates
that on March 9, 2022, Hernandez served Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One on Carolina Ruiz. 
(Lopez Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) On April 11, 2022, Carolina Ruiz served responses to Hernandez’s Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One and Special
Interrogatories, Set One, which consisted solely of objections. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) 
            On
December 13, 2022, Hernandez filed a motion “for an order compelling
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, to serve responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, served on Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant on March 9, 2022.” Hernandez also filed a motion on
December 13, 2022 “for an order compelling Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, to
serve responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, served on
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant on March 9, 2022.” Carolina Ruiz asserts that Hernandez’s December 13, 2022 motions are
not warranted
by existing law because Carolina Ruiz served responses to the subject discovery requests.
(Lopez Decl., ¶ 6.) Carolina Ruiz asserts that Hernandez filed the wrong
motions, and “should have filed motions to compel further responses after
having made a good-faith attempt to meet and confer…” (Mot. at p. 5:26-27.) 
            In
the opposition, Hernandez notes that on March 23, 2023, the Court issued an
Order denying Hernandez’s subject motions to compel responses filed on December
13, 2022. The Court’s March 23, 2023 Order provides, inter alia, as
follows: 
 
“Although Hernandez cites to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.310 and 2030.300, she appears to
assert that the instant motions are motions to compel responses,
as opposed to motions to compel further responses. Hernandez asserts that ‘where the Defendant serves responses, but those responses are unverified, then a motion to compel
discovery responses is the proper motion because unverified responses are tantamount to no
responses at all.’ (Mots. at pp. 3:17-20.) Hernandez cites to Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636, where the Court of Appeal noted that ‘[u]nsworn
responses are tantamount to no responses at all.’
 
However, as
noted by Carolina Ruiz, verifications are not required for responses that
consist entirely of objections. Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.250, subdivision (a), ‘[t]he party to whom the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed shall sign the response
under oath unless the response contains only objections.’ In addition, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.250,
subdivision (c), ‘[t]he attorney for the responding party shall sign any
responses that contain an objection.’ Further, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.250, subdivision (a),
‘[t]he party to whom the interrogatories are directed shall
sign the response under oath unless the response contains only objections.’
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.250,
subdivision (c), ‘[t]he attorney
for the responding party shall sign any responses that contain an objection.’
 
As noted by
Carolina Ruiz,
in Appleton, the responses contained a
fact-specific answer. (See Appleton v. Superior Court, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d at pp.
633-634, ‘Appleton served upon Cook a set of three requests for
admission which referred to allegations of the first amended complaint. Because
of an intervening amendment to the complaint, Cook objected but did provide a
single purported answer to all three requests. However, this response was not
verified.’)
 
Thus, the Court finds that the appropriate
motion here is a motion to compel further responses, as Carolina Ruiz served responses to
Hernandez’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and Special
Interrogatories, Set One consisting solely of objections.” (March 23, 2023
Order at pp. 2:25-3:23.) 
 
The Court’s March 23, 2023 Order also
provides as follows: 
 
“Carolina Ruiz also cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, which
provides, inter alia, ‘[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (a).) Carolina Ruiz indicates that her counsel determined that the
instant motions had no merit, and that on December 20, 2022, he requested that
Hernandez’s counsel withdraw the motions. (Lopez Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Carolina Ruiz’s counsel also indicates that he
sent Hernandez’s counsel ‘code sections that support [his] client’s position
that the responses containing objections only did not need to be verified by
the responding party,’ but Hernandez’s counsel still refused to withdraw the
motions. (Lopez Decl., ¶¶ 9, 10.) Carolina Ruiz contends that Hernandez’s counsel refused to withdraw the
motions even when he knew they did not have merit. However, based on a
consideration of the foregoing, it appears there was confusion on Hernandez’s
part regarding the applicable Code of Civil Procedure requirements, not an
intentional misuse of the discovery process. Accordingly, the Court declines to
award sanctions against Hernandez.” (March 23, 2023 Order at p. 4:18-5:5.) 
            Hernandez
asserts in the opposition to the instant motion that “[t]his Court has already determined
that the motions resulted from confusion regarding the applicable
Code of Civil Procedure requirement and not an intentional misuse of the
discovery process. Therefore, this Court has
already address [sic] whether the motions were sanctionable, and this
Court declined to enter sanction. As such, sanctions should not issue pursuant
to the instant Motion…” (Opp’n at p. 5:11-15.) The Court notes that Carolina Ruiz
did not file any reply in support of the instant motion and thus does not dispute
this point.  
            In
light of the foregoing, the Court does not find that Carolina Ruiz has
demonstrated that Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (b) has been violated by Hernandez. Thus, the Court does not
find that sanctions are warranted here under Code
of Civil Procedure section 128.7. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Carolina Ruiz’s motion for sanctions is denied. 
Hernandez is ordered to give notice
of this order. 
 
DATED:  September 29, 2023                       ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 
 