 Case Number:  24TRCV01860    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
NOT BY
  SIGHT, LLC, a California Limited Liability Corporation; GLADNEY JOHNSON, TRUSTEE
  OF THE GLADNEY JOHNSON FAMILY TRUST DATED JUNE 29, 2015, AND DENISE JOHNSON,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV01860




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted




 
ZEYAD
  REYAD ELALAMI, an individual; BUY 2 LET INVESTMENTS, LLC, an entity of
  unknown registration; LUXOR FUNDING GROUP, INC., a California corporation;
  and DOES 1-5, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
21, 2024
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Luxor Funding Group Inc. 
 
Responding Party:      Plaintiffs Not by Sight, LLC, Gladney
Johnson, and Denise Johnson
 
HEARING: Motion to Vacate
Default
            The Court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
 
RULING
The Court grants the Motion to Vacate Default.
BACKGROUND
            On June 3, 2024, Plaintiffs Not by
Sight, LLC, Gladney Johnson, and Denise Johnson, filed the Complaint alleging
causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, negligent misrepresentation, constructive fraud,
fraudulent misrepresentation, promissory estoppel, quiet title, wrongful
foreclosure and wrongful eviction, injunctive relief, declaratory relief, and
preliminary and permanent injunctions arising from the foreclosure sale of the
property.
 
            On August 19, 2024, the Court
entered the default against Defendant Luxor Funding Group Inc.
 
            On September 20, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant Motion to Vacate Default.
 
            On October 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the Opposition.
 
            No reply has been filed.
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            
The Court may take judicial notice of records
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States. (Evid. Code § 452 subd. (d).) The Court
may also take judicial notice of “Official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.” (Evid. Code § 452 subd. (c).)
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court take
judicial notice of the proof of service of summons on Luxor Funding Group,
Inc., the California Secretary of States forms showing Zeyad Elalami as the registered
agent of Luxor Funding Group, Inc., and the proof of service of the summons and
complaint on Zeyad Elalami. (Request for Judicial Notice “RJN” Exhibits 1-3.)
Defendant has filed no opposition to this request. Therefore, the Court takes
judicial notice of the above-stated documents.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect…¿ [The application]¿shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿473 subd. (b).) “‘[W]hen
relief under section 473¿is¿available, there is a strong¿public¿policy¿in¿favor¿of
granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her day in
court…[Citation.]” (Rappleyea v. Campbell¿(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 975,
981-82.) 
¿ 
Although a trial court has the discretion to
vacate the entry of a default or subsequent judgment, this discretion may be
exercised only after the party seeking relief has shown that there is a proper
ground for relief and that the party has raised that ground in a procedurally
proper manner, within any applicable time limits.”¿(Cruz v.¿Fagor¿America,
Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.) “The defendant must … demonstrate a
satisfactory excuse for not responding to the original action in a timely
manner.”¿(Id.¿at 504.) Moving parties have the initial burden to prove
excusable neglect by a preponderance of competent evidence.¿(Kendall v.
Barker¿(1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 619, 624.)
¿ 
Code Civ. Proc.,¿§ 473 subd. (d) provides in
relevant part that “[t]he court may,¿upon motion of the injured party…set aside
any void judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 subd. (d.))¿ 
 
Code Civ. Proc., section 473.5 permits the
Court to set aside a default and default judgment when the service of a summons
has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action. Code
Civ. Proc., section 473.5 requires the motion to be accompanied by an affidavit
showing under oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by the party's avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5.)¿The notice of motion shall be served and
filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of the
following:¿ 
¿ 
1) two years after entry of a default judgment
against him or her; or¿¿ 
2) 180 days after service on him or her of a
written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered. ¿¿ 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5.)
 
DISCUSSION 
Proof of Service
 
            Summons
may be served on a corporation by delivering a copy of the summons and the
complaint “to the person designated as agent for service of process as provided
by any provision in Section 202, 1502, 2105, or 2107 of the Corporations Code”
or “to the president, chief executive officer, or other head of the
corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer
or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief financial officer, a general
manager, or a person authorized by the corporation to receive service of
process.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10 subd. (a-b).)
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff did not properly serve the summons. Plaintiff filed a Proof of
Service form stating that they delivered the summons via FedEx to Defendant's
registered agent on June 8, 2024, but Defendant contends that FedEx delivery
does not meet the legal requirements for proper service under California law.
(RJN Exhibit 1 p. 2.)
 
 Defendant asserts that the proper methods of
service include personal service or service by mail, neither of which were
checked on the Proof of Service form. Additionally, service by mail requires an
acknowledgment of receipt, which was not provided, making service improper
under section 415.30. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30.) Service by leaving the summons with a
person over 18 at Defendant’s address was also not followed, as required by
section 416.20. (Code Civ. Proc., § 416.20.)
 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendant's motion should be denied
because Defendant was properly served. Plaintiff claims that the Proof of
Service of summons, attached as Exhibit 1, clearly shows that Defendant was
served with the summons and complaint via FedEx delivery at the registered
agent's address. Code of Civil Procedure sections 416.30 and 416.20 allow
the service of a summons on a corporation by delivering it to the
registered agent or corporate officers like the president or vice president. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 416.20 - 416.30.)
 
Plaintiff further
asserts that Defendant's registered agent, Zeyad Elalami, who is also a
co-defendant and Vice President of Defendant, was personally served with the
summons and complaint on July 23, 2024. Since Elalami received the summons and
is a designated agent for service of process, Plaintiff argues that substantial
compliance with the service requirements under Code of Civil Procedure sections
416.10(a) and (b) should be considered sufficient. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 416.10 subd.
(a-b).)
 
Service by mail is
only an acceptable form of service when Defendant signs an acknowledgment of
receipt. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30.) Therefore,
because Defendant did not sign an acknowledgment of receipt, the service
was improper. Plaintiff argues that the Court should find substantial
compliance with service requirements, being that the registered agent of
Defendant, Zeyad Elalami, is also a named party in the case who was personally
served. However, strict compliance with service requirements is required under
California law. (Bolkiah v. Superior Court (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 984,
1000.)  
Therefore, the
Court grants the Motion to Vacate Default.


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
NOT BY
  SIGHT, LLC, a California Limited Liability Corporation; GLADNEY JOHNSON,
  TRUSTEE OF THE GLADNEY JOHNSON FAMILY TRUST DATED JUNE 29, 2015, AND DENISE JOHNSON,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV01860




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted in part/Denied in part




 
ZEYAD
  REYAD ELALAMI, an individual; BUY 2 LET INVESTMENTS, LLC, an entity of
  unknown registration; LUXOR FUNDING GROUP, INC., a California corporation;
  and DOES 1-5, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
21, 2024
 
Moving Party:             Defendants Zeyad Elalami, Buy2Let
Investments, and Luxor Funding Group, Inc.
 
Responding Party:      Plaintiffs Not by Sight, LLC, Gladney Johnson,
and Denise Johnson
 
HEARING: SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE [CCP §425.16]
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
 
RULING
The Court grants the Special Motion to strike as to
the fifth, tenth, and eleventh causes of actions and denies as to all others.
BACKGROUND
            On June 3, 2024, Plaintiffs Not by
Sight, LLC, Gladney Johnson, and Denise Johnson, filed the Complaint alleging
causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, negligent misrepresentation, constructive fraud,
fraudulent misrepresentation, promissory estoppel, quiet title, wrongful
foreclosure and wrongful eviction, injunctive relief, declaratory relief, and
preliminary and permanent injunctions arising from the foreclosure sale of the
property.
 
            On September 20, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant Special Motion to Strike.
 
            On October 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the Opposition.
 
            On October 14, 2024, Defendants
filed the reply.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The
court engages in a two-step process in determining whether to grant or deny a
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 special motion to strike. (Park v.
Board of Trustees of California State University¿(2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057,
1061.) First, the court must decide whether the moving party has met the
threshold burden of showing that the plaintiff’s cause of action arises from
the moving party’s constitutional rights of free speech or petition for redress
of grievances. (See Ibid.) This burden may be met by showing the act
which forms the basis for the plaintiff’s cause of action was an act that falls
within one of the four categories of conduct outlined in Code of Civil
Procedure Section 425.16, subdivision (e): 
 
(1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, 
(2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, 
(3)
any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or
a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or 
(4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest. 
 
If
the defendant meets this initial burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
prove the plaintiff has a legally sufficient claim and to prove with admissible
evidence a probability of prevailing on the claim. (De Havilland v. FX
Networks, LLC¿(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845, 855.) The trial court considers
the pleadings and evidence of both parties. (Ibid.) The plaintiff’s
proof must be made upon competent admissible evidence. (Sweetwater Union
High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940.) The
court “does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.” (Ibid.)
The court’s inquiry “is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally
sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to
sustain a favorable judgment,” accepting the plaintiff’s evidence as true. (Ibid.)
“The court evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats
the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. [Citation.] ‘[C]laims with the
requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Ibid.; see Navellier v.
Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89.)
 
 
DISCUSSION 
Prong
One: Protected Activity
 
“The
statutory phrase ‘cause of action . . . arising from’ means simply that the
defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have
been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.” (Id.)  “In short, in ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion,
courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by
defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability.”
(Park v. Board of Trustees, (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1063.) If a motion is
directed to mixed causes of action, a defendant or cross-defendant may identify
the allegations of protected activity and how a claim is based on that
activity. (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System, (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995,
1010-1012 A complaint to a law enforcement body is a protected activity as a
statement before an official proceeding. (ComputerXpress Inc. v. Jackson,
(2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 993, 1009.)
 
Defendants
argue that the entire Complaint should be subject to an anti-SLAPP motion to
strike under California's Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 because all
eleven causes of action are based on protected activities. These activities
include filing an unlawful detainer action, serving eviction notices, and
communications made in connection with the proceedings, which have consistently
been recognized by California courts as protected under the anti-SLAPP statute.
Defendants also point out that Plaintiffs' allegations, including breach of
contract, misrepresentation, and wrongful foreclosure, all arise from the
unlawful detainer proceedings and the stipulated judgment. Therefore, since
these activities are protected, Defendants contend that Plaintiffs' entire
Complaint should be dismissed.
 
First Cause of
Action – Breach of Contract
 
Plaintiffs
argue that while the Complaint alleges the existence of a contract between
Buy2Let and Gladney Johnson, it does not seek to enforce that contract.
Instead, Plaintiffs seek to enforce oral promises made by Defendants during the
unlawful detainer proceedings. They allege that Defendants, through their agent
Elalami, made ongoing promises that Plaintiffs could repurchase the property,
which induced them to enter into a stipulated judgment on April 2, 2024.
Plaintiffs contend that they relied on these promises when agreeing to the
stipulated judgment and subsequently made additional payments based on their
belief that the purchase would be completed as promised.
 
Paragraph 26: "After a foreclosure on the Subject Property,
BUY 2 LET
INVESTMENTS,
LLC filed an unlawful detainer action against Plaintiff Gladney
Johnson...
which resulted in a stipulated judgment on April 2, 2024."
Paragraph 27: “Plaintiffs and Defendants (Elalami claiming to act
as agent of Buy 2 Let)
entered
into stipulated judgment on April 2, 2024, in reliance on Elalami’s continued
promise
that Plaintiffs could repurchase the Subject Property... Attached to this
Complaint
as Exhibit D is a copy of April 2, 2024, Stipulated Judgment.”
Paragraph 28: "Plaintiffs would not have entered into the
stipulated judgment but for
their
justifiable belief that Elalami would complete the purchase of the Subject
Property
as
he promised, in order to induce the Plaintiffs to execute the stipulated
judgment of the
Unlawful
Detainer action on April 2, 2024."
Paragraph 31: "On reliance upon Elalami’s promises... made to
Plaintiffs before, during,
and
after execution of the Purchase Agreement, through the conduct of the Unlawful
Detainer
action... Plaintiffs have suffered thousands of dollars in additional
payments..."
(Complaint
¶¶ 26-28, 31.)
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants' claim that the breach of contract
cause of action is subject to the anti-SLAPP statute is baseless. (Complaint ¶
25.) They contend that their breach of contract claim seeks damages for
Defendants' failure to complete the sale of the property, as outlined in the
contract executed on July 24 and 26, 2023, and not for any protected activity
such as filing an unlawful detainer action. Plaintiffs assert that a breach of
contract alone does not constitute an exercise of Defendants' constitutional
rights to free speech or petition and is, therefore, not a protected activity
under the anti-SLAPP statute.
 
Plaintiffs
further note that while the Complaint references the unlawful detainer action,
those references merely provide context and are not the basis for their claim,
which focuses solely on Defendants' breach of contract. Plaintiffs maintain
that Defendants have failed to show that the breach of contract claim arises
from protected activity or conduct.
 
In
reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs' breach of contract claim is based on
alleged oral promises made during the unlawful detainer proceedings,
specifically concerning Defendants' agreement to sell the property back to
Plaintiffs. These promises purportedly led Plaintiffs to enter into a
stipulated judgment in the unlawful detainer action, and the breach of the
implied covenant claim similarly relies on conduct during those proceedings.
 
While
Defendants argue that the breach of contract claim arises from the oral
promises made during the unlawful detainer proceedings, The Complaint states
that “Defendants materially breached the Purchase Agreement by failing to sell
the Subject Property.” The Complaint does mention the stipulated judgment.
However, allegations made regarding the breach of contract claim are focused on
the Purchase agreement. (Complaint ¶¶ 33-37.) Defendants argue that Navellier
states that claims based on statements or conduct in connection with litigation
are subject to the anti-SLAPP statute. (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29
Cal.4th 82, 92.) However, the breach of contract claim is not based on
statements made during the unlawful detainer litigation but on the Purchase
Agreement. 
 
Therefore,
the Court finds that cause of action one is not based on protected activity.
 
Second Cause of
Action – Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith And Fair Dealing
 
            Plaintiffs argue that “The Complaint alleges liability
for noticing the unlawful detainer action, which constitutes protected
activity.” (Motion to Dismiss p. 12.)
 
            Paragraph 42: "By noticing a void
foreclosure sale, and an unlawful detainer action,
when without the
power or right to notice such sale or unlawful detainer action,
Defendants and each
of them including Does 1-5, intentionally damaged and sought to
deprive Plaintiffs
of the benefits they were to obtain under the above agreements, all
to their damage and
harm in excess of the jurisdictional limits of the Court.”
(Complaint
¶ 42.)
 
            Plaintiffs argue that Defendants' claim that their cause
of action is based on a protected activity, merely because it references the
unlawful detainer in the Complaint, is insufficient. They assert that just
because a claim may have been triggered by protected activity, such as the
service of unlawful detainer papers, does not mean it arose from that activity.
(See, Ulkarim v. Westfield LLC (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1266, 1275-1282.)
 
            Again, while the Complaint mentions the unlawful detainer
action and the foreclosure sale, the cause of action does not arise out of
them. (Complaint ¶
42.) A cause of action for breach of the implied covenant must be tied to a
contract. (Smith v. San Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.) Therefore, the
alleged breach of the implied covenant must arise from the purchase agreement,
not the unlawful detainer action or foreclosure.
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that the second cause of
action does not arise out of protected activity.
 
 
Third Cause of
Action – Negligent Misrepresentation
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
allege they were misled by fraudulent actions into entering agreements during
the unlawful detainer proceedings. Communications made in
connection
with judicial proceedings are protected under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Feldman
v.
1100
Park Lane Associates (2008)
160 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1483.)
 
Paragraph 52: "Had Plaintiffs known of the falsity of
Defendants’ representations in
inducing
Plaintiffs to enter into the Purchase Agreement and other agreements and
continue
to perform under the Agreements, Plaintiffs would not have entered into the
Agreements...
or continue providing additional payments."
 
            Plaintiffs argue that their
negligent misrepresentation claim is based on statements made by Defendant
Elalami concerning the purchase contract between the parties, as outlined in
the Complaint. They emphasize that this claim is unrelated to Defendants' filing
of the unlawful detainer action. 
 
            The Complaint, in alleging facts to
state a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, makes many vague allegations
of misrepresentation regarding the property and the Purchase Agreement.
(Complaint ¶¶ 45-52.) However, none of these allegations mention the unlawful
detainer proceedings. 
            
            Therefore, the third cause of action
for negligent misrepresentation does not arise out of protected activity.
 
Fourth
Cause of Action – Constructive Fraud
 
            Defendants argue that the Complaint
alleges fraudulent actions connected to the unlawful detainer proceedings. 
 
Paragraph 67: “Plaintiffs reasonably and justifiably relied upon
the representations of
the
Defendants in agreeing to provide payment to Defendants according to the terms
of
the
Purchase Agreement and other agreements.”
(Complaint
¶ 67.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that similar to the third cause of action, the liability for this claim
is based on statements made by Defendants regarding the purchase contract. (Complaint¶¶
63, 64-72.) 
 
In
reply, Plaintiffs argue that every reference to an allegedly false statement is
in regard to the unlawful detainer proceedings.
 
While
Plaintiffs assert that every reference to a false statement is in regard to the
unlawful detainer proceedings, they provide no reasoning to back up this
statement. Furthermore, in alleging the facts for constructive fraud, no
allegation makes mention of the unlawful detainer proceedings. (Complaint ¶¶
63, 64-72.) 
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that the
fourth cause of action does not arise from protective activity.
 
            Fifth Cause of Action –
Fraudulent Misrepresentation
 
            Similar to the previous claims,
Defendants argue this cause of action arises from statements made during the
unlawful detainer proceedings:
 
            Paragraph 81:
"Defendants knowingly made unwarranted and false assertions intending
to
induce Plaintiffs in entering into the Purchase Agreement and the stipulated
judgment
agreement
relating to the unlawful detainer action... with the prior intent not to sell
the
Subject
Property..."
Paragraph 83: "Elalami... made the false material
misrepresentations... before execution
of
the Purchase Agreement, before execution of the stipulated judgment relating to
the
unlawful
detainer action, to induce Plaintiffs to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the
stipulated
judgment agreement, and other agreements..."
 
 
Similar
to the previous claims, Plaintiffs argue, the liability for this claim is based
on statements made by Defendants regarding the purchase contract. (Complaint ¶
80.)
 
Here,
unlike the other causes of action, the Complaint directly states that Defendant
made false representations about the purchase agreement before executing the
stipulation agreement in the unlawful detainer action.  (Complaint ¶ 83.) Communications made in connection
with judicial proceedings are protected under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Feldman,
supra, 160 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1483) Thus, because some of the alleged
misrepresentations occurred during negotiations regarding judicial proceedings,
those representations are protected activities.
 
            Therefore, the fifth cause of action
does arise out of protected activity. 
 
            Sixth Cause of Action –
Promissory Estoppel
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff's
reliance on promises made during the unlawful detainer action forms the basis
of this claim.
 
            Paragraph 97:
"Defendants breached the promise to sell the Subject Property to
Plaintiffs."
Paragraph 98: "Plaintiffs justifiably relied upon Elalami’s
promise, as communicated,
and
persuaded by Elalami."
Paragraph 99: "Plaintiffs’ reliance on Defendants’ promise
was both reasonable and
foreseeable."
(Complaint
¶¶ 98-99.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that this cause of action is based on the multiple promises made by
Defendants, through their agent Elalami, regarding the sale of the subject
property. The fact that some of these promises were made during Defendants'
unlawful detainer action does not, by itself, bring the claim under the scope
of the anti-SLAPP statute.
 
Compliant
paragraphs 98 and 99 make only vague references to Defendant’s promises. They
do not mention what the promises were for or when they were made. (Complaint ¶¶
98-99.)
Thus, the
lack of specificity found in the allegations prevents the Court from finding
that they are referring to protected activity.
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that the
sixth cause of action does not arise out of protected activity.
 
            Seventh Cause of Action – Quiet
Title
 
            Defendants argues that the quiet
title claim challenges Defendants’ rights established through the unlawful
detainer proceedings.
 
            Paragraph 106:
"None of the Defendants has any power or right to proceed with any
eviction,
lockout, foreclosure, or any other action, but must transfer the Subject
Property
to
the buyers... Any purported foreclosure sale... was irregular and void as a
matter of
law..."
(Complaint
¶ 106.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that, contrary to Defendants' assertion, this cause of action challenges
the title Defendants acquired through a foreclosure sale, which Plaintiffs
contend was wrongful. Plaintiffs claim that the Trustee Deed conveyed to
Defendants during the foreclosure sale is void. (Complaint ¶ 109.)
 
            Defendants argue that the cause of
action cannot arise out of the alleged wrongful foreclosure because the
foreclosing party has not named the trustee that conducted the foreclosure
sale. However, while failing to name the party conducting the foreclosure sale
does leave the Complaint vulnerable to a demurrer, it does not prove that the
claim did not arise out of the alleged wrongful foreclosure. Especially given
that Complaint also includes a cause of action for wrongful eviction and
foreclosure. (Complaint ¶112-120.) Thus, Defendants have not met its burden of
proof to show that the claim arose out of protected activity. (Okorie v. Los
Angeles Unified School Dist., 14 Cal.App.5th 574 (2017)
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that the
seventh cause of action did not arise out of protected activity.
 
            Eighth Cause of Action – Wrongful
Foreclosure And Wrongful Eviction
 
            Plaintiffs argue that these claims
are directly linked to the unlawful detainer action.
 
            Paragraph 119:
"Due to Defendants actions, Plaintiffs have been damaged... Plaintiffs
demand...
a permanent injunction against Defendants, to prevent them from being evicted
from
their home."
(Complaint
¶ 119.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that, similar to their seventh cause of action, they are claiming that
the April 20, 2023, foreclosure sale is void due to non-compliance with
California Civil Code § 2923.5. Specifically, they contend that the trustee
failed to contact them to explore options to avoid foreclosure. (Cal. Civ. Code
§ 2923.5; Complaint ¶114.)
 
The
Complaint directly mentions California Civil Code § 2923. (Complaint ¶114.) Defendants
again reply that Plaintiffs did not name the trustee that conducted the
foreclosure sale. However, again, while failing to name the party conducting
the foreclosure sale does leave the Complaint vulnerable to a demurrer, it does
not prove that the claim did not arise out of an alleged wrongful foreclosure
sale.
 
Therefore,
the Court finds that the eighth cause of action does not arise out of a
protected activity.
 
Ninth
Cause of Action – Injunctive Relief, Disgorgement Under Bus. & Prof. Code §
17200
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs seek relief based on actions taken during the unlawful
detainer proceedings.
 
Paragraph 127: Plaintiffs further pray for an injunctive order
enjoining and restraining
Defendants,
and each of them from engaging in or performing any act to deprive
Plaintiffs
of ownership or possession of their real property, including but not limited
to,
prosecuting
or maintaining foreclosure or sale proceedings on Plaintiffs’ real
property, from recording any deeds or mortgages regarding the property, or
from otherwise taking any steps whatsoever to deprive Plaintiffs of ownership
in the Subject Property.
(Complaint
¶ 127.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that similar to the eighth cause of action, their
claim for violation of the Unfair Competition Law is based on Defendants'
wrongful foreclosure of the subject property. They emphasize that the claim is
unrelated to Defendants' filing of an eviction lawsuit.
 
The
Complaint states that  “defrauding not
only Plaintiffs but similarly situated borrowers, by perfecting foreclosures on
residential properties without any legal authority whatsoever to do so.”
(Complaint ¶ 123.) Furthermore, paragraph 127 of the Complaint requests an
injunctive order to enjoin Defendants from “prosecuting or maintaining
foreclosure or sale proceedings on Plaintiffs’ real property, from recording
any deeds or mortgages regarding the property.” (Complaint ¶ 127.) Thus, the
Court finds that this cause of action arises out of the alleged wrongful
foreclosure, not the unlawful detainer proceedings. 
 
Therefore,
the Court finds that the ninth cause of action does not arise out of protected
activity.
 
Tenth
Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
 
Defendant
argues that the tenth cause of action for declaratory relief arises from
disputes over actions taken during the unlawful detainer.
 
Paragraph 129: "An actual controversy has arisen... Plaintiffs
contend that Defendants...
induced
them into their fraudulent scheme... then proceeding to foreclose on their home
and
filing an unlawful detainer action."
(Complaint
¶ 129.)
            
Plaintiffs
argue that, contrary to Defendants’ assertions, this claim seeks to have the
court adjudicate the parties' rights under the contract for the sale of the
subject property. (Complaint ¶132.)
In
reply, Defendants argue that the claims for declaratory and injunctive relief
aim to prevent them from enforcing the stipulated judgment from the unlawful
detainer action, as referenced in the Complaint. (Complaint ¶¶ 129, 137.) These
claims directly relate to Defendants' protected activities concerning the
unlawful detainer proceedings. Defendants assert that the right of possession,
which Plaintiffs seek to challenge, has already been adjudicated by the
unlawful detainer court. 
 
Here,
the Complaint states that a controversy has arisen based on fraudulent activity
leading to foreclosure and an unlawful detainer action.  (Complaint ¶ 129.) Filing an unlawful
detainer suit and the communications regarding the suit are protected
activities. (Sheley v. Harrop, (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 1147, 1166.)
 
Therefore,
the court finds that the tenth cause of action arises out of protected
activity.
 
 
Eleventh
Cause of Action – Preliminary and Permanent Injunction
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs aim to prevent enforcement of the stipulated judgment
from the unlawful detainer action.
 
Paragraph 137: "The threatened actions of Defendants...
pursuant to the fraudulently
obtained
stipulated judgment in the unlawful detainer action has exposed Plaintiffs
to...
irreparable
harm... the Court should issue preliminary and permanent injunctions barring
Defendants...
from conducting an eviction... as to the Subject Property..."
(Complaint
¶137.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that similar to their seventh and eighth causes of action, they are
seeking the court's injunction to stop any conduct by Defendants that resulted
from the wrongful foreclosure of their home.
 
Here,
the Complaint refers to a “fraudulently obtained stipulated judgment in the
unlawful detainer action. (Complaint ¶137.) Filing an unlawful detainer suit
and the communications regarding the suit are protected activities. (Sheley,
supra, 9 Cal.App.5th 1147, 1166.)
Therefore,
the court finds that the eleventh cause of action arises out of protected
activity.
 
Prong
Two: Probability of Prevailing
 
Defendants
have met the burden of demonstrating that causes of action 5, 10, and 11 arise
from protected activity. Thus, the burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to establish
a probability of succeeding on the merits. (Kyle v. Carmon (1999) 71
Cal.App.4th 901, 907.)
 
Fifth
Cause of Action – Fraudulent Misrepresentation
 
Plaintiffs
argue that their cause of action for fraudulent misrepresentation has merit, as
demonstrated by the attached declaration and verified complaint. They reference
Salma v. Capon (2008), which holds that verified allegations based on
the personal knowledge of the pleader can be considered in deciding a motion
under CCP §425.16. (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161 CA 4th 1275, 1289.)
Plaintiffs do not provide reasoning as to how these declarations show that
their cause of action has merit.
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs' fraud claims must be pleaded with particularity,
specifying the who, what, when, where, and how of the alleged misconduct. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Defendants contend that
Plaintiffs' declarations lack the necessary specificity, failing to identify
specific false statements made by Defendants or to demonstrate justifiable
reliance on those statements.
 
The
Declaration of Denise Johnson outlines the representations made to Plaintiffs
by Defendant regarding the sale of the house. However, the declaration fails to
explain how these statements were fraudulent, as required under Lazar. (Lazar,
supra, 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not
shown a probability of succeeding on the merits.
 
Therefore,
the Court grants the Special Motion to Strike as to the fifth cause of action.
 
Tenth
and Eleventh Causes of Action – Declaratory Relief; Preliminary and Permanent
Injunction
 
Plaintiffs
do not provide individualized arguments for why causes of action ten and eleven
have a probability of succeeding on the merits. Instead, they merely argue that
similar to their other causes of action, the attached declarations and verified
complaint demonstrate that their claims have merit.
 
Plaintiffs
have the burden for proof of establishing a probability of succeeding on the
merits. The Court does not find Plaintiffs argument convincing.
 
Therefore,
the Court grants the Special Motion to Strike as to the tenth and eleventh
cause of action.
 
Sanctions
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 subdivision (c)(1) provides that a
prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike is entitled to recover
attorney's fees and costs. (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16) This entitlement is
mandatory, not discretionary, as long as the defendant prevails on the motion.
(Maughan v. Google Technology, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1259.) However,
when a defendant only partially succeeds on an Anti-SLAPP motion, the fees and
costs awarded are typically limited to those incurred in connection with the
successful portion of the motion. (Richmond Compassionate Care Collective v.
7 Stars Holistic Foundation (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 38, 45.)
 
Defendants
request sanctions in the amount of $13,500 resulting from 36 hours of work
at $375. However, since Defendants only succeeded in dismissing three of the
eleven claims, the sanctions amount will be reduced by a ratio of 3/11.
 
Therefore,
the Court grants sanctions in the amount of $3,681.


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
NOT BY
  SIGHT, LLC, a California Limited Liability Corporation; GLADNEY JOHNSON,
  TRUSTEE OF THE GLADNEY JOHNSON FAMILY TRUST DATED JUNE 29, 2015, AND DENISE JOHNSON,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV01860




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Sustained




 
ZEYAD
  REYAD ELALAMI, an individual; BUY 2 LET INVESTMENTS, LLC, an entity of
  unknown registration; LUXOR FUNDING GROUP, INC., a California corporation;
  and DOES 1-5, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 


Hearing
Date:              October
21, 2024 Moving Party:             Defendants Zeyad Elalami, Buy2Let
Investments, and Luxor Funding Group, Inc. Responding Party:      Plaintiffs Not by Sight, LLC, Gladney
Johnson, and Denise Johnson HEARING: Demurrer to
the Complaint            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers. RULINGThe Court sustains the Demurrer with leave to amend
as to all causes of action except 5, 10, and 11 which have been stricken pursuant
to CCP sec. 425.16.BACKGROUND            On June 3, 2024, Plaintiffs Not by
Sight, LLC, Gladney Johnson, and Denise Johnson, filed the Complaint alleging
causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, negligent misrepresentation, constructive fraud,
fraudulent misrepresentation, promissory estoppel, quiet title, wrongful
foreclosure and wrongful eviction, injunctive relief, declaratory relief, and
preliminary and permanent injunctions against Defendants Zeyad Elalami, Buy2Let
Investments, and Luxor Funding Group, Inc. arising from the foreclosure sale of
the property.             On September 20, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint             On October 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the Opposition.             On October 14, 2024, Defendant filed
the reply. JUDICIAL
NOTICE            The Court may take judicial notice of records
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States. (Evid. Code § 452 subd. (d).) The Court
may also take judicial notice of “Official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.” (Evid. Code § 452 subd. (c).) Plaintiffs request that the Court take
judicial notice of the amended schedule of Gladney Johnson's Chapter 11
Bankruptcy Petition and Luxor Funding Group Inc.’s Default. Defendant has filed
no opposition to the request for judicial notice. Therefore, the Court grants
the request for judicial notice. Defendants request that the Court take
judicial notice of the docket and filings in Case No. 2:24-bk-13759-VZ, the
docket and filings in the unlawful detainer proceedings Case No. 23IWUD01856,
and the Trustee Dead Upon sale attached to Defendants’ request for judicial
notice. The Court grants the request for judicial notice. LEGAL STANDARDA demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.)  A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the
failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing
defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to. (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However,
“[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is
in some respects uncertain because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  DISCUSSION Defendants demur to
the entire complaint. Standing             When a plaintiff lacks standing to bring the action, the
complaint is subject to a demurrer, and the court may enter a judgment of
dismissal with prejudice. (See Reynolds v. City of Calistoga (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 865, 876; Hudis v. Crawford (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1586,
1592.)             Defendants argue that Plaintiffs lack standing to bring
the action due to the ongoing bankruptcy proceedings of Plaintiff Gladney
Johnson.  Defendants highlight that once
a bankruptcy petition is filed, all legal and equitable interests in the
debtor's property become part of the bankruptcy estate. (M & M Foods,
Inc. v. Pacific American Fish Co., Inc. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 554, 562.)  For Plaintiffs to
regain standing, the bankruptcy trustee must explicitly abandon the claim. (M
& M Foods, Inc, supra,196 Cal.App.4th 554, 563.) This requires
affirmative action from the trustee and adherence to federal bankruptcy
statutes, including notice and hearing requirements. Without this abandonment,
Plaintiff's complaint is vulnerable to a demurrer because it fails to state a
valid cause of action due to the jurisdictional defect of lacking standing. (Bostanian
v. Liberty Savings Bank (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 1075, 1086-1087.) Furthermore,
Defendants argue that if the Court finds that Plaintiff Gladney Johnson does
not have standing, then Plaintiffs Denise Johnson and Not By Sight LLC also
lack standing as they are not parties to the contract or the unlawful detainer
proceedings.             In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants are
incorrect in claiming that Gladney Johnson lacks standing to pursue the action
based on her Chapter 11 bankruptcy. They point out that unlike in a Chapter 7
bankruptcy, where a trustee is appointed, in a Chapter 11 proceeding—such as in
this case—no trustee has been appointed. Ms. Johnson, as the debtor in
possession, retains control over her assets and is, therefore, the real party
in interest. As a result, she has standing to prosecute the action. (See Bostanian
v Liberty Sav. Bank (1997) 52 CA 4th 1075, 1078-1079.)             Furthermore, Plaintiffs argue that Denise Johnson and Not
By Sight have standing based on the Declaration of Denise Johnson to
Defendant’s Anti-Slapp motion.             In reply, Defendants argue that even in Chapter 11
bankruptcy, a debtor lacks standing to sue in a lawsuit that belongs to the
bankruptcy estate. (Tarr v. Merco Constr. Engineers, Inc. (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 707; Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
995, 1004.)             Furthermore, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs Denise
Johnson and Not By Sight LLC lack standing to pursue the lawsuit despite
Plaintiffs’ reliance on the Declaration of Denise Johnson. They contend that
the declaration is irrelevant to the demurrer, as a demurrer only tests the
sufficiency of the pleadings, not evidence or extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms
v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Defendants assert that
declarations and extrinsic evidence cannot be considered in a demurrer hearing,
and judicial notice of the declaration would be improper since it would turn
the hearing into a contested evidentiary matter. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 115.)  Defendants further
argue that the Complaint fails to allege facts showing that Denise Johnson or
Not By Sight LLC were parties to any contract with Defendants or had any legal
interest in the subject property. Specifically, they note that neither Denise Johnson
nor Not By Sight LLC were parties to the Residential Purchase Agreement or
Seller Counter Offer, which expressly prohibits assignment without the seller’s
written consent—consent that was never given. (Complaint, Exh. C, ¶ 23.)  As non-parties to the contract, they lack
standing to sue for breach or assert related claims. (Hatchwell v. Blue
Shield of California (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 1027, 1034.)              Here, Plaintiff Gladney Johnson has filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy. (Request for Judicial Notice exhibit 1.)  The Court has held that a Chapter 11 debtor in
possession may prosecute any action before any tribunal without the approval of
the bankruptcy court. (Bostanian, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th 1075, 61; California
Aviation, Inc. v. Leeds (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 724, 729; but see, Tarr,
supra, 84 Cal.App.3d 707 [holding Chapter 11 debtor had no standing to
sue].) Therefore, because Gladney Johnson filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and
is a debtor in possession, Plaintiffs have standing to bring this action. (See,
Bostanian, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th 1075, 61.)             Default             Plaintiffs argue that Defendant Luxor Funding Group has
no standing to demur as it is in default. However, the Court has vacated the
default.  First
Cause of Action – Breach of Contract             To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract,
the plaintiff must prove “ the contract, the plaintiff's performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance, 
the defendant's breach, and the resulting damage to the plaintiff."
(Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) A written
contract must be pled verbatim in the body of the complaint, be attached to the
complaint, and incorporated by reference, or be pled according to its legal
effect. (Bowden v. Robinson (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 705, 718.)              Defendants argue that Plaintiffs' breach of contract
claim is invalid because the alleged promises and agreements regarding the sale
of the property do not meet legal requirements. 
Defendants point out that while the Residential Purchase Agreement
stipulates a 30-day escrow period, the Complaint fails to allege that this
agreement was performed. Additionally,
Defendants highlight that Residential Purchase Agreement specifies time is of
the essence and any changes, extensions, or modifications must be in writing
and signed by both parties. The alleged oral promises to extend the agreement
are insufficient because they do not comply with this written requirement. Furthermore,
Denise Johnson and Not By Sight LLC cannot enforce the contract because the
agreement prohibits assignment without the seller's written consent, which was
not given, and Not By Sight LLC is not alleged to be solely owned by Gladney
Johnson. Defendants also
argue that any alleged oral promises during the unlawful detainer proceedings
are invalid since contracts for the sale of real property must be in writing. (Civ.
Code § 1624 subd. (a)(3).) No written agreement to sell the property to
Plaintiffs exists, and the Stipulated Judgment from the unlawful detainer case
does not mention any such agreement.             In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they have adequately
alleged the necessary elements for their first cause of action, as outlined in
the Complaint. (Complaint ¶¶21-31, 33-39.) Plaintiffs relied on Defendant
Elalami’s promise to sell the property, which led them to make additional
payments beyond the contractual amount, including payments for escrow
requirements. These actions, Plaintiffs claim, satisfy the part performance exception
to the statute of frauds.             In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have failed to
establish the existence of a valid contract for the sale of real property,
which must be in writing and signed by the party to be charged, as required by
the statute of frauds (Civ. Code § 1624 subd. (a)(3)). The written agreements
referenced in the Complaint—the Residential Purchase Agreement and Seller
CounterOffer—were between Buy2Let Investments, LLC and the "Gladney
Johnson Trust," not Denise Johnson or Not By Sight LLC. (Complaint, Exhibits.
C, D.)  Furthermore, Plaintiffs have not
alleged that they performed under the contract within the required timeframe or
that Defendants breached any obligations. Defendants also
reject Plaintiffs' attempt to invoke the doctrine of part performance, arguing
that merely making payments or securing financing is not sufficient to bypass
the statute of frauds. To invoke part performance, Plaintiffs must demonstrate
actions unequivocally referable to the oral agreement, which would prevent
unjust enrichment. (Sutton v. Warner (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 415, 422.)  However, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have
not alleged facts showing that they made substantial improvements to the
property or that Defendants accepted payments, and thus, the statute of frauds
applies, rendering the alleged oral agreement unenforceable.             In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that on July 6, 2023,
Defendant Elalami, under his company Buy2Let Investments, LLC, issued a
"Payoff Statement" demanding $450,000 for the purchase of the subject
property. (Complaint ¶ 21.) On July 24, 2023, Gladney Johnson signed a Purchase
Agreement with Elalami for the property, and on July 26, 2023, both parties
signed a Seller Counteroffer. (Complaint ¶ 22-23.) Plaintiffs claim they fully
complied with their contractual obligations, but Elalami breached the agreement
by not completing the sale and demanding additional payments. (Complaint ¶¶
24-25.) The Complaint also
details a foreclosure on the property and a subsequent unlawful detainer action
filed by Buy2Let Investments, LLC, resulting in a stipulated judgment on April
2, 2024. (Complaint ¶¶ 25-26.) Plaintiffs allege that they entered into this
judgment based on Elalami’s promise to sell the property to them for $492,000,
which included a carry-back lien. (Complaint ¶ 27.)  However, despite
these efforts, Defendants point out that Elalami failed to complete the sale
and continued to demand further payments. Plaintiffs argue that Elalami’s
actions caused them significant financial harm, including paying excessive
fees, legal expenses, and escrow costs. They allege that Elalami misused the
corporate identities of Buy2Let and Luxor for his personal benefit, resulting
in direct and consequential damages to Plaintiffs. (Complaint ¶¶ 32-29.) Plaintiff has
attached the Purchase Agreement, which shows the purchase price and escrow
date, and is signed by both parties. (Complaint Exhibit B.) Therefore, the
Court finds that a valid contract has been pleaded. However, the Court finds
that the alleged oral contracts made during the unlawful detainer proceedings
are barred by the Statute of Frauds. (Civil Code § 1624 subd. (a)(3); Complaint
¶¶ 27-28, 31.) Defendant argues that the doctrine of part performance overcomes
the statute of frauds. However, making payments and securing finances is
insufficient to show part performance; one must also show possession or
improvement of the property. (Sutton v. Warner (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
415, 422.) Here, Plaintiffs have not pleaded any facts showing possession or
improvement of the property. Therefore, part performance does not apply, and
the only contracts sufficiently pleaded in the Complaint are the Purchase Agreement
and Seller Counteroffer. (Complaint Exhibits B-C.) The Complaint
states that Plaintiffs “have duly performed all promises, conditions, and
agreements on their part to be performed, as modified, under the contract.”
(Complaint ¶ 34.) However, Defendants contend that the Residential Purchase
Agreement stated that the close of escrow would take place 30 days after
acceptance. While the Complaint states that Plaintiff has performed all aspects
of the agreement, Plaintiffs have not pleaded that they performed all aspects
of the agreement before the close of escrow as required by the Residential
Purchase Agreement. (Complaint Exhibit B ¶ 3.) Therefore, Plaintiffs have not
sufficiently pleaded facts to show that they fully performed the contract.
(See, Bowden, supra, 67 Cal.App.3d 705, 718.)  Therefore, the
Court sustains the Demurrer to the Complaint as to the first cause of action
with leave to amend. Cause of Action 2 – Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing              A claim for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing requires (1) the existence of a contractual
relationship, (2) implied duty, (3) breach, (4) and causation of damages. (Smith
v. San Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.)             Defendants argue that this claim should fail because it
depends on the existence of a valid contract, which they argue does not exist.             Plaintiffs argue that a valid contract has been
adequately pleaded.              The Complaint asserts that an implicit duty of good faith
and fair dealing existed in the Purchase Agreement and its modifications.
Plaintiffs claim that Defendants had a duty to complete the sale of the subject
property in a fair and transparent manner, particularly regarding escrow
requirements and communication. Plaintiffs accuse Defendants of failing to meet
these obligations by improperly initiating a foreclosure sale and unlawful
detainer action without legal authority. Plaintiffs argue that these actions
were intended to harm them and deprive them of the benefits of the agreements,
resulting in significant damage.             While a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing does not necessarily require a breach of an express contract, the
scope of conduct prohibited by the implied covenant is circumscribed by the
purposes and express terms of the contract. (Avidity Partners, LLC v. State
of California (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 1180.) The Court has found that all
modifications of the Purchase Agreement outside of the attached Seller
Counteroffer are barred by the Statute of Frauds. Therefore, the scope of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is limited to the express terms
and purpose of the Purchase Agreement. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
improperly foreclosed on the property, which they argue breached the implied
covenant. However, the Plaintiffs have pleaded no facts to show how or why the
foreclosure was improper. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not
pleaded facts sufficient facts to state a cause of action for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.             Therefore, the Court sustains the Demurrer to the second
cause of action with leave to amend. Cause of Action 3 – Negligent Misrepresentation             A claim for negligent misrepresentation requires an assertion of an
untrue fact; believed by defendant to be true; lack of reasonable ground for
the belief; defendant’s intent to induce plaintiff’s reliance upon the
representation; plaintiff’s justifiable reliance upon the representation; and
resulting damage. (Melican v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 168, 182.) Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs have failed to specify any false representations made by
Defendants that Plaintiffs justifiably relied upon, which is required for
fraud-based claims. Defendants emphasize that fraud claims must be pleaded with
particularity, including the "who, what, when, where, and how" of the
alleged misrepresentations. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645.)  Additionally, when fraud
claims are made against corporate defendants like Luxor Inc. and Buy2Let, there
is an even higher standard. Plaintiffs must provide details such as the names
of the individuals who made the statements, their authority to speak, and the
specific content and timing of the representations, as required by (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 2 Cal. App. 4th 153.) Defendants further
argue that any reliance on alleged statements was unreasonable, particularly in
the absence of a written agreement. In Opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that their reliance on Defendants promises are reasonable. The Complaint does
not state with specificity which facts were misrepresented or concealed, to
whom the facts were misrepresented or concealed, or when the facts were
misrepresented or concealed. Thus, The Court finds that Plaintiffs have not met
the heightened pleading standard required for fraud-based claims. Therefore, the
Court sustains the demurrer to the third cause of action with leave to amend. Cause of Action 4 – Constructive Fraud  A claim for constructive fraud requires a
fiduciary, confidential, or special relationship, followed by a breach such as
a nondisclosure, with the intent to deceive, resulting in reliance by the other
party, causing harm or damages. (Younan v. Equifax Inc. (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 498, 516, 517.) Defendants argue
that the claim of constructive fraud fails because it requires a fiduciary or
confidential relationship, which does not exist between the parties. As
purchasers at a foreclosure sale and subsequent property owners, Defendants do
not owe Plaintiffs any fiduciary duty or have a confidential relationship with
them. (Tyler v. Children's Home Society (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 511, 548.) The Court finds
that Plaintiffs have not pleaded sufficient facts to state a cause of action
for constructive fraud because they have not pleaded any facts showing a specific
fiduciary relationship between the parties. (See, Tyler, supra, 29
Cal.App.4th 511, 548.) Therefore, the
Court sustains the Demurrer to the fourth cause of action with leave to amend. Cause of Action 5 – Fraudulent misrepresentation “The elements of
fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity
(or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar, Supra, 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.) Defendants argue
that, like the negligent misrepresentation claim, Plaintiffs fail to meet the
heightened pleading standard required for fraud. Plaintiffs have not provided
specific details about the false statements, including who made them and when
they were made. (Lazar, Supra, 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Additionally, there
is no evidence showing that Defendants intended to defraud Plaintiffs at the
time of the alleged representations.  Plaintiffs argue
that they have adequately alleged the necessary elements of fraud in their fifth
cause of action. (Complaint ¶¶ 76-82, 87-92.) They assert that Defendant
Elalami, acting as an agent of Buy2Let and under his authority as an officer of
Luxor, made false material misrepresentations to Plaintiffs orally, via text
message, and email before the execution of the purchase agreement. (Complaint ¶
83.)  The Complaint
alleges that Defendants knowingly made false representations to Plaintiffs
regarding the amount of funds paid by Plaintiffs prior to the execution of the
contract orally and through text. (Complaint ¶ 83.) Fraud claims must
be pleaded with particularity, including the "who, what, when, where, and
how" of the alleged misrepresentations. (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th
631, 645.) Plaintiffs had failed to specify to whom the statements were made
and when the statements were made. The Complaint merely states that the
misrepresentations were made to Plaintiffs before the execution of the
contract. They do not specify to which Plaintiff the statements were made nor
the time or location of the alleged misrepresentation. Thus, these statements
do not meet the Court’s heightened standard for fraud pleadings. While the Court would
sustain the Demurrer to the fifth cause of action with leave to amend, it is granting
the motion to strike this cause of action under CCP sec. 425.16. Cause of Action 6 – Promissory Estoppel  A claim for
Promissory Estoppel requires A promise, which the promisor should reasonably
expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character
on the part of the promisee, induces such action or forbearance, and injustice
can only be avoided by enforcing the promise. (C & K Eng'g Contractors
v. Amber Steel Co. (1978) 23 Cal.3d 1, 6.) Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs cannot rely on promissory estoppel to bypass the statute of
frauds because they have not demonstrated a clear and unambiguous promise from
Defendants that would justify reliance. Moreover, Plaintiffs did not alter
their position based on any oral agreement. While part performance can allow
enforcement of a contract without a written agreement, this requires both
partial performance and a significant change in position due to reliance, such
that applying the statute of frauds would result in an unjust or unconscionable
loss. (In re Marriage of Benson (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1096, 1108.)  Defendants assert that Plaintiffs' alleged
down payment to escrow is insufficient to constitute part performance, as
payment of money alone does not take an oral agreement out of the statute of
frauds, and legal remedies are available for such payments. (Anderson v.
Stansbury (1952) 38 Cal.2d 707, 715.)  Plaintiffs argue
that they have adequately alleged the elements for their sixth cause of action.
They claim to have actually and detrimentally relied on Defendants' promises,
resulting in injuries amounting to at least $200,000. Plaintiffs distinguish their
case from Secrest v. Nat. Mortg. Loan Trust 2002-2 (2008), by stating
that unlike in Secrest, they altered their position by taking steps to
secure a loan for the purchase of the property in reliance on Elalami's
repeated promises. (Secrest v. Nat. Mortg. Loan Trust 2002-2 (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th 544, 555.) In reply, Plaintiffs
argue that attempting to secure financing does constitute the type of
substantial change in position required to invoke promissory estoppel. (Secrest,
supra, 167 Cal.App.4th 544, 555.) While Plaintiffs
argue that they altered their position by attempting to secure financing, the
Complaint does not allege this fact. Furthermore, attempting to secure
financing is not a substantial change in one's position. (See, Secrest,
supra, 167 Cal.App.4th 544, 555.) Thus, the Complaint has not alleged facts
sufficient to state a claim for Promissory Estoppel.  Therefore, the
Court sustains the Demurrer to the sixth cause of action with leave to amend. Cause of Action 7 – Quiet Title A claim for quiet
title requires a description of the property, the plaintiff's title or interest
and its basis, the defendant's adverse claim or antagonistic property interest,
the date as of which the determination is sought, and a prayer for determination
of title. (Lucas v. Sweet (1956) 47 Cal.2d 20, 22.) Defendants argue
that the court can take judicial notice of the recorded documents, such as the
Trustee Deed Upon Sale, which shows that Defendant Buy2Let holds valid title to
the property through a legitimate foreclosure sale. As a bona fide purchaser, Defendant
Buy2Let acquired the property by paying valuable consideration of $375, subject
to a senior lien, and had no notice of any competing claims to the property.
(See First Bank v. East West Bank (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1309, 1314.)
Defendants emphasize that under the law, a bona fide purchaser at a foreclosure
sale cannot have their title challenged by the trustor based on alleged
irregularities in the sale. (See, Moeller v. Lien (1994) 25 Cal.App 4th
822, 831-832.) Thus, Defendants argue that the foreclosure sale is valid and
cannot be rescinded. Plaintiffs argue
that their quiet title claim is based on the assertion that the April 20, 2023,
foreclosure conducted by the Foreclosure Trustee is void because it did not
comply with statutory requirements for a valid foreclosure. Therefore,
Plaintiffs maintain that their cause of action has been validly pled.
Plaintiffs cite no authority.  Because Defendants
are bona fide purchasers, whether or not the Foreclosure Trustee did not comply
with foreclosure statutes is immaterial. (See Moeller, supra, 25 Cal.App
4th 822, 831-832.) Thus, the claim fails as a matter of law. Therefore, the
Demurrer to the seventh cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. Cause of Action 8 – Wrongful Foreclosure and Wrongful
Eviction A claim for
wrongful foreclosure requires that the trustee or mortgagee caused an illegal,
fraudulent, or willfully oppressive sale of real property under the power of
sale in a mortgage or trust deed, the trustor, mortgagor, or another party
attacking the sale was prejudiced or harmed, and the trustor or mortgagor
tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness or was excused from doing so. (Miles
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 408.)  A claim for
wrongful eviction requires that the action was commenced by or at the direction
of the defendant, pursued to a legal termination favorable to the plaintiff,
brought without probable cause, and initiated with malice. (Asell v.
Rodrigues (1973) 32 Cal.App.3d 817, 824.)  Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs cannot sue them for wrongful foreclosure because none of the
Defendants conducted the foreclosure, as shown by the Trustee Deed Upon Sale,
which has been judicially noticed. Plaintiffs have not demonstrated any
irregularities in the foreclosure process carried out by National Default
Servicing Corporation, nor have they named that entity as a Defendant.
Furthermore, Plaintiffs did not make or allege tender of the secured
indebtedness, a requirement to challenge foreclosure irregularities. (Abdallah
v. United Savings Bank (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1101, 1109.)  Defendants also assert that Plaintiffs cannot
pursue a wrongful eviction claim due to collateral estoppel, as the unlawful
detainer judgment conclusively determined the right to possession, preventing
Plaintiffs from relitigating the issue. Plaintiffs argue
that the foreclosure was wrongful due to the Foreclosure Trustee's failure to
comply with foreclosure statutes. They assert that the burden is on Defendants
to prove they were bona fide purchasers of the property at a valid foreclosure
sale. Plaintiffs again cite no authority. The Court finds
that the claim fails as a matter of law because Defendants did not conduct the
foreclosure sale.  Therefore, the
Court sustains the Demurrer to the eighth cause of action with leave to amend. Cause of action 9 – Injunctive Relief, Disgorgement under
Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq. A claim for an
injunction requires a wrongful act stating a cause of action and a basis for
equitable relief, such as a threat of irreparable harm or the inadequacy of a
remedy at law. (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman Marina Hosp. (2d Dist.
1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410.) Plaintiffs argue
that they have not established grounds for equitable relief, as Defendants lawfully
obtained possession of the property. In considering whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, courts assess two factors: the likelihood that
Plaintiffs will prevail at trial and the balance of harm between the parties.
Plaintiffs have not shown any ongoing conduct to enjoin or any unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent business acts by Defendants, as required under the Unfair
Competition Law. (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17200.) Defendants argue
that the Unfair Completion Law allows civil recovery for unlawful, unfair,
deceptive, or misleading practices. To qualify as an unfair business practice,
the public policy supporting the claim must be linked to specific
constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provisions. (Khoury v. Maly’s of
Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A fraudulent practice under
the UCL only requires showing that members of the public are likely to be
deceived. Defendants claim that Plaintiffs have clearly alleged a violation of
the UCL based on unfair and fraudulent practices, as outlined in their
complaint.  In reply, Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs have not alleged any facts showing unlawful, unfair, or
fraudulent business acts by Defendants. While Plaintiffs acknowledge that their
cause of action must be connected to specific constitutional, statutory, or
regulatory provisions, they fail to identify any law that was violated.  The Complaint has
not provided the specific constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provisions
which Defendants have violated. Thus, the claim fails as a matter of law. Therefore, the
Demurrer to the ninth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. Cause of action 10 – Declaratory relief  “The fundamental
basis of declaratory relief is the existence of an actual, present controversy
over a proper subject.” (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69,
79) Courts do not issue advisory opinions about the rights and duties of
parties under agreements if no actual, justiciable controversy has yet
developed. (Younger v. Superior Court (1978) 21 Cal.3d 102, 119–120; Otay
Land Co. v. Royal Indemnity Co. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 556, 562.)  Defendants argue
that declaratory relief is unwarranted because there is no ongoing, present
controversy between the parties. The rights and obligations regarding the
property have already been adjudicated through the foreclosure and unlawful
detainer proceedings, including six post-judgment proceedings, resolving the
matter. Plaintiffs argue
that, contrary to Defendants' assertion, they have clearly alleged a present
and ongoing controversy regarding the parties' rights under the contract. They
assert that a complaint for declaratory relief is sufficient if it presents
facts showing an actual controversy related to the legal rights and duties of
the parties under a written agreement, requesting the court to adjudicate those
rights. The Court has found
that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently pled that they performed the contract in
the escrow period. Thus, because the contract was not performed, there is no
current justiciable controversy. (Younger v. Superior Court (1978) 21
Cal.3d 102, 119–120.) While the Court would
sustain the Demurrer to the tenth cause of action with leave to amend, it is granting
the motion to strike this cause of action under CCP sec. 425.16. Cause of Action Eleven – Preliminary and Permanent
Injunction Injunctive relief
is a remedy, not a cause of action. (Shell Oil Co. v. Richter (1942) 52
Cal.App.2d 164, 168.)  Here, since
Plaintiffs’ actions have not been sufficiently pleaded, the request for
injunction also failed. While the Court would
sustain the Demurrer to the eleventh cause of action with leave to amend, it is
granting the motion to strike this cause of action under CCP sec. 425.16.



Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
NOT BY
  SIGHT, LLC, a California Limited Liability Corporation; GLADNEY JOHNSON, TRUSTEE
  OF THE GLADNEY JOHNSON FAMILY TRUST DATED JUNE 29, 2015, AND DENISE JOHNSON,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV01860




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Denied




 
ZEYAD
  REYAD ELALAMI, an individual; BUY 2 LET INVESTMENTS, LLC, an entity of
  unknown registration; LUXOR FUNDING GROUP, INC., a California corporation;
  and DOES 1-5, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
21, 2024
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiffs Not by Sight, LLC,
Gladney Johnson, and Denise Johnson 
 
Responding Party:      None
 
HEARING: Motion for an Order Permitting Discovery
During the Pendency of Defendants Anti-SLAPP Motion
            The Court considered the moving.
 
RULING
The Court denies the Motion for an Order Permitting
Discovery During the Pendency of Defendants Anti-SLAPP Motion as moot.
BACKGROUND
            On June 3, 2024, Plaintiffs Not by
Sight, LLC, Gladney Johnson, and Denise Johnson, filed the Complaint alleging
causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, negligent misrepresentation, constructive fraud,
fraudulent misrepresentation, promissory estoppel, quiet title, wrongful
foreclosure and wrongful eviction, injunctive relief, declaratory relief, and
preliminary and permanent injunctions arising from the foreclosure sale of the
property.
 
            On October 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant Motion for an Order Permitting Discovery During the Pendency of
Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP Motion.
 
            No opposition has been filed.
 
DISCUSSION 
The Court has ruled
on Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP motion. Therefore, the Court denies this motion as
moot. 