  Case Number:  20STCV28179    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  76             Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant has failed to pay for Plaintiff’s project management, jobsite
supervision, labor and materials, general construction work and related
construction services for the work of improvement at Defendant’s property.
            Defendant Scott Lowry filed a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff The J. Alexander Company, Inc. and American
Contractors Indemnity Company, alleging that Cross-Defendants engaged in
negligent construction and defective workmanship regarding fire damage
renovation, repairs and improvement at Cross-Complainant’s property.
Cross-Complainant also alleges misrepresentations made during solicitation of
the contract regarding the completion time and costs and permits for the work.
            Various
other Cross-Complaints for indemnity were also filed.
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Scott
Lowry demurs to the First Amended Complaint.
 TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Scott Lowry's demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to the fourth and sixth causes of action, and OVERRULED as to
the first through third, fifth and seventh causes of action.
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Scott Lowry is ordered to answer the remaining allegations of the First Amended
Complaint within 10 days.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Request For
Judicial Notice
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Scott
Lowry requests that the Court take judicial notice of the following:
 
•
Exhibit 1 – December 9, 2021 Citation No. 2 2021 1622 issued by the Contractors
State License Board (“CSLB”) against Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant The J.
Alexander Company, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) 
 
•
Exhibit 2 – Website printout of the Summer 2010 Publication from the Contractors
State License Board https://www.cslb.ca.gov/newsletter/2010-summer/page9.htm),
California Department of Consumer Affairs, accessed November 21, 2022. 
 
•
Exhibit 3 – U.S. Patent No. 8,689,802; 
 
•
Exhibit 4 – U.S. Patent No. D749,262; 
 
•
Exhibit 5 – Website printout from the United States Patent and Trademark Office
Trademark Electronic Search System (TESS) database for U.S. Trademark Reg. No.
4,461,013, accessed July 31, 2023; 
 
•
Exhibit 6 – Website printout from the United States Patent and Trademark Office
Trademark Electronic Search System (TESS) database for U.S. Trademark Reg. No.
4,453,584, accessed July 31, 2023; 
 
•
Exhibit 7 – The J. Alexander Company, Inc. Responses To Form Interrogatories –
Set One – Construction Set dated January 7, 2021. 
The Request as to Exhibits 1 and 2
is GRANTED. The Court may take judicial notice of the official acts of the
Contractors’ State License Board and Department of Consumer Affairs.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal. App. 4th 513, 518.)
Request Nos. 3 – 6 are GRANTED. Pursuant to Evid. Code § 452(c), the Court may
take judicial notice of official records of an administrative agency. (Ordlock v. Franchise Tax Bd. (2006) 38
Cal.4th 897, 912.) 
Request No. 7 is GRANTED.
As a general rule in testing a pleading
against a demurrer the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be. (Citation omitted.) The courts, however, will
not close their eyes to situations where a complaint contains allegations of
fact inconsistent with attached documents, or allegations contrary to facts
which are judicially noticed. (Citations omitted.) Thus, a pleading valid on
its face may nevertheless be subject to demurrer when matters judicially
noticed by the court render the complaint meritless. In this regard the court
passing upon the question of the demurrer may look to affidavits filed on
behalf of plaintiff, and the plaintiff's answers to interrogatories (citation omitted),
as well as to the plaintiff's response to request for admissions. (Citations
omitted.)

The court will take judicial notice of records such as admissions, answers to
interrogatories, affidavits, and the like, when considering  [*605] 
a demurrer, only where they contain statements of the plaintiff or his agent
which are inconsistent with the allegations of the pleading before the court.
The hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing
through the guise of having the court take judicial notice of affidavits,
declarations, depositions, and other such material which was filed on behalf of
the adverse party and which purports to contradict the allegations and
contentions of the plaintiff. (Citation omitted.)

(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d
593, 604-05.) 
Meet and Confer
            The Declaration of Theresa Crawford
Tate reflects that counsel for Defendant satisfied the meet and confer
requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41.
Discussion
1.         First
Cause of Action (Breach of Contract).
            Defendant
argues that this cause of action fails because the home improvement contract is
illegal and unenforceable as a matter of law for violating Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 7159.
            Defendant
argues that the contract is inherently inequitable, and thus, an exception to
enforce the illegal contract does not apply. Defendant argues that the
provision that the Contractor’s total fee anticipated to be earned by paid,
whether fully earned or not, is unconscionable.
            Plaintiff
argues that a contract which does not meet the requirements of Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 7159 may still be enforced. Defendant argues that the factors for an
exception to occur have not been sufficiently pled.
            In Hinerfeld-Ward, Inc. v. Lipian, the Court recognized that a home improvement
contract which does not comply with Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7159 may still be
enforced, depending on the consideration of certain factors:
The issue is whether an oral contract for home improvements, in
violation of section 7159, is void or merely voidable. The
general rule is that “a contract made in violation of a regulatory statute is
void. [Citation.] Normally, courts will not ‘ “lend their aid to the
enforcement of an illegal agreement or one against public policy … .” ’
[Citations.]” (Asdourian,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 291.) But as the Supreme Court recognized in Asdourian, “ ‘the rule is not an inflexible one to be applied in its
fullest rigor under any and all circumstances. A wide range of exceptions has
been recognized.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
 
In Calwood, the court reversed an order
sustaining a demurrer to a complaint for unpaid fees brought by a contractor on
an oral home improvement contract. The trial court had reasoned that the
contract was void because it did not comply with section 7159. The Calwood court noted that “section 7159 contains no express
prohibition respecting the enforceability of contracts made contrary to its
terms, but is limited in its specification of penalty to criminal fine or
imprisonment.” (Calwood,
supra, 105 Cal.App.3d at p.
521.) The oral contract was
enforceable because the work had been completed, was performed under authority
granted by the owners, and was ratified by them. The court reasoned that the
violation of section 7159 did not involve serious moral
turpitude. The policy of consumer protection would not be furthered by
finding the contract before it to be unenforceable, since the transaction was
completed. If the contract was not enforced, the owners would be unjustly
enriched at the expense of the contractor, a penalty disproportionately harsh
in relation to the violation.
(Calwood, supra, 105 Cal.App.3d at p. 522.)
 
Asdourian involved oral contracts for home improvements between
homeowners and their contractor. The court found “[n]othing in the statute
[which] declares that an oral contract entered into in contravention
of section 7159 shall be void.” (Asdourian, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 291.) While
the court concluded that the Legislature did not intend the express penalty
provisions of section 7159 to be exclusive, it found “no indication
that the Legislature intended that all contracts made in
violation of section 7159 are void.” (38 Cal.3d at p. 292.) Absent an express legislative prohibition, the Asdourian court concluded it could apply exceptions to the
general rule that illegal contracts are unenforceable. (Ibid.)
 
 [*93] 
 
The contracts in Asdourian were held enforceable
because as real estate investors, the owners were not within the class of
unsophisticated consumers the statute was designed to protect. The Supreme Court concluded that in this context, the
misdemeanor penalties provided in section 7159 were sufficient and
that the policy underlying the statute would not be defeated if the contractor
was allowed to recover for work performed. (Asdourian, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 292.) The court also concluded that a
contract in violation of section 7159 does not present the type of
illegality that automatically renders a contract void. Instead, the contracts
were found merely “voidable depending on the factual
context and the public policies involved.”
(Asdourian, at p. 293.) Citing Calwood, supra, 105 Cal.App.3d at page 522,
the Asdourian court reasoned that the failure to observe strict statutory
formalities was understandable because the contractor and owners were friends
and had prior business dealings. In addition, it was significant that
the contractor fully performed according to the oral agreements and the owners
accepted the benefits of those agreements. “If [the owners] are allowed to
retain the value of the benefits bestowed by [the contractor] without
compensating him, they will be unjustly enriched.” (Asdourian, supra, at p. 293; see also Davenport & Co. v. Spieker (1988)
197 Cal.App.3d 566 [242 Cal. Rptr. 911] [contractor's noncompliance
with § 7159 did not preclude recovery from owners, one of whom was
experienced in real estate investment and development, where many informal
changes and additions were made to contract].)’
 
. . .
 
 [*94] 
 
. . .
 
We agree with Hinerfeld that the construction
of section 7159 urged by the Lipians is too narrow. As we have
discussed, the sophistication of the parties in construction matters is only
one of several factors considered by the Asdourian court and its progeny. . . .
 
. . .  [*95]  . . .
 
Finally, as in Asdourian, Calwood, and Arya, the Lipians would be
unjustly enriched if Hinerfeld is not allowed recovery. Although the work
on the project was not complete when Hinerfeld was terminated, the jury
expressly found that the value of the services it rendered was $
820,000, that the Lipians had not paid that amount, and that the damages
for the Lipians' breach of contract were in excess of $ 202,000. In contrast, on the Lipians' cross-complaint, only $ 1,000
in damages were awarded.
 
We agree with the trial court that this is a compelling case
warranting enforcement of the oral home improvement contract under the Asdourian, supra, 38 Cal.3d 276, line of authority.

(Hinerfeld-Ward, Inc. v. Lipian (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 86, 92-95 [bold emphasis and
underlining added].)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff pleads that Defendant Lowry was a sophisticated consumer because:
 
SCOTT LOWRY is and at all times
mentioned herein was an attorney and a sophisticated consumer, with an
undergraduate degree in engineering and whose law practice covers all facets of
intellectual property law, with a specific focus on patent and trademark
prosecution. Plaintiff is informed and believes SCOTT LOWRY has prosecuted
patents before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for companies and
individuals of different industries, such as medical devices, automotive, and
technologies that utilize radio frequency identification and the patentability
of business method and software patents. Plaintiff is further informed and
believes SCOTT LOWRY authors scholarly articles on the latest developments in
intellectual property law and has been cited by the European Patent
Organization.
 
(1AC, ¶ 3.)
            It is for a
jury to decide whether this alleged background made Lowry a sophisticated
consumer vis-à-vis Plaintiff. There is not authority holding that the
sophistication must pertain to construction matters. Indeed, a trier of fact might consider
a lawyer who deals with intellectual property sophisticated relative to any contract
he may enter into. A home improvement contract may not present the same complexity as matters of intellectual property law.
            The Court
agrees that the allegations at ¶ 4 regarding Plaintiff’s principal Schoenfeld
and Defendant Lowry regarding Lowry performing legal work for Schonfeld’s son’s
company, and Lowry hiring Plaintiff to deal with the insurer for policy
benefits probably does not factor into the balance of whether the subject
contract should be enforced. However, Defendant did not move to strike these
allegations, and a demurrer does not lie to only certain allegations.
            Plaintiff
also alleges the following:
12. Plaintiff has fully performed all
conditions, covenants, and promises required to be performed in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the Contract, except those which have been
excused by Defendants’ breaches.  The
work was performed under the authority granted by SCOTT LOWRY and was
ratified by him.  SCOTT LOWRY accepted
the benefits of the work performed by Plaintiff. 
 
13. As of July 15, 2020, after giving
Defendants due credit for payments made, Plaintiff was owed the sum of
$63,126.50 for the work performed under the Contract, as is more
particularly set forth in the Summary Billing and Release, a true and correct
copy of which is attached hereto as 
Exhibit “B” and is incorporated herein
by this reference. 
 
14. Despite demand therefore,
Defendants have failed to perform their obligations under the Contract in that
Defendants have failed and refused to pay the balance due for the materials,
services and supplies furnished under the Contract in the sum of
$63,126.50 and said sum is now 
due, owing and unpaid, together with
interest at the maximum legal rate per annum, and late charges, according to
proof, all dating from the date of the breach, until paid in full.
 
(1AC, ¶¶ 12 – 14 [bold emphasis
added].)          
“The sole issue raised by a general
demurrer is whether the facts pleaded state a valid cause of action, not
whether they are true. No matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff's
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer.
(Citation omitted.) Furthermore, plaintiff's possible inability or difficulty
in proving the allegations of the complaint is of no concern. (Citation
omitted.)” (Kerivan v. Title Ins. &
Trust Co. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 225, 229.)     
            The
foregoing is sufficient to plead factors whereby the contract may be enforced
despite violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 7159. Whether or not the contract is unconscionable or whether
unclean hands bars enforcement of the contract are affirmative defenses which
Defendant may litigate on the merits at a later stage.
[S]ubdivision (b) of Civil Code section
1670.5 provides that "[w]hen it is claimed or appears to the court that
the contract or any clause thereof may be unconscionable the parties shall be
afforded a reasonable opportunity to present evidence as to its commercial
setting, purpose, and effect to aid the court in making the
determination." This language reflects "legislative recognition that
a claim of unconscionability often cannot be determined merely by examining the
face of the contract, but will require inquiry into its setting, purpose, and
effect." (Citation omitted.) 

(Stirlen
v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1536.)
Thus, as a general rule, the
application of the doctrine of unclean hands is primarily a question of fact. (Citation
omitted.) This doctrine is usually associated with the rule of law which
precludes a grantor from recovering his property from a grantee when the
conveyance is deemed a fraudulent one. (Citation omitted.)  In other
contexts, equity may also refuse relief to a plaintiff who does not come into
court with clean hands. The doctrine is, however, not necessarily "'. . .
a complete defense. It is well settled that public policy may favor the nonapplication
of the doctrine as well as its application.' (Citation omitted.) 'Whenever an
inequitable result would be accomplished by the application of the "clean
hands" doctrine the courts have not hesitated to reject it.' (Citation
omitted.)


(Health Maint. Network v. Blue
Cross of So. Cal. (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 1043, 1061.)
            The
demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
2.         Second
Cause of Action (Indebitatus Assumpsit).
            Defendant
argues that this cause of action fails because it is based on the failed breach
of contract claim. For the reasons discussed above re: the first cause of
action, this argument is not persuasive.
            Defendant
also argue that the elements of this cause of action are insufficiently pled.
It is established that when a contract has
been fully performed and nothing remains to be done under it except the payment
of money by defendant, plaintiff may declare generally in indebitatus
assumpsit. (Citations omitted.) Such count may be joined with one on the
contract, and a plaintiff is under no compulsion to elect but may submit his
case to the trier of fact for determination upon the facts, and it is the
province of the trier of fact to decide which count is supported by the
evidence.
(Haggerty v.
Warner (1953) 115 Cal.App.2d 468, 474-75.)
            Here,
Plaintiff  alleges at ¶ 19 that Plaintiff
has fully performed such services, with nothing remaining to be done thereunder other than the
payment of money by the Defendants to Plaintiff. For purposes of this demurrer,
the allegation must be accepted as true. (Kerivan,
supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at 229.)    
 
            Although Defendant
argues that Plaintiff stated in the response to Form Interrogatory No. 324.1
that Defendant terminated the parties’ agreement before Plaintiff could
complete its work, the 1AC may be construed to mean that the remainder of
Plaintiff’s performance was excused by Defendant’s alleged breach. 
 
            The demurrer to the
second cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
3.         Third
Cause of Action (Quantum Meruit).
 
A quantum meruit or quasi-contractual
recovery rests upon the equitable theory that a contract to pay for services
rendered is implied by law for reasons of justice. See, e.g., 1 Witkin, Summary
of California Law (9th ed. 1987) Contracts, sections 12, page 47; 91, pages
122-123; 112, pages 137-138. However, it is well settled that there is no
equitable basis for an implied-in-law promise to pay reasonable value when the
parties have an actual agreement covering compensation.  Willman v.
Gustafson (1944) 63 Cal. App. 2d 830 [147 P.2d 636] (there can be no implied
promise to pay reasonable value for services when there is an express agreement
to pay a fixed sum). See also 55 California Jurisprudence Third, Restitution,
sections 19, page 328 et seq.; and 58, and pages 375-376 (no ground to imply
payment obligation in conflict with express contract). 


(Hedging Concepts, Inc. v.
First Alliance Mortgage Co. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1419.)
 
            However,
“[t]he court may consider the price
agreed upon by the parties ‘as a criterion in ascertaining the reasonable value
of services performed.’ (Citation omitted.)” (Watson v. Wood Dimension (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1359,
1365.)
 
            Thus, Plaintiff is entitled to plead
this cause of action in the alternative. 
 
It is well established that an operative pleading, . . . can allege
multiple causes of action or charges based on the same conduct. (Citations
omitted.)

It is also well recognized that the same conduct
can be found to constitute various wrongs. (Citations omitted.) 


(Gillis v. Dental Bd. of California (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 311, 323, overruled on other grounds as stated in Dhillon v. John Muir Health (2017) 2 Cal. 5th 1109, 1116 n.2.)
 
            The demurer
to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
4.         Fourth
Cause of Action (Account Stated).
            Defendant
argues that this cause of action fails because it is based on the failed breach
of contract claim. For the reasons discussed above re: the first cause of
action, this argument is not persuasive.
            Defendant
argues that this cause of action also fails because the Complaint fails to
identify any previous transactions between the parties establishing the
relationship of debtor and creditor, nor whether the parties agreed on the
amount due and that Defendant promised to pay the alleged $63,216.50 balance.  
“An account stated is an
agreement, based on prior transactions between the parties, that the items of
an account are true and that the balance struck is due and owing. [Citation.]
To be an account stated, ‘it must appear that at the time of the statement an
indebtedness from one party to the other existed, that a balance was then
struck and agreed to be the correct sum owing from the debtor to the creditor,
and that the debtor expressly or impliedly promised to pay to the creditor the
amount thus determined to be owing.’ [Citation.]” 
(Maggio, Inc. v. Neal
(1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 745, 752–753 [241 Cal. Rptr. 883].)
“The essential elements of an account stated are: (1)
previous transactions between the parties establishing the relationship of
debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties, express or implied,
on the amount due from the debtor to the creditor; (3) a promise by the debtor,
express or implied, to pay the amount due. [Citations.]” (Zinn v. Fred
R. Bright Co. (1969) 271 Cal.App.2d 597, 600 [76 Cal. Rptr. 663].)
(Leighton v. Forster (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 467, 490-91.)
            The fourth
cause of action does not plead that Defendant agreed to the correct sum owing
and promised to pay that outstanding amount due in the sum of $63,126.50.
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.
5.         Fifth
Cause of Action (Open Book Account). 
            Defendant
argues that this cause of action fails because it is based on the failed breach
of contract claim. For the reasons discussed above re: the first cause of
action, this argument is not persuasive.
            Defendant
argues that this cause of action does not plead the elements of an open book
account. 
            Defendant
also argues that an express contract which defines the duties and liabilities
of the parties is not an open book account. 
A “book account” is “a detailed statement which constitutes the principal record of one or more transactions between a debtor and a
creditor arising out of a contract
or some fiduciary relation, and shows the debits
and credits in connection therewith, and against whom and in favor of whom
entries are made, is entered in the regular course of business as conducted by
such creditor or fiduciary, and is kept in a reasonably permanent form and
manner and is (1) in a bound book, or (2) on a sheet or sheets fastened in a
book or to backing but detachable therefrom, or (3) on a card or cards of
a permanent character, or is kept in any other reasonably permanent form
and manner.” (§ 337a.) Examples of statements held to be book accounts include
a law firm's billing statements reflecting work performed on an hourly basis (In re Roberts Farms, Inc. (9th Cir. 1992) 980 F.2d 1248, 1252 [applying
California law]) and a ledger sheet recording amounts due for hay deliveries (Costerisan v. DeLong (1967) 251 Cal.App.2d 768, 769–771 [59 Cal.
Rptr. 803]). A book account is “open”
where a balance remains due on the account. (Interstate Group Administrators, Inc. v. Cravens, Dargan &
Co. (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 700,
708 [220 Cal. Rptr. 250]; Reigelsperger v. Siller (2007) 40 Cal.4th 574, 579, fn. 5 [53 Cal. Rptr.
3d 887, 150 P.3d 764].) “An express
contract, which defines the duties and liabilities of the parties, whether it
be oral or written, is not, as a rule, an open account.” (Durkin v. Durkin
(1955) 133 Cal.App.2d 283, 290 [284 P.2d 185].) However, the parties may agree to treat money due under an express contract, such as
a lease, as items under an open book account. (Parker v. Shell Oil
Co. (1946) 29 Cal.2d 503, 507
[175 P.2d 838].) “[I]n such a case the cause of action is upon the
account, not under the [express contract].” (Ibid.)
(Professional Collection Consultants v. Lauron (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th
958, 969 [bold emphasis and underlining added].) 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges as follows:
37. Plaintiff maintained a written
record of all costs incurred for the Work, and provided same to Defendants on a
monthly basis.  
 
38. As of July 15, 2020, after giving
Defendants due credit for payments made, Plaintiff was owed the sum of
$63,126.50 for the work performed under the Contract, as is more particularly
set forth in Exhibit B hereto, consisting of Plaintiff’s July 15, 2022 Summary
Billing and Release. The parties agreed that this sum incurred under the
Contract could be treated as an open book account.
 
(1AC, ¶¶ 37, 38.)
            For
purposes of demurrer, these allegations must be accepted as true, no matter how
improbable. (Kerivan, supra, 147
Cal.App.3d at 229.)  
            The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED.
6.         Sixth
Cause of Action (Enforcement of Mechanics Lien).
            Defendant
argues that this cause of action fails because the proof of service affidavit
was not signed, as required by Civil Code, § 8416(a).
            Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff has
proof the lien was indeed served.
(a) A claim of
mechanics lien shall be a written statement, signed and verified by the claimant,
containing all of the following:
 
. . .
 
(7) A proof of
service affidavit completed and signed by the person serving a copy of the claim
of mechanics lien pursuant to subdivision (c). The affidavit shall show the
date, place, and manner of service, and facts showing that the service was made
in accordance with this section. The affidavit shall show the name and address
of the owner or reputed owner upon whom the copy of the claim of mechanics lien
was served pursuant to paragraphs (1) or (2) of subdivision (c), and the title
or capacity in which the person or entity was served.

(Civ. Code § 8416(a)(7)[bold emphasis and underlining
added].)
(e) Failure to
serve the copy of the claim of mechanics lien as prescribed by this
section, including the Notice of Mechanics Lien required by paragraph (8)
of subdivision (a), shall cause the claim of mechanics lien to be unenforceable
as a matter of law.

     (
Civ. Code § 8416(e)[bold emphasis].)
The unsigned affidavit (1AC, Exh. C) cannot retroactively be remedied. 
On this basis, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.
7.         Seventh Cause of Action (Unjust
Enrichment).
            
            Defendant argues that an unjust
enrichment claim cannot lie where there exists a valid express contract covering
the same subject matter.
 
“Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, however,
or even a remedy, but rather ‘ “ ‘a general principle, underlying various legal
doctrines and remedies’ ” … . [Citation.] It is synonymous with restitution.’ ”
(Citation omitted.) Like the trial court, we will construe the cause of action
as a quasi-contract claim seeking restitution.
 
“[A]n action
based on an implied-in-fact or quasi-contract cannot lie where there exists
between the parties a valid express contract covering the same subject matter.”
(Citation omitted.) However,
“restitution may be awarded in lieu of breach of contract damages when the
parties had an express contract, but it was procured by fraud or is
unenforceable or ineffective for some reason.” (Citation omitted.) Thus, a
party to an express contract can assert a
claim for restitution based on unjust enrichment by “alleg[ing in that cause of
action] that the express contract is void or was rescinded.” (Citation
omitted.) A claim for restitution is permitted even if the party inconsistently
pleads a breach of contract claim that alleges the existence of an enforceable
agreement. (Citation omitted.)
(Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
221, 231 [bold emphasis and underlining added].) 
            Here, if the contract is found to be
unenforceable, as Defendant argues, then restitution based on unjust enrichment
may be available to Plaintiff. 
            The demurrer to the seventh cause of
action is OVERRULED.
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Scott
Lowry is ordered to answer the remaining allegations of the First Amended
Complaint within 10 days. 