 Case Number:  22STCV28325    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Zelocchi
stole Plaintiff’s laptop which contained a cryptocurrency wallet, and Zelocchi
tried to extort money from Plaintiff to give back the laptop. However,
Defendant Zelocchi then kidnapped Plaintiff and threatened him. Plaintiff was
able to escape. Defendant Do was allegedly assisting Defendant Zelocchi in decrypting
the laptop password to access the cryptocurrency.
Plaintiff hired Defendants Childs
and Paramount Investigative Services to watch Defendant Do so that Plaintiff
could contact law enforcement when Do left the laptop unattended at his home. However,
Defendant Childs allegedly had conspired with Zelocchi, and did not perform any
of the surveillance for which Plaintiff had paid.
Thereafter, the Defendants engaged
in defamation and extortion activities against Plaintiff.  
Defendants Kenneth Childs and
Paramount Investigative Services Inc. move to quash the deposition subpoena for
production of business records served upon Wells Fargo and request a protective
order, as well as sanctions against Plaintiff.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Kenneth Childs and
Paramount Investigative Services Inc.’s motion to quash the deposition subpoena
for production of business records served upon Wells Fargo is GRANTED as to all
requests. Defendants’ request for a protective order pursuant to Civil Code, §
3295(a) is GRANTED. 
            Defendants’ request for sanctions
against Plaintiff only is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,250. Sanctions
are go be paid to Defendants’ counsel within 10 days. 
ANALYSIS
Motion To Quash Deposition Subpoena
Defendants Kenneth Childs and
Paramount Investigative Services Inc. move to quash the deposition subpoena for
production of business records and request a protective order, as well as
sanctions against Plaintiff.
Defendants’ main argument is that
the subpoena violates Civil Code, § 3295, which requires a court order to
engage in pre-trial discovery of Defendant’s financial condition.
 
(a) The court may, for good cause,
grant any defendant a protective order requiring the plaintiff to produce
evidence of a prima facie case of liability for damages pursuant
to Section 3294, prior to the introduction of evidence of:
 
(1) The profits the defendant
has gained by virtue of the wrongful course of conduct of the nature and
type shown by the evidence.
 
(2) The financial condition
of the defendant.
 
(b) Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the introduction of prima facie evidence to establish a case for
damages pursuant to Section 3294.
 
(c) No pretrial discovery by the
plaintiff shall be permitted with respect to the evidence referred to in
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (a) unless the court enters an order
permitting such discovery pursuant to this subdivision. . . . Upon motion by the plaintiff supported by appropriate affidavits
and after a hearing, if the court deems a hearing to be necessary, the court
may at any time enter an order permitting the discovery otherwise prohibited by
this subdivision if the court finds, on the basis of the supporting and
opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has established that there is
a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant
to Section 3294. Such order shall not be considered to be a determination
on the merits of the claim or any defense thereto and shall not be given in
evidence or referred to at the trial.
 
     (Civ. Code § 3295(a) – (c)[bold emphasis
added].)
 
            The first
request for production seeks all of Wells Fargo’s bank statements for Paramount
from January 1, 2019 to present. (See Declaration of James Whitemyer, Exh.
1.) This improperly seeks financial condition discovery without the required
court order pursuant to a Civil Code, § 3295(b) motion. As such, the motion to
quash is GRANTED as to Request No. 1, and a § 3295(a) protective order issued.
 
            None of the
other Requests, Nos. 2 – 7, seek discovery of financial condition, nor profits
gained by the alleged wrongful conduct. As such, the Court will examine whether
other grounds to quash the subpoena exist. 
 
CCP § 1987.1(a)
provides:
.

(a) If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.


     (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1(a).)
 
            There is no
meet and confer requirement set forth in CCP § 1987.1.
 
However, case law has imposed the
“good cause” requirement for subpoena document requests propounded upon
non-parties, that is, the propounding party must articulate specific facts
relating to each category of materials sought to justify production. (Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 219, 223-25.) 
 
In the course of the litigation, Thiem
served a subpoena under section 2020 on Calcor's custodian of records demanding
Calcor, a nonparty and Thiem's
competitor, to, in effect, produce all materials in its possession relating to
gun mounts, going back nearly 10 years. The subpoena fails to identify any
specific document but merely describes broad categories of documents and other
materials. 


(Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
219 [bold emphasis added].)
 
Although the scope of civil discovery
is broad, it is not limitless. . . . 
[Former] Section 2031, subdivision (l), which applies to document
production requests served on a party, requires a  [*224]  party
seeking to compel such production to "set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand . . . ." (Italics in original.)
Section 2020, the statute at issue, contains no such specific requirement. However,
since both sections are part of a single
statutory scheme, and since it is unlikely the Legislature intended to place
greater burdens on a nonparty than on a party to the litigation, we read a
similar requirement into the latter section. 


(Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
223-24 [bold emphasis added].)
 
Even were we to ignore that the statements
purporting to justify an order compelling Calcor to produce its documents and
other materials are unverified, they still fail. There is an absence of specific facts relating to each category of
materials sought to be produced; the justifications offered for the
production are mere generalities. The very vice of the subpoena's
promiscuity is well illustrated by Thiem's inability
to provide focused, fact-specific justifications for its demands. The noted
generality of the subpoena's definitions, instructions and categories which
merely add up to a demand Calcor produce everything in its possession having anything
to do with gun mounts, precludes Thiem from demonstrating any particular item
or category in fact constitutes or contains matter which "is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence." (§ 2017, subd. (a).) The purported
justification for imposing this great burden on Calcor necessarily suffers from
the same generality as the subpoena itself. 

Although appellate courts have frequently stated "fishing
expeditions" are permissible in discovery, there is a limit. As noted in
Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1539 [39 Cal. Rptr. 2d 896],
"These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery ( Colonial Life
& Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal. 3d 785, 790), and
(contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases." (Id. at p. 1546.) However, early in the development of our discovery
law our Supreme Court recognized the limits on such "fishing
expeditions." In  [*225] Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court
(1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355 [15 Cal. Rptr. 90, 364 P.2d 266], the seminal case in
California civil discovery, the court gave examples of improper
"fishing" WHICH CLEARLY APPLY HERE: "The method of 'fishing' may be, in a particular case, entirely improper
(i.e., insufficient identification of the requested information to acquaint the
other party with the nature of information desired, attempt to place the burden
and cost of supplying information equally available to both solely upon the adversary,
placing more burden upon the adversary than the value of the information warrants,
etc.). Such improper methods of 'fishing' may be (and should be) controlled by
the trial court under the powers granted to it by the statute." ( Id. at
pp. 384-385.) The concerns for avoiding undue burdens on the
"adversary" in the litigation expressed in Greyhound apply with even
more weight to a nonparty. 


(Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
224-25 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            In this regard,
the court will examine whether Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for the
following categories of documents requested:
 
2. Please produce all
CORRESPONDENCES (As used herein, the term
"CORRESPONDENCE(S)" means any oral, written or
electronic transmission of information without limitation, including meetings,
discussions, conversations, telephone calls, memoranda, letters, telecopies,
telexes, email messages, conferences, seminars, text messages, or notes) between
YOU (As used herein, the terms "YOU" and "YOUR" refers to
Wells Fargo or its agents, brokers, officers, principals) and IZA (As used
herein, the term "IZA" refers to Plaintiff, ADAM IZA) from January
2019 to Present. 
 
            Here, by definition,
any correspondence between Wells Fargo and Plaintiff Iza would not be protected
by privacy rights as against Iza. However, in the Opposition, Plaintiff does
not make a fact-specific showing of good cause for this specific document request.
As such, the motion to quash is GRANTED as to Request No. 2.
 
3. Please produce all
CORRESPONDENCES between YOU and CHILDS (As used herein, the term
"CHILDS" refers to the Defendant, KENNETH CHILDS) from January 1,
2019 to Present. 
 
In the Opposition, Plaintiff does
not make a fact-specific showing of good cause for this specific document request.
Plaintiff does not make a fact-specific showing of good cause for this specific
document request. As such, the motion to quash is GRANTED as to Request No. 3.
 
4. Please produce all CORRESPONDENCES
between YOU and PARAMOUNT from January 1, 2019 to Present. 
 
In the Opposition, Plaintiff does
not make a fact-specific showing of good cause for this specific document request.
As such, the motion to quash is GRANTED as to Request No. 3.
 
5. Please produce all
CORRESPONDENCES between YOU and JP Morgan Chase regarding PARAMOUNT'S account
with YOU from January 1, 2019 to Present. 
 
In the Opposition, Plaintiff does
not make a fact-specific showing of good cause for this specific document request.
As such, the motion to quash is GRANTED as to Request No. 5.
 
6. Please produce all DOCUMENTS (As
used herein, the terms "DOCUMENT" and "DOCUMENTS" are
defined as follows: 1. Each includes those "WRITINGS" as defined in California
Evidence Code section 250. 2. Each includes all WRITINGS of any nature whatsoever
within your possession, custody or control, including, but not limited to,
contracts, agreements, communications, correspondence, electronic mail,
telegrams, memoranda, records, reports, books, summaries or records of
telephone conversations, summaries or records of personal conversations or interviews,
diaries, forecasts, statistical statements, financial statements, pro forma,
work papers, drafts, copies, graphs, accounts, analytical records, minutes or
records of meetings conferences, records of presentations, consultants'
reports, appraisals, reports or summaries of negotiations, brochures,
pamphlets, circulars, trade letters, press releases, notes, 
marginal notations, bills, invoices, checks, photographs,
films, videos, brochures, lists, journals, advertising, computer tapes, disks
or other computerage media, and all other manner of printed, recorded or
photographic matter or sound reproduction, however produced) evidencing YOUR freezing
of PARAMOUNT'S accounts. 
 
In the Opposition, Plaintiff does
not make a fact-specific showing of good cause for this specific document request.
Although there is mention of freezing accounts, there is no discussion as to a
dispute fact of consequence in this action and how the discovery sought will tend
in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will
tend to do so. As such, the motion to quash is GRANTED as to Request No. 6. 
 
“Although the scope of civil discovery is broad, it is not limitless.”
(Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223
[61 Cal. Rptr. 2d 567].) Discovery devices must “be used as tools to facilitate
litigation rather than as weapons to wage litigation.” (Id. at p. 221.) A party
seeking to compel discovery must therefore “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought.” (§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(1); see
Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at p.
223.)  To establish good cause, a discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of
consequence in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend in
reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will
tend to prove or disprove the fact.
 
(Digital Music News LLC v. Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224 (bold emphasis and underlining added), overruled
on other grounds in Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557, n. 8.)
 
7. Please produce all DOCUMENTS
evidencing YOUR freezing of CHILDS' accounts.
In the Opposition, Plaintiff does
not make a fact-specific showing of good cause for this specific document request.
Although there is mention of freezing accounts, there is no discussion as to a
dispute fact of consequence in this action and how the discovery sought will tend
in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will
tend to do so. As such, the motion to quash is GRANTED as to Request No. 7.
            Civ. Proc.
Code, § 1987.2(a) provides:
(a) Except as
specified in subdivision (c), in making an order pursuant to motion made under
subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under Section 1987.1, the
court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.
     (Civ. Proc. Code § 1987.2(a).)
            Defendants’ request for sanctions
against Plaintiff only[1]
is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,250 (5 hours at $250/hour—see Declaration
of James Whitemyer, ¶ 11). Sanctions are go be paid to Defendants’ counsel
within 10 days.


