 Case Number:  24PSCV01444    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  H Jane  C.H. Doe, et al. v. El Monte Union High School District,    Case No. 24PSCV01444   ORDER  ON DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE   1.       Defendant  El Monte Union High School District’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is  SUSTAINED on the basis of misjoinder. 2.       Defendant  El Monte Union High School District’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’  Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.      I.        Background Plaintiffs Jane C.H. Doe, Jane D.C. Doe, and Jane  J.L. Doe (together, “Plaintiffs”) allege that they were the victims of  childhood sexual abuse, harassment, and molestation at the hands of various  teachers and coaches while they were students at Rosemead High School.  On May 6,  2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting a negligence cause of action  against El Monte Union High School District (the “District”) and Does 1-100. Pending  before the Court is the District’s demurrer and motion to strike. As to the  demurrer, while the Court rejects the District’s argument that Assembly Bill  218—which revives certain sexual assault claims that would otherwise be barred  by statutes of limitation and claim presentation requirements—constitutes an  unconstitutional gift of public funds, the Court sustains the District’s  demurrer on the basis misjoinder. In light of the ruling on the demurrer, the  Court denies the motion to strike as moot. II.       Legal Background A demurrer may be made on the  grounds that, inter alia, the pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings  alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only  where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially  noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905  [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege  ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the  claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie  (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not, however, admit  contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,  or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or facts  impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take  judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land Co.  v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)   III.     Request for Judicial Notice A court may take judicial notice of,  among other things, “official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial  departments of a state and of facts and propositions that are not reasonably  subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by  resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (People v. Terry,  38 Cal. App. 3d 432, 439, 113 Cal. Rptr. 233, 237 (Ct. App. 1974) [citing Evid.  Code § 452].) With this standard in mind, the Court grants the District’s  request for judicial notice as to Exhibit A (i.e., the California Assembly’s  Floor Analysis of AB 218). Because “a  written trial court ruling has no precedential value,” the Court denies the District’s  request for judicial notice as to Exhibits B-F (i.e., of superior court orders  in other cases). (Santa Ana Hospital Medical Center v. Belshe  (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831; Drummond v. Desmarais (2009) 176  Cal.App.4th 439, 448, fn. 4 [“(I)n the absence of some additional showing—such  as the conditions for claim or issue preclusion—the actions of other judges are  simply irrelevant”].) The Court  also denies District’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits G-I as  irrelevant, based on the opinion filed on July 31, 2024 in West Contra Costa  Unified School District v. The Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2024)  103 Cal.App.5th 1243 (“West Contra Costa”). The Court grants District’s request  for judicial notice as to Exhibits J-M, to the extent that the Court  observes that a Petition for Writ of Mandate is pending before the Second  District Court of Appeal in case styled Roe #2 v. Superior Court, Case  No. B334707.   IV.     Discussion The District  demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10, subdivision (e), to Plaintiffs’  entire complaint, on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action. Specifically, the District first contends that  notwithstanding Assembly Bill 218 (“AB 218”), which revives certain childhood  sexual abuse claims that would otherwise be barred under statutes of limitation  or claim presentation requirements, Plaintiffs’ claims against the District  cannot proceed because Plaintiffs failed to comply with the claim presentation  requirements of the Tort Claims Act and AB 218’s attempt to retroactively waive  that requirement amounts to an unconstitutional gift of public funds. The  District separately demurs on the basis of misjoinder.   A.       The District’s Demurrer Based on AB 218  Plaintiffs  filed their complaint on May 6, 2024, alleging therein that they were the  victims of childhood sexual abuse, harassment, and molestation while they were  students at Rosemead High School. Plaintiff Jane C.H. Doe identifies her  perpetrator as teacher Alex Rai (“Rai”) and asserts that the alleged misconduct  occurred between 2008-2009. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff Jane D.C. Doe  identifies her perpetrators as Rai and coach/aide Eduardo Escobar and asserts  that the alleged misconduct occurred between 2007-2011. (Id., ¶¶ 13 and  19.) Plaintiff Jane J.L. Doe identifies her perpetrator as coach Wing Chan and  asserts that the alleged misconduct occurred between 2005-2009. (Complaint, ¶  12.) AB 218  amended Code of Civil Procedure § 340.1 to extend the time for filing claims  for childhood sexual assault and create a three-year revival window for lapsed  claims. AB 218 also amended Government Code § 905 “by deleting from subdivision  (m) the language that previously limited [an] exception to the government claim  presentation requirement to claims arising out of conduct occurring on or after  January 1, 2009, and adding subdivision (p), which made this change  retroactive.” (Coats v. New Haven Unified School Dist. (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 415, 424.)[FN1]  The District  argues that AB 218, in purporting to retroactively apply the claim presentation  waiver, violates Article XVI, Section VI of the California Constitution (the  “gift clause”), which prohibits gifts of public funds: “The Legislature  shall have no power to give or to lend, or to authorize the giving or lending,  of the credit of the State, or of any county, city and county, city, township  or other political corporation or subdivision of the State now existing, or  that may be hereafter established, in aid or to any person, association, or corporation, whether  municipal or otherwise, or to pledge the credit thereof, in any manner  whatever, for the payment of the liabilities of any individual, association,  municipal or other corporation whatever.” The Court  disagrees. At the outset, the Court observes that, days after the District  filed the instant demurrer, the First District Court of Appeal issued its  decision in West Contra Costa, where it expressly determined that “AB 218 did not create  new ‘substantive liability’ for the underlying alleged wrongful conduct[, but]  [i]nstead, . . . simply waived a condition the state had imposed on its consent  to suit.” (Id. at 1257.) In so holding, the West Contra Costa  court looked to Chapman v. State (1894) 104 Cal. 690, which involved the  collapse of a state-operated wharf, allegedly due to the state’s negligence,  and consequent loss of coal stored on the wharf. At the time of the loss, the  plaintiff could only present a claim to the state board of examiners, which was  done and rejected. (Id. at 692.) The plaintiff subsequently filed suit  under a statute enacted after the loss that expressly authorized such  lawsuits: “All persons who  have, or shall hereafter have, claims on contract or for negligence against the  state, not allowed by the state board of examiners, are hereby authorized, on  the terms and conditions herein contained, to bring suit thereon against the  state in any of the courts of this state of competent jurisdiction, and  prosecute the same to final judgment.” (Id. at 693.) The trial court in Chapman sustained the state’s  demurrer to the complaint. On appeal, the state argued that “at the time when the coal belonging to  the assignors of the plaintiff was lost, the state was not liable for the  damage occasioned by said loss . . . and that the act should not be construed  as intended to create any liability against the state for such past  negligence,” relying on the principle that “in the absence of a statute  voluntarily assuming such liability, the state is not liable in damages for the  negligent acts of its officers while engaged in discharging ordinary official  duties pertaining to the administration of the government of the state.” (Id.  at 693). The state contended that no such statute existed at the time of the  loss. The Chapman court explained that, while it would violate the gift  clause for the legislature to retroactively authorize any action for  negligence, the plaintiff’s action was actually founded upon breach of contract  because the state was contractually obligated, in consideration of wharfage  paid, to preserve the property entrusted to it. The Chapman  court explained that “the liability of the state accrued at the time of the  breach—that is, when the coal was lost through the negligence of the  officers in charge of the state’s wharf—although there was then no law giving  to the plaintiff’s assignors the right to sue state thereof.” (Id. at  696 (Emphasis added).) While the “right to sue the state has since been given  by the act of February 28, 1893 . . . the legislature did not create any  liability or cause of action against the state where none existed before” as  “[t]he state was always liability upon its contracts.” (Id.) In other  words, the fact that there was no remedy prior to the legislative  enactment does not mean there was “no liability and no claim.” (Id.) The West Contra Costa court concluded that “under Chapman  the crucial consideration is whether the  Legislature has created new substantive liability, or, instead, has simply  removed an obstacle to recovery imposed by the state as a condition of its  consent to suit that is not an aspect of the underlying substantive liability.”  (Id. at 1263.)  As relevant here, the  West Contra Costa court observed that the Law Revision Commission  comments to Government Code section 905.8 “ma[ke] clear that the claims  presentation provisions [do] not impose substantive liability,” that liability  for the alleged misconduct at issue in AB 218 cases is found in sections 820  and 815.2, and that “[b]ecause a statute imposing liability on the District  existed at the time of the sexual assaults, AB 218 imposes no new substantive  liability under Chapman’s gift clause analysis.” (Id. at  1260-1261). The Court agrees. The Court is unpersuaded by District’s citations to Bourn  v. Hart (1892) 93 Cal. 321 [FN2], Conlin v. Board  of Supervisors (1893) 99 Cal. 17 [FN3], and Powell v.  Phelan (1903) 138 Cal. 271 [FN4], in which violations  of the gift clause were found.[FN5] In each of the  foregoing cases, the legislature created liability after the fact. By  way of contrast, there was liability at the time of the alleged sexual  assaults against Plaintiffs. Moreover, it is well settled that if the appropriated  public funds “are to be used for a public purpose, they are not a gift within  the meaning of” the gift clause. (Page v. MiraCosta Community College Dist.  (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 471, 495.) Here, the Court agrees that even if “AB 218  authorizes expenditures within the scope of the gift clause, the expenditures  are not ‘gifts’ because they serve a public purpose.” (West Contra Costa, supra,  103 Cal.App.5th at p. 1265.) In  contrast to laws permitting “discrete payments to private parties with no  larger public goal,” AB 218 “provide[s] relief to a disadvantaged group of  persons,” namely, childhood sex assault victims, which is “a sufficient public  purpose under the gift clause.” (Id. at 1267-68; cf. Page, supra, 180  Cal.App.4th at p. 495 [“The settlement of a good faith dispute between the  state and a private party is an appropriate use of public funds and not a gift  because the relinquishment of a colorable legal claim in return for settlement  funds is good consideration and establishes a valid public purpose.”].)   B.       The District’s Demurrer  Based on Misjoinder The District asserts  that Plaintiffs have violated Code of Civil Procedure section 378 and that the  complaint is subject to demurrer on the basis of misjoinder.[FN6] Section 378 provides, in relevant  part, that “[a]ll persons may join in one action as plaintiffs if: (1) They assert any right to relief jointly, severally, or  in the alternative, in respect of or arising out of the same transaction,  occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences and if any question of law  or fact common to all these persons will arise in the action; or (2) They have  a claim, right, or interest adverse to the defendant in the property or  controversy which is the subject of the action.” Here, Plaintiffs’  alleged sexual abuse, harassment, and molestation occurred during different  time periods in different locations and involve three different perpetrators;  accordingly, their claims do not arise out of the same transaction, occurrence,  or related series of occurrences. The Court sustains the  District’s demurrer on this basis.              C.       The  District’s Motion to Strike In light of  the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, the District’s motion to strike is denied  as moot.       