  Case Number:  21PSCV00808    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  H Murillo v. Dr. Privitera’s
Holistic Clinic, et al., Case No. 21PSCV00808ORDER
ON DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION


Defendant Anakin Mark Privitera’s
Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.
 
BackgroundIn this
employment discrimination case, Plaintiff Malissa Murillo (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that while working for Defendants Dr. Privitera’s Holistic Clinic (the
“Clinic”), Alternative Endeavors, Inc. (“Endeavors”), and Anakin Mark Privitera
(“Privitera”) (collectively, “Defendants”) as an office assistant at the
Clinic, Privitera made lewd and vulgar comments in her presence on a repeated
basis and made sexual advances to her.
On October 5, 2021, Plaintiff
filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Defendants and Does 1-40
for (1) discrimination based on sexual harassment in violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) and (2) failure to timely pay wages owed.
On December 23, 2021, the Clerk
entered default against Endeavors. On April 18, 2022, the Clerk entered default
against the Clinic.
On April 24, 2023, the Court
granted Endeavors’ motion to set aside default and motion to quash service of
summons.
The Final
Status Conference is set for October 30, 2024. A Court Trial is set for
November 8, 2024.
Pending
before the Court is Privitera’s motion for reconsideration. For the reasons
stated herein, the motion is denied.

 

Legal Standard
“When an application for an order has
been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order
may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of
the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and
to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1008, subd. (b).)
“A party who originally made an
application for an order which was refused in whole or part, or granted
conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be
shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with
this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or
set aside on ex parte motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (b).)
“A violation of this section may be
punished as a contempt and with sanctions as allowed by Section 128.7. . .”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (d).)

 
Discussion
Privitera moves the Court to reconsider its
September 23, 2024 order denying Privitera’s Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings.
At the outset, it appears that the motion was not
timely served as it should have been electronically served no later than
September 26, 2024.[FN] Even so, the Court will overlook this deficiency because Plaintiff has opposed the motion on the merits: “It is well
settled that the appearance of a party at the hearing of a motion and his or
her opposition to the motion on its merits is a waiver of any defects or
irregularities in the notice of the motion.” (Tate v. Superior Court
(1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 925, 930.) 
Turning to the merits, Privitera’s motion fails to
articulate any “new or different facts, circumstances or law” warranting
reconsideration of the aforesaid ruling. The motion is denied. 
The Court declines to entertain Plaintiff’s request
for relief pursuant to subdivision (d), inasmuch as it is the subject for a
separate motion.
 

