


[FN1] Plaintiff’s original complaint
was filed on November 21, 2022.


[FN2] Prior to January 1, 2009, a
plaintiff was required to present a written claim for damages to a public
entity before suing the public entity on a cause of action for personal injury
(including a childhood sexual abuse claim). (Shirk v. Vista Unified School
Dist. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 201, 208.) Effective January 1, 2009, the legislature
amended Government Code § 905 to exempt claims of childhood sexual abuse from
the claim presentation requirement. This amendment, however, was prospective
only: “Claims made pursuant to Section 340.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure for
the recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual abuse [are
exempt]. This subdivision shall apply only to claims arising out of conduct
occurring on or after January 1, 2009.” (former Gov. Code § 905, subd. (m)
[emphasis added].) Again, AB 218 eliminated the language in Government Code §
915, subdivision (m) declaring that the exemption only applied to claims
arising from conduct occurring after January 1, 2009 and added subdivision (p),
which read that “[t]he changes made to this section by the act that added this
subdivision are retroactive and apply to any action commenced on or
after the date of enactment of that act, and to any action filed before the
date of enactment and still pending on that date, including any action or
causes of action that would have been barred by the laws in effect before the
date of enactment.” (Emphasis added). 


[FN3] In Bourn, a guard at San
Quentin prison was injured and sued the state for $10,000.00 in damages for
which the State was not previously liable because the legislature subsequently
passed a law appropriating this amount to pay Bourne’s specific claim.



[FN4] In Conlin, the legislature
passed a law that appropriated money to the plaintiff street contractor who theretofore
had no legal claim against the municipality.



[FN5] In Powell, the plaintiff
served on a jury at a time when jurors served without pay. The legislature
subsequently enacted a law that that jury fees be paid and ordered the payment
of fees to jurors who had served before the law was enacted.



[FN6] The City also cites to Heron
v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 507, 517, where the court rejected a gift clause
challenge, explaining that “[t]he Legislature has not attempted to create a liability
against the state for any past acts of negligence on the part of its officers,
agents or employees—something it could not do, and the doing of which would, in
effect, be the making of a gift.” This is the case here as well.