 Case Number:  22PSCV01942    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  H Humberto
G. v. Doe 1, Case
No. 22PSCV01942


ORDER
ON MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS


Defendant City of El Monte’s Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.


 
I.        Background
Plaintiff Humberto G. (“Plaintiff”), who is now over
40 years old, alleges that in 1981, he was the victim of childhood sexual
assault, abuse, and other misconduct by a youth baseball league coach, Michael
Stewart Mullicane.On March 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (the “Operative Complaint” or “FAC”), asserting a public entity
liability cause of action (Government Code §§ 815.2 and 815.4) against the City
of El Monte (“the City”) and Does 2 through 50. 
The
Final Status Conference is set for April 14, 2025. Trial is set for April 22,
2025. 
Pending before the Court is the City’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings, where the City contends that Plaintiff’s claim is
barred because Plaintiff did not submit a government tort claim in 1981-1982
and that any subsequent legislation purporting to remove the claim requirement
would constitute an unconstitutional gift of public funds. For the reasons
stated herein, and light of the recent decision in West Contra Costa Unified
School District v. The Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2024) 103
Cal.App.5th 1243, the City’s motion is denied. 
II.      Legal Standard
The rules governing demurrers are generally applicable to a
motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999; Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 438, subd. (d) [“The grounds for motion. . . shall appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice. Where the motion is based on a matter of which the court may
take judicial notice. . ., the matter shall be specified in the notice of
motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the court may
otherwise permit”].) 
 
A motion by a plaintiff may only be made on the grounds
“that the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of
action against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(A).) A motion by a defendant may only be made on the grounds that (1)
“[t]he court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged
in the complaint” or (2) “[t]he complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438,
subd. (c).)
 
Although a nonstatutory motion “may be made at any time
either prior to the trial or at the trial itself” (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650 [quotation marks
and citation omitted]), a statutory motion cannot be made after entry of a
pretrial conference order or 30 days before the initial trial date, whichever
is later, unless the court otherwise permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(e).)
 
III.     Requests for Judicial Notice 
Turning to
the parties’ requests for judicial notice, a
court may take judicial notice of, among other things, “official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of a state and of facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (People v. Terry, 38 Cal. App. 3d 432, 439, 113
Cal. Rptr. 233, 237 (Ct. App. 1974) [citing Evid. Code § 452].) With this
standard in mind, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as to
Exhibits 1-8 (i.e., legislative history of Assembly Bill No. 218).
Because “a
written trial court ruling has no precedential value,” the Court denies Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice as to Exhibits 9 and 10 (i.e., of two superior
court orders in other cases) and the City’s request for judicial notice as to
Exhibits A-C (i.e., of three superior court orders in other cases). (Santa Ana Hospital Medical Center v. Belshe
(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831; Drummond v. Desmarais (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 439, 448, fn. 4 [“(I)n the absence of some additional showing—such
as the conditions for claim or issue preclusion—the actions of other judges are
simply irrelevant”].)

The City’s
request that the Court take judicial notice of the Declaration of Rigoberto
Gutierrez is denied as irrelevant. Plaintiff concedes that the Operative
Complaint does not allege compliance with the claim presentation requirement of
the Tort Claims Act. (Opp., 1:23.) 
IV.     Discussion
The City moves
for judgment on the pleadings under Code of Civil Procedure § 438, on the basis
that the Operative Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. Specifically, the City contends that notwithstanding Assembly
Bill 218 (“AB 218”), which revives certain childhood sexual abuse claims that
would otherwise be barred under statutes of limitation or claim presentation
requirements, Plaintiff’s claim against the City cannot proceed because
Plaintiff failed to comply with the claim presentation requirement of the Tort
Claims Act and AB 218’s attempt to retroactively waive that requirement amounts
to an unconstitutional gift of public funds.
On March 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Operative Complaint, alleging that he
suffered childhood sexual abuse in or about 1981 when he participated in a
youth baseball league at age 14. (FAC, ¶¶ 11-21.)[FN1] AB 218 amended Code of Civil Procedure § 340.1 to extend the time for filing
claims for childhood sexual assault and create a three-year revival window for
lapsed claims. AB 218 also amended Government Code § 905 “by deleting from
subdivision (m) the language that previously limited [an] exception to the
government claim presentation requirement to claims arising out of conduct
occurring on or after January 1, 2009, and adding subdivision (p), which made
this change retroactive.” (Coats v. New Haven Unified School Dist.
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415, 424.)[FN2]
The City argues that AB 218, in purporting to
retroactively apply the claim presentation waiver, violates Article XVI,
Section VI of the California Constitution (the “gift clause”), which prohibits
gifts of public funds: “The Legislature shall have no power to give or to lend, or
to authorize the giving or lending, of the credit of the State, or of any
county, city and county, city, township or other political corporation or
subdivision of the State now existing, or that may be hereafter established, in
aid or to any person,
association, or corporation, whether municipal or otherwise, or to pledge the
credit thereof, in any manner whatever, for the payment of the liabilities of
any individual, association, municipal or other corporation whatever.”
The Court disagrees. At the outset, the Court
observes that, after the parties submitted their briefs in this matter, the
First District Court of Appeal issued its decision in West Contra Costa
Unified School District v. The Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2024)
103 Cal.App.5th 1243, where it expressly determined that “AB 218 did not create new ‘substantive liability’ for the underlying
alleged wrongful conduct[, but] [i]nstead, . . . simply waived a condition the
state had imposed on its consent to suit.” (Id. at 1257.) In so holding,
the West Contra Costa court looked to Chapman v. State (1894) 104
Cal. 690, which involved the collapse of a state-operated wharf, allegedly due
to the state’s negligence, and consequent loss of coal stored on the wharf. At
the time of the loss, the plaintiff could only present a claim to the state
board of examiners, which was done and rejected. (Id. at 692.) The plaintiff
subsequently filed suit under a statute enacted after the loss that expressly
authorized such lawsuits: “All persons who
have, or shall hereafter have, claims on contract or for negligence against the
state, not allowed by the state board of examiners, are hereby authorized, on
the terms and conditions herein contained, to bring suit thereon against the
state in any of the courts of this state of competent jurisdiction, and prosecute
the same to final judgment.” (Id. at 693.)
The trial court in Chapman
sustained the state’s demurrer to the complaint. On appeal, the state argued
that “at the
time when the coal belonging to the assignors of the plaintiff was lost, the
state was not liable for the damage occasioned by said loss . . . and that the
act should not be construed as intended to create any liability against the
state for such past negligence,” relying on the principle that “in the absence
of a statute voluntarily assuming such liability, the state is not liable in
damages for the negligent acts of its officers while engaged in discharging
ordinary official duties pertaining to the administration of the government of
the state.” (Id. at 693). The state contended that no such statute
existed at the time of the loss. The Chapman court explained that, while
it would violate the gift clause for the legislature to retroactively authorize
any action for negligence, the plaintiff’s action was actually founded upon
breach of contract because the state was contractually obligated, in
consideration of wharfage paid, to preserve the property entrusted to it. The Chapman court explained that “the liability of the state
accrued at the time of the breach—that is, when the coal was lost
through the negligence of the officers in charge of the state’s wharf—although
there was then no law giving to the plaintiff’s assignors the right to sue
state thereof.” (Id. at 696 (Emphasis added).) While the “right to sue
the state has since been given by the act of February 28, 1893 . . . the
legislature did not create any liability or cause of action against the state
where none existed before” as “[t]he state was always liability upon its
contracts.” (Id.) In other words, the fact that there was no remedy
prior to the legislative enactment does not mean there was “no liability and no
claim.” (Id.)
The West Contra Costa court concluded that “under Chapman
the
crucial consideration is whether the Legislature has created new substantive
liability, or, instead, has simply removed an obstacle to recovery imposed by
the state as a condition of its consent to suit that is not an aspect of the
underlying substantive liability.” (Id. at 1263.)
As
relevant here, the West Contra Costa court observed that the Law
Revision Commission comments to Government Code section 905.8 “ma[ke] clear
that the claims presentation provisions [do] not impose substantive liability,”
that liability for the alleged misconduct at issue in AB 218 cases is found in
sections 820 and 815.2, and that “[b]ecause a statute imposing liability on the
District existed at the time of the sexual assaults, AB 218 imposes no new
substantive liability under Chapman’s gift clause analysis.” (Id.
at 1260-1261). The Court agrees.
The Court is unpersuaded
by the City’s citations to Bourn v. Hart (1892) 93 Cal. 321[FN3], Conlin v. Board of Supervisors (1893) 99 Cal. 17[FN4], and Powell v. Phelan (1903) 138 Cal. 271[FN5], in which violations of the gift clause were found.[FN6] In each of the foregoing cases, the legislature created liability after the
fact. By way of contrast, there was liability at the time of the alleged
sexual assaults against Plaintiff. This fact is not disputed by City.
Moreover, it is well
settled that if the appropriated public funds “are to be used for a public
purpose, they are not a gift within the meaning of” the gift clause. (Page
v. MiraCosta Community College Dist. (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 471, 495.)
Here, even if “AB 218 authorizes expenditures within the scope of the gift
clause, the expenditures are not ‘gifts’ because they serve a public purpose.” (West Contra Costa,
supra, 103 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1265.) In
contrast to laws permitting “discrete payments to private parties with no
larger public goal,” AB 218 “provide[s] relief to a disadvantaged group of
persons,” namely, childhood sex assault victims, which is “a sufficient public
purpose under the gift clause.” (Id. at 1267-68; cf. Page, supra, 180 Cal.App.4th at p. 495 [“The settlement
of a good faith dispute between the state and a private party is an appropriate
use of public funds and not a gift because the relinquishment of a colorable
legal claim in return for settlement funds is good consideration and
establishes a valid public purpose.”].) 
The motion is denied.


