 Case Number:  24PSCV00223    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  H Jane
CVE Doe v. Covina Valley Unified School District, et al.,

Case No. 24PSCV00223
ORDER
ON DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE


1.       Defendant
Covina Valley Unified School District’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is
SUSTAINED, without leave to amend in part (i.e., as to the eighth cause
of action), SUSTAINED with leave to amend in part (i.e., as to the
fourth and fifth causes of action), and otherwise OVERRULED.
2.
      Defendant Covina Valley Unified
School District’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is
GRANTED. 
 
I.        Background
Plaintiff Jane CVE Doe (“Plaintiff”) alleges that,
beginning in 2016, when she was approximately 16 years old, she was sexually
harassed, assaulted, and abused by teacher Andrew Barnes at South Hills High
School.On January
22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against
Covina Valley Unified School District (the “District”), Andrew Joseph Barnes
and Does 1-100 for: 
1.       Negligence,
2.       Negligent
Supervision,
3.       Negligent
Hiring/Retention,
4.       Negligent
Failure to Warn, Train or Educate,
5.       Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress,
6.       Assault,

7.       Sexual
Battery (Civ. Code § 1708.5),
8.       Sexual Harassment (Civ. Code § 51.9), and
9.       Gender Violence (Civ. Code § 52.4). 
Pending before the Court are the
District’s demurrer and motion to strike. For the reasons stated herein, the
Court sustains the demurrer in part, overrules the demurrer in part, and grants
the motion to strike.

 
II.      Legal
Standards 
A demurrer
may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).)
“A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may
take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land
Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].) 
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) 
 
III.     Request
for Judicial Notice 
A
court may take judicial notice of, among other things, “official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of a state and of facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (People v. Terry, 38 Cal. App. 3d 432, 439, 113
Cal. Rptr. 233, 237 (Ct. App. 1974) [citing Evid. Code § 452].) With
this standard in mind, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice
as to Exhibits 1-8 (i.e., legislative history of Assembly Bill No. 218).
Because “a written trial court ruling has no
precedential value,” the Court denies Plaintiff’s reject for judicial notice as
to Exhibits 9-62 (i.e., of superior court orders in other cases) and the
District’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits A-C (i.e., of three
superior court orders in other cases). (Santa
Ana Hospital Medical Center v. Belshe (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831; Drummond
v. Desmarais (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 439, 448, fn. 4 [“(I)n the absence of
some additional showing—such as the conditions for claim or issue
preclusion—the actions of other judges are simply irrelevant”].)
 
IV.     Discussion 
The District demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure §
430.10, subdivision (e), to the entire complaint, as well as separately to the
fourth (i.e., for Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate, fifth (i.e., for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress) and eighth (i.e., Sexual Harassment (Civ. Code § 51.9)) causes of action therein, on the basis that
they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.
Plaintiff filed her complaint on January 22, 2024,
alleging therein that she was sexually harassed, assaulted, and abused by a
teacher beginning in 2006 when she was a 17-year-old student at South Hills
High School. (Complaint, ¶¶ 1, 39 and 43.) Plaintiff has directed her first
through fifth and eighth causes of action (i.e., for Negligence, Negligent
Supervision, Negligent Hiring/Retention, Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or
Educate, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress and Sexual Harassment
(Civil Code § 51.9), respectively) against the District.
 
A.       The District’s Demurrer to the Eighth Cause of Action
As an initial matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff
has agreed to “withdraw” her eighth cause of action, for Sexual Harassment (Civ. Code § 51.9). (Opp., 14:6-8.) The
Court thus sustains the District’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action,
without leave to amend. 
  
B.       The District’s Demurrer Based on AB 218 
The District demurs to the entire complaint on that
basis that Plaintiff failed to comply with the claim presentation requirement
and that Assembly Bill 218 (“AB 218”), which purports to retroactively waive
that requirement, amounts to an unconstitutional gift of public funds.
Assembly Bill 218 (“AB 218”) amended Code of Civil
Procedure § 340.1 to, inter alia, extend the time for filing claims for
childhood sexual assault and create a three-year revival window for lapsed
claims. AB 218 also amended Government Code § 905 “by deleting from subdivision
(m) the language that previously limited [an] exception to the government claim
presentation requirement to claims arising out of conduct occurring on or after
January 1, 2009, and adding subdivision (p), which made this change retroactive.”
(Coats v. New Haven Unified School Dist. (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415,
424.)[FN1]
The District argues that AB 218, in purporting to
retroactively apply the claim presentation waiver, violates Article XVI,
Section VI of the California Constitution (the “gift clause”), which prohibits
gifts of public funds: “The Legislature shall have no power to give or to lend, or
to authorize the giving or lending, of the credit of the State, or of any
county, city and county, city, township or other political corporation or
subdivision of the State now existing, or that may be hereafter established, in
aid or to any person,
association, or corporation, whether municipal or otherwise, or to pledge the
credit thereof, in any manner whatever, for the payment of the liabilities of
any individual, association, municipal or other corporation whatever.”
The Court disagrees. The Court observes that, after
the parties submitted their briefs in this matter, the First District Court of
Appeal issued its decision in West Contra Costa Unified School District v.
The Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1243,
where it expressly determined that “AB 218 did not create
new ‘substantive liability’ for the underlying alleged wrongful conduct[, but]
[i]nstead, . . . simply waived a condition the state had imposed on its consent
to suit.” (Id. at 1257.) In so holding, the West Contra Costa
court looked to Chapman v. State (1894) 104 Cal. 690, which involved the
collapse of a state-operated wharf, allegedly due to the state’s negligence,
and consequent loss of coal stored on the wharf. At the time of the loss, the
plaintiff could only present a claim to the state board of examiners, which was
done and rejected. (Id. at 692.) The plaintiff subsequently filed suit
under a statute enacted after the loss that expressly authorized such
lawsuits: “All
persons who have, or shall hereafter have, claims on contract or for negligence
against the state, not allowed by the state board of examiners, are hereby
authorized, on the terms and conditions herein contained, to bring suit thereon
against the state in any of the courts of this state of competent jurisdiction,
and prosecute the same to final judgment.” (Id. at 693.)
The trial court in Chapman
sustained the state’s demurrer to the complaint. On appeal, the state argued
that “at the
time when the coal belonging to the assignors of the plaintiff was lost, the
state was not liable for the damage occasioned by said loss . . . and that the
act should not be construed as intended to create any liability against the
state for such past negligence,” relying on the principle that “in the absence
of a statute voluntarily assuming such liability, the state is not liable in
damages for the negligent acts of its officers while engaged in discharging
ordinary official duties pertaining to the administration of the government of
the state.” (Id. at 693). The state contended that no such statute
existed at the time of the loss. The Chapman court explained that, while
it would violate the gift clause for the legislature to retroactively authorize
any action for negligence, the plaintiff’s action was actually founded upon
breach of contract because the state was contractually obligated, in consideration
of wharfage paid, to preserve the property entrusted to it. The Chapman court explained that “the liability of the state
accrued at the time of the breach—that is, when the coal was lost
through the negligence of the officers in charge of the state’s wharf—although
there was then no law giving to the plaintiff’s assignors the right to sue
state thereof.” (Id. at 696 (Emphasis added).) While the “right to sue
the state has since been given by the act of February 28, 1893 . . . the
legislature did not create any liability or cause of action against the state
where none existed before” as “[t]he state was always liability upon its
contracts.” (Id.) In other words, the fact that there was no remedy
prior to the legislative enactment does not mean there was “no liability and no
claim.” (Id.)
The West Contra Costa court concluded that “under Chapman
the
crucial consideration is whether the Legislature has created new substantive
liability, or, instead, has simply removed an obstacle to recovery imposed by
the state as a condition of its consent to suit that is not an aspect of the
underlying substantive liability.” (Id. at 1263.)
As
relevant here, the West Contra Costa court observed that the Law
Revision Commission comments to Government Code section 905.8 “ma[ke] clear
that the claims presentation provisions [do] not impose substantive liability,”
that liability for the alleged misconduct at issue in AB 218 cases is found in
sections 820 and 815.2, and that “[b]ecause a statute imposing liability on the
District existed at the time of the sexual assaults, AB 218 imposes no new
substantive liability under Chapman’s gift clause analysis.” (Id.
at 1260-1261). The Court agrees.
The Court is
unpersuaded by the District’s citations to Bourn v. Hart (1892) 93 Cal.
321 [FN2], Conlin v. Board of Supervisors (1893) 99 Cal. 17 [FN3], and Powell v. Phelan (1903) 138 Cal. 271 [FN4], in which violations of the gift clause were found.[FN5] In each of the foregoing cases, the legislature created liability after the
fact. By way of contrast, there was liability at the time of the alleged
sexual assaults against Plaintiff.
Moreover, it is well
settled that if the appropriated public funds “are to be used for a public
purpose, they are not a gift within the meaning of” the gift clause. (Page
v. MiraCosta Community College Dist. (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 471, 495.)
Here, the Court agrees that even if “AB 218 authorizes expenditures within the
scope of the gift clause, the expenditures are not ‘gifts’ because they serve a
public purpose.” (West
Contra Costa, supra, 103 Cal.App.5th at p. 1265.)
In contrast to laws permitting
“discrete payments to private parties with no larger public goal,” AB 218
“provide[s] relief to a disadvantaged group of persons,” namely, childhood sex assault
victims, which is “a sufficient public purpose under the gift clause.” (Id.
at 1267-68; cf. Page, supra, 180
Cal.App.4th at p. 495 [“The settlement of a good faith dispute between the
state and a private party is an appropriate use of public funds and not a gift
because the relinquishment of a colorable legal claim in return for settlement
funds is good consideration and establishes a valid public purpose.”].)
 
B.       The District’s Demurrer to the Fourth and
Fifth Causes of Action
The District
next argues that Plaintiff’s fourth and fifth causes of action fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute causes of action. The Court agrees.
A duty
to educate, train, and warn of the risks of sexual abuse was recognized by the
First District Court of Appeal in Juarez v. Boy Scouts of America, Inc.
(2000), which held that the Boy Scouts of America (and that entity only) had a
duty to educate, train, or warn youth or their parents or adult leaders about
the risk of sexual abuse. Juarez, however, was expressly limited to that
case. (Id. at 409 [“[W]e wish to make special note that that the reach
of this opinion is only intended to extend as far as the record before us today.”].)
Plaintiff has not provided the Court with any authority wherein such a duty was
imposed as against a school district. The Court sustains the fourth cause of
action on this basis.
Additionally,
“[a] cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists
when there is (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46
Cal.4th 1035, 1050.) “It is not enough that the conduct be intentional and
outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the
presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.” (Christensen v.
Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.) Plaintiff has not alleged any
conduct directed at her. The
Court sustains the District’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action on this
basis.
Accordingly,
the demurrer is sustained as to the fourth and fifth causes of action. Plaintiff
is given 20 days’ leave to amend.
  
C.       The District’s Motion to Strike
The District moves the Court for an order striking
out Paragraphs 30-38 of Plaintiff’s complaint.
The motion is granted. “Courts have inherent
authority to strike scandalous and abusive statements in pleadings.” (Oiye
v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1070.) “An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is. . . [a]n allegation that is not essential to the statement of a
claim or defense” and constitutes “irrelevant matter” as that term is used in
section 436. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b)(1).)


