 Case Number:  23STCV12769    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TIMOTHY KINMAN
  
        
  vs.
 
MANHATTAN LOFT LLC, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV12769  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 9, 2023




 
 
            Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the first, second,
third, fourth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth and
thirteenth causes of action.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to strike is MOOT.
 
 
            On
6/5/2023, Plaintiff Timothy Kinman (Plaintiff) filed suit against 12 distinct
Defendants alleging: (1) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4; (2) tortious
breach of the warranty of habitability; (3) private nuisance; (4) business and
professions Code section 17200; (5) negligence; (6) breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment; (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (8)
negligence per se; (9) violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA); (10)
toxic environmental mold tort; (11) violation of tenant anti-harassment ordinance;
(12) California Welfare and Institutions Code section 15600; and (13) false
advertising 
 
            Now,
Defendant FPI Management (Defendant) demurs to Plaintiff’s first, second,
third, fourth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth and
thirteenth causes of action
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that each of Plaintiff’s claims, with the exception of the fifth cause
of action for negligence, are insufficiently pled. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees. 
 
            As
for the first cause of action, Civil Code §1942.4 states that a landlord of a
dwelling may not demand rent if (1) the dwelling substantially lacks specific
affirmative characteristics, (2) a public officer has notified the landlord in
writing of an obligation to abate the nuisance or repair the substandard
conditions, (3) the conditions have existed and not been abated 35 days beyond
the date of the service of the notice from the public officer, and (4) the
conditions were not caused by an act or omission of the tenant or lessee. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges “on information and belief” the Subject Property has been subject to
multiple inspections by the LA Housing and Community Investment Department
and/or Los Angeles County Department of Public Health that resulting in
citations against the Defendant for multiple violations. (Complaint, ¶17.)
Additionally, Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that “Defendants
failed to abate or repair the conditions identified in one or more of the
Notice and Orders to Comply within 35 days of receiving the notice…” (Complaint
¶91). However, such an allegation does not satisfy his pleading burden.
Pleading made on information and belief is insufficient if asserted without the
information that leads the Plaintiff to believe the allegations are true. (Gomes
v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158-1159.)
Plaintiff must allege any facts on which his information and belief are based.
Moreover, as noted by Defendant:
 
Plaintiff has
not provided the dates when he believes a public code enforcement agency
officer notified any of the defendants of a duty to repair, which public code
enforcement agency issued notice, or when the 35-day grace period started or
ended under Civil Code §1942.4. Accordingly, there is no indication from the pleading
that the third subsection of Civil Code §1942.4 was satisfied. This is a far
cry from the requirement that a statutory violation of Civil Code §19424.4 be
pleaded with heightened particularity. Plaintiff does not assert when each of
the Defendants were provided notice by any kind of code enforcement agency, so,
it is impossible to calculate whether the requisite number of days passed to
file the present suit. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s allegations in the Complaint do
not plead sufficient facts to state a cause of action for a violation of Civil
Code §1942.4 against any defendant, but, particularly, FPI.
 
(Demurrer, 3:
18-27.)
 
As for the
second cause of action, a claim for breach of the implied warranty of
habitability sounds in contract. As such, Plaintiff must allege facts which
could show he is in a contractual relationship with Defendant here, who is a
management company, not the property owner. 
In the complaint, Plaintiff only alleges that (1) “Plaintiff has resided
at the Subject Property since in or around March 2022 pursuant to a written
lease agreement.” (Complaint, ¶63.) (2) “…each Plaintiff was in a
landlord-tenant relationship…pursuant to a written rental agreement starting in
or around March 2022. (Complaint ¶96) Plaintiff did not attach a copy of the
contract here. As such, Plaintiff has not alleged facts which could show that
he was in landlord-tenant relationship with Defendant here, who is a management
company. 
 
As for the
third cause of action, “to proceed on a private nuisance theory the plaintiff must prove an
injury specifically referable to the use and enjoyment of his or her land.” (Koll-Irvine
Center Property Owners Assn. v. County of Orange (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
1036, 1041.) The elements of an action for private nuisance are (1) an
interference with the plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of his property, (1) the
interference is substantial, i.e., it causes the plaintiff to suffer
substantial actual damage, and (3) the interference is unreasonable, i.e., it
must be “of such a nature, duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable
interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho
Valencia Resort Partners (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 263.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants neglected
to make repairs to the property, but does not allege affirmative interference
by Defendants. California does not impose liability
for nuisance where the landlord was not an active participant in causing the
alleged damages. (Resolution Trust Corp. v. Rossmoor Corp. (1995) 34 Cal.App.
4th 93, 100.) Rather, Plaintiff’s claim for nuisance appears to be a
repackaging of the negligence claim. In Escorial, the court held that
the plaintiffs had not stated a valid nuisance cause of action when conclusory
allegations were offered and failed to demonstrate how the nuisance claim was
different from the negligence claim. ((El Escorial Owner’s Association v.
DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.) Here, similarly,
no facts are found in the nuisance cause of action that are distinct from the
facts supporting the negligence cause of action. The only difference is the
conclusory statement that “[t]he conditions of the Subject Property that the
Defendants caused constitute a private nuisance…” (Complaint, ¶109.) This is
insufficient to plead a nuisance claim distinct from negligence. 
 
As for the
fourth and thirteenth causes of action, almost all of Plaintiff’s allegations
in these causes of action are made against “Defendants” as a collective – even
though eight of the twelve defendants are distinct business entities who were
involved with the Property in some way at different times. (E.g. “Defendants
failed to extend the necessary means to maintain the Subject Property and
repeatedly failed to abate known habitability violations” (Complaint ¶121) “Plaintiffs
are informed and believe and thereon allege that Defendants’ illegal and unfair
business practices have been adopted and implemented for the purpose of
maximizing the net income and profits from the Property.” (Complaint ¶125.)
“Throughout Defendants ownership of the Property, Defendants have advertised
the Property for rent…” (Complaint ¶212); “Defendants have engaged in the
advertising herein alleged...” (Complaint ¶216). Plaintiff seeks to bring each
of these causes of action against multiple, separate business entity defendants
and four individuals but does not distinguish the grounds of those causes of
action as against any specific Defendants. Plaintiff must allege facts which
could show that each of the named Defendants engaged in this alleged conduct,
or Plaintiff must narrow the scope of the claim to those specific Defendants he
alleges engaged in this conduct. 
 
As for the sixth
cause of action, as noted above, Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to
show a contract exists between Plaintiff and Defendant here. As such, Plaintiff
has necessarily failed to allege sufficient facts to state a claim for breach
of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, which is a contract-based claim.
 
As for the seventh
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, the Court, as
set forth in this ruling, has sustained Defendant’s demurrers to Plaintiffs’
underlying claims. Thus, Plaintiffs have necessarily failed to allege facts to
support this cause of action.
 
As for the eighth
cause of action, negligence per se is not, “a separate cause of action, but
creates an evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause
of action for negligence.” (Millard v. Biosources, Inc. (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 1338, 1611, fn. 2.) Negligence per se does not provide a private
right of action for violation of a statute. (Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1285.) Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence
per se does not set out further facts which are distinct and establish a cause
of action separate from negligence. Plaintiff must allege such facts to support
this claim. 
 
As for
violation of the CLRA claim, California Civil Code section 1782(a) states that
“thirty days or more prior to the commencement of an action for damages
pursuant to this title, the consumer shall do the following: (1) Notify the
person alleged to have employed or committed methods, acts, or practices
declared unlawful by Section 1770 of the particular alleged violations of
Section 1770 and (2) Demand that the person correct, repair, replace, or
otherwise rectify the goods or services alleged to be in violation of Section
1770. The notice shall be in writing and shall be sent by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, to the place where the transaction
occurred or to the person's principal place of business within California.” 
 
Further,
statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity. (Hood v.
Hacienda La Puente Unified School District (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 435, 439
(“the general rule [is] that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with
particularity[.]”) Plaintiff has not adequately pleaded the requirements of
California Civil Code §1782(a) subsection one or two, in that Plaintiff has not
alleged any facts that he ever gave notice to any Defendant of the particular
alleged violations of Section 1770, or a demand that any of the Defendants
correct, repair or replace. Civil Code §1782(a) places specific requirements on
the method that the notice shall be given. Plaintiff has failed to allege any
facts that he notified in writing, by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested to any defendant of these allege violations of Civil Code
§1770.
 
As for the
toxic environment mold tort, the Court could not identify any statute or case
law that creates such a cause of action for “Toxic Environmental Mold Tort.”
While Plaintiff argues in opposition that this claim is supported by cases like
Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 80
and Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1194,
those cases are products liability actions and Plaintiff does not allege that
any products liability here. 
 
As for the Municipal
Code section 45.33 claim, Los Angeles Municipal Code §45.35(F) states that “[a]
civil proceeding or small claims case initiated under this article alleging any
violation of Section 45.33 may be commenced only after the tenant provides
written notice to the landlord of the alleged violation, and the landlord fails
to remedy the repair or maintenance issue within a reasonable period of time.”
 
 Plaintiff has not alleged any facts which
could show that written notice was provided to any Defendant of the alleged
violations. Accordingly, there is no indication from the pleadings that Los Angeles
Municipal Code §45.35(F) was satisfied. Additionally, throughout the complaint,
Plaintiff does not specify the particular conduct that each respective
Defendant allegedly undertook; the complaint simply groups all Defendants
jointly in a conclusory manner. Statutory claim musts be alleged with
particularity. 
 
As for the
Welfare and Institutions Code section 15600 claim, several factors must be
shown to trigger the Elder Abuse Act’s enhanced remedies. First, the plaintiff
must allege and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence facts showing
that the defendant: “(1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the
elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical
care”; “(2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to
provide for his or her own basic needs”; and “(3) denied or withheld goods or
services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either
with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or
dependent adult (if plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with
conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if plaintiff
alleges recklessness)[.]” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407.) Here, Plaintiff does not allege that
Defendant knew Plaintiff was a dependent adult, and Plaintiff’s alleged
conditions—heart issues and a nerve disorder—are not readily visually apparent.
Moreover, Plaintiff does not allege any facts which could that Defendant, a
management company, was somehow responsible for providing Plaintiff’s basic
needs. Finally, Plaintiff alleges habitability violations against “Defendants”
collectively, which, again, is insufficiently specific. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to the first, second, third, fourth, sixth,
seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth causes of
action is sustained, with 15 days leave to amend. 
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 