 Case Number:  23STCV10749    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Agustin Arias, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV10749




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Guillermina Patron, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 10, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint 
Moving Party: Defendants Moises Villasenor and
Estela Villasenor
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Agustin Arias and Sandra
Gomez
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
PLAINTIFFS TO FILE AND SERVE A FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND
SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a landlord-tenant action. On
May 12, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants, asserting causes
of action for (1) violation of Civ. Code 1942.4; (2) tortious breach of the
warranty of habitability; (3) private nuisance; (4) UCL violations; (5)
negligence; (6) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (7) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (8) negligence per se; (9) CLRA violations;
and (1) violation of the Los Angeles Municipal Anti-Harassment Ordinance. 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Under the Unruh Act, “[a]ll persons
within the jurisdiction of this state are free and equal . . . and no matter
what their . . . disability [or other protected characteristic] . . . are
entitled to the full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities,
privileges, or services in all business establishments of every kind
whatsoever.” (Civ. Code § 51; see also CACI No. 3066.) “Whoever denies, aids,
or incites a denial, or makes any discrimination or distinction” contrary to
the Unruh Act is liable for damages. (Civ. Code, § 52(a).) A violation of the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) also qualifies as a violation of Unruh.
(Civ. Code § 51(f).)
 
Defendants demur to the ninth cause of
action for CLRA violations on the grounds that it is barred by the statute of
limitations, that the CLRA does not apply to real property leases, and that it
is uncertain. 
 
Defendants assert the claim is barred
by the statute of limitations because Plaintiffs do not plead the dates the
claim accrued. Plaintiffs are not required to affirmatively allege a cause of
action is not barred by the statute of limitations. The demurrer cannot be
sustained on this basis.
 
The CLRA protects consumers from
deceptive practices “in a transaction intended to result or which results in
the sale or lease of goods or services.” (Civ. Code § 1770(a).) “Goods” are
defined as “tangible chattels bought or leased for use primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes, ... including goods which, at the time of the
sale or subsequently, are to be so affixed to real property as to become part
of real property, whether or not severable therefrom.” (Civ. Code § 1761(a).)
“Services” are defined as “work, labor, and services for other than a
commercial or business use, including services furnished in connection with the
sale or repair of goods.” (Civ. Code § 1761(b).) Courts have held that
transactions involving the sale of real property are not “goods” or “services”
as defined by the CLRA. (See McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs assert that
Defendants engaged in deceptive practices by misrepresenting the habitability
of the subject rental property. Plaintiffs do not provide any authority
applying the CLRA to rental agreements for real property. This is insufficient
to show the CLRA is applicable here. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
 