  Case Number:  21CHCV00095    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-2-24
Case #21CHCV00095,
Pacific Grove Association vs. Henry Martinez, et al.
Trial Date: 2-5-25
 
MOTION TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Pacific Grove Association
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiff has moved
for an order disqualifying opposing counsel.
 
RULING: Motion
to disqualify counsel is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff
Pacific Grove Association (Plaintiff) has moved for an order disqualifying the
counsel of Defendants Henry Martinez and Veronica Martinez. Plaintiff argues
that Defendants’ counsel, Randall M. Awad, should be disqualified from
representing Defendants’ because Awad is ineligible to practice law in the
State of California. Plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter to Awad on January 19,
2024, notifying him that Plaintiff’s counsel had discovered that Awad was no
longer eligible to practice law in the State of California after a search of
the State Bar website. Plaintiff’s counsel asked who would be substituting in
as counsel in this matter. Awad did not reply to that letter and has not filed
the notice of his ineligibility to practice law in California.
 
ANALYSIS
California law
permits a non-client to move for disqualification of opposing counsel under 
certain
circumstances. (Conservatorship of Lee C. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 1072,
1084.) When an 
attorney’s
ethical breach is “manifest and glaring” and so “infects the litigation in
which disqualification is sought that it impacts the moving party’s interest in
a just and lawful determination of his or her claims,” a non-client may satisfy
the standing requirement to bring a 
motion to
disqualify based on the attorney’s ethical violation. (Kennedy v. Eldridge
(2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1204). A judge may grant a non-client’s motion for
disqualification when the opposing attorney’s continued representation
threatens the moving party with a cognizable injury or would undermine the
integrity of the judicial process. (Id. at 1205.)
 
Although courts
do not disqualify attorneys for every instance of misconduct, ethical breaches
require disqualification when it is necessary “to mitigate unfair advantage a
party that might otherwise obtain if the [attorney] were allowed to continue
representing the client.” (City of San Diego v. Superior Court (Hoover)
(2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 457, 471.) Rules of ethics under the California Rules of
Professional Conduct are tools that judges use when deciding whether attorney
disqualification is necessary to preserve the integrity of the judicial
process. (Jarvis v. Jarvis (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 113, 135.)
 
In this case,
Plaintiff has provided evidence that Defendant’s attorney, Awad, is no longer
eligible to practice law in the State of California. (Famili Decl., ¶ 2, Ex.
1.) It would constitute an ethical violation and amount to the unauthorized
practice of law if Awad were allowed to continue representing Defendants.
Therefore, it is within the Court’s authority to disqualify Awad from
representing Defendants.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to disqualify opposing counsel is granted.
 
Moving party to
give notice.