 Case Number:  23CHCV01491    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-2-24
Case #23CHCV01491,
Ana I. Rodriguez vs. Zoraida Rodriguez, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Zoraida Rodriguez and Carlos Castro-Almeida
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Ana I. Rodriguez
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendants are
requesting that the Court enter an order setting aside the default entered
against them.
 
RULING: Motion
to set aside the default is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On May 22,
2023, Plaintiff Ana I. Rodrguez (Plaintiff) filed her complaint against
Defendants Zoraida Rodriguez and Carlos Castro-Almedia (Defendants). Carlos was
personally served with the complaint on June 28, 2023. Zoraida was personally
served with the complaint on June 30, 2023. Defendants had 30 days to respond
to the complaint.
 
On July 31,
2023, Jonathan Leavitt from the law firm Grant Shenon contacted Plaintiff’s
counsel on behalf of Zoraida to see if Plaintiff would be willing to settle. The
parties could not agree to a settlement, and Plaintiff’s counsel informed
Leavitt that a response to the complaint was due immediately. Plaintiff’s
counsel claims that Leavitt did not indicate that he was representing Carlos in
any way.
 
On August 17,
2023, Plaintiff served both Defendants with a Request for Entry of Default. Default
was entered by the Clerk on that same day. Plaintiff’s counsel represents that
he also served the request for entry of default on Leavitt at his firm’s
address.
 
On September
13, 2023, a different attorney from Grant Shenon, Nicholas Koo, contacted
Plaintiff’s counsel and attempted to blame the entry of default on Plaintiff.
Plaintiff’s counsel responded by email that same day and refused to set aside
the default. There was a further email exchange between the two parties
regarding whether the request for entry of default should have been served on
Plaintiff directly, but because Leavitt had not entered an appearance on behalf
of either Defendant, Plaintiff’s counsel argued that it was standard procedure
to serve both Defendants and Leavitt.
 
After the email
from Plaintiff’s counsel on September 13, 2023, that said that Plaintiff would
not agree to set aside default, Koo did nothing until he filed this motion to
set aside default on December 5, 2023.
 
In Defendants’
motion to set aside default, Koo claims that it was because of attorney
mistake, surprise, or neglect that no response was filed to Plaintiff’s
complaint. He represents that Leavitt was away from the office from mid-August
until October due to personal matters. Koo also represents that he was out of
the office from August 21, 2023, to September 2, 2023, on a trip, then out
until September 11, 2023, because he had caught COVID-19. Koo also claims that
he never received the request for entry of default that was purportedly served
by mail on Defendants’ counsel (though the Court will note that Plaintiff
indicated that the request for entry of default was served on Leavitt, not Koo).
Plaintiff opposes Defendants’ motion.
 
ANALYSIS
CCP Section
473(b) states as follows: 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…Notwithstanding any other
requirements of [§ 473(b)] the court shall, whenever an application for relief
is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and
is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry
of a default judgment…unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was
not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.¿The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.”
 
The law favors
hearings on the merits, so any doubts as to the application of CCP § 473 should
be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default. (See Shapiro
v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.)
 
Koo,
Defendants’ attorney, claims that the lack of response to the complaint was due
to his mistake, inadvertence, or neglect. He also claims that because he and
Leavitt were out of the office for extended periods of time, they neglected to
file an answer on behalf of Defendants.
 
It appears that
the blame for not filing a response lies with Defendants’ attorneys. The motion
filed by Defendants’ attorneys is in the proper form and is accompanied by a
proposed answer and a sworn declaration from Defendants’ attorney. Furthermore,
any doubts as to the application of CCP § 473 should be resolved in favor of
the party seeking relief from default. Therefore, the Court will grant relief
from default pursuant to CCP § 473(b).
 
In Plaintiff’s
opposition, Plaintiff requested a penalty of $1,000.00 for each Defendant whose
default is set aside. Plaintiff argues that she has been prejudiced due to the
attorney time that has been spent drafting a default package. CCP § 473(c)(1) states
that “Whenever the court grants relief from a default…based on any of the
provisions of this section, the court may do any of the following: (A) Impose a
penalty of no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending
attorney or party.” The relief from default is not conditioned on this penalty
being paid. (CCP § 473(c)(2).)
 
Though CCP §
473(c)(1)(A) states that the court will impose a penalty “of no greater than”
$1,000 upon the offending attorney, Plaintiff seeks $1,000 for the defaults for
both Defendants. The Court will impose a penalty of $1,000 against Koo for each
Defendant, as there are two defendants and therefore two defaults.
 
Defendants’
motion to set aside default is granted. Defendants’ answer is deemed filed.


Defendants’
attorney is ordered to pay a total of $2,000.00 to Plaintiff’s counsel for the
defaults for both Defendants.
 
Moving party to
give notice.