


[1]              Kansas
does not appear to recognize a comparable tax return privilege.  As noted, in this case the Kansas judge
expressly ordered the production of the responding parties’ tax records. Kansas
courts determine whether tax returns are relevant to the subject matter, and balance
the relative burden of obtaining the information.  “Courts have developed a two-pronged test to
assure a balance between the liberal scope of discovery and the policy favoring
the confidentiality of tax returns. ‘First the court must find that the returns
are relevant to the subject matter of the action. Second the court must find
that there is a compelling need for the returns because the information
contained therein is not otherwise readily obtainable.’ . . .‘[O]nce the burden
[of showing relevancy] is met, the burden shifts to the party opposing
production to show that other sources exist from which the information is
readily obtainable.’” (Hilt v. SFC Inc. (D.Kan. 1997) 170 F.R.D.
182,189.)
            Here, there
is no dispute that the tax documents sought are reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence, and that they are not “readily
obtainable” elsewhere.  The public policy
of both Kansas and California favor compelling production of the tax returns in
this case.for instance, when it has been waived or when “a public
policy greater than that of confidentiality of tax returns is involved.”  (Ibid., quoting Sammut v. Sammut (1980)
103 Cal.App.3d 557, 560.)            Petitioner
argues that Respondent has, by his litigation conduct, waived the privilege
here.  The Court is unconvinced.  Efforts to impede proper discovery can result
in evidentiary sanctions, but the Court lacks sufficient evidence of
Albawardi’s knowing relinquishment of a known right.             But the
other basis, an overriding public policy, does support disregarding the tax
return privilege in a case like this.  As
the Supreme Court acknowledged in Schnabel, “there is a strong
legislative policy in favor of fair child and spousal support awards and a fair
division of community assets.”  (Schnabel,
supra, 5 Cal.4th at p. 722.) 
Accordingly, the high court concluded that corporate tax returns and
payroll tax returns were discoverable.  (Id.
at p. 723.)            Responding
Parties seek to distinguish Schnabel because Petitioner has not shown
that she has any ownership interest in the companies listed in the
subpoena.  The Court finds Responding
Parties’ reading of Schnabel too narrow. The Supreme Court did
not state that the tax return privilege was abrogated only if one had an
ownership interest in the tax paying entity. 
Rather, it concluded that the important public policy favoring adequate
support and fair property division overcame the privacy interests supporting
the tax return privilege.            In any case,
Responding Parties’ argument falls in the face of legislative enactments that
effectively swallow up the tax return privilege in cases involving child
support and spousal support.  Neither
party discussed Family Code section 3552, which provides in subdivision (a):
“In a proceeding involving child, family, or spousal support, no party to the
proceeding may refuse to submit copies of the party’s state and federal income
tax returns to the court, whether individual or joint.”  More specific to the issue at hand, at
subdivision (b):  “The tax returns may be
examined by the other party and are discoverable by the other party.  A party also may be examined by the other
party as to the contents of a tax return submitted pursuant to this section.” These provisions plainly nullify
the tax return privilege in cases such as this one in which the issue is
determining child support and spousal support. 
The Interstate Discovery Act requires that the Court protect California’s
policy interests.  Here, Albwardi has
refused to disclose financial information, including tax filings, concerning
companies for which Responding Parties provided tax services.  Under California law, assuming he held an
interest in or controlled any of the entities, Respondent himself could not
properly refuse to turn over company financial documents, including tax filings
and other tax documents.  Permitting
Responding Parties to refuse on his behalf to disclose tax returns undermines this
state’s policy.[1]             To the
extent Respondent may claim a tax return privilege, it is overridden in this
case. The privilege does not preclude an order that Responding Parties produce
documents encompassed in the subpoena. Responding Parties’ procedural objections are
unpersuasive.            Respondent
Parties’ procedural objections are also insufficient to deny the petition.  They deal with minor calendaring matters, did
not prejudice Responding Parties, or can be addressed by the Court’s
order.  The Petition was filed two days
late, but it appears to have been caused by a clerical error that was promptly
corrected.  Responding Parties were not
disadvantaged and this type of mishap is exactly the sort of issue that can be
addressed under Code of Civil Procedure section 473. Albawardi received notice
of the petition and filed a joinder in Responding Parties’ opposition. Again,
there was no prejudice to him or to his tax advisors. In any case, the Court
may depart from strict compliance under Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3,
subdivision (h).  The Court concludes
procedural defects in service complained of here are not jurisdictional.  Responding Parties’ objections to the clarity
and breadth of the subpoena are exaggerated, and are addressed below. Their
evidentiary objections are for the most part overruled.  They also mistakenly view this matter as one
of post-judgment discovery. But even had a judgment been entered, under Family
Code section 218, a post-judgment motion automatically reopens discovery.The Court will modify the subpoena to make Responding
Parties’ obligation clear.            Responding
Parties offer two arguments concerning the scope of the subpoena.  With respect to the California subpoena, they
point to gaps such as when the production is to be made and point out that
there is no list of business records to be produced on attachment 3, but only a
list of people and entities.  The Court
rejects this argument.  The California
subpoena plainly incorporates the subpoena issued by the Kansas judge in the
Underlying Action.            That
subpoena ordered responding parties to “produce all records and documents,
including but not limited to tax returns and all supporting documentation,
correspondence, services agreements, and billing invoices from 1998 through the
present for any of the following individuals or entities,” followed by a list
including Respondent and 56 entities. The Kansas subpoena describes documents
to be produced.But Responding Parties contend the
description is vague and overbroad.  They
argue that the language “all…records and documents…for any of the following
individuals or entities,” would require them to produce “every single document
relating to Mr. “Albawardi or the 56 companies, from an invitation to an
employee lunch, to records relating to employees not involved in this dispute….”            Responding
Parties protest too much, but the Court recognizes that non-parties should have
clear guidance from the Court, so as to facilitate an efficient search and
production, and so they do not risk sanctions or contempt. The Court finds that
the language in the subpoena should be interpreted reasonably.  Moreover, under the Interstate Discovery Act,
this Court must be faithful to the Kansas court’s intent, while protecting
California residents from undue burden. The Court concludes that so
interpreted, the subpoena may be clarified as follows:            (1) All
documents reflecting the financial condition of the individuals and entities
listed below from 1988 through the present; (2) All state and federal tax returns and
supporting documents for the individuals and entities listed below from 1988
through the present; and (3) All documents
reflecting service agreements with, and billing invoices to, the individuals
and entities listed below from 1988 through the present.   Thereafter follows the
numbered list of 57 individuals and entities.            To
the extent Responding Parties are unable to comply with the subpoena for any
category of documents or person or entity listed, they must execute a
declaration on personal knowledge that is consistent with Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.230.Sanctions.            Petitioner
seeks sanctions against Respondent. Had this been a motion to Respondent, the
Court would likely have ordered monetary sanctions against him.  The Court is more flexible concerning the
burdens of third parties responding to discovery, even those with a close
business relationship with Respondent. 
The Court will wait to see how Responding Parties comply with the
Court’s order.  For now, therefore, the
Court declines to award sanctions.Conclusion.            Petitioner’s
motion to enforce the subpoena to Responding Parties is granted as
modified.  The documents subject to the
subpoena are:           (1) All
documents reflecting the financial condition of the individuals and entities
listed below from 1988 through the present; (2) All state and federal tax returns and
supporting documents for the individuals and entities listed below from 1988
through the present; and (3) All documents
reflecting service agreements with, and billing invoices to, the individuals
and entities listed below from 1988 through the present.   The “individuals and entities
listed below” are the list of 57 individuals and entities set forth on
attachment 3 of the California subpoena.             The
Court orders Responding Parties to serve these documents with Bates Numbers on
each page to Petitioner’s counsel on or before November 17, 2023.             Sanctions
are denied.             


[1]
             Section
3552 is not the only statute that requires disclosure of tax returns. The
Legislature requires that in certain circumstances a party “shall produce” tax
returns.  (Fam. Code, §§ 3629, 3665.) 





