


[1]           Responding party David
Williams declares that from 2012 through late 2020, his company, CPA firm
Williams & Co., provided tax planning and tax-related services to
Albawardi, as well as to at least sixteen other entities Albawardi controls or
has a beneficial interest in.
 Legal standards. 
            This petition
is brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 2029.600, which authorizes
this Court to “enforce, quash, or modify a subpoena,” or provide “other
relief,” relating to a subpoena issued by a state other than California.  The provision “serves to clarify the
procedure for using a California court to resolve a dispute relating to
discovery conducted in this state for purposes of a proceeding pending in
another jurisdiction.”  (Cal. Law Rev.
Com. Comment to section 2029.600.)  This
Court interprets the Interstate Discovery Act to foster comity and reciprocity
among states to enforce discovery. 
Accordingly, this Court defers to the decisions and orders of the Kansas
court.   
            At the same
time, the Interstate Discovery Act requires that this Court protect California
policy interests.  The Law Revision
Commission noted:  “The objective of
subdivision (a) [of section 2029.600] is to ensure that if a dispute arises
relating to discovery under this article, California is able to protect its
policy interests and the interests of persons located in the state.  In particular, the state must be able to
protect its residents from unreasonable or unduly burdensome discovery
requests.  A court should interpret the provision
with this objective in mind.”
The tax return privilege does not bar production of the
documents sought in the subpoena.
            Through
case law and legislative enactment, California has effectively nullified the
tax return privilege as it applies to discovery in cases involving child
support and spousal support.
            Responding
Parties’ substantive argument is that the documents sought are protected from
discovery by the privilege regarding disclosure of tax returns.  The California statute that requires state
taxing authorities to keep tax returns confidential impliedly creates a
taxpayer’s tax return privilege. (Webb v. Standard Oil Co. (1957) 49
Cal.2d 509, 513.)  This privilege applies
to federal returns and also related tax documents. (Ibid.; Sav-On
Drugs, Inc. v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 1.)[1]

            Our
Supreme Court has made clear, however, that the tax return privilege “is not
absolute.”  (Schnabel v. Superior
Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  The privilege does not apply, 


