

Date:                            October
6, 2023
Case Name:                 Gracey
v. Albawardi
Case No.:                    23STCP01941
Matter:                         Petition
to Enforce Out of State Subpoena  
Moving Party:             Petitioner
Marnie Leigh Gracey
Responding Party:       Respondent
Marwan Ahmad Mohammed Albawardi
 

Ruling:                       The petition to enforce subpoena is
granted.                                            |          
            Petitioner
Marnie Leigh Gracey (Petitioner or Gracey) has a divorce case in Kansas against
Respondent Marwan Albawardi (Respondent or Albawardi). She petitions this Court
to enforce a subpoena issued by the Kansas court for production of records from
non-parties located in California: David Williams, Williams & Co., and
Williams Financial Services (Responding Parties).  A subpoena for production of business records
in an action pending outside of California was issued and served on Responding Parties,
who objected to the subpoena. Petitioner seeks to enforce the subpoena under
the Interstate and International Depositions and Discovery Act (“Interstate
Discovery Act”; Code Civ. Proc., § 2029.100 et seq.)
With some clarification of the
scope of the subpoena, the Court grants Gracey’s petition and orders Responding
Parties to produce documents accordingly. 
Procedural background.
            Petitioner is
the plaintiff in In re Marriage of Gracey and Albawardi, pending in the
Sedwick County, Kansas, district court (Underlying Action).  She states that Respondent has failed to
comply with discovery, ceased paying child or spousal support, stopped
participating in the proceedings, and that the Kansas court has issued a bench
warrant for Albawardi’s arrest.  On
December 7, 2022, the trial judge in the Underlying Action signed and issued a
subpoena to the Responding Parties ordering them to produce records, including
tax returns and supporting documentation, for 57 individuals or entities.[1] After this matter
was assigned to this department, on August 8, 2023, Petitioner re-filed her petition,
and gave notice of the hearing.  On
September 26, 2023, Responding Parties filed their opposition.  Albawardi filed a notice of joinder to the
opposition.  On September 29, 2023,
Petitioner filed her reply. 
            Responding
Parties filed objections to the declaration of Justen Phelps.  All of the objections are overruled. They
filed further objections to the Justen Phelps declaration filed with Petitioner
Gracey’s Reply. Objections nos. 1-6 are overruled.  Objection no. 7 is sustained.

