Here is the YAML summary of the tentative ruling:

```
case_number: 23STCV07227
hearing_date: July 31, 2024
dept: 47
judge: Theresa M. Traber
moving_party: LA Solar Group, Inc.
responding_party: Prime Electric Wholesale Corp., et al.
case: Prime Electric Wholesale Corp. v. LA Solar Group, Inc., et al.
motion: Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
statement_of_material_facts_and_or_proceedings: The case is an action for breach of contract filed on April 3, 2023. Defendant LA Solar Group, Inc. moves for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint.
tentative_ruling: Defendant's Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
discussion:
  - Legal Standard: Parties generally must file a cross-complaint against the party who filed the complaint before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., ยง 428.50(a)).
  - Purpose of Compulsory Cross-Complaint: To prevent piecemeal litigation.
  - Whether Claims are Compulsory: Defendant seeks leave to file a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff alleging fraudulent inducement, breach of contract, and related claims arising from the same purchase agreement.
  - Procedural Deficiencies: Plaintiff argues that the motion is procedurally deficient because it does not comply with Rule of Court 3.1324, and should be denied because Defendant has been dilatory. Neither contention is persuasive.
  - Bad Faith: The Court lacks discretion to deny a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint, even where the cross-complaint is late, absent an affirmative showing of bad faith with substantial evidence.
  - Prejudice: Plaintiff's contention that it will be prejudiced by the late filing of the cross-complaint is likewise an insufficient basis to deny leave to file a compulsory crossclaim.
conclusion: Defendant's Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
```

And here is the English-text summary:

This is a tentative ruling in a case where Defendant LA Solar Group, Inc. moves for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint against Plaintiff Prime Electric Wholesale Corp., et al. The Court grants the motion, finding that the Defendant has acted in good faith and that the compulsory cross-complaint is necessary to prevent piecemeal litigation. The Court notes that the Defendant's motion is not procedurally deficient and that the Plaintiff's contention that the Defendant has been dilatory is unpersuasive. The Court also finds that the Plaintiff's argument that the cross-complaint is brought for an improper purpose is not supported by substantial evidence. Finally, the Court concludes that the Defendant's motion must be granted, and orders the Defendant to file a clean, standalone copy of the proposed cross-complaint within 10 days of this order.