 Case Number:  23STCV07227    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 31, 2024              TRIAL DATE: October
29, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Prime Electric Wholesale Corp. v. LA
Solar Group, Inc., et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV07444            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant LA Solar Group, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Prime
Electric Wholesale Corp., et al. 
 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract that was filed on April 3, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to pay for building materials which
they ordered from Plaintiff.  
 
Defendant LA Solar Group, Inc.
moves for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant
is to file a clean, standalone copy of the proposed cross-complaint within 10
days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant LA Solar Group, Inc.
moves for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Parties generally must file a cross-complaint against the
party who filed the complaint before or at the same time as the answer to the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(a).) However, parties seeking to file untimely
compulsory cross-complaints may ask the Court for leave to do so, even though
the failure to timely file resulted from oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause. (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.) In such a case, after
notice to the adverse party, the Court must grant leave to file the
cross-complaint if the party acted in good faith. This section is liberally
construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action. (Id.)
 
The purpose of the compulsory cross-complaint statute is to
prevent piecemeal litigation. (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179
Cal.App.4th 949, 959.) Compulsory cross-complaints consist of those causes of
action existing at the time of service of the answer that the defendant must
bring against the plaintiff, or else forfeit the right to bring them in any
other action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30(a).) Specifically, compulsory
cross-complaints consist of the causes of action that “arise out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action
which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10(c).)
To avoid piecemeal litigation, courts liberally construe the term
“transaction”—it is “‘not confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence . .
. but may embrace a series of acts or occurrences logically interrelated.’” (Align
Technology, supra, 179 Cal.App.4th at 960.)
 
A motion
to file a compulsory cross-complaint at any time during the action must be
granted where forfeiture would otherwise result, unless the moving party
engaged in bad faith conduct. (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990)
217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.) The determination that the moving party acted in bad
faith must be supported by substantial evidence. (Ibid.; Foot’s Transfer
& Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902 [“We
conclude that this principle of liberality requires that a strong showing of
bad faith be made in order to support a denial of the right to file a
cross-complaint under this section”].) “Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect,
mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless
accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd, supra,
217 Cal.App.3d at 99)
Rather, bad faith is “defined as ‘[t]he opposite of “good faith,” generally
implying or involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or
deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some
contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . . , but by some
interested or sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence,
but rather . . . the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or
moral obliquity; . . . it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating
with furtive design or ill will.’” (Id. at 100.) 
 
Whether
Claims are Compulsory
 
Defendant seeks leave to file a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff alleging fraudulent inducement, breach of
contract, and related claims arising from the same purchase agreement that is
the basis of the original Complaint in this action. (Declaration of Shannon
Duane ISO Mot. Exh. 1.) Plaintiff, in opposition, argues that the motion is
procedurally deficient because it does not comply with Rule of Court 3.1324,
and should be denied because Defendant has been dilatory. Neither contention is
persuasive. First, Rule of Court 3.1324 concerns amendments to
pleadings, not the filing of cross-pleadings. Second, the Court lacks
discretion to deny a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint,
even where the cross-complaint is late, absent an affirmative showing of bad
faith with substantial evidence. (Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 99; Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court
(1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902.) 
 
Plaintiff
also asserts that the Cross-Complaint is brought for an improper purpose
because it is (1) an improper motion for reconsideration related to the Court’s
prior rulings on writs of attachment; (2) intended to delay the trial date, and
(3) intended to obtain leverage in conjunction with a new ex parte application.
None of these assertions are supported by substantial evidence. Plaintiff does
not explain how the proposed pleading is relitigating those rulings, and the
conclusions of Plaintiff’s counsel regarding Defendant’s intentions are not
evidence. 
 
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that the Cross-Complaint should not be permitted because it contradicts
prior admissions in interrogatories and its own exhibits and is therefore
fatally defective. Once again, the Court lacks discretion to deny leave to file
a compulsory cross-complaint absent a showing of bad faith, which Plaintiff has
not made. Plaintiff’s contention that it will be prejudiced by the late filing
of the cross-complaint is likewise an insufficient basis to deny leave to file
a compulsory crossclaim. Defendant’s motion must therefore be granted. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant
is to file a clean, standalone copy of the proposed cross-complaint within 10
days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  July 31, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.