  Case Number:  22STCV04378    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 7, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: March 11, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         G&P Group, Inc, v. City National
Bank
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV04378            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff G&P Group, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant City
National Bank
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/03/22: Complaint filed.
·        
01/05/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
06/08/23: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
07/07/23: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract stemming from a commercial
banking agreement. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant placed Plaintiff into a
distressed loan program without justification and offered overdrafts to
Plaintiff only to abruptly discontinue them, forcing Plaintiff out of business.
 
            Plaintiff moves
to compel further responses to special interrogatories propounded to Defendant.

            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.
Defendant is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without
objections within 30 days of this order. 

 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to special interrogatories propounded to Defendant. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the
court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Timing:
 
            A motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories must be served “within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(c).) The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton
v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
Plaintiff served the special interrogatories
at issue on this motion on April 14, 2023. (Declaration of Damion Robinson ISO
Mot. ¶ 2.) Defendant served its initial responses on May 31, 2024. (Id. Exh.
1.) Defendant provided supplemental responses on August 1, 2024. (Id. ¶
19; Exh. 7.) Plaintiff moved to compel further responses on September 3, 2024,
less than 45 days after the supplemental responses were served. This motion is
therefore timely. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a
declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to
resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
The Declaration of Damion Robinson
attached to the moving papers describes the extensive efforts the parties
undertook to informally resolve various issues regarding the special
interrogatories that are the basis of this motion, including multiple
meet-and-confer exchanges and supplemental responses which ultimately did not
resolve the outstanding dispute. (Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 2-10; Exhs. 3-6.) The Court
observes, however, that the only issues discussed in the meet-and-confer
correspondence, as provided by Plaintiff, are improper or vague references to
documents with respect to Interrogatories Nos. 11, 14, and 16, an inadequate
objection to Interrogatory No. 18, and an evasive response relying on a vague
claim of privilege. (See Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel did not identify
further deficiencies with Interrogatory No. 16, as referenced in the moving
papers, and did not identify No. 17 as a basis for the motion at all. The Court
therefore finds that Plaintiff did not adequately meet and confer with
Defendant before bringing this motion. Nevertheless, the Court will rule on the
merits of the motion in the interest of an expeditious resolution of this
dispute. 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 11, 14, and
16 through 18.
 
1.     
Special Interrogatory No. 11
 
Special Interrogatory No. 11 is a
follow-up interrogatory to Interrogatory No. 10. The latter request asked
Defendant to state all facts supporting its contention, as alleged in the
Cross-Complaint, that Plaintiff agreed to be bound by the Account Agreement and
Disclosures with respect to the checking account Plaintiff opened in January of
2020. (Robinson Decl. Exh. 1. No. 10.) Interrogatory No. 11 asked Defendant to
identify—by stating the nature of the document, information, or thing, its
date, title or subject, general substance, author, sender, and all recipients—all
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things evidencing
the facts stated in response to Interrogatory No. 10. (Separate Statement p.
2:5-17.) 
 
Defendant’s response, as amended,
asserts a series of boilerplate objections based on relevance, privilege,
work-product doctrine, privacy, subpart/compound interrogatories, undue burden,
and premature demand for expert analysis and opinions. (SS p.3:18-26.)
Defendant then states, subject to those objections, that: 
 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 2030.230, the answer to this interrogatory can be obtained
from the monthly account statements provided to G&P in the ordinary course
of business and produced again in this litigation, and numerous documents
signed and/or consented to by G&P in the ordinary course of its business
and dealings with CNB, described in the response to the preceding
interrogatory, including Business Account Agreement, Account Agreement and
Disclosures, City National Bank Treasury Management Services Disclosure and
Agreement, CNB Treasury Net Form, Online and Mobile Banking Service Agreement,
Monthly Account Statements for G&P’s business checking account at CNB,
Outgoing Wire Transfer Request forms, Supersedure Agreement (Business), Account
Agreement Email (as defined in the preceding interrogatory), and emails from
G&P using the email address liz@mrnature.com. Additionally, the
Declarations of Anne Lopez and Christina Harder in support of Supplemental
Brief in Further Support of Motion for Judicial Reference and the exhibits
thereto evidence these facts.
 
(SS p.3:28-4:12.) 
 
            At the
outset, Defendant’s opposition does not address any of the objections asserted,
and the Court therefore finds them without merit. As to the substance of the
response, Defendant contends that the response is sufficient because the
documents referenced were also described in the response to Interrogatory No.
10 in greater detail. The Court is not persuaded. The purpose of this
interrogatory, as stated by Plaintiff, was to obtain a list of documents which
Defendant relies upon as evidence, as would be necessary to conduct discovery
of those documents or to prepare an exhibit list for trial. Defendant’s
response frustrates that purpose. Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling
a further more detailed response.
 
2.     
Special Interrogatory No. 14
 
Special Interrogatory No. 14 is
also a follow-up interrogatory. The previous request asked Defendant to
identify by date and nature each default by Plaintiff under any loans, credit
facilities, or other extensions of credit by Defendant. (Robinson Decl. Exh. 1.
No. 13.) Interrogatory No. 14 then asked for Defendant to identify, as above,
all documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things
evidencing the facts stated in response. (SS p.5:12-23.) 
 
Defendant’s amended response
asserted similar boilerplate objections before stating that the answer to the
interrogatory could be obtained from (1) a Revolving Note dated June 26, 2015,
attached to the First Amended Cross-Complaint; (2) a series of Loan Revision
Agreements and Forbearance Agreements attached to the First Amended
Cross-Complaint; (3) the Security Agreement, Business Account Agreement and
Disclosures, and Treasury Management Services Disclosures and Agreement
attached to the First Amended Cross-Complaint, (4) an email transmitting the
Account Agreement; (5) an Overdraft Line Agreement attached to the First
Amended Cross-Complaint; (6) a Term Note-Interest Included and a Notification
of Closure of Deposit Account attached to the Cross-Complaint, and (7)
unspecified account statements, notices of default, and communications. (SSp.6:20-7:15.)

 
Once again, Defendant’s opposition
does not address the objections asserted, and the Court therefore finds them
without merit. Further, the substance of the responses is likewise insufficient
for the same reasons as the response to Interrogatory No. 11. Although
Defendant’s listing of documents is more comprehensive and the enumerated
documents appear responsive to the interrogatory by their titles, the reference
to “account statements” “notices of default,” and “communications with G&P
about these matters” are inadequate on their face. Plaintiff requested a list
of documents with details sufficient to identify those documents. Plaintiff is
entitled to a response which satisfies that request.
 
//
3.     
Special Interrogatory No. 16
 
Special Interrogatory No. 16 asked
Defendant to state the date, nature, and amount of each disbursement, interest
charge, fee, or service charge that comprises any part of Defendant’s claimed
damages. (SS p. 8:7-9.) Defendant’s amended response asserted the same set of
boilerplate objections and then listed the same loan documents, notices, and
histories referenced with respect to Interrogatory No. 14, in addition to
Defendant’s ongoing attorney’s fees and costs. (SS p. 9:3-26.) 
 
Defendant contends that its
response is sufficient because the nature of the interrogatory inherently
requires a compilation or summary of existing records and the burden or expense
of making that compilation would be substantially the same for either party.  Based on these assertions, Defendant argues
its list of documents should be considered permissible under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.230. The Court does not find that explanation credible.
Defendant’s own First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges damages “in an amount not
less than $602,430,” plus interest, fees, and charges accruing after the date
of the operative pleading. (FAXC Prayer No. 1.) That number did not simply
emerge from the ether: it was calculated by Defendant at some point, and therefore
Defendant has already performed the bulk of the compilation or summary
in preparing that estimate. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to a complete and
straightforward response to this interrogatory.
 
4.     
Special Interrogatory No. 17
 
Special Interrogatory No. 17 asked
Defendant to state all interest rates applicable to each loan, credit facility,
or extension of credit alleged in the First Amended Cross-Complaint. (SS
p.10:20-22.) Defendant again asserted boilerplate objections in response before
identifying documents attached to the cross-complaint which contain the
respective interest rates and stating the interest rates for the Line of Credit
Note as amended, the Business Overdraft Line Agreement, and the Refinanced SBA
Loan. (SS p.10:23-11:21.) Plaintiff contends that this response is incomplete
because it did not identify the interest rate on the Account Agreement.
Defendant does not address this response except to argue that a further
response should not be compelled because Plaintiff did not meet and confer on
this issue. Plaintiff’s failure to meet and confer does not cure the deficiency
in Defendant’s response, and Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling a
further response.
 
5.     
Special Interrogatory No. 18
 
Special Interrogatory No. 18 asks
Defendant to state all reasons that it has not applied the collateral posted by
Plaintiff to cover the balance owed under Plaintiff’s Line of Credit. (SS
p.12:1-6.) Defendant’s response asserted objections based on attorney-client
privilege and the work product doctrine and claimed there was no non-privileged
answer to the response. (SS p.12:14-20.) Defendant’s opposition merely stands
on this response without explanation for why the answer to this question is
privileged except for the assertion that the decision is “based on legal
advice.” Defendant’s response is insufficient. A party who claims a privilege
has the burden to establish the preliminary facts supporting the claim of
privilege. (Costco Wholesale Corp v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.App.3d
818, 825.) Defendant’s unsupported assertion does not carry this burden. Even
so, as Plaintiff states in reply, while a privilege objection may shield
attorney-client communications from disclosure, it does not excuse Defendant
from providing the business reasons for its decisions.  Defendant must provide its reasons in a verified
response whether the reasons amount to reliance on advice of counsel or
otherwise.
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
requests sanctions against Defendant and its counsel for the evasive responses
to these interrogatories. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 authorizes the Court to impose
monetary sanctions on any attorney engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process by requiring that attorney to pay the reasonable expenses incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(d)
requires the Court to impose sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
            Here, the
Court is not inclined to award sanctions, as Plaintiff did not meet and confer
regarding all issues presented in the motion, and did not meet and confer at
all with respect to one interrogatory. The need for haste in timely presenting
the motion does not excuse Plaintiff’s initial failure to present all issues in
an informal attempt to resolve the disputes, especially where Plaintiff
contends that the supplemental responses did not cure the original
deficiencies. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is
GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses
without objections within 30 days of this order.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 7, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 