 Case Number:  23STCV05100    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 7, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Rebecca Kadel v. Operational Technical
Services, LLC et al.; Halen Kadel v. Operational Technical Services, LLC et al.
; Myranda McCurdy v. Operational Technical Services, LLC et al.; 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV05100; 23STCV08810; 23STCV08820            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Defendants Myranda McCurdy, Halen Kadel, Rebecca
Kadel, Bret Kadel, Melisssa Kadel, and Cornell Gillenwater
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Cross-Complainant
Operational Technical Services, LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/07/23: Complaint filed [23STCV05100]
·        
04/20/23: Complaint filed. [23STCV08810]
·        
04/20/23: Complaint filed [23STCV08820]
·        
08/29/23: Cases deemed related; 23STCV05100
designated as lead case.
·        
01/08/24: Cross-Complaint filed [23STCV05100]
·        
03/04/24: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed
[23STCV05100].
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            These are wage and hour actions. Plaintiffs allege that they were misclassified
as exempt employees and paid a salary rather than hourly wages, and thus was
deprived of overtime, minimum wages, indemnification for business expenses,
wage and hour statements, and meal and rest periods. 
 
Cross-Defendants demur to the First
Amended Cross-Complaint in its entirety. 
 
//
 
//
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the
First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the
eighth, ninth, eleventh, and fifteenth causes of action and otherwise
OVERRULED. 
 
            Cross-Complainant
shall have 30 days leave to amend the Cross-Complaint. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Cross-Defendants demur to the First
Amended Cross-Complaint in its entirety. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
(cross-) complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the [cross-] complaint must be deemed true, as well
as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of David Tarlow in
support of the demurrer states that counsel for the parties met and conferred
on June 3, 2024 regarding the issues raised in this demurrer, but were not able
to reach a resolution of this issue. (Declaration of David Tarlow ISO Dem. ¶
3.) Attorney Tarlow does not state the form in which this meeting took place,
but the included email correspondence, dated May 30, 2024, contains an
invitation for a telephone call, which is an acceptable method under section
430.41(a), to discuss the issues raised. (Id. Exh. B.) The Court
therefore finds that Cross-Defendants have satisfied their statutory meet and
confer obligations.
 
First Cause of Action: Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (18
U.S.C. § 1030(a))
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for violation of the Computer Fraud and
Abuse Act (CFAA) for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. 
 
            To assert a
claim under the CFAA, a plaintiff must plead that the defendant “(1) accessed a
protected computer (2) without authorization or exceeding such authorization
that was granted, (3) knowingly and with intent to defraud, and thereby (4)
furthered the intended fraud and obtained anything of value, causing (5) a loss
to one or more persons during any one-year period aggregating at least $5,000
in value.” (LVRC Holdings v. Brekka (9th Cir. 2009) 581 F.3d 1127, 1132.)
“Loss” means “any reasonable cost to any victim, including the cost of
responding to an offense, conducting a damage assessment, and restoring the
data, program, system, or information to its condition prior to the offense.”
(18 U.S.C. § 1030(e)(11).)
 
            Cross-Defendants
first argue that the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act preempts this cause
of action. This contention is contrary to the plain language of the Supremacy
Clause of the United States Constitution. (U.S. Const. Art. VI § 2.) When
federal law conflicts with state law, it is the state law that is
“without effect.” (Maryland v. Louisiana (1981) 451 U.S. 725, 746.) The
first cause of action is not preempted by California law under this basic legal
principle.
 
            Cross-Defendants
also argue that the First Amended Cross-Complaint does not adequately allege
damages because it simply alleges damages in excess of $5,000 without
specifying the source. (FAXC ¶ 84.) Cross-Defendants draw the inference that
this claim is grounded in the allegations that Cross-Defendants employed stolen
data to start a competing business, rather than damage to Cross-Complainant’s
computer systems. Cross-Defendants may not rely upon such inferences in
challenging the pleadings by demurrer, as all allegations must be taken as true
and the pleadings must be construed in the light most favorable to the non-moving
party. Cross-Defendants’ challenges to the allegation of damages are without
merit.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Second Cause of Action: Violation of Computer Data Access
and Fraud Act (Penal Code § 502)
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for violation of the Computer Data Access
and Fraud Act (CDAFA) for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. 
 
            The CDAFA
is California’s counterpart to the federal CFAA, and claims under the CDAFA are
substantially identical to claims under the CFAA, except that California does
not impose a minimum damage threshold. (Meta Platforms Inc. v. Brandtotal
Ltd., (N.D. Cal. 2022) 605 F.Supp.3d 1218, 1260.) Thus, to state a claim
under this statute, a plaintiff must plead that the defendant “(1) accessed a
protected computer (2) without authorization or exceeding such authorization
that was granted, (3) knowingly and with intent to defraud, and thereby (4)
furthered the intended fraud and obtained anything of value, causing (5) a loss
to one or more persons[.]” (LVRC Holdings v. Brekka (9th Cir. 2009) 581
F.3d 1127, 1132.)
 
            Cross-Defendants
contend that the second cause of action is also preempted by the California
Uniform Trade Secrets Act (CUTSA). The CUTSA’s preemption provision is codified
in Civil Code section 3426.7, which states, in relevant part, that:
 
(a) Except as
otherwise expressly provided, this title does not supersede any statute
relating to misappropriation of a trade secret, or any statute otherwise
regulating trade secrets.
 
(b) This title does
not affect (1) contractual remedies, whether or not based upon misappropriation
of a trade secret, (2) other civil remedies that are not based upon
misappropriation of a trade secret, or (3) criminal remedies, whether or not
based upon misappropriation of a trade secret.
 
(Civ. Code § 3426.7.) Applying this provision, the Court of
Appeal has interpreted the CUTSA as preempting common law misappropriation
claims. (K.C. Multimedia Inc. v. Bank of Am. Tech. & Operations, Inc. (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 939, 954.) The CUTSA “does not displace noncontract claims
that, although related to a trade secret misappropriation, are independent and
based on facts distinct from the facts that support the misappropriation
claim.” (Angelica Textile Servs. Inc. v. Park (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
495, 506 [aggregating cases].) 
 
            Cross-Defendants’
preemption argument as to this cause of action is grounded entirely, in the
moving papers, on Henry Schein, Inc. v. Cook, an unpublished 2017
opinion from the Northern District of California. (Henry Schein v. Cook
(N.D. Cal. 2017) 2017 WL 783617.) This opinion is of little persuasive value,
as the District Court merely concluded that the plaintiff’s claim under Penal
Code section 502 could not survive if the facts supporting the misappropriation
claim were excised, without first analyzing whether Penal Code section 502 could
be preempted by the CUTSA in the first place. (Id. at *5.) Indeed,
several other courts, faced with silence from our Court of Appeal on the issue,
have found that the CUTSA cannot preempt claims under Penal Code section 502.
(See Heieck v. Fed. Signal Corp. (C.D. Cal. 2019) 2019 WL 6873869 at
*4-5 [Section 502 is a criminal statute containing criminal remedies and is
therefore subject to subdivision (b)(3) of Civil Code section 3426.7]; Synopsis
v. Ubiquiti Networks Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2018) 313 F.Supp.3d 1056, 1074-75 [no
case law explicitly addressing preemption of statutory claims].) As the District
Court for the Southern District of California stated in 2016, “it is illogical
to think that the California legislature enacted a computer crime provision and
deliberately included a civil remedy that would in turn be preempted by other
legislation authorizing civil protection for trade secrets.” (Regents of the
Univ. of Cal. v. Aisen (S.D. Cal. 2016) 2016 WL 4097072 at *8.) Although
Cross-Defendants’ reply brief offers additional unpublished District Court
opinions which found that section 502 claims for civil remedies are
preempted, the Court finds these rulings to be considerably less persuasive
than the sentiment expressed in Aisen. Indeed, a cursory examination of
the history of these two statutes reveals that the Uniform Trade Secrets Act
was enacted in 1984 (Stats. 1984 Ch. 1724 § 1), while section 502 was enacted in
1987 (Stats. 1987 Ch. 1499 § 3.) This sequence of events strongly suggests that
the Legislature did not intend for section 502 to be preempted by the CUTSA. The
Court therefore declines to adopt Cross-Defendants’ interpretation with respect
to the second cause of action, and instead finds that CUTSA does not preempt
statutory claims. 
 
            Cross-Defendants
also contend that the second cause of action inadequately pleads damages for
the same reason discussed above with respect to the first cause of action. For
the same reasons, the Court finds that contention unpersuasive here as well.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Third Cause of Action: Violation of Stored Communications
Act (18 U.S.C. § 2701(a)(1))
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for violation of the Stored Communications
Act.
 
            To plead a
claim under the Stored Communications Act, a plaintiff must allege that the
defendant “intentionally [accessed] without authorization a facility through
which an electronic communication service is provided […] and thereby obtain[ed],
alter[ed], or prevent[ed] authorized access to a wire or electronic
communication while it is in electronic storage in such system[.]” (18 U.S.C. §
2701(a).) “Electronic storage” for the purposes of this statute means “(A) any
temporary, intermediate storage of a wire or electronic communication
incidental to the electronic transmission thereof; and (B) any storage of such
communication by an electronic communication service for purposes of backup
protection of such communication.” (18 U.S.C. §§ 2510(17); 2711(1).) 
 
            Cross-Defendants
assert that the third cause of action is inadequately pled because the
Cross-Complaint does not clearly allege what kinds of communications were
accessed or where they were stored, and therefore does not allege access of the
kinds of communications contemplated by the Stored Communications Act. This
contention is specious. The First Amended Cross-Complaint plainly lists the
materials which were accessed from Cross-Complainant’s internal databases and
cloud servers. (FAXC ¶¶ 63-65.) Cross-Defendants’ challenge to this cause of
action is without merit.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Conversion
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action for conversion for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
“Conversion is the wrongful
exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion
claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the
property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of
property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61Cal.4th 1225,
1240.) “‘Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion unless
there is a specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where an agent accepts
a sum of money to be paid to another and fails to make the payment.’ A
‘generalized claim for money [is] not actionable as conversion.’” (PCO, Inc.
v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395 [internal citations omitted].) 
 
Cross-Defendants contend that this
cause of action is inadequately pled because the fourth cause of action alleges
conversion of pecuniary assets without identifying a specific sum of money
which was stolen. (FAXC ¶ 98.) Not so. The Cross-Complaint plainly alleges
examples of specific transactions using company funds which Cross-Complainant
alleges were improper, such as payment of rent and deposits for an apartment
and unilateral, unauthorized wage increases. (FAXC ¶¶ 55-56.) For this reason
alone, Cross-Defendants’ challenge to the fourth cause of action is without
merit.
 
Cross-Defendants also argue that
the fourth cause of action is preempted by the CUTSA to the extent it is
grounded in the theft of trade secrets. As this contention does not address all
of the allegations on which the fourth cause of action is premised, it is
insufficient to sustain a demurrer.
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’
Demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Trade Libel
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the fifth cause of action for trade libel for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
            Trade libel
“is the publication of matter disparaging the quality of another’s property,
which the publisher should recognize is likely to cause pecuniary loss to the
owner.” (City of Costa Mesa v. D’Alessio Investments, Inc. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 358, 376.) The statement constituting trade libel must be pled with
specificity, if not verbatim. (Kahn v. Bower (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1599,
1612.) 
 
            Cross-Defendants
contend that the only specific allegation of “trade libel” deals with an
alleged statement that the CEO of Cross-Complainant, David Sibelman, “was under
criminal investigation.” (FAXC ¶ 75.) Cross-Defendants argue that this
allegation does not support a claim of trade libel because it did not concern the
products or services of Cross-Complainant itself. Not so. The Cross-Complaint
expressly alleges that Mr. Sibelman was under investigation “in relationship to
his business at OTS LLC.” (Id.) Construed in the light most favorable to
Cross-Complainant, this is an allegation of defamatory statements pertaining to
Cross-Complainant as a business, and is therefore sufficient to maintain a
claim for trade libel.
 
            Cross-Defendants
also assert that this cause of action is time-barred because it is premised on
statements which occurred in or around October 2022 (FAXC ¶ 9) and therefore falls
outside the one-year statute of limitations in Code of Civil Procedure section
340 for defamation claims. Cross-Defendants are incorrect: the statute of
limitations for trade libel claims is two years. (Guess Inc. v.
Superior Court (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 473, 479.) As both versions of the
Cross-Complaint were filed within two years of the alleged statement, this
cause of action is not barred by the statute of limitations.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the sixth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Cross-Defendants
contend that this cause of action is premised on the theft of trade secrets and
is therefore preempted by the CUTSA. However, as Cross-Complainant states,
Cross-Defendants are also alleged to have deleted, i.e., destroyed,
confidential business information, and converted company assets to make
unauthorized purchases and enrich themselves. (FAXC ¶¶ 54-56, 66-67.) Given
these additional allegations unrelated to the theft of trade secrets, the Court
cannot find the sixth cause of action to be preempted in its entirety.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Seventh Cause of Action: Misappropriation of Trade
Secrets
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the seventh cause of action for misappropriation of trade secrets
under the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            To plead a
claim for misappropriation of a trade secret, a plaintiff must allege,
fittingly, the existence of a trade secret and its misappropriation. (Civ. Code
§ 3426.1.(b).) The plaintiff “should describe the subject matter of the trade
secret with sufficient particularity to separate it from matters of general
knowledge in the trade or of special knowledge of those persons who are skilled
in the trade.” (Diodes Inc. v. Franzen (1968) 260 Cal.App.4th 244, 252.)

 
            Cross-Defendants
assert that the Cross-Complaint does not allege the trade secrets which were
misappropriated with sufficient particularity. The Court disagrees. The
Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendants have taken, inter alia,
client lists, contract templates, payroll reports, marketing materials, and
business development plans. (FAXC ¶ 65.) Although, as Cross-Defendants state in
reply, customer lists are not necessarily trade secrets (see, e.g., Morlife
Inc. v. Perty (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1514, 1521), materials such as payroll
reports and business development plans appear on their face to fall within the
scope of “trade secrets.” Cross-Defendants’ dismissal of the allegations as
“broad, catch-all terms” is not persuasive. The allegations are sufficient to
distinguish the materials identified from matters of general knowledge in the
trade or of special knowledge to those skilled in the trade. 
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the seventh cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the eighth cause of action for breach of contract for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, a plaintiff must plead the contract, the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, Defendant’s breach,
and finally the resulting damage. (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation
Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.)
 
Cross-Defendants contend that the
Cross-Complaint does not allege that Cross-Complainant performed or is excused
from performing on the contracts on which it is premised. A review of the First
Amended Cross-Complaint reveals that Cross-Complainants are correct.
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’
Demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Ninth Cause of Action: Fraudulent Inducement
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the ninth cause of action for fraudulent inducement for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
            “The
elements of fraud that will lead to a tort action are: (a) misrepresentation;
(b) knowledge of falsity; (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.) Every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner and the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow
defendant[s] to understand fully the nature of the charge made. (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) “This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Ibid.) “[G]eneral and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) When the facts are necessarily in the possession of the
defendant, less specificity is required, since the purpose of the specificity
requirement is in part to provide notice to the defendant of the basis for the
claim. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn.,
Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) 
 
            Cross-Defendants
contend that the ninth cause of action for fraudulent inducement is deficient
because it does not allege any misrepresentation with sufficient particularity.
The ninth cause of action, asserted exclusively against Halen Kadel, alleges
that Cross-Defendant Kadel “withheld material information” from
Cross-Complainant, including, but not limited to his past criminal conduct.
(FAXC ¶¶ 129-130.) The failure to disclose information is properly encompassed
within the tenth cause of action for fraudulent concealment, which is also
asserted against this Cross-Defendant. The Court therefore concurs with
Cross-Complainant that the ninth cause of action is inadequately pled because
it does not allege any affirmative misrepresentations.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Tenth Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the tenth cause of action for fraudulent concealment for failure to
allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            The elements of fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment
or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff; (3) intent to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) the plaintiff sustained damage as a
result of the concealment or suppression of fact. (Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) Fraudulent
concealment claims are subject to a lighter specificity requirement than other
fraud claims. As the Court of Appeal explained, "it is harder to
apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure. 'How does one show
"how" and "by what means" something didn't happen, or
"when" it never happened, or "where" it never happened?'” (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) When the facts are necessarily in the possession
of the defendant, less specificity is required, since the purpose of the
specificity requirement is in part to provide notice to the defendant of the
basis for the claim. (Id.) However, even a claim for fraudulent
concealment still requires that a “representation was made to which the alleged
concealment was contrary.”
 
            Cross-Defendants
contend the tenth cause of action does not allege that Cross-Defendants Kadel
and Gillenwater had any duty to disclose any of the facts alleged. A duty to
disclose arises when (1) the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff;
(2) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts; (3) when the
defendant actively conceals material facts; and (4) when the defendant makes
partial representations but suppresses some material facts. (LiMandri v.
Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) Cross-Defendant Kadel is alleged
to have served as Cross-Complainant’s Chief Operating Officer, and, therefore,
as a fiduciary of Cross-Complainant. (FAXC ¶ 13.) The Cross-Complaint also
alleges that Cross-Defendant Gillenwater had exclusive knowledge of information
which Cross-Complainant alleges is material, including the true value of proposed
corporate partners (FAXC ¶¶ 44-45, 48) and Kadel and Gillenwater’s history of criminal
activity and financial misconduct. (FAXC ¶ 50-51.) Cross-Defendants’ assertion
that Cross-Complainant “never asked” about this information is beside the
point: the Cross-Complaint alleges that information was withheld which was
purportedly material to Cross-Complainant’s business decisions. Cross-Complainant
has adequately alleged facts demonstrating that the Cross-Defendants had a duty
to disclose. 
 
            As
Cross-Defendants’ challenges to the tenth cause of action are without merit,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the tenth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Eleventh Cause of Action: Constructive Fraud
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the eleventh cause of action for constructive fraud for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. This cause of action is
duplicative of the tenth cause of action on its face, as it is premised on
Cross-Defendant Kadel’s concealment of information. Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Twelfth Cause of Action: Unfair Competition
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the twelfth cause of action for unfair competition for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Business &
Professions Code section 17200 prohibits any business acts or practices which
are unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent. (Bus & Prof Code § 17200.) As
Cross-Complainant has alleged multiple causes of action including multiple
statutory violations and fraud claims which survive demurrer, the twelfth cause
of action is not deficient as a matter of law. 
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the twelfth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Thirteenth Cause of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the thirteenth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. As
Cross-Complainants have successfully alleged a cause of action for fraudulent
concealment, i.e., a species of intentional misrepresentation, the Court finds
this challenge to be without merit.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the thirteenth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Fourteenth Cause of Action: Theft (Penal Code § 496)
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the fourteenth cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.
 
Penal Code section 496 states, in
relevant part:
 
(a) Every person who buys or
receives any property that has been stolen or that has been obtained in any
manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or
obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or
withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen
or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment.
 
(c) Any person who has been
injured by a violation of subdivision (a) . . . may bring an action for three
times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs
of suit, and reasonable attorney’s fees.
 
(Penal Code § 496 (a), (c).)
 
            Cross-Defendants
argue that the Cross-Complaint does not allege that any of the Cross-Defendants
had actual knowledge of any property that was stolen. This contention is incorrect.
The Cross-Complaint directly alleges that Cross-Defendants stole
Cross-Complainant’s records, and, in particular, that Cross-Defendants Melissa
Kadel and Myranda McCurdy stole those materials at the direction of the other
Cross-Defendants. (FAXC ¶¶ 61-66.) 
 
            Nor is the
Court persuaded by Cross-Defendants’ contention that this cause of action is
preempted by the CUTSA. As discussed above with respect to the second cause of
action, the Court does not construe the CUTSA as preempting statutory claims.
Cross-Defendants’ challenges to this cause of action are therefore without
merit.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the fourteenth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fifteenth Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the fifteenth cause of action for declaratory relief for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            To state a
claim for declaratory relief, a party must allege (1) a proper subject for
declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable
questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations. (Jolley v. Chase
Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.) 
 
            Cross-Defendants
contend that the fifteenth cause of action is deficient because it does not
allege any facts supporting the contention that an actual controversy exists.
The Court concurs. The Cross-Complaint merely pleads the bare elements of a
declaratory relief claim without identifying what rights and obligations Cross-Complainant
wishes to address. 
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the fifteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Whether Cross-Claims are “Otherwise Barred”
 
            Cross-Defendants
also assert that the cross-claims are otherwise barred because Cross-Complainant’s
CEO, Mr. Sibelman, failed to present a cross-complaint in a separate action
filed against him specifically. Cross-Complainant’s CEO is not a party to this
Cross-Complaint. Cross-Defendants’ argument is therefore without merit. 
 
Uncertainty
 
            Although
Cross-Defendants purport to demur to the Cross-Complaint as uncertain, they do
not specifically argue that the Cross-Complaint is uncertain beyond a bare
assertion to that effect with respect to the fifth cause of action. As should
be apparent from the Court’s lengthy examination of the Cross-Complaint, the
pleadings are not uncertain. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a
demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the
general set of facts upon which his cause of action is based,” the court should
give the plaintiff an opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff
should not “be deprived of his right to maintain his action on the ground that
his pleadings were defective for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman
(1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the
burden on the plaintiffs to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend
their pleadings to state their claims against a defendant.  (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend
constitutes an abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on its face it is
incapable of amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting
amendment is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been
given." (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217,
1227.)
 
            Cross-Complainant
has not clearly stated how the Cross-Complaint might be amended to cure the
deficiencies identified. However, as the defects arise either from the failure
to plead specific information (as in the eighth and fifteenth causes of action)
or allegations which are duplicative of the fraudulent concealment claim (as in
the ninth and eleventh causes of action), the method of curing these defects is
readily apparent. The Court will therefore permit Cross-Complainant to amend
the pleadings to allege missing information and to set forth any theories of
misrepresentation beyond the mere concealment of material information. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend as to the eighth, ninth, eleventh, and fifteenth causes of
action and otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
            Cross-Complainant
shall have 30 days leave to amend the Cross-Complaint. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 7,
2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 