 Case Number:  23STCV20283    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 7, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Jenna Lawrence v. Eureka Restaurant
Group, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV20283            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Eureka Restaurant Group, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Jenna
Lawrence
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a sexual harassment and employment discrimination action that was
filed on August 23, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that she was sexually harassed by a
colleague and terminated in retaliation for her complaints and for requiring
accommodations for a disability. 
 
Defendant moves to compel
arbitration of this dispute.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move to compel
arbitration of this dispute pursuant to an arbitration agreement. 
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the Court’s April 9, 2024 Order
granting Plaintiff’s motion to set aside a stipulation to arbitrate.
Defendant’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court
records). 
 
//
 
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement
 
Under California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Blake v. Ecker (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th
728, 741 (overruled on other grounds by
Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094).) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate, and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.) 
 
However, as to the burden of production,
rather than persuasion, courts have articulated a three-step burden shifting
process: 
 
First, the moving party bears the
burden of producing “prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate
the controversy.” [citation] The moving party “can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the [motion or] petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the [opposing party’s] signature.” [citation] Alternatively,
the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth the agreement’s
provisions in the motion. [citations] For this step, “it is not necessary to
follow the normal procedures of document authentication.” [citation] If the
moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party does
not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement, then nothing more is
required for the moving party to meet its burden of persuasion.
 
If the moving party meets its initial
prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the
second step, the opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to
challenge the authenticity of the agreement. [citation] The opposing party can
do this in several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify under oath
or declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does not
remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or does not
remember signing the agreement. [citations]
 
If the opposing party meets its burden
of producing evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must establish
with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. The
burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance of the evidence remains with
the moving party. [citation].
 
(Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165-66.) An electronic record or signature is attributable to
a person if it was the act of the person. (Civ. Code § 1633.9(a).) The act of
the person may be shown in any manner. (Id.) As described by the Court
of Appeal, “the burden of authenticating an electronic signature is not great.”
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 844.)
 
            Defendants
have provided a copy of an Arbitration Agreement between Plaintiff and
Defendant which appears to bear Plaintiff’s digital signature dated March 30,
2022. (Declaration of Shiri Fishman ISO Mot. ¶¶ 7-8; Exh. A.) Plaintiff does
not dispute the genuineness of the agreement. The Court therefore finds that
Defendant has demonstrated that Plaintiff signed an agreement to arbitrate.
 
Applicability of FAA
 
            Defendants
argue that the FAA governs the arbitration agreement at issue.
 
An arbitration clause is governed
by the FAA if the agreement is a contract “evidencing a transaction involving
commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) Courts “broadly construe” this phrase, because the
FAA “embodies Congress’ intent to provide for the enforcement of arbitration
agreements within the full reach of the Commerce Clause.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Pers., Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276,
1286.)
 
Here, the Agreement expressly
states that arbitration under the agreement shall be conducted “under the
Federal Arbitration Act.” (Fishman Decl. Exh. A ¶ 2.) The Court therefore finds
that the Federal Arbitration Act applies to this agreement.
 
Scope of the Arbitration Agreement
 
            Defendants
contend that the scope of the Arbitration Agreement covers Plaintiff’s
substantive claims. Plaintiff does not dispute this contention.
 
            “The scope
of arbitration is a matter of agreement between the parties.” (See, e.g., Ericksen,
Arbuthnot, McCarthy, Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35
Cal.3d 312, 323.) “A party can be compelled to arbitrate only those issues it
has agreed to arbitrate.” (Perez v. U-Haul Co. of California (2016) 3
Cal.App.5th 408, 419.)
 
            As it is
undisputed that the Agreement covers Plaintiff’s claims, the Court need not
proceed further except to adopt the agreement of the parties as to the scope of
the agreement as the conclusion of the Court.
 
Exclusion of Sexual Harassment Claims from Arbitration
 
            The primary
dispute on this motion is that Plaintiff contends her claims are excluded from
arbitration under the recent amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act. 
 
            On March 3,
2022, the President signed the “Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and
Sexual Harassment Act of 2021” into law. (Pub. L. No. 117-90, 136 Stat. 26,
codified in 9 U.S.C. §§ 401, 402.) The effect of this provision is to preclude
arbitration of disputes relating to conduct alleged to be sexual harassment
under applicable law, including state law. (9 U.S.C. §§ 401, 402.) Section 3 of
the Act states that it applies “to any dispute or claim that arises on or after
the date of enactment of this Act.” (Pub. L. No. 117-90, 136 Stat. 26 § 3.) The
plain language of the statute states that “at the election of the person
alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault
dispute […] no predispute arbitration agreement […] shall be valid or
enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or
State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment
dispute.” (9 U.S.C. 402(a).) A sexual harassment dispute means “a dispute relating
to conduct that is alleged to constitute sexual harassment under applicable
Federal, Tribal, or State law.” (9 U.S.C. § 401(4) [emphasis added].)
 
            Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges that she was discriminated against for taking disability
leave (Complaint ¶¶ 5-6) and, critically, that she was retaliated against and
ultimately terminated for reporting the harassing conduct of another employee
(¶¶ 10-14.) Thus, the Complaint, on its face, alleges conduct constituting
sexual harassment and a dispute relating to that conduct. Defendant’s
assertion, as offered in both its moving papers and its reply, that Plaintiff’s
claims are not subject to the act because she was not the victim of the
harassment is unsupported by any legal authority and contrary to the plain,
broadly worded language of the Ending Forced Arbitration Act. Defendant’s
contention that the remaining claims should be severed is also contrary to the
plain language of the statute, which states that the case, not the claim
or dispute, is excluded from arbitration. (9 U.S.C. § 402(a).) Defendant offers
no authority which empowers the Court to presume that Congress meant something
other than the plain language of the statute. 
 
            The Court
therefore finds that Plaintiff’s complaint is excluded from arbitration under
the Ending Forced Arbitration Act. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 7,
2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 