 Case Number:  21STCV37567    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Millennium Medical Associates,
  Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Pericles Chamis 



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Motion
     for Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Declaration
     of Kathleen A. Stosuy with Exhibits

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities in Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Separate Statement of Disputed
     Material Facts in Opposition to Millennium’s Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Adjudication

Declaration
     of Waukeen McCoy with Exhibits

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment
Objections
     to Evidence
Reply
     Declaration of Kathleen A. Stosuy with Exhibit[1]

 
BACKGROUND
 
On or about November 4, 2020, Plaintiff Pericles Chamis (“Plaintiff”)
underwent an upper endoscopy procedure, during which “Plaintiff began vomiting
and convulsing on the operating table.” 
(Complaint ¶¶ 20, 26.)  A
subsequent MRI revealed that Plaintiff suffered a stroke, causing central
visual impairment, dysphagia, and cognitive and behavioral issues.  (Complaint ¶ 32.)  Plaintiff brought suit against the surgeon,
Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D. (“Dr. Prokupek”) and Defendant Dale Prokupek,
M.D., Inc. (“Prokupek, Inc.”); Dr. Prokupek’s other company, Defendant
Millennium Medical Associates, Inc. (“Millennium”); Dr. Prokupek’s employee,
Defendant Andrew Gelis (“Gelis”); anesthesiologist Defendant Michelle Dinh,
M.D. (“Dinh”), Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc. (“Soma”), where the
endoscopy was performed; Defendant Sean Ravaei, owner and operator of Soma
(“Ravaei”); nurse practitioner Defendant Jeanne Hershey-Weber (“Hershey-Weber”);
and nurse Defendant Melanie Kerr (“Kerr”); alleging three causes of action: (1)
professional negligence – medical malpractice; (2) breach of fiduciary duty;
and (3) intentional misrepresentation.
 
Defendant Millennium now moves for summary judgment, or in the
alternative, adjudication, on the following issues: 
 
(1)  
Plaintiff cannot maintain the first cause of action for
Medical Malpractice against Millennium, as he did not receive any medical care
or treatment from Millennium or any of its employees;
 
(2)  
Plaintiff cannot maintain the second cause of action
for Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Lack of Informed Consent against Millennium, as
he did not receive any medical care or treatment from Millennium or any of its
employees;
 
(3)  
Plaintiff cannot maintain the third cause of action for
Intentional Misrepresentation on the issue of informed consent against
Millennium, as he did not receive any medical care or treatment from Millennium
or any of its employees;
 
(4)  
Plaintiff cannot maintain the third cause of action for
Intentional Misrepresentation on the issue of changes to the medical records
against Millennium, as Plaintiff cannot fulfill all of the required elements
for such a cause of action.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Millennium
replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 583.)  
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Millennium’s objections to Plaintiff’s
evidence offered in opposition to Millennium’s Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication:
 

Sustained
Sustained
Sustained
Sustained
Sustained

 
DISCUSSION
 
1.      ALL CAUSES OF ACTION – MILLENNIUM’S
INVOLVEMENT 
 
            Millennium’s primary argument is
that it cannot be liable to Plaintiff for medical negligence, breach of
fiduciary duty, or intentional misrepresentation, because neither Millennium,
nor any employee of Millennium, provided any treatment to Plaintiff or did any
of the conduct alleged in the operative complaint.  Rather, Plaintiff received treatment by Dr.
Prokupek in his capacity as principal of Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc., whereas
Millennium is a separate entity Dr. Prokupek created to treat patients with ADHD
and ADD.
 
a.                  Defendant’s
Evidence           
 
In support, Defendant has provided the following
evidence:
 
4. MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES was established
in 2011 by Dale Prokupek, M.D., as a division of Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc., to
provide diagnosis, care and treatment for adults with ADHD and ADD.
 
5. In April of 2020 MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES
became incorporated as its own separate business entity becoming MILLENNIUM
MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC., a completely separate entity from Dale Prokupek,
M.D., and Dale Prokupek M.D., Inc.
 
6. MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC., is
located at 8641 Wilshire several other businesses: Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc.;
Aaron Perlmutter M.D.; Anil Mohin, M.D.; and WestLabs Medical Laboratory. 
 
7. The businesses share a waiting room and
reception desk. WestLabs has its own proprietary drawroom within the suite. The
three physicians share examination rooms on a rotating schedule that designates
when each physician has exclusive use of the examination rooms.
 
8. Prior to April 2020 both  MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC., Dale
Prokupek, M.D., Inc, used eClinicalworks for its electronic medical record
keeping. After becoming a separate entity in April of 2020, MILLENNIUM MEDICAL
ASSOCIATES, INC., began using a separate electronic medical records system,
DrChrono for its patient records effectively segregating the patients of the
two entities.
 
9. As of April 2020 MILLENNIUM MEDICAL
ASSOCIATES, INC., is a completely separate and distinct business from both Dale
Prokupek, M.D., and Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc. 
 
10. Pericles Chamis, date of birth November 6,
1959, is not and has never been a patient of MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES,
INC. 
 
11. Pericles Chamis has never been seen by any
physician, physician extender (physician's assistant or nurse practitioner),
nor employee of MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC. 
 
12. Jeanne Hershey-Weber, N.P., has never been an
employee of MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC., nor has she provided any care
or treatment to any of  MILLENNIUM'S
patients. She was an employee of Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc. 
 
13. Andrew Gellis was never an employee of
MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC. He was an employee of Dale Prokupek M.D.,
Inc. Prior to April of 2020 Mr. Gellis would, however, occasionally assist at
Millennium Medical Associates and was listed on the Millennium website as a
part of the team. After April 2020 Mr. Gelis no longer provided any assistance
to MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC., or its patients. 
 
14. Michelle Dinh, M.D., has never been an
employee of nor affiliated in any way with 18 MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES,
INC. 
 
15. Melanie Kerr, R.N., has never been an
employee of nor affiliated in any way with MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC. 
 
16. Sean Ravaei, M.D., has never been an employee
of nor affiliated in any way with MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC. 
 
17. MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC., has no
ownership interest, connection nor affiliation with SOMA SURGERY CENTER and its
owners and employees. MILLENNIUM MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, INC., does not provide any
surgical services to its patients and thus has never referred any of its
patients to SOMA SURGERY CENTER or any outpatient surgery center.
 
(Fowler
Decl. ¶¶ 4-17 [attached as Ex. B to Stosuv Decl.])
 
            Therefore Millennium has met its
burdens of persuasion and production of evidence to demonstrate a prima facie
case that neither Millennium nor any employee of Millennium ever provided any
medical treatment to Plaintiff or participated in any of the actions or
omissions alleged in the operative Complaint.
 
b.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Plaintiff argues that Millennium should be liable for the conduct alleged
in the complaint because (1) Defendants Hershey-Weber and Gelis are actually
Millennium employees; and (2) Millennium is the alter ego of Dr. Prokupek and
Dale Prokupek M.D., Inc.
 
Millennium Employees
 
Although Plaintiff asserts that Hershey-Weber is an employee of
Millennium, Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that Hershey-Weber is or
was an employee of Millennium.  
 
With regard to Gelis, however, Plaintiff provides the following
evidence:
 
·        
Gelis testified at deposition that his employer
was “Dale Millennium, M.D., Incorporated” (McCoy Decl. Ex. C at p. 11:11-17.)
 
·        
Gelis’s image was displayed on Millennium’s
website as an employee of the company. 
(McCoy Decl. Ex. C at pp. 25:19-26:10; 72:8-15.)
 
·        
Gelis testified he did blood pressure checks at
Millennium under the supervision of Dr. Prokupek.  (McCoy Decl., Ex. C at pp. 22:11-23:2.)
 
·        
Gelis would take vitals, including blood
pressure and heart rate, for new Millennium patients (McCoy Decl. Ex. C at pp.
23:16-24:18.)[2]
 
·        
Millennium and Prokupek Inc. share the same
address. (McCoy Decl. Ex. C at pp. 148:11-149:4.)
 
·        
Millennium and Prokupek Inc. have identical
ownership.  (McCoy Decl. Ex. A at p.
34:14-19.)[3]
 
Plaintiff has therefore provided some evidence that Gelis did some
work for Millennium.  Besides Millennium’s
evidence demonstrates that while Gelis was never an official employee of
Millennium, Gelis did help Millennium staff and patients before April 2020, when
Millennium was still a division of Prokupek, Inc.  But Gelis did not provide any services to
Millennium after April 2020, when Millennium became incorporated in its own
right.  
 
Plaintiff has provided no evidence suggesting that Gelis did any work
for Millennium after April 2020.  The
allegations of the complaint regarding Gelis are that Gelis altered Plaintiff’s
medical records sometime on or after his November 4, 2020 procedure.  Moreover, Plaintiff has not provided any
evidence to counter Defendant’s evidence that Plaintiff was never a patient of
Millennium.  Therefore, Plaintiff has
provided no evidence that Gelis was working for or on behalf of Millennium when
he allegedly altered Plaintiff’s medical records, as alleged in the operative
complaint.  
 
Alter-Ego
 
To succeed on an alter ego claim, Plaintiff must be able to show (1)
such a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its owner
that no separation actually exists, and (2) an inequitable result if the acts
in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.  (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
399, 417.)  Several factors are
considered in determining whether the alter ego doctrine applies, including:
 
(1)  
commingling of funds and other assets, failure to
segregate funds of the separate entities, and the unauthorized diversion of
corporate funds or assets to other than corporate uses; 
 
(2)  
the treatment by an individual of the assets of the
corporation as his own; 
 
(3)  
the failure to obtain authority to issue stock or to
subscribe to or issue the same; 
 
(4)  
the holding out by an individual that he is personally
liable for the debts of the corporation; 
 
(5)  
the failure to maintain minutes or adequate corporate
records; 
 
(6)  
sole ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by
one individual or the members of a family; 
 
(7)  
the failure to adequately capitalize a corporation; 
 
(8)  
the total absence of corporate assets, and
undercapitalization; 
 
(9)  
the use of a corporation as a mere shell,
instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or the business of an
individual or another corporation; 
 
(10)          
the concealment and misrepresentation of the identity
of the responsible ownership, management and financial interest, or concealment
of personal business activities; 
 
(11)          
the disregard of legal formalities and the failure to
maintain arm's length relationships among related entities; 
 
(12)          
the use of the corporate entity to procure labor,
services or merchandise for another person or entity; 
 
(13)          
the diversion of assets from a corporation by or to a
stockholder or other person or entity, to the detriment of creditors, or the
manipulation of assets and liabilities between entities so as to concentrate
the assets in one and the liabilities in another; 
 
(14)          
the contracting with another with intent to avoid
performance by use of a corporate entity as a shield against personal
liability, or the use of a corporation as a subterfuge of illegal transactions;
and 
 
(15)          
the formation and use of a corporation to transfer to
it the existing liability of another person or entity.
 
(Id.
at pp. 417–418.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff has provided no
evidence that Dr. Prokupek or Prokupek, Inc. comingled funds with Millennium,
that either entity failed to maintain proper corporate records, that Prokupek,
Inc. is undercapitalized, that Millennium concealed Dr. Prokupek’s personal
business activities, that legal formalities were disregarded or other failure
to maintain arm’s length relationships, or any diversion or manipulation of
assets or liabilities.
 
            The only evidence Plaintiff has
provided is that (1) Millennium and Prokupek, Inc. appear to both be owned by
Dr. Prokupek; and (2) prior to April 2020, when Millennium was still a division
of Prokupek, Inc., Gelis took the blood pressure of Millennium patients and did
some other work to help out Millennium. 
However, Plaintiff has provided no evidence to suggest that after
Millennium was incorporated in its own right in April 2020, the separation
between the entities did not actually exist. 
Nor has Plaintiff provided any evidence to suggest that an unjust or
inequitable result would occur if Plaintiff is limited to seeking recourse from
Dr. Prokupek and Prokupek, Inc.
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff has not met his
burden of creating a triable issue of material fact that Millennium is the
alter ego of Dr. Prokupek and/or Prokupek, Inc.[4]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Millennium’s motion for summary
judgment.  With regard to issues 1-3, the
Court finds no triable issue of material fact that Plaintiff did not receive
any medical care or treatment from Millennium or any employee working on behalf
of Millennium.  As for issue 4, the Court
finds no triable issue of material fact that Hershey-Weber never worked for
Millennium and Gelis was not acting as an employee of Millennium at the time
when he allegedly altered Plaintiff’s medical records. 
 
Millennium shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  February 22, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


