 Case Number:  23SMCV04944    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 22, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04944




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Rockwell Collins Optronics, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Ivan Robledo



 
MOTIONS
 
Defendant Rockwell Collins Optronics, Inc. (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff
Ivan Robledo’s (“Plaintiff”) Complaint under the rule of exclusive concurrent
jurisdiction and pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision (c), requesting that this action be stayed pending the resolution
of an earlier lawsuit filed in the Superior Court in and for the County of San
Diego (“San Diego Superior Court”), Dvorak v. Rockwell Collins, Inc.,
No. 37-2019-00064397-CU-OE-CTL (hereafter Dvorak).  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendant replies.  
 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant’s Request
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following:
 
·        
Exhibit A: the Dvorak complaint.
 
·        
Exhibit B: Exhibit 21 to a 10-K Securities
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filing evidencing that Defendant is a subsidiary of
Rockwell Collins, Inc.
 
With respect to Exhibit A, judicial
notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the Dvorak complaint,
but not the truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
With respect to Exhibit B, Defendant requests the Court take judicial
notice of the “facts and propositions” contained therein as “not reasonably
subject to dispute” and “capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy[.]”  However, Defendant has not provided the Court
sufficient information regarding Exhibit B for such determination.  Defendant does not indicate whose 10-K filing
it is, nor does Defendant indicate the date it was filed.  Therefore, the Court declines to take
judicial notice of Exhibit B or the facts and propositions contained therein.
 
            Plaintiff’s Request
 
            Plaintiff requests the Court to take
judicial notice of Plaintiffs’ “Status Report in Advance Of the Status
Conference” scheduled for December 8, 2023” filed in Dvorak on or about
November 22, 2023.  As discussed above,
the Court takes judicial notice of this document as a court record, pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d)(1), but not the truth of the
assertions contained therein.
 
            Defendant’s Supplemental
Request
 
            In connection with the Reply,
Defendant supplementally requests that the Court take judicial notice of the
following:
 
·        
Exhibit A: the Joint Statement Re: Stay of
Action Pending Completion of Related Actions filed on May 31, 2023, in Israel
Alvarado v. Rockwell Collins, Inc., et. Al. (C.D. Cal, No.
2:23-cv-00400-JFW-JC) (hereafter Alvarado.)
 
·        
Exhibit B: the June 7, 2023 Order Staying Alvarado.
 
·        
Exhibit C: the Minute Order granting the defendants’
Motion to Stay in Quintana v. Wheel Pros, Inc., Superior Court in and
for Los Angeles County, No. 21CMCV00160 (March 1, 2022.)
 
            As discussed above, the Court takes
judicial notice of these documents as court records, but not of the truth of
the allegations contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivision (c)
 
The party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by
demurrer to the pleading on the grounds that there is another action pending
between the same parties on the same cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (c).)
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
On
October 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Private Attorneys General Act
(“PAGA”) action, individually and “on behalf of all other aggrieved employees,”
against Defendant “Rockwell Collins Optronics, Inc.” alleging violations of
California’s Labor Code.  
 
Dvorak, which is a PAGA
action, filed by plaintiffs Stephanie Dvorak and Israel Alvarado, “on behalf of
the State of California, as private attorneys general” against defendant
Rockwell Collins, Inc. on December 4, 2019 similarly alleges violations of
California’s Labor Code.  (Curley Decl. ¶
2 and RJN Ex. B.)
 
            Counsel for Defendant also
represents defendant, Rockwell Collins, Inc., in Dvorak.  (Curley Decl. ¶ 2.)  
 
            “A PAGA claim is a dispute between
an employer and the state, which alleges directly or through its agents—either
the Agency or aggrieved employees—that the employer has violated the Labor
Code.”  (Shaw v. Superior Court (2022)
78 Cal.App.5th 245, 255 (hereafter Shaw).)  It “is fundamentally a law enforcement action
designed to protect the public and not to benefit private parties[.]”  (Ibid.)  In a PAGA suit, “the employee plaintiff
represents the same legal right and interest as state labor law enforcement
agencies” and “an aggrieved employee's action under PAGA functions as a
substitute for an action brought by the government itself.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, “[t]he state is always the real party
in interest in a PAGA representative suit.” 
(Ibid.)
 
            Therefore, it does not matter that
both actions are brought by different representative plaintiffs; the real plaintiff
in interest to both lawsuits is the State of California.
 
            However, the defendant employers are
different.  This action is brought
against Rockwell Collins Optronics, Inc., whereas in Dvorak, the action is
brought against Rockwell Collins, Inc. 
Therefore, because the parties are not the same, the Court cannot
sustain the demurrer pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(c).
 
            Exclusive Concurrent
Jurisdiction
 
“The rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction provides that when two
or more courts have subject matter jurisdiction over a dispute, the court that
first asserts jurisdiction assumes it to the exclusion of the others.”  (Lofton v. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 1050, 1062.)  It
does not matter if the parties or remedies sought are not exactly the same; it
is sufficient “that the issue in both actions is the same and arises out of the
same transaction or events.”  (County
of Siskiyou v. Superior Court (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 83, 89.)
 
Exclusive concurrent jurisdiction “should be raised by demurrer where
the issue appears on the face of the complaint and by answer where factual
issues must be resolved.”  (People ex
rel. Garamendi v. American Autoplan, Inc. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 760,
771.)  If raised by answer, “the party
asserting the application of the rule may obtain a trial court ruling on the
issue by a motion to dismiss or abate or a motion for summary judgment.”  (Ibid.)
            
PAGA
actions are subject to the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction.  (Shaw, supra, 78 Cal.App.5th
245.)
 
Although
exclusive concurrent jurisdiction does not require the parties or remedies be
identical, here it is not clear from the face of the pleadings and the
documents of which the Court has taken judicial notice that the two actions
arise from the same transaction or events. 
Because Rockwell Collins Optronics, Inc. and Rockwell Collins, Inc. are
separate entities, it is not clear from the face of the complaints that Dvorak
encompasses similar claims in the Robledo action. The Court notes that in
the opinions attached to the supplemental request for judicial notice, the
defendants were the same in both actions.
 
            Defendant contends that Rockwell
Collins Optronics, Inc. is a subsidiary of Rockwell Collins, Inc.  However, Defendant has not provided a
sufficient evidentiary basis to support that contention because the Court
denied Defendant’s request for judicial notice of Exhibit B, and even if the
Court had taken judicial notice of that document, it does not establish that
Rockwell Collins Optronics, Inc. is still a subsidiary of Rockwell Collins,
Inc.  Moreover, even if Defendant had
established that Defendant is currently a subsidiary of Rockwell Collins, Inc.,
it is not clear from the face of the Complaint and judicially-noticed documents
that Defendant’s alleged labor code violations are encompassed in Dvorak.  
 
In reply, Defendant submits the supplemental Declaration of Justin T.
Curley, indicating that “Plaintiff Robledo was included in the list of
allegedly aggrieved employees that received the opt out notice in the Dvorak
Action.”  (Supp. Curley Decl. ¶
4.)  However, the Court may not consider
extrinsic evidence in connection with a demurrer.  (Executive Landscape Corp. v. San Vicente Country
Villas IV Assn. (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 496, 499 [“The demurrer tests the pleading alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters which do not appear on the face of the
pleading or cannot be properly inferred from the factual allegations of the
complaint”].)  
 
Moreover,
the Court will not generally consider evidence offered on reply, as it deprives
the opposing party of an opportunity to address or rebut it, as due process
requires.  (San Diego
Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316
[“due process requires a party be fully advised of the issues to be addressed
and be given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail”];
see also Wall Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171.)  
 
To the extent Defendant believes it can provide an evidentiary basis
for its claim of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction, Defendant may raise the
issue by an appropriate motion following the answer.  (See People ex rel. Garamendi v. American
Autoplan, Inc.. supra, 20 Cal.App.4th at p. 771.)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer in its entirety.  Because the defendants in this action and Dvorak
are different entities, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer brought under Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (c).  Because it unclear from the face of the
pleadings and judicially noticed documents that the claims at issue in this action
are encompassed by Dvorak, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer
premised on exclusive concurrent jurisdiction. 

 
The Court orders Defendant to file an Answer to the Complaint on or
before March 8, 2024.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  February 22, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court