 Case Number:  22SMCV01554    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 22, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01554




MOTION


Claim of Exemption




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Samrah Meints




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Shideh Rostami



 
 
Plaintiff Shideh Rostami (“Plaintiff”) initiated an Unlawful Detainer
action against Defendants John David Meints, Jr. and Samrah Meints on September
6, 2022.  Thereafter, on the date set for
trial, the parties executed an Unlawful Detainer Stipulated Judgment in favor
of Plaintiff for a total amount of $129,084.80 in damages in addition to possession
of the subject property; the Stipulated Judgment was entered on April 18,
2023.  
 
To collect on the judgment, Plaintiff is seeking to garnish the earnings
of Defendant Samrah Meints (“Defendant”).   But Defendant has filed a Claim of Exemption,
seeking to exempt all of her earnings from any garnishments.  Plaintiff opposes the exemption claim.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
706.051 provides in relevant part:  “Except
as provided in subdivision (c), the portion of the judgment debtor's earnings
that the judgment debtor proves is necessary for the support of the judgment
debtor or the judgment debtor's family supported in whole or in part by the
judgment debtor is exempt from levy under this chapter.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 706.051, subd (b).)
 
            Here, Defendant has provided a claim
of exemption, signed under penalty of perjury, indicating that Defendant’s
gross monthly salary is $6,152 and net pay is $4,665.  Defendant financially supports a spouse,
co-Defendant John Meints Jr., and a daughter, Mackenzie Meints, age 15, neither
of whom is reported to earn any income. 
(WG-007/EJ-165.)  Defendant
further itemizes a total of $13,601 in monthly expenses, including $6,700 in
monthly rent and maintenance expenses.  Defendant
has also provided a list of household property and debts.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 703.110, 703.115.)  As such, Defendant has demonstrated that
Defendant’s entire salary is necessary to support Defendant, Defendant’s
spouse, and Defendant’s minor child.
 
            Plaintiff opposes the claim of
exemption on the bases that (1) the financial statement does not trace the
source of the funds to employment documents or wage earnings, or other exempt
sources, and (2) “Defendant’s monthly expenses of $13,601 are questionable when
it far exceeds her monthly income” and therefore raises questions about whether
Defendant is concealing financial information.
 
            As for Plaintiff’s first argument,
tracing the source of funds is only necessary to the extent Plaintiff seeks to recover
from a financial account.  Then,
Defendant would have to trace the funds in the account to an exempt source
(such as exempt wages or other exempt payments).  But here, Defendant only seeks an exemption
for purposes of wage garnishment.  To the
extent Plaintiff seeks to garnish Defendant’s wages, those wages are obviously
Defendant’s earnings.  Moreover,
Plaintiff has not provided any authority that Defendant needs to provide source
documents to substantiate the claim exemption, including wage or employment
statements or related documents.  (See
generally Code Civ. Proc., § 706.105.)  
 
With
regard to Plaintiff’s second argument, although the Court agrees that
Defendant’s stated expenses far exceed Defendant’s earnings, this is not, in itself
evidence that Defendant’s income or expenses are not as Defendant has declared them
to be under penalty of perjury. 
Therefore, Defendant has demonstrated Defendant’s entire monthly take-home
pay of $4,665 is exempt as necessary to support Defendant, Defendant’s spouse,
and Defendant’s minor child, and Plaintiff has not provided any evidence in
rebuttal.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court grants Defendant’s claim of
exemption. Defendant has demonstrated Defendant’s entire salary is exempt as
necessary to support Defendant, Defendant’s spouse, and Defendant’s minor
child.  The claim of exemption packet
cover sheet indicates the Sheriff’s Office was holding $0.00 as of February 1,
2024, but to the extent the Sheriff’s Office subsequently acquired and is
holding any funds, they shall be released forthwith to Defendant.
 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
DATED:  February 22, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court