 Case Number:  24TRCV00006    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative  Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 April 17, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00006   CASE NAME:                        Dwain Sutherland v. Command Guard Services, et al                       .  MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Renaissance Homeowner’s Association and  Ross Morgan & Company    RESPONDING PARTY:       None  TRIAL DATE:                        Not  set  MOTION:                              (1) Demurrer (2) Motion to Strike   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Sustained with leave to amend (2) Motion to Strike is mooted by sustaining of the  Demurrer    I. BACKGROUND  A. Factual    On January 2,  2024, Plaintiff Dwain Sutherland (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against  Defendants Command Guard Services, Inc. (“Command Guard”), Jenard Earnest  Ainsworth (“Ainsworth”), Renaissance Homeowner's Association (“Renaissance  HOA”), and Ross Morgan & Company (“Ross Morgan”) for (1) negligence, (2)  negligent supervision, (3) negligent hiring, and (4) battery.    The Complaint  alleges the following facts: On August 7, 2022, Plaintiff was in front of his  residence having a conversation with Defendant Ainsworth regarding a parking  citation on Plaintiffs son's vehicle parked in front of his residence.  Plaintiff and Ainsworth engaged in a verbal altercation. Ainsworth, without  notice or warning, struck Plaintiff in the face. (Complaint, ¶2.) Ainsworth is  employed by Defendant Command Guard. (Id. at ¶9.) Plaintiff allegedly suffered  bodily injuries due to the negligence, negligent hiring, and/or negligent  supervision of Ainsworth by Defendants Command Guard, Ross Morgan, and  Renaissance HOA. (Id. at ¶3.)   Defendants Renaissance  HOA and Ross Morgan now  demur to the Complaint and move to strike portions of the Complaint.    B. Procedural   On March 12, 2023, Defendants Renaissance  HOA and Ross Morgan filed a  Demurrer and Motion to Strike. The demurrer and motion are unopposed.   II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS   Defendants demur to the entire  Complaint on the basis that it is uncertain, and to the third and fourth cause  of action on the grounds that they are uncertain and fail to state a cause of  action against the demurring defendants.     Defendants also move to strike  punitive damages from the Complaint on the ground that Plaintiff fails to  allege specific facts that demonstrate fraud, oppression, or malice.   III. ANALYSIS   A. Legal Standard   A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that  appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the  pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39  Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts  sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might  eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.  William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City  Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit  contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab  Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)    A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or  unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for  uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the  complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to  respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d  135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,  even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can  be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)    B. Discussion    Here, the Court finds that the Complaint is  uncertain as to moving Defendants. The Complaint does not state what  Plaintiff’s relationship is to Renaissance HOA or Ross Morgan, moving  Defendants’ relationship to Command Guard and Ainsworth, or their basis for  liability in this case. Accordingly, the Complaint is unclear and ambiguous as  to how moving Defendants fit into this case.    B. Motion to Strike     The court may,  upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems  proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)¿ The court may also strike all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿ (Id., § 436(b).)¿ The  grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false  improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.¿ (Id.,  § 436.)¿ The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the  pleading or by way of judicial notice.¿ (Id., § 437.)¿ “When the defect  which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow  leave to amend.”¿ (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)         As the demurrer  to the Complaint is sustained, the motion to strike is MOOT.     IV.  CONCLUSION    For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED  with leave to amend. Defendant’s Motion to Strike is therefore MOOT.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.