  Case Number:  23TRCV04083    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 April 17, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV04083  CASE NAME:                        Natasha  Campisi v. Searock PVE, LLC, et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Cross-Defendants  Natasha Campisi, Ryan CAmpisi, and Rebecca Campisi   RESPONDING PARTY:       Cross-Complainant  Searock PVE, LLC   TRIAL DATE:                        None set   MOTION:                              Motion to Strike Portions of  Cross-Complaint   Tentative Rulings:                  DENY   I. BACKGROUND    A.    Factual  On December 6, 2023, Plaintiff,  Natasha Campisi (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Searock  PVE, LLC, Pinky Khan, Ahmad Khan, Tiffany Kawata, Murat Mese, and DOES 1  through 100. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Intentional  Misrepresentation; (2) Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Fraudulent Concealment;  (4) Private Nuisance; (5) Invasion of Privacy, Intrusion into Seclusion; (6)  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (7) Breach of Implied Warranty of  Habitability; and (8) Unlawful Self-Help by Landlord in Violation of Civil Code  § 789.3.   On February 5, 2024,  Cross-Complainant Searock PVE, LLC (“Cross-Complainant”) filed a  Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Natasha Campisi, Ryan Campisi, Rebecca  Campisi, ACC Mortgage Lending, and ROES 1through 20. The Cross-Complainant  alleges causes of action for (1) Breach of Lease; and (2) Declaratory Relief.   Now, Cross-Defendants Natasha Campisi, Ryan Campisi, and  Rebecca Campisi file a Motion to Strike Portions of the Cross-Complaint.    B.      Procedural    On March 6, 2024,  Cross-Defendants Natasha  Campisi, Ryan Campisi, and Rebecca Campisi filed a Motion to Strike Portions of  the Cross-Complaint. On April 4, 2024, Cross-Complainant filed an Opposition.  On April 10, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed a Reply.   III. ANALYSIS   A.     Legal  Standard    Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve  and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,  or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.  (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which  is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and  may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a  court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An  immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the  statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an  otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting  relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §  431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of  the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   B.     Request  for Judicial Notice   The Court GRANTS Cross-Complainant’s  request for judicial notice in full.   C.     Discussion   Here, Cross-Defendants seek to  strike the prayer for attorney’s fees and costs on the grounds that there  is no statute in the Cross-Complaint that provides for attorney’s fees, and the  lease agreement at issue only provides for attorney’s fees and costs  collectively of $1,000 to the  prevailing party. Cross-Defendants state that based on the plain and ordinary  meaning of the words in the lease agreement at issue, state Cross-Complainant  would only be entitled to $1,000 collectively  for both its fees and its costs, if it were to prevail on its Cross-Complaint.              Cross-Defendants note that were  planning on moving to strike the punitive damages allegations, but after  meeting and conferring with Cross-Complainant’s counsel, it has been stipulated  that Cross-Complainant will not pursue punitive damages, thus that issue has  been resolved and will not be part of this Motion to Strike. Attorney’s  Fees According to Cross-Defendants, the lease agreement  explicitly caps the total recoverable attorney’s fees and costs at $1,000, and  only if Cross-Complainant prevails. They argue that this cap is clear and  should be enforced as written, pointing out that California law supports the  non-recovery of attorney’s fees unless authorized by statute or contract and  that ambiguities in contracts should be construed against the drafter. (Reynolds  Metals Co. v. Alperson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 124; Civil Code § 1648, § 1654). Cross-Defendants  also contend that Cross-Complainant did not follow its own required dispute  resolution procedures, specifically the mediation clause in the lease  agreement. According to section 35 of the lease, mediation is required before  pursuing court action. Cross-Defendants argue that since Cross-Complainant  failed to initiate mediation as required, it should not be entitled to recover  attorney’s fees, even if it were otherwise eligible.             In opposition, Cross-Complainant argues  that the motion should be denied due to procedural defects. It contends that  the motion lacks a separate Notice of Motion as required by the Civil Code of  Procedure sections 1010 and 435(b)(2). This omission, it claims, makes it  unclear which specific legal grounds and portions of the pleading the Cross-Defendants  seek to strike, rendering the motion procedurally insufficient. Cross-Complainant  also asserts that the lease agreement explicitly allows for the recovery of  attorney’s fees and costs. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1021, Cross-Complainant  states that it may recover costs if specified in a contract. Cross-Complainant  points out that the lease explicitly states that the prevailing party in any  dispute arising from the lease is entitled to reasonable attorney fees and  costs, capped at $1,000. As to the mediation clause, Cross-Complainant argues  that the clause does not prohibit seeking mediation after litigation has  commenced, thereby dismissing claims that they waived rights to attorney fees  by not engaging in mediation before filing suit. Cross-Complainant also notes  that the litigation is still in the pleading stage, making Cross-Defendants’  arguments about mediation and fee limitations premature. It emphasizes that the  question of who will be the prevailing party, a necessary determination for  awarding fees, has not yet been established. In reply, Cross-Defendants assert that the original motion  was sufficient in providing notice, including details of the hearing and  specifics of what was being challenged. They argue that any alleged procedural  defects were not prejudicial to Cross-Complainant, who responded substantively  in their opposition. Cross-Defendants also emphasize that their lease agreement  with Cross-Complainant limits recoverable attorney’s fees and costs to $1,000  collectively for the prevailing party. This contractual cap, they argue, should  override any statutory provisions that might otherwise allow greater recovery.  Cross-Defendants point out that the lease requires mediation before legal  action and that Cross-Complainant’s failure to initiate mediation means it  should forfeit any claim to attorney’s fees and costs, according to the lease’s  terms. They counter Cross-Complainant’s claim that an anticipatory repudiation  of the contract occurred, which would allow ignoring the contract’s terms  regarding fees and costs. They argue there is no evidence of such repudiation  and even if there were, it would not entitle Cross-Complainant to exceed the  agreed-upon limits on recoverable fees and costs. Cross-Defendants argue that  any ambiguities in the lease should be construed against Cross-Complainant as  the drafter of the agreement. First, as to the alleged procedural defect, the Court finds  that Cross-Complainant received actual notice of the instant motion and there  was no prejudice from Cross-Defendants’ failure to file a separate notice of  Motion to Strike. Thus, the Court will consider the merits. Second, the Court disagrees with Cross-Defendants’ argument  that the request for attorney’s fees in the Cross-Complaint should be stricken  on the grounds that “to the extent recoverable by law” is inappropriate because  there is no statutory basis for the award. However, Cross-Complainant correctly  asserts that Code of Civil Procedure section 1021 permits parties to agree to  an attorney’s fees provision. Cross-Defendants do not dispute that the Lease  provides the prevailing party with attorney’s fees. Thus, the phrase “to the  extent recoverable by law” is not improper.  Third, as to Cross-Defendants argument that  Cross-Complainant is not entitled to attorney’s fees due to its failure to  proceed with mediation prior to initiating the action, the Court agrees. Section  35(A) of the Lease states:  “MEDIATION.  [¶] Consistent with paragraphs B and C below, Housing Provider and Tenant agree  to mediate any dispute or claim arising between them out of this Agreement, or  any resulting transaction, before resorting to a court action. . . If, for any  dispute or claim to which this paragraph applies, any party commences an action  without first attempting to resolve the matter through mediation or refuses to  mediate after a request has been made, then that party shall not entitled to  recover attorneys’ fees, even if they would otherwise be available to that  party in any such action.” (RJN,  Cross-Complaint, Lease ¶ 35(A).) The Court finds that Lease provision requires a party to  pursue mediation prior to filing an action. Although Cross-Complainant argues that  it did not breach this provision by pointing out that it states a party is not  entitled to attorney’s fees if they fail to mediate prior to commencing the  action “or refuses to mediate after a request has been made…,” read in context,  it appears that the “refusal to mediate” should be attributed to the party  being sued rather than the one bringing an action. (RJN, Cross-Complaint, Lease  ¶ 35(A)) Cross-Complainant also states that this section does not prohibit the  parties from seeking mediation, notwithstanding a filed litigation, however,  the Lease clearly requires a party to pursue mediation prior to bringing an  action with a failure to do so resulting in that party not being entitled to  attorney’s fees. The Court also notes that Cross-Complainant is the drafter in  this case because it was the one who provided the Lease, even if it used a  pre-printed form. Thus, even as a last resort in interpreting the contract,  ambiguities should be construed against it. (Westmoreland v.  Kindercare Education LLC (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 967, 978.) In  opposition, Cross-Complainant argues that it is entitled to attorney’s fees  based on Cross-Defendants’ anticipatory repudiation which occurred when  Cross-Defendants vacated the Property and filed suit without their seeking  mediation. In reply, Cross-Defendants merely state that there was no allegation  in the Cross-Complaint that there was any anticipatory repudiation. However,  the Court finds that Cross-Defendants’ bringing of this action without  initiating mediation constitutes an anticipatory breach and excuses  Cross-Complainant’s nonperformance of the agreement to mediate prior to  bringing an action. (Gold Mining & Water Co. v. Swinerton (1943) 23  Cal.2d 19, 29 [“By its very name an essential element of a true anticipatory breach  of a contract is that the repudiation by the promisor occur before his  performance is due under the contract.”].) Thus, Cross-Defendants fail to show that Cross-Complainant could  not be entitled to attorney’s fees if it is found to be the prevailing party.  Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike is therefore  DENIED.  Unless waived, Cross-Complainant  is ordered to give notice. 