  Case Number:  24SMCV00144    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Ferrazzi Greenlight v. Whitfield,
et al., Case no. 24SMCV00144
Hearing date September 26, 2024
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorney’s Fees
On
March 18, 2024 Ferrazzi Greenlight filed its anti-SLAPP motion with respect to defendants
Whitfield and Wakefield’s sixth cause of action for unfair business practices.
The court granted Ferrazzi Greenlight’s motion to strike on July 15, 2024. Ferrazzi
Greenlight now seeks attorney’s fees and costs associated with the motion,
pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §425.16. 
Defendants
oppose, arguing Ferrazzi Greenlight gained no practical advantage and does not
provide sufficient evidence to determine the reasonableness of the fees
requested.
Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. 425.16(c) provides “a prevailing defendant on a special motion
to strike shall be entitled to recover his or her attorney's fees and costs.” Mann
v. Quality Old Time Service, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 328, 338. By
bringing an anti-SLAPP motion, a party is deemed to be prevailing party when
they “successfully narrowed the scope of the lawsuit, limiting discovery,
reducing potential recoverable damages, and altering the settlement posture of
the case.” Id. at 340. 
Plaintiff
argues it succeeded in striking one cause of action, so prevailed in its
anti-SLAPP motion, entitling it to fees. Defendants argue leave to amend was
granted, so plaintiff did not successfully narrow the scope of the lawsuit. 
In
fact, defendants were not granted leave to amend as part of the court’s ruling
on the anti-SLAPP. 7/15/24 Minute Order at p. 1. Instead, plaintiff filed a
simultaneous demurrer to defendant’s cross-complaint, which was initially
sustained without leave to amend as to the sixth COA. The court later granted
defendants leave to amend the sixth COA after they asked to assert a new basis
for the claim. Defendants alleged a new set of facts for the sixth COA,
including a separate statutory basis. Plaintiff argues defendants cannot defeat
the policy considerations behind awarding fees to meritorious anti-SLAPP motions
by asserting additional claims. Plaintiff is correct.
Plaintiff
is the prevailing party with regards to the anti-SLAPP motion. The court
granted the motion without leave to amend; that the court later allowed
defendants to amend the sixth COA under the ruling on a separate motion does
not change the fact that at the time of the ruling, plaintiff prevailed and
narrowed the scope of the lawsuit.
Reasonable Fees
In
awarding attorneys’ fees, the reasonable hourly rate is normally the prevailing
rate charged by attorneys of similar skill and experience.  See PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler
(200) 22 Cal. 4th 1084, 1095. A defendant may recover only those fees incurred
in bringing an anti-SLAPP motion, and not for other matters in the litigation. Christian
Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1320. The lodestar
method vests the Court with discretion to decide which of the hours expended by
the attorney were “reasonably spent” on the litigation. Meister v. Regents
of the University of California (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 437, 449.
Plaintiff
seeks fees of $43,984.50 and costs of $176.65. Decl. Romeo paras. 8-9. Plaintiff
asks for 71.5 hours, including time for “reviewing, distilling, and analyzing
documents and information; case strategy and assessment; researching various
issues in relation to the litigation; preparing FG’s Motion to Strike and
response to Whitfield’s Opposition to the Motion to Strike; and appearing at
the May 15, 2024 hearing.” Decl. Romeo para. 7. Time is billed at $535-1,180
per hour. Romeo’s declaration contains no information about which attorney
performed what work with any detail, only listing the total hours worked. 
Defendants
argue plaintiff has not sufficiently described the work performed or the
qualifications of counsel to justify the hourly rates claimed. The court
agrees. There is no information about the relative experience of the four
attorneys. There is no information provides such that the defendants or the
court could make a determination as to the reasonableness of number of hours
claimed. The matter may be continued to allow plaintiff to provide information
regarding (1) the basis for the hourly rate charged by each attorney and (2) a
breakdown of how many hours was spent on each task, and by whom, such that the
court and defendants may make a review of the reasonableness of the amounts
requested. 
 