 Case Number:  23TRCV03681    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Thursday, August 8, 2024
Department M Calendar No. 8  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Terracotta
Credit Reit LLC v. Loren McBride Cohen, et al. 
23TRCV03681
1.     
Terracotta Credit
Reit LLC’s Motion for Reference     
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Terracotta Credit Reit LLC’s Motion
for Reference is granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on November 6, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. “Plaintiff and the Defendants entered
into certain a series of written agreements related to certain real estate
loans for property located in Washington State. Specifically, the agreements at
issue are: (a) written Commercial Guaranty agreements with respect to six loans
(Compl. Exs. D, F, H, K, M, O); and (b) written Hazardous Substances
Certificate and Indemnity Agreements (“HSCI Agreements”) with respect to three
of those six loans (Compl. Exs. E, G, I). By the terms of those agreements, the
borrowers’ default on the corresponding loan agreements triggered the
Defendants’ obligation under the six corresponding Commercial Guaranty
agreements. Accordingly, TCCR has brought breach of contract claims against the
Defendants who entered into the six Commercial Guaranty agreements to recover
the amounts owed under those agreements.” (Plaintiff’s Case Management
Statement, Attachment 4(b).)  
 
Motion for Reference 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel a reference pursuant to the
written agreement entered into between Plaintiff and Defendants. 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 638 states, in relevant part:
“A referee may be appointed upon the agreement of the
parties filed with the clerk, or judge, or entered in the minutes, or upon the
motion of a party to a written contract or lease that provides that any
controversy arising therefrom shall be heard by a referee if the court finds a
reference agreement exists between the parties: (a) To hear and determine any
or all of the issues in an action or proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and
to report a statement of decision.”
 
“The six guaranty agreements provide that: “If there
is a lawsuit, Guarantors agree upon Lender's request to submit to the
jurisdiction of the courts of Los Angeles County, State of California.” Compl.
Ex. D at 3, F at 3, H at 3, K at 3, M at 4, O at 4.” (Memorandum of Points and
Authorities, page 2, lines 16-19.) 
 
The provision requiring judicial reference states:
““The parties agree that in any action, proceeding or
counterclaim brought by any party against the other involving any controversy,
dispute or claim arising out or relating to this Agreement or any of the
Related Documents, including all issues therein, whether of fact and law, shall
be heard and determined, at the option of either party, by a referee appointed
by the court in accordance with the reference procedures in California Code of
Civil Procedure Section 638 et seq.” (Complaint, Ex. D at 3; Ex. E at 3, Ex. F
at 3, Ex. G at 3, Ex. H at 3, Ex. I at 3, Ex. K at 3, Ex. M at 3, Ex. O at 3.)  Plaintiff moves to compel a reference pursuant
to the specific language of these sections. 
 
Defendants oppose the motion. First, Defendants argue
that Loren Cohen is not a party to the agreements that contain the judicial
reference provisions. However, the provisions are specifically set forth in the
guaranty agreements to which Cohen was a party as a principal, and not merely
as an agent for any other parties or entities. 
 
Defendants next argue that the first two causes of
action for Intentional and Negligent Misrepresentation are not encompassed
within the reference provision. However, this argument is misplaced. The
provision specifically involves “any controversy, dispute or claim arising out
[of[ or relating to this Agreement.”  The
causes of action for misrepresentation relate to a dispute arising out of the
loan agreements.  Ericksen, Arbuthnot, McCarthy, Kearney & Walsh,
Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35
Cal.3d 312, 323 (holding that claims of fraudulent inducement of the contract
fall within the scope of the contract’s broad-form arbitration agreement). Along
these lines, Defendants also argue that reference should be denied as claims
should not be “split” based on the potential for conflicting rulings on facts
and law. This argument appears to be based on the presumption that the first
two causes of action are not subject to reference. Because all claims are
subject to reference, this concern is unavailing.
 
Defendants also argue that Plaintiff violates the
“one-action rule.” Defendants contend that Plaintiff has filed multiple
different actions on the same facts in Washington state. Defendants’ argument
is based on the contention that Plaintiff violates the “one-action rule”
pursuant to Washington law. The Court was prepared to provide an analysis of
the one-action rule as set forth under California law pursuant to CCP § 726 and
applicable case law interpreting this section. However, Defendants are
attempting to analyze based on Washington law without any showing that Washington
law applies to this California state court action. Defendants have not
established through any procedural mechanism that Washington law must be
applied to this case. Thus, this issue is not before this Court in the context
of this motion. 
 
As to the merits of the issues before this Court,
Plaintiff has sufficiently met its burden to establish the existence of a
reference provision encompassing the claims presented by this action, and that
this controversy should be heard by a referee.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion for reference is
granted.
 
An OSC Re: Status of Reference is set for
_________________.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 