 Case Number:  23TRCV03260    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Thursday, August 8, 2024
Department M   Calendar No. 7   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Worku
Assefa v. Krystelle Angie Espinoza, et al.   
23TRCV03260
1.     
Krystelle
Espinoza’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Demand for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request
for Sanctions
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Krystelle Espinoza’s Motion to Compel Responses to
Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Demand for Production of
Documents, Set One, and Request for Sanctions is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s’ Complaint was filed on October 4, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff and Defendant were involved in
a motor vehicle accident.  
 
Motions to
Compel
 
CCP § 2030.290 states: “If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following
rules apply…The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories.” (CCP § 2030.290(b).)  
 
CCP § 2031.300 states: “If a party to whom a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a
timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: The party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.”  (CCP § 2031.300(b).)
 
Defendant served upon Plaintiff Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for Production of
Documents, Set One, on December 27, 2023.  (Decl., Terrence L. Cranert, ¶¶ 2-7.)  Defendant contends that no responses were
served to the discovery requests. (Id.) Plaintiff failed to file any written
opposition to the motion.
 
Therefore, the motion to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for
Production of Documents, Set One, is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to serve
responses without objections within 10 days of this date. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is granted.

 
Plaintiff is sanctioned the total amount of $667.00
which is the amount requested by Defendant less the amount for preparing the
Reply since a Reply was not required. 
 
Sanctions are payable within 30 days of this date.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.